BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        18 NOVEMBER 2008
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 21 JULY 2011


                                                           ELLSWORTH AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                          17 OCTOBER 2012

                                                            Communications and Information

                                                          COMMANDERS GUIDANCE AND
                                                                  RESPONSIBILITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/A6PP                                                        Certified by: SAF/XCP-2
                                                                   (Brig Gen Ronnie Hawkins)
                                                                                     Pages: 33
Supersedes:AFI 33-101, 24 July 1998
                                (ELLSWORTHAFB)
OPR: 28 CS/SCOS                                                         Certified by: 28 CS/CC
                                                                       (Major Robert H. Kelly)
                                                                                        Pages:6




This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources
Management, and is consistent with the policy in AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA)
Program. It identifies commanders’ responsibilities for supporting the management of the Air
Force-provisioned portion of the Global Information Grid (AF-GIG) Enterprise Information
Environment (EIE)/IT Infrastructure mission area to meet mission readiness and warfighting
capabilities. It provides management procedures for commanders to ensure availability,
interoperability, and maintainability of communications and information systems in support of
mission readiness and warfighting capability. This Instruction covers general guidance and
responsibilities for effective and efficient management of systems throughout their life-cycle.
This Instruction applies to all commanders and identifies a commander's responsibilities for
effective and efficient Information Resource Management (IRM). This Instruction applies to all
 2                                AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


Air Force military, civilians, and contractor personnel under contract by the Department of
Defense (DoD). This Instruction applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force
Reserve Component (AFRC). Direct questions or comments on the contents of this Instruction,
through appropriate command channels, to the Air Force Chief, Warfighting Integration and
Chief Information Officer, Policy and Compliance Division, (SAF/A6PP), 1800 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1800. Send recommended changes and conflicts between this
and other publications, using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, to SAF/A6PP. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.              See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

(ELLSWORTHAFB) AFI 33-101, dated 18 November 2008, is supplemented as follows:
This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control,
Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems, and is used in conjunction with AFI 65-106,
Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation and Non-appropriated Fund
Instrumentalities; and Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 23-110, United States Air Force Supply
Manual. It establishes responsibilities and outlines procedures for obtaining public address (PA)
system support. The purpose of this instruction is to provide guidance to Ellsworth Air Force
Base (EAFB) personnel on the capabilities and limitations of PA support provided by the 28th
Communications Squadron (28 CS). This instruction also provides information on alternate
means of obtaining support. This instruction applies to all units on EAFB, except for the United
States Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units and members. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS)

(ELLSWORTHAFB) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Send
comments and suggested changes to this supplement through channels, using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to 28 CS/SCOK, 1000 Ellsworth St. Rushmore
Center, Ellsworth AFB, SD 57706.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change incorporates interim change (IC) 1 and defines commanders’ roles and
responsibilities related to the management and sustainment of the cyberspace infrastructure.
Major changes for roles and responsibilities are included for installation commanders, MAJCOM
Communications and Information Systems Officers (CSOs) and information staff elements, and
installation CSOs. Effective documentation and management of the cyberspace infrastructure is
essential in ensuring the continuous security, operational availability, and reliability of systems
and equipment supporting the Air Force mission. These changes are effective immediately. A
margin bar indicates newly revised material.

(ELLSWORTHAFB) This revision is a complete rewrite. This supplement incorporates new
information from the original AFI that was updated on 18 November 2008. The revision
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                                                               3


explains which functions are supported, updated the Point of Contact (POC) in the
Communications Squadron for local users, explains the customers responsibilities for services,
the Communications Squadron responsibilities and outlines the request process for Public
Address (PA) support. Added attachment 4.


       1.     Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    3
       2.     Applicability. .........................................................................................................     3
       3.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................      4
       4.     Information Assurance Programs. .........................................................................                    5
       5.     IT Management Programs. .....................................................................................                7
       6.     Information Management Programs. .....................................................................                      10
       7.     Information Collection, Records, and Forms .........................................................                        13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            14

Attachment 1—(ELLSWORTHAFB) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND
             SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                                       23

Attachment 2—COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER
             DUTIES                                                                                                                       25

Attachment 3—DELETED                                                                                                                      29

Attachment 4—(Added-ELLSWORTHAFB) PUBLIC ADDRESS (PA)
             RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES                                                                                              30


1. Introduction.
   1.1. In an effort to meet the growing needs of today’s warfighter, great strides are being
   made to improve the capabilities offered by the Air Force provisioned portion of the Global
   Information Grid (GIG). Today’s warfighters are increasingly using these capabilities and
   have responsibilities for ensuring effective and efficient use and management of this
   resource. This increased reliance on warfighters is a result of the mainstreaming of
   technology and its integration into almost all activities of warfighting and support operations.
   This AFI identifies a commander's responsibilities for ensuring effective and efficient
   management of Information Technology (IT), Information Management (IM), and
   Information Assurance (IA). Compliance ensures appropriate personnel are
   assigned/appointed to accomplish identified duties.
2. Applicability.
   2.1. This instruction applies to all commanders and identifies a commander's responsibilities
   for effective and efficient management of IT, Information management (IM), and IA. This
   does not apply to systems under the purview of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI)
   and Intelligence agencies.
 4                                 AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Commanders or equivalent at all levels will maintain these responsibilities through
     the following programs:
        3.1.1. Assign an organizational Information Assurance Officer (IAO) to execute IA
        responsibilities protecting and defending information systems by ensuring the
        availability, integrity, confidentiality, authentication, and non-repudiation of data through
        the application of IA measures outlined in paragraph 4. Additional (subordinate) IAO
        positions may be assigned for additional support at the discretion of organizations or
        based upon mission requirements; however, only one primary and one alternate IAO is
        required. Execute I AO responsibilities for the following programs:
            3.1.1.1. Network and Computer Security Program as stated in paragraph 4.1.
            3.1.1.2. Communications Security (COMSEC) Program as stated in paragraph 4.2.
            3.1.1.3. Emissions Security (EMSEC) Program as stated in paragraph 4.3.
            3.1.1.4. Identity Management Program as stated in paragraph 4.4.
            3.1.1.5. IA Notice and Consent certification program as stated in paragraph 4.5.
        3.1.2. Execute management responsibilities to improve the efficiency and effectiveness
        of Air Force activities and delivery of services through the proper employment of:
            3.1.2.1. Mobile Satellite Services Program as stated in paragraph 5.1.
            3.1.2.2. Frequency Management Program as stated in paragraph 5.2.
            3.1.2.3. IT Asset Management Program as stated in paragraph 5.3.
            3.1.2.4. Software Management Program as stated in paragraph 5.4.
            3.1.2.5. Voice Services Program as stated in paragraph 5.5.
            3.1.2.6. Messaging Services Program as stated in paragraph 5.6.
        3.1.3. Execute IM responsibilities for management and control of all Air Force
        information resources under their purview as outlined in the:
            3.1.3.1. Records Management Program as stated in paragraph 6.1.
            3.1.3.2. Information Collection and Reports Management Program as stated in
            paragraph 6.2.
            3.1.3.3. Privacy Act Program as stated in paragraph 6.3.
            3.1.3.4. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act Compliance Program as stated in
            paragraph 6.4.
            3.1.3.5. Base Locator Services as stated in paragraph 6.5.
            3.1.3.6. Official Mail Program as stated in paragraph 6.6.
            3.1.3.7. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program as stated in paragraph 6.7.
            3.1.3.8. Web management as stated in paragraph 6.8.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                  5


   3.2. Major Commands (MAJCOMs) will:
       3.2.1. Execute duties described in paragraph 3.1.
       3.2.2. Designate in writing a Communications Systems Officer (CSO) and a single staff
       element for overall management of communications and information systems. The CSO
       provides technical advice to the commander (see Attachment 2 for detailed
       responsibilities).
       3.2.3. Establish a MAJCOM IA Office to implement and oversee the MAJCOM IA
       Program, as stated in paragraph 3.
   3.3. Installation Commander or equivalent will:
       3.3.1. Execute duties described in paragraph 3.1.
       3.3.2. Designate in writing the installation/host wing communications officer as the
       installation CSO. The installation CSO is responsible for meeting the communications
       and information mission needs of the entire installation, assigned tenant units, and
       geographically separated units (GSUs) not receiving support from another host wing,
       command, or Service (see Attachment 2).
       3.3.3. Ensure CSO establishes a periodic (annually, at a minimum) wing-level planning
       forum to endorse the base blueprint in the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System
       (CIPS). Reference Methods and Procedures Technical Order (MPTO) 00-33D-3003,
       Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning
       System.
       3.3.4. Establish a Wing IA Office to implement and oversee the installation’s IA
       Program, as stated in paragraph 3. The Wing IA office addresses all IA requirements on
       the installation, including those of tenant units (i.e., FOAs, DRUs, and other MAJCOM
       units) unless formal agreements indicates otherwise.
   3.4. Unit Commanders or Tenant Units will:
       3.4.1. Execute duties described in paragraph 3.1.
       3.4.2. Appoint in writing a tenant CSO to serve as their single focal point and
       accountable officer for the communications and information systems of their respective
       activities. Define specific tenant and installation CSO responsibilities in the support
       agreement or similar document.
       3.4.3. Coordinate with the installation CSO to ensure their systems will integrate and
       interoperate, when necessary, with the GIG, AF-GIG or host base systems.
4. Information Assurance Programs. Supports the principles of availability, integrity,
confidentiality, authentication, and non-repudiation of information and information systems for
the purpose of protecting and defending the operation and management of Air Force IT and
National Security System (NSS) assets and operations.
   4.1. Network and Computer Security (COMPUSEC) Program. Ensures Air Force
   information systems operate effectively by protecting and maintaining the confidentiality,
   integrity and availability of information system resources and information processed
6                                AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


    throughout the system’s life cycle. For additional program information, reference AFI 33-
    200, Information Assurance (IA) Management.
       4.1.1. Establish a MAJCOM IA Office to implement and oversee the MAJCOM
       Computer Security (COMPUSEC) Program.
       4.1.2. Installation Wings will establish COMPUSEC in the Wing IA Office
       4.1.3. Unit Commanders shall designate the organizational Information Assurance
       Officer (IAO) as the individual(s) responsible for COMPUSEC matters in the
       organization.
    4.2. Communications Security (COMSEC) Program. The Air Force COMSEC program
    meets Public Law, national, and DoD requirements to secure or protect classified and
    sensitive information processed using Air Force information systems. For additional program
    information reference AFI 33-201, Volume 1, Communications Security (COMSEC) (will
    become part of AFI 33-200).
       4.2.1. Establish the MAJCOM COMSEC program in the MAJCOM IA Office to
       implement and oversee MAJCOM COMSEC.
       4.2.2. Installation Commanders will:
           4.2.2.1. Manage the overall COMSEC posture of their installation through the Wing
           IA Office.
           4.2.2.2. Appoint in writing one primary and at least one alternate COMSEC manager
           to oversee the wing COMSEC program. The Wing commander may delegate
           appointment authority to the unit commander of the supporting COMSEC account.
       4.2.3. Supported Unit Commanders will:
           4.2.3.1. Appoint in writing sufficient COMSEC Responsible Officers (CROs) or
           Secure Voice Responsible Officers (SVROs) and alternates to support their unit’s
           COMSEC mission. Do not appoint a SVRO where there is a CRO unless CRO
           workload otherwise dictates.
           4.2.3.2. Appoint in writing an investigating officer who determines results and
           recommends corrective actions for COMSEC deviations. Review incident reports and
           provide summary comments.
           4.2.3.3. Unit commanders with COMSEC Maintenance Technicians will appoint in
           writing a COMSEC Equipment Certifier who certifies the DD Form 1435, COMSEC
           Maintenance Training and Experience Record, or automated product for certification
           of technicians following guidance in AFI 21-109, Communications Security
           (COMSEC) Equipment Maintenance and Maintenance Training.
    4.3. Emission Security (EMSEC) Program. The objective of EMSEC is to contain
    compromising emanations within an inspectable space in order to deny access to classified
    and, in some instances, unclassified information. For additional program information
    reference AFI 33-200 and AFSSI 7700, Emission Security.
       4.3.1. MAJCOMs will establish an EMSEC program within the MAJCOM IA office.
       4.3.2. Installation Wing will establish an EMSEC program in the host wing IA office.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                      7


       4.3.3. Unit commanders designate the organizational IAO as the EMSEC representative
       to identify and work unit issues with host installation EMSEC representatives.
   4.4. Identity Management Program. The Air Force Identity Management program
   encompasses a set of capabilities including Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), Common Access
   Cards (CACs), and Air Force Directory Services (AFDS). For additional PKI program
   information reference AFI 33-200.
       4.4.1. MAJCOMs will:
           4.4.1.1. Ensure all eligible personnel receive their DoD PKI certificates on the CAC
           and use them to authenticate to the NIPRNET and public-key enabled websites and
           applications.
           4.4.1.2. Establish a network of Local Registration Authorities (LRA) and Trusted
           Agents (TA) to support NIPRNET and SIPRNET software certificate requirements.
           These resources will provide user registration and certificate management support to
           include support to deployed, mobile, contingency, tactical, and AF supported
           COCOM users. LRAs and TAs will also provide device certificates on unclassified
           and classified networks and other than CAC-based certificate support on the
           NIPRNET.
           4.4.1.3. Identify personnel to perform LRA and TA duties as required and coordinate
           with the AF PKI SPO for LRA training and specific guidance. Ensure LRAs and TAs
           are complying with the AF LRA Certificate Practice Statements and DoD X.509
           Certificate Policy.
   4.5. IA Notice and Consent Program. The Notice and Consent process ensures authorized
   users are provided with legally-sufficient notice that their use of these systems constitutes
   consent to monitoring for authorized purposes. For additional information about the process
   reference AFI 33-219, Telecommunication Monitoring and Assessment Program (will
   become part of AFI 33-200).
       4.5.1. Commanders at all levels will:
           4.5.1.1. Provide legally-sufficient notice to users stating all DoD telecommunications
           systems and information systems are subject to monitoring for authorized purposes
           and the use of these systems constitutes consent to monitoring.
           4.5.1.2. Designate the organizational IAO as individual(s) responsible for ensuring
           compliance with the notice and consent requirements.
5. IT Management Programs. Established to ensure appropriate and effective use of IT
resources, ensure their availability, and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Air Force
consistent with IT commodity council policy and vision.
   5.1. Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) Program. Provides the framework for acquiring,
   managing, and reporting the use of Mobile Satellite Services. For additional program
   information, reference AFI 33- 134, Mobile Satellite Services Management.
       5.1.1. MAJCOMs will:
           5.1.1.1. Appoint in writing a MAJCOM Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) manager.
8                               AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


          5.1.1.2. Send name, rank, Defense Switched Network (DSN) number, and e-mail
          address to Air Force MSS Lead Command, HQ AFCA/ES, within 15 days of
          appointment.
       5.1.2. Supported units will appoint, in writing, a primary and alternate unit MSS
       manager.
    5.2. Electromagnetic Spectrum Management Program. Sets the policy for managing
    electromagnetic spectrum supporting the Air Force mission. For additional program
    information, reference AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management and AFMAN
    33-120, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management.
       5.2.1. MAJCOMs will maintain electromagnetic spectrum management function in
       accordance with AFI 33-118.
       5.2.2. Installation Commanders are responsible for all electromagnetic radiation
       emanating from the installation and from those outlying activities hosted by the
       installation. Installation Commanders ensure a viable Radio Frequency (RF) management
       program is in place and supports installation requirements. The installation commander
       will prohibit any on-installation RF emitter from operating (cease and desist) when
       anticipating or resolving interference to mission essential electromagnetic equipment.
       Resolve interference IAW AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program.
    5.3. IT Asset Management (ITAM) Program. Identifies responsibilities for supporting AF
    IT equipment. For additional program information, reference AFI 33-112, Information
    Technology Hardware Asset Management.
       5.3.1. MAJCOMs will:
          5.3.1.1. Appoint in writing a MAJCOM Equipment Control Officer (MECO) to
          oversee and implement the IT Asset Management Program for the Command unless
          under HQ AFCA consolidated MECO construct as described in AFI 33-112,
          Information Technology Hardware Asset Management.
          5.3.1.2. Review their MAJCOM-unique systems at least once every three years to
          ensure the continued need for the system.
              5.3.1.2.1. Review system requirements and involve the MAJCOM IA office in
              review of any application interfacing with NIPRNET or SIPRNET.
              5.3.1.2.2. Determine if the operation and maintenance costs warrant continued
              operation.
       5.3.2. Unit Commanders or equivalent will:
          5.3.2.1. Appoint in writing primary and alternate Equipment Custodian(s) (ECs)
          IAW AFI 33-112.
          5.3.2.2. Provide guidance and procedures to ensure adequate protection and oversight
          is afforded to IT and National Security System (NSS) assets under their control. As
          the responsible officer, commanders are charged with custody, care, and safekeeping
          over all IT and NSS assets within their organization.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                  9


         5.3.2.3. Budget for maintenance of computer systems that are not the responsibility
         of the installation CSO.
  5.4. Software Management Program. Identifies the responsibilities associated with
  planning, developing, using, maintaining, or supporting computer software to effectively and
  efficiently complete assigned missions. It applies to Air Force-procured COTS software and
  software developed for unique Air Force purposes (other than software internal to a weapon
  system; see AFPD 63-1, Capability-Based Acquisition System). For additional program
  information, reference AFI 33-114, Software Management.
     5.4.1. All MAJCOM/DRU/FOA CSOs will:
         5.4.1.1. Conduct and document an annual inventory of software licenses as required
         by Executive Order (EO) 13103, Computer Software Piracy.
         5.4.1.2. Establish a process to track their unique software licenses.
         5.4.1.3. Develop performance measurements and metrics for software license
         requirements as required by EO 13103.
     5.4.2. Installation and Unit Commanders or equivalent will:
         5.4.2.1. Contact the responsible functional or program management office before
         purchasing software licenses to determine if COTS software licenses are available, or
         if there is a standard product to buy. Reference path on AF portal: Air
         Force\Enterprise IT Initiatives\Enterprise COTS Software Agreements.
         5.4.2.2. Coordinate with the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) designated
         product center to obtain volume pricing for products available through the DoD
         Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI). The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
         (DFAR) Supplement, Part 208, Required Sources of Supplies and Service, Subpart
         208.74, Enterprise Software Agreements (ESA), requires purchasers to first consider
         DoD Enterprise Software Agreements found at https://www.esi.mil.
         5.4.2.3. Coordinate with the installation CSO or servicing Network Control Center
         (NCC) before acquiring, developing, or implementing any software and comply with
         all IA program requirements in accordance with AFI 33-200.
         5.4.2.4. Prepare annual inventories of the software present on its computers in
         accordance with AFI 33- 114.
  5.5. Voice Services Program. Identifies the policy and responsibilities associated with
  planning, developing, using, maintaining, or supporting voice services to effectively and
  efficiently complete assigned missions. For additional program information, reference AFI
  33-111, Voice Systems Management.
     5.5.1. Installation Commanders will establish local guidance for handling incoming
     official collect telephone calls.
     5.5.2. When the host base does not require flat rate long distance telephone service, such
     a service is a special requirement and the base tenant organization must pay for it.
     5.5.3. Unit Commanders and Tenant Units will:
 10                                AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


           5.5.3.1. Appoint in writing Primary and Alternate Telephone Control Officers (TCO)
           to the installation CSO. The unit’s TCO is the individual who authorizes and controls
           long distance toll calls, DSN access authorization, and acts as the focal point for
           reviewing all unit communications requirements and requests for service before
           submitting them to the communications squadron.
           5.5.3.2. Tenant units shall not procure commercial voice services and equipment
           without approval of the host installation CSO. Exceptions to this guidance must be
           clearly documented in the Host Tenant Support Agreement or similar document.
   5.6. Messaging Services Program. Provides procedures and assigns responsibilities for
   establishing and managing MAJCOM Message Service Centers (MMSC). For additional
   program information, reference AFI 33-113, Managing Air Force Messaging Centers.
       5.6.1. Installation Commanders will:
           5.6.1.1. Appoint in writing sub-registration authority and mail list/address list
           cognizant authorities for message services as needed.
           5.6.1.2. Ensure local control center and base distribution point accounts are
           established.
           5.6.1.3. Appoint in writing a Base Distribution Point account manager.
       5.6.2. Unit Commanders and Tenant Units will:
           5.6.2.1. Establish an alternate delivery point for Urgent (High Precedence) messages
           when organizational accounts are not manned on a 24-hour, 7-day a week basis
           (24/7).
           5.6.2.2. Provide an after-hours notification personnel listing to the alternate delivery
           POC.
           5.6.2.3. Designate release authority, as necessary.
6. Information Management Programs. Establish policy and responsibilities for the
representation of, access to, and maintenance, management, analysis, distribution, and
integration of ―information assets‖ (all forms of data and content) across Air Force information
sources. Ensures the ability to discover, access, store, protect, share, and exploit mission-critical
information regardless of its physical location, media, source, owner, or other defining
characteristics.
   6.1. Records Management Program. Establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for
   life-cycle management (e.g., creation, maintenance, use, and disposition) of information as
   records in all media through the Air Force Records Management Program. The Air Force
   requires an organized network of Record Managers (RM) at MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs, and
   installations for managing the program and ensuring compliance at all levels. For additional
   program information reference AFI 33-322, Records Management Program.
       6.1.1. MAJCOM (Commander or senior communications and information official) will
       appoint a Command Records Manager (CRM). Upon appointment or subsequent change
       of CRM, notify SAF/XCPP of the name, grade or rank, telephone number, office symbol,
       and organizational electronic mail address of the appointee.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                 11


     6.1.2. DRU (commander or senior communications and information official) will appoint
     a Records Manager (RM). CRM responsibility applies to Air Force DRUs and Air
     National Guard for the purposes of executing the Air Force Records Management
     Program. NOTE: CRM responsibilities are performed by the 11th Wing for offices of
     record in the Secretariat, HQ USAF, and at Bolling AFB DC.
     6.1.3. FOA Commanders or senior communications and information official must
     appoint an Agency Records Manager (ARM).
     6.1.4. Installation Commanders or senior communications and information official will
     appoint an installation RM and notify the appropriate CRM, providing the same
     information as in paragraph 5.1.1. At levels below MAJCOM, where there is a
     communications squadron, the RM is the Chief of the Office of Records (COR) function.
     6.1.5. Unit commanders will appoint one or more Functional Area Records Managers
     (FARM). One or more FARMs may be required based on the span of control, the
     complexities of the mission, and the size of the organization’s functional areas.
     Additionally, they will ensure COR responsibilities are assigned.
     6.1.6. Unit commanders will work with their Wing/Unit RM as necessary to support the
     program.
  6.2. Information Collection and Reports Management Program. Establishes procedures
  for information collecting and reporting of internal, public, and interagency requirements.
  For additional program information, reference AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and
  Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force
  Information Collections (will become part of AFI 33-394, Knowledge, Information and Data
  Management).
     6.2.1. Each HQ USAF and SAF functional organization, MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA will
     appoint in writing an Information Collections and Reports (ICR) Manager and send the
     Air Force Information Management Control Officer (SAF/XCPP) the name, functional
     address symbol, e-mail address, and telephone number when a new ICR Manager is
     assigned.
  6.3. Privacy Act Program. Implements the Privacy Act of 1974 and applies to records on
  living US citizens and permanent resident aliens that are retrieved by name or personal
  identifier. The program provides guidance on collecting and disseminating personal
  information in general. For additional program information reference AFI 33-332, Privacy
  Act Program.
     6.3.1. MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU commanders will appoint in writing a command
     Privacy Act officer, and send the name, office symbol, phone number, and e-mail address
     to SAF/XCPP.
         6.3.1.1. Command Privacy Act Officers may authorize appointment of unit Privacy
         Act monitors to assist with implementation of the program.
     6.3.2. Installation Commanders appoint installation Privacy Act Officers in writing to the
     command Privacy Act Officer NLT 60 days prior to incumbent installation Privacy Act
     Officer’s date of departure/separation, to allow time for proper training and turnover.
12                               AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


  6.4. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act Compliance Program. Establishes the Air
  Force corporate approach to Section 508 implementation and follows the guidelines
  established by the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) of ―centralized management
  with decentralized execution.‖ This approach provides a corporate strategy addressing all
  legal requirements and provides maximum access to Electronic and Information Technology
  (E&IT) while maintaining full mission focus and capabilities and giving people with
  disabilities the opportunity to maximize their contribution to the success of the Air Force
  mission. For additional program information, reference AFI 33-393, Electronic and
  Information Technology Accessible to Individuals with Disabilities, Section 508.
     6.4.1. MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU commanders will identify a unit to support the Section
     508 Program and provide Section 508 training for personnel within their units who are
     involved in the Section 508 process.
     6.4.2. Installation Level Section 508 support organizations will execute Section 508
     compliance guidance distributed by the Section 508 Management Office and posted at
     https://www.cio.hq.af.mil/private/private_section_508.shtml .
  6.5. Base Locator Services. Installation and organization personnel locator services are
  defined in AFI 33-329, Base and Unit Personnel Locators.
     6.5.1. Installation commanders will determine if their base will provide locator services
     and, if provided, the scope of service (none, limited, or full), category of release (official,
     personal, or both), and hours of availability. Commanders determine whether to add
     civilian and/or contractor personnel to the base locator, select the designated base locator
     service provider, and establish procedures for base locator use.
     6.5.2. Unit commanders will decide if a personnel locator is required for their units and
     if so, consider whether the base locator meets the locator requirement. If a separate unit
     locator is required, organizational commanders determine the scope of service, category
     of release, and hours of availability. Commanders determine whether to include civilian
     and/or contractor personnel in the unit locator and who provides unit locator services.
     They also establish procedures for unit locator use.
  6.6. Official Mail Program. Establishes postal and official mail/distribution operational
  guidance and policy across the enterprise to ensure the Air Force can support in-garrison and
  Aerospace Expeditionary Force requirements. Prescribes how the Air Force operates the
  Military Postal Service (MPS) as an extension of the US Postal Service, consistent with
  public law and federal regulations. For additional program information reference DoDM
  4525.8/AFMAN 33-306, DOD Official Mail Manual.
     6.6.1. Commanders, staff agency chiefs, deputies, executive officers, or Activity
     Distribution Office (ADO) directors will appoint assigned individuals to receive and
     dispatch communications as directed in DoDM 4525.8/AFMAN 33-306, DOD Official
     Mail Manual. The appointing official is responsible to ensure security clearances are
     verified by the applicable security manager.
     6.6.2. Installation commanders must provide facilities, equipment, vehicles, resources,
     and services for efficient Official Mail Center operation.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                 13


   6.7. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program. Prescribes how the Air Force makes
   information on operation and activities publicly available in accordance with DODD 5400.7,
   DoD Freedom of Information Act Program requirements. For additional program
   information, reference DoD 5400.7- R/Air Force Supplement, DoD Freedom Of Information
   Act Program.
      6.7.1. Installation commanders will establish a FOIA electronic reading room in
      accordance with DoD 5400.7-R AFSUP.
      6.7.2. MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU commanders will support this program by appointing
      a FOIA manager in writing and implementing the instructions contained DoD 5400.7-R
      AFSUP.
   6.8. Web Management. Provides policy and procedural guidance with respect to
   establishing, operating, and maintaining web sites in the Air Force. For additional program
   information reference AFI 33-129, Web Management And Internet Use.
      6.8.1. Commanders at all levels are responsible for the content of the information posted
      on their public and private web pages/sites. Commanders will:
          6.8.1.1. Initiate and sign/approve appointment letters for their web server
          administrators, web masters, and web page maintainers.
          6.8.1.2. Ensure their web server administrators, web masters, web page maintainers,
          and information providers receive training in accordance with AFI 33-129, Web
          Management and Internet Use.
7. Information Collection, Records, and Forms
   7.1. Information Collections.    No information collections are accomplished by this
   publication.
   7.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in
   accordance with the AFRIMS RDS located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
   af61a/afrims/afrims/.




                                           MICHAEL W. PETERSON, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                           Chief Information Officer

                                           (ELLSWORTHAFB)

                                           JEFFREY B. TALIAFERRO, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 28th Bomb Wing
 14                             AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 13103, Computer Software Piracy, September 30, 1998
DFAR Supplement, Part 208, Required Sources of Supplies and Service, Subpart 208.74,
Enterprise Software Agreements (ESA), Revised October 26, 2006
DoDM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306, DoD Official Mail Manual, 21 October 2006
JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 23 March 1994
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, 20 June 2005
AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command--Communications and Information Systems
Management, 22 March 2001
AFI 21-109, Communications Security (COMSEC) Equipment Maintenance and Maintenance
Training, 1 October 2000
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning, 1 October 1997, Certified Current 13
November 2009
AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management, 24 March 2005, through Change 2, 11 July 2006
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 20 April 2006
AFI 33-113, Managing Air Force Messaging Centers, 6 February 2007
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network Management, 24 May 2006
AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management, 18 July 2005
AFMAN 33-120, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management, 19 September 2006
AFI 33-129, Web Management And Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-134, Mobile Satellite Services Management, 10 February 2005
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 December 2008, through Change 2, 15
October 2010
AFI 33-201, Volume 1, (FOUO) Communications Security, 1 May 2005
AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP), 1 May 2006
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 October 2003
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 33-329, Base and Unit Personnel Locators, 23 August 2006
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                  15


AFI 33-393, Electronic and Information Technology Accessible to Individuals with Disabilities,
Section 508, 9 January 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008AFI 90-301, Inspector General
Complaints, 8 February 2005
AFSSI 8520, Identification and Authentication, 18 June 2009
AFRIMS RDS, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/
AFOSH Std 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, 1 August 1997
MPTO 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice
Requirements, 14 April 2011
MPTO 00-33D-3003, Methods and Procedures Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with
the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System, 30 December 2010
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1435, COMSEC Maintenance Training and Experience Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
24/7—All day/everyday
ADO—Activity Distribution Office
AF—Air Force
AFB—-Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFNETOPS—Air Force Network Operations
AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AIM—-Asset Inventory Management
ANG—Air National Guard
 16                             AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


ARM—Agency Records Manager
CAC—Common Access Card
C-E—Communications Electronics
CEG—Cyberspace Engineering Group
CIPS—Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System
CIO—Chief Information Officer
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COMSEC—Communications Security
COR—Chief of Office of Records
CRM—Command Records Manager
CRO—COMSEC Responsibility Officer
CSIR—Communications and Information Systems Installation Record
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
DAA—Designated Accrediting Authority
DFAR—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDM—Department of Defense Manual
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DSN—Defense Switched Network
EC—Equipment Custodian.
E&IT—Electronic and Information Technology
EIE—Enterprise Information Environment
EMSEC—Emission Security
ESI—Enterprise Software Initiative
EO—Executive Order
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOIA—Freedom Of Information Act
GIG—Global Information Grid
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                17


GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IA—Information Assurance
IAO—Information Assurance Officer
ICR—Information Collections and Reports
I-NOSC—Integrated Network Operations and Security Center
IM—Information Management
IRM—Information Resource Management
ISM—Installation Spectrum Manager
IT—Information Technology
I-TRM—Infrastructure - Technology Reference Model
ISSO—Information System Security Officer
JP—Joint Publication
KOM—Knowledge Operations Management
LRA—Local Registration Authority
MAJCOM—Major Command
MECO—MAJCOM Equipment Control Officer
MMSC—MAJCOM Message Service Centers
MPS—Military Postal Service
MPTO—Methods and Procedures Technical Order
MSS—Mobile Satellite Services
NCC—Network Control Center
NIPRNET—Non-Secure IP Router Network
NSS—National Security System
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PA—Privacy Act
PKI—Public Key Infrastructure
POC—Point of Contact
PPS—Ports, Protocols, and Services
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RF—Radio Frequency
RM—Records Manager
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force (organization)
 18                                AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


SAP—Systems Applications and Products
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force (individual)
SIPRNET—Secure IP Router Network
SPO—Systems Program Office
STEM—Systems Telecommunications Engineering Manager
STEM—-B-STEM-Base Level
STEM—C-STEM-Command Level
STEM—D-STEM-Deployability
STEM—E-STEM-Engineering
STEM—J-STEM-Joint

Terms
Accountable Officer—-An individual appointed by proper authority who maintains item records
and/or financial records in connection with Government property, irrespective of whether the
property is in his or her possession for use or storage, or is in the possession of others to whom it
has been officially entrusted for use or for care and safekeeping.
Air Force Functional Manager—-The HQ USAF activity within a specific directorate
responsible for providing management oversight of the assigned function and its associated
communications and information systems.
Automated Information System (AIS)—-A combination of information, computer, and
telecommunications resources and other information technology and personnel resources that
collect, record, process, store, communicate, retrieve, and display information.
Communications and Information System—An integrated combination of doctrine,
procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment, C-E equipment and systems,
facilities, and communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and
control through all operational phases. It includes base visual information support systems.
Communications and Information Systems Blueprint—Document in CIPS that provides the
requirements engineering plan to modernize the installation level infrastructure with cost-
effective, installation-wide capability to support digital transmission of voice, data, video,
imagery, and telemetry needs. It documents the baseline, identifies a target base configuration to
support present and future requirements, and provides a time-phased plan and estimated costs for
logical transition.
Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—The designated official who has
overall responsibility for communications and information support at any given level of the Air
Force (base, tenant, MAJCOM, USAF, etc.). At base level, this is the commander of the
communications unit responsible for carrying out base communications and information systems
responsibilities. At MAJCOM and other activities responsible for large quantities of
communications and information systems, it is the person designated by the commander as
responsible for overall management of communications and information systems budgeted and
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                     19


funded by the MAJCOM or activity. The CSO function uses the office symbol "SC" and
expands it to three and four letters to identify specific functional areas. CSOs are the
accountable officer for all automated data processing equipment in their inventory.
Comprehensive Plan—The combination of the general plan, component plans, special plans
and studies, and maps that document a wide range of information necessary for decision making.
It encompasses those specific resource documents and processes determined to be essential for
planning and managing an installation’s physical assets in support of the mission. The
comprehensive plan is the all-encompassing description of the products, whereas comprehensive
planning is the action associated with the process and implementation.
Comprehensive Planning—The ongoing civil engineering process--iterative, participatory
process addressing the full range of issues affecting or affected by an installation’s development.
Through this process, goals and objectives are defined, issues are identified, information is
gathered, alternative solutions are developed, and a sound decision-making process is employed
to select a preferred alternative for implementation. It incorporates Air Force programs such as
operational, environmental, urban planning, and others, to identify and assess development
alternatives and ensure compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws; regulations; and
policies.
Configuration Management—1. In computer modeling and simulation, a discipline of applying
technical and administrative oversight and control to identify and document the functional
requirements and capabilities of a model or simulation and its supporting databases, control
changes to those capabilities, and document and report the changes. (Joint Publication [JP] 1-02,
Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 23 March 1994) 2. A
discipline applying technical and administrative direction and surveillance to: (a) identify and
document the functional and physical characteristics of a C4 system; (b) to control changes of
those characteristics; and (c) record and report changes to processing and implementation status.
Cyberspace—A global domain within the information environment consisting of the
interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet,
telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
(CJCS CM-0363-08)
Cyberspace Infrastructure—Physical structures required for cyberspace operations.
Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS)—Is the approved automated information
system for planning, installing, and managing the Air Force’s cyberspace infrastructure. It is a
web-enabled certified and secure enterprise government system. It was developed to meet
Congressional, Department of Defense, and AF policy. It is a key enabler of network centric
operations (NWO) and is a critical tool in support of the AF Global Information Grid (GIG) and
AF Network Operations (AFNETOPS). CIPS allows collaboration in documenting and tracking
the installation of Information Technology on Air Force Installations.
Enterprise Information Environment (EIE)—The common, integrated information computing
and communications environment of the GIG. The EIE is composed of GIG assets that operate
as, provide transport for, and/or assure local area networks, campus area networks, tactical
operational and strategic networks, metropolitan area networks, and wide area networks. The
EIE includes computing infrastructure for the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation,
management, control, and display of data or information, with a primary emphasis on DoD
 20                               AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


enterprise hardware, software operating systems, and hardware/software support that enable the
GIG enterprise. The EIE also includes a common set of enterprise services, called Core
Enterprise Services, which provide awareness of, access to, and delivery of information on the
GIG. (DODD 8115.1, Information Technology Portfolio Management)
Global Information Grid (GIG)—The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information
capabilities, associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel. The GIG includes all owned and leased communications and computing systems and
services, software (including applications), data, security services, and other associated services
necessary to achieve Information Superiority. It also includes National Security Systems as
defined in section 5142 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (see references). The GIG supports all
Department of Defense, National Security, and related Intelligence Community missions and
functions (strategic, operational, tactical, and business), in war and in peace. The GIG provides
capabilities from all operating locations (bases, posts, camps, stations, facilities, mobile
platforms, and deployed sites). The GIG provides interfaces to coalition, allied, and non-DoD
users and systems. (AFPD 33-4, Enterprise Architecting).
Information Resource Management (IRM)—The process of managing information resources
to accomplish agency missions and to improve agency performance. This includes reduction of
information collection burdens on the public. (AFPD 33-1, Information Resource Management)
Information System—A discrete set of information resources organized for collection, storage,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of
information. Includes automated information system (AIS) applications, enclaves, outsourced
IT-based processes, and platform IT interconnections. (AFPD 33-1, Information Resource
Management)
Information Technology—Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment
used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control,
display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. This includes
equipment used by the executive agency directly or used by a contractor under a contract with
the executive agency that (1) requires the use of such equipment, or (2) requires the use, to a
significant extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a
product. The term IT includes computer, ancillary equipment, software, firmware, and similar
procedures, services (including support services), and related resources. Notwithstanding the
preceding, the term "IT does not include any equipment that is required by a federal contractor
incident to a federal contract. The term IT includes National Security Systems (NSS), and is
synonymous with the term "information system" (IS). (AFPD 33-1, Information Resource
Management)
Interoperability—1. The ability to operate in synergy in the execution of assigned tasks. 2. The
condition achieved among communications-electronics systems or items of communications-
electronics equipment when information or services can be exchanged directly and satisfactorily
between them and/or their users. The degree of interoperability should be defined when
referring to specific cases. (JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and
Associated Terms)
Knowledge Operations Management—Encompasses communications and data, information
and knowledge management tasks and functions. Included are planning, coordinating,
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                       21


managing, sharing, and controlling organization’s data assets; conducting information analyses
to determine proper flow and life-cycle management of information, regardless of medium;
operating information systems to create, collect, process, disseminate, use, store, protect, and
dispose of information; electronic and manual publications, and forms development, design,
control, storage, and dissemination; management of official records, including manual and
automated record management systems and operation of records staging, publishing and
managing content through automated publishing tools; managing Privacy Act (PA) and Freedom
of Information Act (FOIA) procedures; operating of Base Information Transfer System and
Official Mail Center; serving as consultant/liaison for overall data, information, and knowledge
planning and integration; using and managing technologies to capture, organize, and store
activities/experiences; and client support administration, including management of computer
hardware and software; installation and configuration of software operating systems and office
automation applications, and configuration, management and initial diagnostics of information
systems.
Lead Command—The MAJCOM or FOA assigned as systems advocate and oversight authority
for communications and information systems used by more than one command. Specific
responsibilities of the lead command are in AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command—
Communications and Information Systems Management.
Modification—A temporary or permanent change to a system that is still being produced. The
purpose of the modification is to correct deficiencies, improve reliability and maintainability, or
to improve capabilities.
National Security System (NSS)—Any telecommunications or information system (IS)
operated by the U.S. Government, the function, operation, or use of which: 1) involves
intelligence activities; 2) involves cryptologic activities related to national security; 3) involves
command and control of military forces; 4) involves equipment that is an integral part of a
weapon or weapons system; or 5) is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence
missions (this does not include a system that is to be used for routine administrative and business
applications, including payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management applications).
(AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management (Note: For information assurance (IA)
purposes only pursuant to AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program), the term NSS also
includes any telecommunications or IS that is protected at all times by procedures established for
managing classified information.
Nonmaterial Solution—Includes changes in doctrine, operational concepts, tactics, training, or
organization.
Responsible Officer—An individual appointed by proper authority to exercise custody, care,
and safekeeping over property entrusted to his or her possession or under his or her supervision.
Systems Telecommunications Engineering Manager (STEM)—A communications and
information systems engineer who provides technical engineering planning services in support of
facilities and base infrastructures. The STEM-B has technical responsibility for engineering
management and assists the base CSO in system engineering and configuration control. The
STEM-C provides technical assistance to the MAJCOM and coordinates with STEM-Bs on
future MAJCOM mission changes, programs, and efforts at the MAJCOM-level. The STEM-J is
assigned to combatant commands (COCOM), and AF Forces (AFFORs) to promote
interoperability by providing an interface between those activities and the Air Force MAJCOMs
 22                             AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


and bases. The STEM-D supports the COCOMs providing master planning services in support
of command, control, communications and computer (C4) systems to complement the base
comprehensive plans or future development plans at bases in deployed locations. STEM-PMs
are Program/Project Managers who are responsible for facilitation, oversight, and coordination
of all programs/projects that have been funded and are assigned to the 38 CEG for
implementation.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                              23


                            Attachment 1 (ELLSWORTHAFB)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 Nov 2008, Incorporating Change 1,
21 Jul 2011
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) and Non-
appropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIS), 6 May 2009
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 Aug 2012
AFMAN 23-110, United States Air Force Supply Manual, 1 Apr 2009, Incorporating through
Interim Change 10, 1 Oct 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

Adopted Forms
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
28 BW/PA—28th Bomb Wing Public Affairs
28 CS—28th Communications Squadron
28 CS/SCO—28th Communications Squadron Flight Commander, Operations Flight
28 CS/SCOS—28th Communications Squadron Client Systems Center
ABU—Airman Battle Uniform
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
EAFB—Ellsworth Air Force Base
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Address
PAC—Public Address Coordinator
POC—Point of Contact
PBSA—Performance-Based Services Acquisition
24                       AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


WOMS—Work Order Management System
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                    25


                                         Attachment 2
      COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS OFFICER DUTIES

A2.1. MAJCOM CSO and information staff element will:
   A2.1.1. In conjunction with the command-level systems telecommunications engineering
   manager (STEM-C), develop the MAJCOM Blueprint in CIPS identifying the target
   architecture to meet specific MAJCOM mission capabilities taking into consideration AF
   Cyberspace objectives. Be responsible for narrative information on the MAJCOM Blueprint
   Executive Summary (capabilities based planning) and Transition Strategy. Reference MPTO
   00-33D-3003 for CIPS procedures.
   A2.1.2. Use configuration management methods to ensure the integrity and interoperability
   of systems.
   A2.1.3. Plan, program, and budget for engineering, installation, operation, and maintenance
   of MAJCOM-unique systems and the command’s portion of Air Force-wide systems.
   A2.1.4. Work with the STEM-C and STEM-J (AFFOR requirements) to prioritize
   command-wide requirements for inclusion into Air Force/MAJCOM work plan(s) that is/are
   ready for execution. Be the ―Approval‖ authority of all MAJCOM work plans in CIPS which
   correlate into current year spend plans.
   A2.1.5. Be the ―Acceptor‖ of the Wing Approved Base Blueprints, ensuring architectural
   compliance, proper classification, and functional support. Be responsible for narrative
   information on the MAJCOM Blueprint Executive Summary (capabilities based planning)
   and transition strategy. Ensure that the blueprints within CIPS incorporate the civil engineers
   base comprehensive plans and military construction programs to identify funding for
   MILCON projects and resolve conflicts between long-range C4ISR plans and the base
   comprehensive plan.
   A2.1.6. Develop a process to review MAJCOM C&I requirements.
   A2.1.7. Provide guidance and procedures to identify and communicate special engineering,
   installation, operations and/or maintenance requirements for NSS, Systems Applications and
   Products (SAP) or Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) or other federal agency
   systems utilized by their units to appropriate AF authorities (i.e. AFNETOPS/CC, Air Staff,
   I-NOSCs, etc.).
A2.2. Installation CSO will:
   A2.2.1. Organize, train, and lead all units assigned communications and information
   personnel.
   A2.2.2. Meet wing’s communications and information mission needs to include planning,
   organizing, and deploying communications and information systems to support the wing or
   its elements when they deploy.
   A2.2.3. Ensure elements of the installation communications and information environment
   and infrastructure, including mobile assets, continue to satisfy customers’ mission needs.
   A2.2.4. Manage the installation level infrastructure, host systems, and tenant systems as
   defined in support agreements, and establish an installation systems integration function.
26                              AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


     A2.2.4.1. Serve as the focal point for the installation’s non-mission systems needs and as
     the accountable officer for all IT hardware equipment accounted for in their assigned
     Asset Inventory Management (AIM) Defense Reporting Activity (DRA).
     A2.2.4.2. Appoint an Equipment Control Officer to oversee the installation AIM
     program IAW AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management.
  A2.2.5. Plan the evolution of systems supporting the installation users' missions; ensure war,
  support, and contingency planning are accomplished for communications and information
  requirements.
  A2.2.6. Develop communications and information annexes and appendices, contingency
  plans and support plans. Review and assist with the development of tenant plans involving
  communications and information resources or activities.
  A2.2.7. Identify and collect cyberspace infrastructure requirements and incorporate them
  into the CIPS base blueprint, as necessary. Work with the STEM-B to integrate base
  requirements into prioritized project plans that can be submitted to an appropriate Air
  Force/MAJCOM work plan. Reference MPTO 00-33D-3003.
  A2.2.8. Coordinate with the 38th Cyberspace Engineering Group (CEG) assigned base-level
  STEM (STEM-B) on the blueprint endorsement.
  A2.2.9. Coordinate STEM-B visits with installation level Functional Area Managers
  (FAMs).
  A2.2.10. Coordinate the communications and information systems blueprint with the host
  wing and other tenant units. Ensure the communications and information systems blueprint
  in CIPS, the installation comprehensive plan, and military construction programs
  complement each other (see AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning).
  A2.2.11. If the wing commander delegates, serve as base-level approval authority for the
  Implementation Document and other requirements documents submitted for implementation
  of communications and information systems.
  A2.2.12. Serve as the overall interface with the STEM-B to establish priorities and render
  decisions concerning the base communications and information infrastructure.
  A2.2.13. Manage communications and information projects.
     A2.2.13.1. Manage all Communications and Information Systems Installation Records
     (CSIR) for inside plant per MPTO 00-33A-1001 in CIPS.
     A2.2.13.2. Manage the outside plant Communications Mission Data Set (CMDS) layer
     in the CIPS Visualization Component (CVC) per MPTO 00-33D-3003.
  A2.2.14. DELETED.
  A2.2.15. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate base inside plant CSIR manager.
     A2.2.15.1. DELETED.
  A2.2.16. Prevent or minimize electromagnetic interference and electromagnetic radiation
  hazards (see AFOSH STD 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety and AFI 10-707,
  Spectrum Interference Resolution Program).
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                  27


   A2.2.17. Manage the installation frequency management program and follow the AF
   Spectrum Interference Resolution Program reporting procedures and guidance in AFI 10-
   707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program (see paragraph 4.2).
      A2.2.17.1. The CSO will appoint, a primary and alternate Installation Spectrum Manager
      (ISM) to organize and carry out the spectrum management program in accordance with
      AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management and AFMAN 33-120,
      Electromagnetic Spectrum Management and forward appointment letter to Air Force
      Frequency Management Agency (AFFMA).
   A2.2.18. Establish a focal point for determining installation level communications and
   information training and provide for customer support.
   A2.2.19. Account for all IT assets according to AFI 33-112, Information Technology
   Hardware Asset Management (see paragraphs 4.3 and 4.4).
   A2.2.19.1.1. Asset Inventory Management (AIM) is the AF official accountable property
   system of record for IT hardware assets.
   A2.2.20. Establish a single customer contact for automated systems and network problems,
   system administration requirements, and system and network protection requirements (such
   as an AF Network Control Center) (see AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network Operations
   (NETOPS).
   A2.2.21. For installations with deployable wings, provide trained personnel and sufficient
   equipment to support the wing’s deployable commitments.
   A2.2.22. Establish a periodic wing-level planning forum to discuss current and future issues
   affecting the wing’s communications and information infrastructure and the various systems
   it supports. Involve the STEM-B in the wing-level planning forum.
   A2.2.23. Assign an individual as the Wing/Base Knowledge Operations Management
   (KOM) Functional Manager for accession, training, classification, utilization, and career
   development of enlisted KOM (AFSC 3D0X1) personnel. These personnel operate in every
   functional area and, although most are not assigned to the communications unit, they are
   specialized extensions of the total capability for A6 to support the AF mission. A network of
   open communications is critical among these personnel at all levels.
   A2.2.24. Provide training to all unit Telephone Control Officers (TCO) upon initial
   appointment by a unit commander or equivalent on TCO duties and responsibilities. Brief all
   TCOs at least annually on policy changes and their duties and responsibilities.
A2.3. Tenant Unit CSO will:
   A2.3.1. Serve as their single focal point and accountable officer for communications and
   information systems of their respective activities. Define specific tenant and base CSO
   responsibilities in a support agreement or similar document.
   A2.3.2. Coordinate with the installation CSO to ensure their systems will integrate and
   interoperate, when necessary, with the Defense information infrastructure, and Air Force and
   host base systems.
28                             AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


  A2.3.3. Identify to the host installation, MAJCOM and AFNetOps special engineering,
  installation, operation and/or maintenance requirements for NSS, SAP or SCI or other federal
  agency systems that are used by the tenant.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012   29


                            Attachment 3
                             DELETED
30                               AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


                        Attachment 4 (Added-ELLSWORTHAFB)
         PUBLIC ADDRESS (PA) RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES

A4.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Definitions:
  A4.1.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Fixed                Public   Address    (PA)     System. A      system
  permanently installed in a base facility.
  A4.1.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Portable PA System. A system set-up on a temporary non-
  repetitive basis for any function of short duration.
  A4.1.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Portable PA System for Sign Out. A system signed out by
  the requesting office, set-up on a temporary, non-repetitive basis for any function of short
  duration.
  A4.1.4. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Routine PA Request. Any request for PA support with 10
  or more duty day’s notice.
  A4.1.5. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Short-Notice PA Request. Any request for PA support
  with 4 – 9 duty days’ notice.
  A4.1.6. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Emergency PA Request. Any request for PA support with
  less than 72 hours notice.
  A4.1.7. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Official Function. A direct military related function such
  as a change of command, retreat, retirement ceremony, dining-in, commander’s call, etc. PA
  requests for functions supporting base community relations, such as heritage associations,
  Boy Scouts, Special Olympics, or other special events must be approved by 28th Bomb Wing
  Public Affairs (28 BW/PA) office to be deemed official prior to submission.
  A4.1.8. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Unofficial Function. A function whose primary intent is to
  entertain. Portable PA support for events such as unit parties, picnics, sporting events is
  considered unofficial and can only be supported if authorized by the 28 CS Flight
  Commander, Operations Flight (28 CS/SCO) in writing.
  A4.1.9. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Public Address Coordinator (PAC). The 28 CS Client
  Systems Center (28 CS/SCOS) technician assigned to your PA event. This person is the
  Customers’ Point of Contact (POC) from the 28 CS/SCOS.
A4.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Responsibilities:
  A4.2.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) The primary mission of 28 CS/SCOS is to direct, control
  and report all communications maintenance. The 28 CS/SCOS serves as the squadron’s
  operational command and control support element, ensuring timeliness and effectiveness of
  maintenance activities and status reporting. Any outage affecting, or potentially affecting the
  base mission has priority over PA support.
  A4.2.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) The Customer:
     A4.2.2.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Responsible for submitting, Public Address Support
     Request online form located on the Air Force (AF) Portal under ―Operations Flight
     (SCO)‖ as ―Public Address Support Request‖, at least ten days prior to event.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                 31


     A4.2.2.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Responsible for reserving the facility where a fixed or
     portable system will be used, (i.e. base theater, Dakota Club, and so forth).
     A4.2.2.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Provide a meal at no cost to the operator of PA system
     when supported function includes a meal for guests.
     A4.2.2.4. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Coordinate the use of fixed PA systems through the
     appropriate responsible agency.
     A4.2.2.5. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Provide podiums for use during the event. NOTE:
     The base theater and the Dakota Club each have a podium available for use in these
     facilities.
     A4.2.2.6. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Building custodians are responsible for providing fixed
     PA equipment in facilities used by base personnel. Base Contracting will assist units
     requiring fixed/portable PA systems with contract support for installation and
     maintenance in accordance with AFI 63-124 Performance-Based Services Acquisition
     (PBSA). 28 CS/SCOS maintains/operates 28 CS equipment installed in the base theater
     and the Dakota Club. (Refer to paragraph A4.3.1, this instruction, for further guidance).
  A4.2.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) The 28 CS:
     A4.2.3.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Provide portable PA equipment to support official
     functions and approved unofficial functions.
        A4.2.3.1.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Set-up PA equipment for retirement ceremonies
        for pay grades 0-5 or equivalent rank or civilian pay grade and above, E-7 or
        equivalent rank or civilian pay grade and above, or hosted by Group Commander or
        above. For other retirement ceremonies, portable PA systems can be signed out (see
        paragraph A4.3.3, this instruction).
        A4.2.3.1.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Provide portable sign out equipment for
        commander’s calls and change of command events at squadron/unit level
        organizations on a first come, first served basis. Permanently installed systems at the
        base theater and Dakota Club are available to routinely support these types of
        functions.
        A4.2.3.1.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Under no circumstances will a PA system be
        provided for any profit making events in accordance with AFI 65-106.
     A4.2.3.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) All PA requests will be assigned a PAC by 28
     CS/SCOS.
        A4.2.3.2.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Responsibilities of the PAC.
            A4.2.3.2.1.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Verifying customer requirements                   are
            understood and will contact the customer for clarification as necessary.
            A4.2.3.2.1.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Ensure all proper equipment is on site.
            A4.2.3.2.1.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Perform a complete sound check of all
            sound equipment during set-up with customer to ensure set-up is satisfactory.
            A4.2.3.2.1.4. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Duty Uniform for Public Address Support.
            During normal duty hours, personnel providing PA support will wear airman
32                             AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012


            battle uniform (ABU) or unobtrusive attire commensurate with the function.
            After normal duty hours, (Dining In/Out, award ceremonies, banquets, etc.) the
            point of contact must annotate the uniform of the evening on the request form.
            When the function requires formal/semi-formal dress, the PA technicians will
            wear blues (long- or short-sleeved shirt with tie/tab). When the function requires
            civilian attire, the PA technicians will wear presentable civilian attire (no blue
            jeans, T-shirts, or offensive clothing). The PA technician in charge of the setup
            will ensure all technicians are wearing the proper uniform.
     A4.2.3.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) 28 CS/SCOS personnel will not be tasked to operate
     fixed PA systems belonging to another unit unless approved by the 28 CS/SCO.
  A4.2.4. (ELLSWORTHAFB) The 28 CS/SCO is the approval authority for all requests for
  portable PA set-ups to be accomplished by the 28 CS/SCOS work center, except those
  specifically authorized by paragraph A4.1.7. of this instruction. The 28 CS/SCO determines
  the level of support given when there is a conflict between two different PA set-ups at the
  same time.
  A4.2.5. (ELLSWORTHAFB) 28 CS/SCOS, 28 CS/SCO, or 28 CS/CC may cancel PA set-
  ups or remove PA equipment from operation if personnel or equipment safety is threatened
  (that is, during inclement weather).
  A4.2.6. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Disc jockey services for any PA set-up will not be provided.
A4.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Procedures:
  A4.3.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Requesting PA equipment set-up by 28 CS:
     A4.3.1.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Call 28 CS/SCOS at 385-2666 for guidance in
     requesting PA support. Support requests must be submitted to 28 CS/SCOS using the
     online form located at the AF Portal under ―Operations Flight (SCO)‖ as ―Public Address
     Support Request‖, not less than 10 duty days prior to the day of the event. This is to
     provide adequate time for processing and scheduling, and also provide the requesting unit
     time to locate an alternate source in the event a request is denied or cannot be satisfied.
     Forms are filed in the 28 CS/SCOS work center. They are destroyed after the 3 month
     cutoff or when no longer needed, whichever is sooner.
     A4.3.1.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) The following procedures will be followed when
     requesting PA systems support.
         A4.3.1.2.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Portable PA request for location outside the
         perimeter of EAFB must be requested, in writing, to 28 BW/PA office and approved
         by 28 CS/SCO.
         A4.3.1.2.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) The requesting unit POC is required to contact
         28 CS/SCOS if changes occur and encouraged to contact us with questions or
         concerns at 385-2666.
         A4.3.1.2.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) 28 CS/SCOS personnel will normally accompany
         equipment they set-up to ensure continuous operation unless precluded by higher
         priority mission requirements or lack of manpower. If a 28 CS/SCOS technician
         cannot stay or is not required to stay with the system, the PA system users will be
         required to sign an AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, for the equipment.
AFI33-101_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP_I 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                   33


         Organizations requesting PA equipment music support (cassette, CD) will provide a
         person to start and stop music at the appropriate times.
         A4.3.1.2.4. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Official functions will be supported by the full
         complement of PA equipment at the final ceremony only. Sound requirements for
         practices must be scheduled in advance. Customers may sign out a portable PA
         system for practices, if available.
         A4.3.1.2.5. (ELLSWORTHAFB) All agencies (that is, base visual information,
         public affairs, local media, and so forth) requesting interface with the 28 CS PA
         system will be connected and tested not less than 1 hour prior to the start of an event.
         28 CS/SCOS needs to be notified for any planned interface not less than 2 days in
         advance. Should this additional equipment cause interference with the PA system,
         the 28 CS/SCOS technician is authorized to disconnect equipment and deny the
         interface.
  A4.3.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) Obtaining Portable PA Systems for Sign Out to the Office of
  Primary Responsibility (OPR) for Official Functions and Approved Unofficial Functions:
     A4.3.2.1. (ELLSWORTHAFB) 28 CS/SCOS has portable systems for sign-out. Call
     385-2666 for availability and/or suggestions on portable systems. Training is provided at
     the time of receipt to ensure the OPR can operate the equipment. PA equipment signed
     out can be picked up at building 7235 room 11, 1 duty day prior to the event and must be
     returned no later than 0800 the first duty day after the event.
     A4.3.2.2. (ELLSWORTHAFB) All PA equipment is signed out on an AF Form 1297
     at the time it is borrowed. Equipment must be returned in good condition. Coil and tape
     or tie cables to prevent tangling prior to turn in. Identify broken parts, problems, or
     discrepancies when the equipment is returned. The OPR is responsible for any lost or
     damaged equipment.
  A4.3.3. (ELLSWORTHAFB) The 28 CS/SCOS is not responsible for procurement,
  installation or maintenance of PA systems for other base units. Fixed PA systems can be
  obtained as outlined in AFI 33-103. Installation and maintenance should be obtained through
  the Base Contracting Office. Permanently installed PA systems are justified and procured by
  the using organization in accordance with Table of Allowance 006 and AFMAN 23-110. 28
  CS/SCOS may be used as a technical consultant on PA system acquisition by properly
  submitting a Work Order Management System (WOMS) request through the Plans and
  Programs Flight 28 CS/SCX.
