BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3034
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            21 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                             REMISSION OF INDEBTEDNESS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/MRB                                                               Certified by: SAF/MR
                                                                  (Honorable. Daniel B. Ginsberg)
                                                                                        Pages: 12

This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-30, Military Entitlements. It
provides policy, procedures, and evaluation standards for debt remission. It also delegates
authorities, assigns responsibilities, and establishes a Secretary of the Air Force Remissions
Board (SAFRB), within the Air Force Review Boards Agency (AFRBA). It provides new
guidance and procedures for submitting and processing applications for remission of
indebtedness to the United States Air Force. It applies to all current and former members of the
Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard whose debts were incurred while
on active duty. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications; the
information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This publication requires
the collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.
Authorities to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are 10 U.S.C.
§§8013 and 9837, DoDFMR, Vol 7A, and AFMAN 65-116V1. Applicable Privacy Act System
Notice, F065 AF FMP, is available online:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/component/airforce/F065_AF_FMP_A.html. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
instruction may not be supplemented.
 2                                                           AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013


1. Authorities, Roles, and Responsibilities.
     1.1. Secretary of the Air Force (SAF).
        1.1.1. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. § 9837, Settlement of Accounts: Remission or
        Cancellation of Indebtedness of Members, the SAF is authorized to remit or cancel any
        part of the indebtedness of a person to the United States incurred while serving on active
        duty as a member of the Air Force, if the SAF considers such action to be in the best
        interest of the United States. In the context of this instruction, the terms remission and
        cancellation are synonymous and are defined as forgiveness or pardon of indebtedness,
        either in whole or in part.
        1.1.2. DoD authorization and policy for the Air Force remission program can be found in
        DoDFMR, Vol 7A, Chapter 50, Stoppages And Collections Other Than Courts-Martial
        Forfeitures, Paragraph 5003, Remission/Cancellation of Indebtedness. The provision
        also delegates to the SAF the authority to implement procedural regulations for remission
        of debt.
     1.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
     (SAF/MR). SAF/MR exercises the authority under 10 U.S.C. § 9837 on behalf of the SAF.
     SAF/MR has further delegated this authority to the Director of the AFRBA. The Director,
     AFRBA shall exercise this delegated authority through a board and may further delegate this
     authority.
     1.3. Director, AFRBA shall:
        1.3.1. Exercise oversight and control over the AFRBA remissions process;
        1.3.2. Develop and publish remission policy, procedures, and evaluation standards as
        approved by SAF/MR;
        1.3.3. Establish and manage a SAFRB.
     1.4. SAFRB. SAFRB shall be responsible for reviewing remission applications and
     providing final decisions or recommendations to the Director, AFRBA in accordance with
     the standards and procedures provided by this instruction.
        1.4.1. A SAFRB panel will be composed of three or more members appointed by the
        Director, AFRBA with at least one member being a military member. All members of
        the panel will be voting members.
        1.4.2. One of the members will be appointed as board chair and shall be a civilian or
        military member in the grade of GS-15 or O-6, permanently assigned to the AFRBA.
        1.4.3. The other two members shall be in the grade equivalent of O-5 or O-6 (GS-14 or
        GS-15) except that when the applicant is enlisted, then one member of the board will be
        enlisted in the grade of E-8 or E-9. When the applicant is a General Officer, then at least
        one member of the board will be either a member of the Senior Executive Service or in
        the grade of 0-7 or above, and in the equivalent or higher grade than the applicant.
        1.4.4. When the applicant is a member of one of the Reserve Components, one voting
        member shall be a member of a Reserve Component.
AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   3


   1.5. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM)
   shall:
      1.5.1. Accept, process, and provide initial recommendations on remission applications
      consistent with this instruction and AFMAN 65-116V1, Defense Joint Military Pay
      System Active Component (DJMS-AC) FSO Procedures, through the Air Force Financial
      Services Center (AFFSC) and Financial Services Offices (FSO);
      1.5.2. Ensure this instruction is adequately distributed to field level FSOs;
      1.5.3. Provide an SAFRB collateral (additional duty) board member, upon request by the
      board chair.
2. Application Procedures.
   2.1. Who May Apply. Any person who incurred a debt on or after October 7, 2001 while
   serving on active duty in the Air Force may apply for remission of indebtedness to the United
   States Air Force. The debt must be established and any administrative procedures and
   appeals regarding the existence, validity, or amount of the debt must have been completed
   prior to application.
      2.1.1. Generally, any indebtedness may be considered for remission including those
      listed in the DoDFMR, Vol 7A, Tables 50-1, etc.
      2.1.2. Remission or cancellation of indebtedness is not available to Air National Guard
      or Air Force Reserve personnel when the debt is incurred while performing inactive duty
      training or active duty for training except as stated in Paragraph 2.1.3.
      2.1.3. IAW DoDFMR, Vol 7A, Chapter 50, Paragraph 500302 B, any member of the Air
      National Guard (officer or enlisted member) who is charged with liability for government
      property that is lost, damaged, or destroyed on or after October 1, 1980 may have such
      liability remitted or cancelled, if not otherwise eligible for remission based upon a debt
      incurred while serving on active duty as a member of the Air Force.
      2.1.4. IAW OSD (P&R) and OSD (C) memo dated January 19, 2007, Remission or
      Cancellation of Debt Incurred by Members of the U.S. Armed Forces Medically
      Evacuated from a Combat Zone, airmen who are medically evacuated from a combat
      zone due to a battle or non-battle injury or illness, who incurred a debt while within the
      theater, shall have that debt expeditiously remitted or cancelled, unless the debt was
      caused by the airman’s misconduct. As indicated in paragraph 1.1.1, the terms remission
      and cancellation are synonymous. Remission of such debt is not automatic; those who
      want such debts remitted must apply as set forth in this instruction.
      2.1.5. Applicant may apply for remission of debt(s) when also eligible for waiver under
      10 U.S.C. §2774. However, when an applicant has previously applied for a waiver, the
      debt, as a matter of policy, will not ordinarily be remitted or cancelled. See paragraph
      3.2.10. The process and policy for waivers can be found in DoD Directive 1340.22,
      "Waiver of Debts Resulting from Erroneous Payments of Pay and Allowances," and DoD
      Instruction 1340.23, “Waiver Procedures for Debts Resulting from Erroneous Pay and
      Allowances,” and AFMAN 65-116 V1.
4                                                           AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013


    2.2. Where To Apply.
       2.2.1. An active duty member with an established debt to the Air Force, or a Reserve
       Component member who incurred a debt while serving on active duty, may request that
       the debt be remitted or cancelled on the basis of hardship, inequity, or both, through his
       or her servicing FSO.
       2.2.2. Individuals honorably discharged or retired, including former members of the
       Reserve Component, who incurred a debt on or after October 7, 2001, while on active
       duty, may contact and work with the nearest FSO. If working with a FSO is not
       convenient, the member will contact the Air Force Financial Services Center, Remissions
       Branch, 2700 Doolittle Dr, Ellsworth AFB SD 57706.
       2.2.3. Group remission applications or requests may be considered, if:
           2.2.3.1. The applicable MAJCOM or HAF functional 2-letter office:
               2.2.3.1.1. Determines that five or more individuals have incurred an established
               debt eligible for remission under the standards noted in paragraph 3;
               2.2.3.1.2. Finds that the individuals identified incurred the debt under
               substantially similar circumstances and have an identical basis for remission;
               2.2.3.1.3. Recommends that remission be granted.
           2.2.3.2. A group remission application must be submitted by the applicable
           MAJCOM or HAF functional 2-letter office (for example, AF/A1 could submit a
           group remission application on behalf of a group of named individuals who were
           overpaid an aviation bonus). In addition to the facts and circumstances surrounding
           the debt and the justification for remission, the request must include each individual’s
           name, Social Security Number, amount(s) of his or her respective debt(s), and date(s)
           of payment(s) or other event which created the indebtedness.
           2.2.3.3. Group remission applications are staffed in accordance with HAF staffing
           procedures. No specified form is required. At a minimum, coordination with
           SAF/FM and an appropriate legal review (SAF/GC) must be accomplished on any
           group remission request before consideration by SAFRB.
    2.3. Submission Process. The application must demonstrate that collection of the debt is
    unjust, inequitable and/or would create undue hardship. The standards used to determine
    hardship, inequity or injustice are found in paragraph 3. The applicant bears the burden to
    prove that remission of the debt is in the best interest of the United States. The following
    supporting documents or information may also be required.
       2.3.1. Documentation of monthly expenses for hardship claims. Submitted
       documentation must be dated within the last 60 days of the accepted remission package.
       Outdated or incomplete receipts will result in the AFFSC returning the remission claim to
       the FSO for proper documentation.
       2.3.2. Documents required by AFMAN 65-116V1, Table 73.1.
       2.3.3. A narrative statement explaining the circumstances surrounding the debt or its
       collection and how these circumstances demonstrate the debt is unjust, inequitable, or
AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                        5


       that its collection creates an undue hardship that greatly affects the welfare of the debtor,
       his or her family members, or both.
       2.3.4. Wounded warriors should explain when the debt is due to pay and allowance
       continuation overpayments, e.g. fully fit for duty determination was received late, or
       delay of commander (or attending physician) in coordinating the fully fit for duty
       determination caused the entitlements to continue past the proper end date of (month,
       year). If neither statement fits the situation, describe what actually occurred.
       2.3.5. Wounded warriors should indicate that notification by (name and position) was the
       first time he/she was aware of the debt, if that is the situation. If not, describe what
       actually occurred. Note: the procedures described in paragraphs 2.3.4 and 2.3.5. are
       ONLY for wounded warriors whose debt occurred while in the combat area or after
       being evacuated from the combat area due to a wound, injury, or illness that was
       incurred in the line of duty.
       2.3.6. Commander endorsement.
       2.3.7. Any other evidence to support the application.
3. Evaluation Standards. A debt will be remitted or canceled upon a finding that the debt
creates an injustice, an inequitable situation, or that its collection would result in undue hardship
and that remission is in the best interest of the United States. The following principles will be
considered in any remission determination.
   3.1. There is a presumption that the established debt is valid.
   3.2. The following types of indebtedness will not ordinarily be remitted or canceled.
       3.2.1. When an applicant’s pay is not reduced promptly in connection with forfeiture of
       pay imposed by a court-martial sentence or under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of
       Military Justice (UCMJ).
       3.2.2. When an applicant is held liable for damage or loss of property to another
       government agency or Service.
       3.2.3. When debts are due to loss of public funds obtained or converted to the applicant’s
       use through fraud, larceny, embezzlement, or other unlawful means.
       3.2.4. When debts are due to fines or forfeitures imposed by court-martial sentence or
       non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the UCMJ.
       3.2.5. When the applicant has received less than an Honorable Discharge at the time of
       separation, i.e., discharged with an entry level separation, under honorable conditions
       (general) discharge, under other than honorable conditions discharge, bad conduct
       discharge, dishonorable discharge, or dismissal.
       3.2.6. When the debt is based upon taxes owed.
       3.2.7. When the debt is incurred as a result of recoupment of Voluntary Separation Pay,
       Separation Bonus, or Advance Pay.
       3.2.8. When the amount is $150 or less and the request is based on hardship only.
6                                                             AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013


       3.2.9. When three years or more have passed from the date an applicant was notified of a
       debt.
       3.2.10. When an applicant has previously received a final determination for the same
       debt under 10 U.S.C. § 2774.
    3.3. General factors to consider in remission deliberations.
       3.3.1. The Air Force policy or practice in the area of indebtedness;
       3.3.2. An applicant’s awareness of and experience with the applicable policy and
       procedures;
       3.3.3. The applicant’s role in the accrual of the debt (e.g. was the debt incurred due to the
       applicant’s action or inaction, did the applicant know of the debt, should he or she have
       known of the debt, and what was done or should have been done to mitigate the debt);
       3.3.4. Documentation of support by either the applicant’s supervisor or first sergeant.
    3.4. Factors pertaining to equity and/or injustice (these are not exclusive):
       3.4.1. Good faith on the part of the applicant and candor in the application;
       3.4.2. Member’s reasonable detrimental reliance on erroneous information provided by
       the Air Force;
       3.4.3. Member inquired of a proper authority and was told that the payment was correct;
       3.4.4. Evidence that applicant did not know, or could not have known, of the error; and
       3.4.5. The nature and circumstances surrounding any government error, its efforts to
       inform those impacted, and its responsiveness.
    3.5. Factors pertaining to hardship (these are not exclusive):
       3.5.1. An applicant’s monthly income and expenses (provided by applicant);
       3.5.2. Additional income or assets (for example, spouse’s salary, savings accounts,
       bonds, and applicant’s off-duty employment) (provided by applicant);
       3.5.3. Description of applicant’s other financial obligations;
       3.5.4. The applicant’s DoD or IRS qualified dependents (number and age of family
       members, special needs, living apart from family members because of military orders,
       etc.);
       3.5.5. Any substantial financial obligations regarding extended family, or others to
       whom the applicant may be obligated;
       3.5.6. Impact on applicant’s standard of living (justified by the applicant) (Expenses
       caused by living standards that exceed income or by mishandling of funds are not a basis
       for a hardship);
       3.5.7. Impact on applicant’s ability to meet his/her other reasonable obligations;
       3.5.8. Living in a high cost area; and
       3.5.9. The cause of the stated hardship and applicant’s efforts to mitigate.
AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     7


4. Application Processing.
   4.1. The FSO reviews the application, determines whether the applicant has previously
   applied for a waiver of the debt, ensures the application is complete and all required
   documentation is present, and provides a recommendation based upon the evaluation
   standards above. The FSO forwards the complete remission application package to AFFSC
   after it has been reviewed and signed by the comptroller or superintendent. When the
   applicant submits documentation to support a claim of hardship, the Financial Services
   Officer or designee will determine whether the amounts provided by the applicant are
   reasonable for the applicant’s locale and explain any concerns with the amounts reported. If
   the Financial Services Officer or designee has concerns about the reasonableness of the
   amounts reported, he or she will indicate whether the applicant was advised to consider
   amounts that appeared excessively high or low and indicate whether the applicant was asked
   to submit supporting documentation to validate the unusual amounts claimed. Additionally,
   the Financial Services Officer or designee will indicate his or her opinion whether hardship is
   an appropriate consideration in the member’s application.
      4.1.1. Comptroller or superintendent signature is not further delegable.
   4.2. AFFSC reviews the application package (to include the FSO recommendation), ensures
   all required documentation is present and provides a recommendation. All information
   considered by the AFFSC in their review and advisory will be placed in the application
   package to be forwarded to the SAFRB. This includes any correspondence with applicant, as
   well as with the FSO, a copy of the Case Management System case, and AFFSC
   recommendations.
   4.3. SAFRB (see paragraph 1.4) reviews the application package and issues a final decision
   or forwards a recommendation to the Director, AFRBA for final action as required by
   paragraphs 4.4.2.1.1., 4.4.2.1.2., 4.4.2.1.3. and 4.4.2.1.4. SAFRB may return any case to the
   AFFSC, without action, if it is determined that more information is needed for a board
   decision.
   4.4. SAFRB shall review the application package.
      4.4.1. Deliberation.
          4.4.1.1. SAFRB proceedings are not open to the public and SAFRB does not permit
          personal appearances by or on behalf of the applicant. SAFRB considers only written
          material.
          4.4.1.2. SAFRB decides cases based on the evidence in the record submitted by the
          applicant, any additional information that is part of the applicant’s official military
          record, applicant responses, and recommendations provided through FSO and AFFSC
          review. However, the board may call for additional evidence or advisory opinions as
          determined by the board chair. If the chair makes a determination any supplemental
          information that is not a part of the applicant’s official Air Force record or any
          advisory opinion is appropriate and relevant for board consideration, this advisory
          opinion and or supplemental information will be provided by SAFRB to the applicant
          and he or she is provided 30 calendar days to comment. The advisory opinion and or
          supplemental information, and applicant’s comments, if provided, are routed through
8                                                        AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013


       the servicing FSO and AFFSC, in the event that the servicing FSO or AFFSC wish to
       amend their original recommendations.
       4.4.1.3. The applicant bears the burden to prove that remission of the debt is in the
       best interest of the United States, and that collection of the debt would result in an
       injustice, an inequitable situation, or hardship.
           4.4.1.3.1. If the applicant disputes the underlying debt, the applicant must first
           present the dispute to the FSO or the applicable agency for action/review. If the
           applicant continues to dispute the validity of the underlying debt, the applicant’s
           assertions as well as any response, reasoning, or explanation by the FSO or the
           applicable agency shall be included in the application submitted to the SAFRB.
    4.4.2. Decision.
       4.4.2.1. SAFRB shall act through a majority vote of a panel’s members. It may
       decide to deny a request for remission, or approve it in whole or in part. Any
       decision on remission shall not be impacted by amounts already paid by the applicant
       (for example, the board may remit the entire debt amount, to include portions already
       collected). The board’s decision or recommendation shall be recorded on a vote sheet
       that reflects the vote of each panel member. All decisions of the SAFRB or
       applicable approving authority shall be issued in the form of a written memorandum,
       detailing the findings, conclusions, rationale, and recommendations and/or actions of
       the board, and signed by the board Chair or applicable approving authority. A
       dissenting member may submit an opinion. Decisions of the SAFRB shall be final,
       unless approval by the Director, AFRBA is required. Where such approval is
       required, SAFRB decisions shall be preliminary and constitute recommendations to
       the Director. In such cases, the SAFRB shall refer the record of proceedings,
       including their recommendations, to the Director. The following circumstances
       require final action by the AFRBA Director:
           4.4.2.1.1. When an application is not unanimously agreed to by the board;
           4.4.2.1.2. Individual remission cases where the applicant’s cumulative debt to be
           remitted exceeds $50,000;
           4.4.2.1.3. Group remission applications received and processed in accordance
           with Paragraph 2.2.3., where any individual applicant’s cumulative debt to be
           remitted exceeds $50,000; or
           4.4.2.1.4. Any matter identified as being of high sensitivity or having the
           potential for significant Congressional or public interest. SAF/MRB will report
           such cases to SAF/MR, in writing, in advance of any decisions to allow SAF/MR
           or the SAF to withdraw delegated authority prior to final action on the matter.
    4.4.3. Other Recommendations. SAFRB may identify DoD or Air Force policies,
    instructions, guidance or practices that are leading, or likely to lead, to unsound business
    decisions, unfair results, waste of government funds or public criticism. The board will
    forward such observations directly to the Director, AFRBA, for subsequent forwarding
    and consideration by the appropriate offices of the Secretariat and/or Air Staff for review
AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   9


       and evaluation. Such observations will not be included in the memorandum of decision
       or in the record of proceedings.
   4.5. Record of Proceedings. The record of proceedings shall be prepared by SAFRB staff
   and include: (1) the full application package submitted by AFFSC; (2) any supplemental
   evidence, advisory opinions, and corresponding responses from the applicant; (3) the written
   findings, conclusions, rationale, and recommendations and/or actions of the board and/or the
   Director, AFRBA, including any dissenting opinions; and (4) any other information
   necessary to show a true and complete history of the proceedings.
   4.6. Applications for remission of indebtedness shall not be sent to the Air Force Board for
   the Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR) prior to requesting remission and exhausting
   the administrative rights within this instruction.
5. Publication. Remission decisions will be posted on the Air Force Electronic Reading Room
(http://boards.law.af.mil/) per 5 U.S.C. § 552(a) (2). Public posting of remission decisions
should be in accordance with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, and AFMAN 33-302,
Freedom of Information Act Program.
6. Appeal. Within 30 days of receiving written notification of a decision on remission, the
applicant may appeal by sending a written request to their servicing FSO. If new or additional
information is available, the applicant should submit it with the appeal. A narrative addressing
the decision being appealed and explaining why remission should be granted should also be
included. Appeals shall be processed as follows:
   6.1. The applicant’s servicing FSO verifies the accuracy of the applicant’s submission and
   provides a recommendation to AFFSC concerning whether overturning the previous decision
   is justified. The FSO forwards the applicant’s submission and its recommendation to
   AFFSC.
   6.2. AFFSC reviews the submission and provides a recommendation to AFRBA. AFFSC
   forwards the applicant’s submission, the FSO recommendation, and the AFFSC
   recommendation to AFRBA for appellate review.
   6.3. AFRBA reviews the package for completeness and provides the appeal request, AFFSC
   and FSO recommendations, and the original record or proceeding to the proper appellate
   authority, for final action.
       6.3.1. Where the final decision was issued directly by the SAFRB, the appellate authority
       shall be the Director, AFRBA.
       6.3.2. Where the final decision was issued directly by the Director, AFRBA, the
       appellate authority shall be the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Manpower and
       Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR (PDAS)).
       6.3.3. In a case where the delegated remissions authority has been withdrawn to the
       SAF/MR or SAF, any decision made by SAF/MR or SAF as applicable, is final.
   6.4. Where an applicant bypasses this appeal procedure by filing an application to the
   AFBCMR before this appeal procedure is exhausted, the AFBCMR application will be
   returned to the applicant.
 10                                                          AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013


7. Notice of all Decisions. SAFRB staff will ensure the applicant is informed in writing of the
decision on the application or appeal, the rationale for the decision, and appeal rights/procedures,
if applicable. SAFRB notice of decisions will be routed through AFFSC, which will, in turn,
forward the decision memorandum to the FSO for applicant notification.
8. Exceptions to Policy. Requests for exceptions to policy for this instruction will be routed to
SAF/MR for consideration.




                                              DANIEL B. GINSBERG
                                              Assistant Secretary
                                              Manpower and Reserve Affairs
AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Section 552 of Title 5, United States Code
Section 2774 of Title 10, United States Code
Section 9837 of Title 10, United States Code
DoDD 1340.22, Waiver of Debts Resulting from Erroneous Payments of Pay and Allowances,
January 8, 2005
DoDI 1340.23, Waiver Procedures for Debts Resulting from Erroneous Pay and
Allowances, February 14, 2006
DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management Regulation, Volume 7A, Chapter 50, Paragraph 5003,
February 2012
AFPD36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFPD36-30, Military Entitlements, 2 August 1993
AFMAN33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 October 2010
AFMAN65-116 V1, Defense Joint Military Pay System Active Component (DJMS-AC) FSO
Procedures, 1 April 2007, Incorporating Through Change 5, 22 May 2012
AFI33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011


Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff Manpower and Personnel and Services
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRBA—Air Force Review Boards Agency
AFBCMR—Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records
AFFSC—Air Force Financial Services Center
DJMPS—AC- Defense Joint Military Pay System Active Component
DoD—Department of Defense
DODFMR—Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
FSO—Financial Services Office
 12                                                   AFI36-3034 21 NOVEMBER 2013


GS—General Schedule
HAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
IRS—United States Internal Revenue Service
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/GC—Air Force General Counsel
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
SAF/MR PDAS—Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
SAF/MRB—Director, Air Force Review Boards Agency
SAFRB—Secretary of the Air Force Remissions Board
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
