BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7086
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                               KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement

                                                                            20 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 377 MSG/CEANC                                                    Certified by: 377 MSG/CE
Supersedes: KAFBI 32-7001,                                                 (D. Brent Wilson, PE)
            23 November, 2005                                                           Pages: 7


AFI 32-7086 AFMCSUP, Hazardous Materials Management, 10 April 2006 is supplemented
with local processes and requirements to meet Air Force objectives in the management of
hazardous materials as follows. Supplemental information includes zone definitions; long term
and short term contractor HAZMAT process definitions; and, other hazardous materials business
practices as defined by the Installation Hazardous Materials Management Process Team
(IHMMPT). It applies to all individuals and organizations that procure, maintain, store, use and
dispose of hazardous materials (HAZMAT) on Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB). This
publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records        Disposition     Schedule         (RDS)        located        at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; Route AF Form 847‟s from the field through the
appropriate functional‟s chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and
Supporting Information.

1.3.1. (Added) HAZMAT Zone.
1.3.1.1. (Added) The term HAZMAT zone is typically defined as a specific location where
personnel perform work. Location may be outdoors, indoors, or a combination of both, and may
encompass administrative, industrial, or any installation activity where health hazards including
 2                                    AFI 32-7086_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 20 OCTOBER 2011


hazardous materials have been identified. The term zone is typically synonymous with work
area, work center, shop or laboratory. For Bioenvironmental Engineering (377 AMDS/SGPB),
the term zone also translates to a Personal Exposure Group (PEG).
1.3.1.2. (Added) HAZMAT zone assignment is accomplished through 377 AMDS/SGPB.
Buildings may have multiple zones depending on functional areas within the building. Some
HAZMAT zones may have multiple work areas and/or transportable hazardous materials due to
responsibilities encompassing multiple work locations across the installation. These HAZMAT
zones are exceptions.
1.3.1.3. (Added) HAZMAT zone relocation must be coordinated with all material approving
authorities (377 AMDS/SGPB, Ground Safety Office (377 ABW/SEG) and Environmental
Management Compliance, Hazardous Materials Section (377 MSG/CEANC)) prior to moving
any hazardous materials from the original assigned location. This requirement ensures the
Hazardous Materials Management System (HMMS) is updated with proper building locations
for all hazardous materials on the installation.
1.3.1.4. (Added) HAZMAT zones cannot be consolidated without proper authorizations from all
material approving authorities. Materials must be authorized in the newly established or
consolidated zone prior to activation for hazardous materials use.
1.3.1.5. (Added) HAZMAT zones cannot be deactivated without authorization from all material
approving authorities, and all hazardous materials must be transferred to other authorized zones
or turned in as waste through the HAZMAT tracking system for proper disposal. Material
transfers shall be coordinated through the 377 MSG/CEANC. In addition, the organization that
initially requested the zone be established, by contacting the 377 AMDS/SGPB, along with the
proponent‟s organizational Safety office, must concur that the zone can be deactivated.
1.3.1.6. (Added) Hazardous materials must be authorized for use in each HAZMAT zone within
each identified location where they will be used. They may not be freely transported from one
HAZMAT zone to another without having prior authorization for the specific material being
transported.
1.3.2. (Added) Contractors.
1.3.2.1. (Added) “Long-Term Contractor” for HAZMAT purposes is a contractor who is
performing under a multi-year option contract for the government while working on KAFB.
Long term contractors will follow the same rules for HAZMAT as regular Air Force units via
proper authorizations, procurement practices and ultimate disposal or consumption of materials.
1.3.2.2. (Added) “Short Term Contractor” for HAZMAT purposes is a contractor performing
under one contract period, for one or more job sites with no option years available. KAFB units
include both Department of Defense (DOD) and non-DOD mission partners at the installation,
with the exception of Department of Energy (DOE) organizations. Contractors will submit a
letter to their contracting officer listing all hazardous materials they will be using, quantities of
each HAZMAT to be used and copies of Manufacturers Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for
each HAZMAT used. The Contracting Officer will forward package to 377 MSG/CEANC,
Environmental Management Compliance Hazardous Materials Section for approval and logging.
2.3.1.1. On KAFB, the hazardous materials HAZMART is a “virtual” decentralized function.
The Hazardous Materials Management office within the 377 MSG/CEANC function is the focal
AFI 32-7086_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 20 OCTOBER 2011                                                     3


point for authorizations and requests to purchase HAZMAT. The 377th Logistics Readiness
Squadron, Base Supply Central Receiving Office (377 LRS/LGRCDCH) and the 377 Civil
Engineering Base Maintenance Contractor‟s Central Receiving are the only two issue points for
HAZMAT on KAFB.
2.3.2. Material must be received into the standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system to
initiate tracking on the installation. A bar-coded label is affixed to each authorized item. Only
properly labeled HAZMAT will be delivered to zones authorized to possess the HAZMAT.
Labels for HAZMAT procured through GPC or contractor purchase order will receive bar-code
labels from either central receiving or the Hazardous Materials Management Office.
2.3.3. HAZMAT zones and long term contractors operating on KAFB will process HAZMAT
requests through the standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system.
2.4.9. KAFB requires tracking by bar-coded label with serial numbers attached to the
HAZMAT.
2.4.9.1. (Added) When an individual HAZMAT container is empty, that container‟s bar-coded
HAZMAT label is to be physically removed from the container. Within the HAZMAT tracking
system, the serial number for the HAZMAT container will be reflected as emptied, wasted or
„otherwise accounted for‟ so that quantity of material is zeroed.
2.4.13. HAZMAT personnel and Unit Environmental Coordinators will make every attempt to
find a National Stock Number (NSN) for any HAZMAT to be procured before contacting the
HAZMART for assistance. This will include searching the HAZMAT tracking data base and
researching Federal Logistics Data (FED LOG) Program. If no NSN can be found, a Local Stock
Number (LSN) will be assigned.
2.5.3.1.1. KAFB does not use blanket authorizations for HAZMAT. The KAFB HAZMART
does maintain an approved listing of materials that are exempt from HAZMAT authorization
procedures.
2.5.3.1.2. For materials not already loaded into the HAZMAT tracking system, the most current
(MSDS) must be provided to the HAZMART. MSDS must be manufacturer-specific and
provided in Portable Document Format (PDF) and attached to the standardized Air Force
HAZMAT tracking system MSDS. In the case where an older HAZMAT on the installation
requires retroactive authorization, the MSDS for that material must closely match the material‟s
manufacture date; the most current MSDS may not be appropriate. Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) requires that the MSDS match the material on hand.
2.5.3.1.4. Page from requiring document (Technical Order; Owner‟s Manual; Shop Directives,
etc.) will be added as a PDF and attached along with the Manufacturer‟s MSDS to the
standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system MSDS. Prior to inserting the requiring
document PDF, write the respective zone number on the requiring document for easy
identification of material with multiple zone users.
2.5.3.1.10. (Added) The IHMMPT must review all HAZMAT used on KAFB. This will be
accomplished through the HAZMAT authorization process. An authorization will be required
for all HAZMAT with Hazard Codes "9" or "M". The 377 AMDS/SGPB representatives to the
IHMMPT will assign hazard codes for HAZMAT.
 4                                   AFI 32-7086_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 20 OCTOBER 2011


2.5.3.4. HAZMAT zones will be required to have an authorization for a HAZMAT before it is
ordered, received, stocked, or stored on KAFB. This also applies to long term contractors
operating on KAFB.
2.5.3.7.1. (Added) All AF Form 3952‟s will expire after the following periods as developed by
the HMMPT:
2.5.3.7.1.
1. (Added) Technical Order/Manufacturer‟s Manual Requirements authorizations will be valid
for a period of four years.
2.5.3.7.1.
2. (Added) Non-Technical Order, Laboratory, and facility maintenance approved authorizations
will be valid for a period of three years.
2.5.3.7.1.
3. (Added) Materials containing OSHA Table Z ingredients (Limits for Air Contaminates) will
be authorized for two years.
2.5.3.7.1.
4. (Added) Self-Help project materials will be authorized for one year.
2.5.3.7.1.5. (Added) All Class 1 Ozone Depleting Substance's must be re-authorized for each
purchase.
2.6.4. (Added) Units Deploying to KAFB for Contingency Exercises (All Services)
2.6.4.1. (Added) Units deployed to KAFB shall identify all HAZMAT to be used at KAFB
during their deployment/training exercises. In this identification, please supply the following:
NSN; noun; amount being brought to KAFB; and hazardous waste disposal coordination, or plan
for removing unused materials from KAFB upon competition of mission.
2.6.4.2. (Added) All units deploying to KAFB shall establish a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) between themselves and their local host. This agreement must address purchasing of
new/replacement HAZMAT while at KAFB and disposal arrangements for any hazardous waste
generated by the unit while deployed to KAFB.
2.6.4.3. (Added) Deployed team chief shall ensure all deployed personnel are briefed on and
follow the procedures KAFB uses for the management of HAZMAT prescribed by this
supplement and Air Force Instructions.
2.6.4.4. (Added) All HAZMAT remaining from the deployment will be handled, if specified in
SOP, by the Host and the deployment Point of Contact prior to departure of the deployed unit.
This would include shipment of unused materials to home station or transfer of unused materials
to an authorized zone provided there is agreement between the host and deployed unit, and the
on-hand quantities of the receiving zone are not exceeded.
2.6.4.5. (Added) The 377 MSG/CEANC will be notified by deployed team chief when the
deployment is completed. The deployed team chief or host organization will ensure all
HAZMAT has been removed or properly transferred for re-use by host unit. If in transferred for
AFI 32-7086_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 20 OCTOBER 2011                                                   5


re-use, host unit must ensure material is authorized and properly accounted for in approved Air
Force HAZMAT tracking system and that material is properly labeled.
2.10.1.6.1. (Added) All GPC and contractor-owned credit card purchases must be approved and
inserted into standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system prior to purchase. Card holders,
both government and contractor, can be held accountable for purchasing HAZMAT without
proper authorization. Government GPC holders receive hazardous materials purchasing training
when issued their card and when attending refresher courses.
2.10.1.8.1. (Added) All HAZMAT requisitions will be processed through standard Air Force
HAZMAT tracking system, regardless of requisition method. AF Form 2005, Issue/Turn-in
Request, is not accepted by base supply or Hazardous Materials Management office when
ordering hazardous materials.
2.10.7.14.3. (Added) All users of standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system will have a
valid DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access Request on file with the Hazardous Materials
Management office. Log-on and passwords will be issued through the Hazardous Materials
Management office and shall not be shared.
2.10.12.10. (Added) Inform the Hazardous Materials Management Office and 377
AMDS/SGPB Bioenvironmental Engineering of reorganizations or changes in shop
functions/titles in order to maintain current data within the Air Force HAZMAT tracking system.
2.11.5. Additional KAFB Requirements:
2.11.5.1. (Added) Individuals will ensure their account is deactivated within the Standardized
Air Force HAZMAT tracking system by contacting the Hazardous Materials Management Office
prior to Permanent Change of Station (PCS), Permanent Change of Assignment (PCA),
separation, retirement or discharge.
2.11.5.2. (Added) HAZMAT representative should report all HAZMAT that is about to expire to
Base Supply Central Receiving (377 LRS/LGRCDCH) for possible update of shelf-life. Only
377 LRS/LGRCDCH can coordinate extending shelf-life. If HAZMAT shelf-life data cannot be
extended, contact Hazardous Waste Management office (377 MSG/CEANC) for proper disposal
instructions.




                                           DAVID J. HORNYAK, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                 AFI 32-7086_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 20 OCTOBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
           GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records
Prescribed Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW/SEG—Air Base Wing Ground Safety Office
AMDS/SGPB—Bioenvironmental Engineering
MSG/CEANC—Environmental Management Compliance, Hazardous Materials Section

Adopted Forms
AF Form 2005, Issue/Turn—In Request
DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

377 LRS/
LGRCDCH— Base Supply Central Receiving Office
DOE—Department of Energy
FED LOG—Federal Logistics Data Program
IHMMPT— Installation Hazardous Materials Management Process Team
KAFB— Kirtland Air Force Base
OSHA Table Z-1— Limits for Air Contaminants, published 71 FR 10373, Feb. 28, 2006
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PDF—Portable Document Format
PEG—Personal Exposure Group
SAAR— System Authorization Access Request
Terms—Hazard Code 9 - Represents all hazardous materials and is directly tied to the Standard
Base Supply System (SBSS) Issue Exception Code (IEX) 9.
Hazard Code "M"— Materials are ozone depleting substances and must also be licensed in the
system.
AFI 32-7086_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 20 OCTOBER 2011                                           7


Virtual HAZMART— There is no centralized HAZMART. All offices are connected via
internet and HMMS tracking system. Users must have access to internet and USAF approved
HAZMAT tracking system.
