BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-143
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          21 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                        Services

                                                    EXCELLENCE-IN-COMPETITION (EIC)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1SO                                                               Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                                      (Brig Gen Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes:   AFI 34-227,                                                                Pages: 6
              15 November 2004


This instruction implements AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support Programs, and
explains Air Force qualifications and procedures for awarding United States Air Force
Excellence-In-Competition (EIC) Badges and the Distinguished International Shooter Badge.
This instruction applies to all Air Force personnel, to include Air National Guard (ANG) and Air
Force Reserve personnel who have earned or wish to earn these badges. This instruction may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this Instruction must be
routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for coordination prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the
field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records                 Disposition               Schedule                 located             at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This publication directs collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 USC 8013.
System of records notice F034 AF PC V, Awards and Decorations.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes incorporate
interim change 2 from previous edition and updates office symbols and contact information.
 2                                                              AFI34-143 21 FEBRUARY 2012



1. Types of Awards. United States Air Force EIC Badges are awarded to eligible personnel
who attain an outstanding degree of achievement in certain recognized, individual competitions
with the service rifle and pistol.
     1.1. The badges awarded are:
        1.1.1. The Air Force Distinguished Rifleman Badge.
        1.1.2. The Air Force Distinguished Pistol Shot Badge.
        1.1.3. The Air Force Silver EIC Rifle Badge with Wreath.
        1.1.4. The Air Force Silver EIC Pistol Badge with Wreath.
        1.1.5. The Air Force Bronze EIC Rifle Badge with Wreath.
        1.1.6. The Air Force Bronze EIC Pistol Badge with Wreath.
        1.1.7. The Air Force Bronze EIC Rifle Badge.
        1.1.8. The Air Force Bronze EIC Pistol Badge.
        1.1.9. The Distinguished International Shooter Badge (awarded by the Corporation for
        the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearm Safety (CPRPFS) for outstanding
        performance in major international competition).
2. Qualifying for the Distinguished Rifleman or Distinguished Pistol Shot Badge. Personnel
must earn at least 30 credit points in recognized EIC rifle or pistol matches (national match or
combat match) and may be awarded both badges if they earn the required points.
3. Qualifying for EIC Badges. The Air Force awards EIC badges for excellence in individual
competitions only. EIC badges or credit points can be earned through competitions held by other
services or in the private sector and will be counted as credit toward the award of the appropriate
distinguished badge.
     3.1. Between 1 January and 31 December of each year, an eligible member may compete in
     no more than four EIC service pistol or rifle matches as listed below. If authorized and
     eligible under the rules established by the match sponsor, you may compete in:
        3.1.1. National Trophy Individual Match.
        3.1.2. National Rifle Association (NRA) Regional or State Championships (limited to
        three per year).
        3.1.3. A service sponsored match.
     3.2. Individuals who have no points toward the distinguished badge for the weapon type
     used in the competition, rifle or pistol, may compete in four elementary-level EIC
     competitions sponsored by Headquarters, United States Air Force (HQ USAF) and approved
     by the Air Force Services Agency, Air Force Sports Branch (AFSVA/SVPCL). Individuals
     may receive award points from Army and National Guard State Championships on the
     recommendation of the United States Army Marksmanship Unit EIC Custodian, Fort
     Benning, Georgia.
AFI34-143 21 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                         3


   3.3. Individuals may compete in military service sponsored Combat Rifle or Combat Pistol
   EIC matches provided they do not compete in the National Match and EIC match with the
   same type weapon (rifle or pistol) at the same competition.
   3.4. To take part in more than two NRA Regional or State Championship EIC matches in the
   same calendar year, with the same type of weapon, ANG personnel must obtain an advance
   waiver from the National Guard Marksmanship Training Unit (NGMTU). Active duty and
   Air Force Reserve personnel must obtain an advance waiver from AFSVA/SVPCL.
4. Qualifying for the Distinguished International Shooter Badge. The CPRPFS Civilian
Marksmanship Program awards this badge to any United States citizen who places first, second,
or third in rifle, pistol, or shotgun competition (individual or team). The badge is also awarded
to members of United States international teams who place in the top 15 percent of all
competitions in the Olympic Games, Pan American Games, World Shooting Championship,
World Shotgun Championship, Championship of the Americas, and the World Air Gun
Championships.
5. How Credit Points are Awarded/Computed:
   5.1. Credit points are awarded, based on scores and standings, to the highest-scoring 10
   percent of the non-distinguished (personnel with less than 30 points toward a distinguished
   badge) participants in an EIC match. The 10 percent includes all eligible non-distinguished
   competitors who begin the match. Credit points are awarded as follows:
       5.1.1. Ten (10) credit points are awarded to the highest one-sixth of the top 10 percent.
       5.1.2. Eight (8) credit points are awarded to the remaining highest one-third of the top 10
       percent.
       5.1.3. Six (6) credit points are awarded to the remainder of the top 10 percent.
       5.1.4. Four (4) credit points will be awarded to all top 10 percent in elementary level EIC
       matches.
   5.2. In computing both the number of participants to receive awards and the credit points to
   be awarded, officials resolve fractions of 0.6 or higher to the next higher number and drop
   smaller fractions. The total number of individuals to receive credit points cannot exceed the
   number determined by application of the 10 percent rule. For example, if a total of 108 non-
   distinguished competitors began the match, 10.8 (or 11) individuals would be eligible for
   credit points. These points are awarded as follows:
       5.2.1. Two (2) 10 point winners will be awarded to the highest one-sixth of the top 10
       percent.
       5.2.2. Three (3) eight point winners will be awarded to the remaining highest one-third
       of the top 10 percent.
       5.2.3. Six (6) six point winners are awarded to the remainder of the top percent.
   5.3. The package to conduct an EIC match can be requested from AFSVA/SVPCL, Defense
   Switched Network (DSN) 969-7229. Use the samples in the package to request approval for
   the EIC match from AFSVA/SVPCL. Credit points for elementary competition are awarded
   to participants who score in the top 10 percent of non-distinguished participants and have no
   credit points towards the distinguished badge for the weapon type being used in the
 4                                                               AFI34-143 21 FEBRUARY 2012


     competition. Credit points for national, state, and regional level combat competitions are
     awarded to participants who score in the top 10 percent of all non-distinguished participants,
     and have less than 30 points towards a distinguished badge.
6. How Awards are Granted. Copies of official match results must be sent by the EIC sponsor
to AFSVA/SVPCL, 2261 Hughes Avenue, Suite 156, Lackland Air Force Base, Texas, 78236-
9854. Copies must contain your full name, grade, social security number, organization, duty
station, and home address. The Director of Civilian Marksmanship notifies AFSVA/SVPCL
when members achieve credit points in CPRPFS-sponsored competitions. AFSVA/SVPCL
maintains a record of awards for each Air Force member who earns credit points in an EIC
match. Badges are awarded as follows:
     6.1. Individuals who earn the initial four points in elementary-level competitions with either
     the service rifle, service pistol, combat rifle, or combat pistol, will receive a Bronze EIC
     Rifle or Pistol Badge. Only individuals who have no credit points toward the distinguished
     badge are eligible for this award.
     6.2. Individuals who earn six credit points with either the service rifle, service pistol, combat
     rifle, or combat pistol will receive a Bronze EIC Rifle or Pistol Badge with a distinctive
     wreath.
     6.3. Individuals who earn 20 credit points with either the service rifle, service pistol, combat
     rifle, or combat pistol will receive a Silver EIC Rifle or Pistol Badge with a distinctive
     wreath.
     6.4. Individuals who earn 30 credit points with either the service rifle, service pistol, combat
     rifle, or combat pistol will receive the Distinguished Rifleman or Distinguished Pistol Shot
     Badge.
     6.5. Individuals may call DSN 969-7229 or write to AFSVA/SVPCL to verify points earned,
     the match in which the points were earned, and the total number of credit points towards the
     distinguished rifle or pistol badge.
     6.6. Transfer of Distinguished Designation. Credit points held by non-distinguished military
     personnel and civilians who become members of the United States Air Force may be
     transferred and applied toward Air Force Distinguished Designation. Civilians or military
     personnel from other services who attained Distinguished Designation prior to entry in the
     United States Air Force may be recognized by the Air Force upon proper documentation and
     may be awarded a Distinguished Badge if appropriate.
7. Presentation, Disposition, and Recording of Award(s). AFSVA/SVPCL announces each
award of an EIC badge, Air Force Distinguished Rifleman Badge, or Air Force Distinguished
Pistol Shot Badge with an official memorandum.
     7.1. AFSVA/SVPCL mails the award, together with a copy of the official memorandum, to
     the individual.
     7.2. IAW AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records Systems, badges awarded are not
     documented in the individual’s Unit Personnel Record Group.
8. Control of Badges. AFSVA/SVPCL distributes all badges by mail. For guidance on
wearing badges, see AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
AFI34-143 21 FEBRUARY 2012                                                             5


  8.1. AFSVA/SVPCL budgets, procures, and stocks the badges as necessary.
  8.2. Badges are issued to Air Force members only. For information on replacement badges
  for active duty and Air Force Reserve personnel, call AFSVA/SVPCL at DSN 969-7229.
  ANG personnel may call the NGMTU at DSN 962-4534. Individuals may replace their
  badges at their own expense.




                                        DARRELL D. JONES
                                        Lieutenant General, USAF
                                        DCS, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
 6                                                        AFI34-143 21 FEBRUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support Programs, 19 July 1994
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records Systems, 30 August 2006
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSVA/SVPCL—Air Force Services Agency, Air Force Sports Branch
ANG—Air National Guard
CPRPFS—Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearm Safety
DSN—Defense Switched Network
EIC—Excellence-In-Competition
IAW—In Accordance With
NGMTU—National Guard Marksmanship Training Unit
NRA—National Rifle Association
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
USAF—United States Air Force
