BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-9002
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                              RANDOLPH AFB SUPPLEMENT

                                                                                 24 AUGUST 2005
                                                                     Certified Current 29 July 2008

                                                                                       Civil Engineer

                                                      USE OF REAL PROPERTY FACILITIES

         COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 12 MSG/CEOA (Ms. Scott)        Certified by: 12 MSG/CE (Mr. Richard Trevino)
Supersedes AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP, 12 August 1997                     Pages: 9

This publication implements and extends the guidance in AFI 32-9002, 22 November 1993.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with
the AF Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61/afrims/afrims

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes include: Office symbols to reflect new Future State Team, added, clarification on
reporting any space or customer utilization changes within the facility (paragraph 2.1.5.21);
assistance for issues regarding mold and/or indoor air quality problems (paragraph 2.1.5.22); and
IAW AFOSH Standard 91-501, personnel who use ladders at working heights of 6 feet or more
will be adequately trained in the care and use of different types of ladders (paragraph 2.1.6.8).

2.1.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Appointment. The unit commander assigns, appoints, relieves,
and defines the responsibilities of facility managers. When the facility is occupied or used by
more than one organization, the major user of the facility will designate as primary facility
manager, an officer, NCO, or civilian with sufficient authority and ability to perform the
assigned duties. The following information will provide assistance and guidance to facility
managers.

2.1.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Assignment Procedures:

2.1.2.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) The appropriate unit commander designates a primary and
alternate facility manager in writing, using the Facility Manager’s Assignment Letter
(Attachment 1). The unit commander informs 12 MSG/CEOA in writing of grade, name,
organization, duty phone, home phone, e-mail address, and any changes to this information as
they occur.
2                                       AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                 24 AUGUST 2005

2.1.2.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) The primary duty assignment of the facility manager should
be in the facility managed. Other organizations will provide an alternate to perform facility
manager duties during the absence of the primary facility manager.

2.1.2.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) If facilities are too large for a single manager to perform
assigned duties or a facility is a multifunctional facility, assignment of assistant facility managers
for specific areas of the facility is authorized. The primary facility manager should be informed
or any/all problems.

2.1.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Facility Manager Listings are:

2.1.3.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Prepared by the 12 MSG/CEOA from the data received from
each organization commander and includes key information; see attachment 1.

2.1.3.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Furnished to the Security Police and the Fire Department to
contact facility managers in case of emergencies after duty hours.

2.1.3.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Used by the Real Property Office and Cultural Resource
Manager (CRM) to contact facility managers during duty hours.

2.1.3.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) Not used for purposes other than duties related to facility
managers.

2.1.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) Facility Manager Changes. A minimum of 10 days prior notice
to a change in assignment is required when submitting facility manager changes to 12
MSG/CEOA. In the case of TDY, no changes are required. The using organization prepares the
changes of facility manager assignment letter. The incumbent facility manager/alternate is not
cleared of responsibility until the successor has been appointed. Therefore, the individual
facility manager will ensure a successor is appointed prior to their departure

2.1.5. (Added-Randolph AFB) Facility Manager Duties and Procedures:

2.1.5.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Facility managers, in cooperation with occupants and users of
facilities, are charged with the responsibility for care, custody, and protection of the assigned real
property. Every effort should be exercised to safeguard the property from damage or loss.
Notify Wing Safety when an accident results in property or equipment damage. The bottom line
is “ownership” and professional facilities for professional people. The facility manager serves in
an administrative and advisory capacity with the following duties:

2.1.5.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Upon assignment as primary/alternate facility manager, attend
the mandatory facility manager’s briefing as scheduled (on the first month of every quarter).

2.1.5.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Obtain facility keys from previous manager, except for
mechanical rooms, signs for and is responsible for all keys to the facility; this includes
replacement of lost keys once redistribution of keys to other occupants or users is directed by the
organization commander.
AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               24 AUGUST 2005                                          3

2.1.5.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) Request duplicates of keys to government facilities only
through the local Zonal Maintenance Unit (via an AF Form 332) and not through an off-base
locksmith, especially those keys marked “US Govt. Do Not Duplicate”.

2.1.5.5. (Added-Randolph AFB) Maintain a key control register (AF Form 2432) and account
for keys at all times. Ensure keys are returned when the occupants resign or are reassigned.
Request for additional keys will be fully justified on an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
Request, and signed by the manager with coordination through your unit commander. Strict
controls and accountability of facility keys cannot be over emphasized. Lost keys requiring the
re-core of must be funded by the responsible organization.

2.1.5.6. (Added-Randolph AFB) Implement procedures for opening and closing the facility
during normal duty hours and for after-hours admittance and use, including security measures.

2.1.5.7. (Added-Randolph AFB) Will respond to the unsecured after normal duty hours and
conduct inspection for stolen or damaged government property. This is a mandatory
responsibility for primary and or alternate managers.

2.1.5.8. (Added-Randolph AFB) Brief the users of the facility on their collective responsibility
for care, custody, and protection of the property including their responsibility for loss and
damage in excess of fair wear and tear unless it is the result of acts beyond their control.

2.1.5.9. (Added-Randolph AFB) Conduct monthly inspections of the assigned facility and its
installed equipment, with particular attention to doors windows, glass, lights, plumbing, heating,
ventilation, and air conditioning equipment to determine the condition of the property; advise the
Maintenance Unit desk of all needed maintenance or repair.

2.1.5.10. (Added-Randolph AFB) Establish a policing routine, inspection, and upkeep of the
grounds. Litter pick-up, sweeping of debris from corners and parking lots and watering of
vegetation and turf should be performed up to 150 feet from the facility.

2.1.5.11. (Added-Randolph AFB) Ensure the assigned space is used as designated by the Real
Estate Office.

2.1.5.12. (Added-Randolph AFB) Quarterly survey your assigned facility and furnish
justification to support alteration and modification projects resulting from changed missions.
Report all floor plan alteration and modification changes to the Custodial Quality Assurance
Evaluators (QAE), at 7-5655 within 10 working days after project completion.

2.1.5.13. (Added-Randolph AFB) Review and coordinate on all AF Form 332s initiated by
users of the facility and transmit with appropriate recommendations to your unit commander.

2.1.5.14. (Added-Randolph AFB) Ensure facility users do not tamper with, replace, repair, or
adjust electric equipment, including fuses, circuit breakers, thermostats, refrigeration, air
conditioning, and heating ventilation equipment such as radiators, registers, vents, and blowers.
4                                     AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                24 AUGUST 2005

2.1.5.15. (Added-Randolph AFB) Ensure nothing is stored in Mechanical or Utility rooms.
Cleaning supplies will not be stored in utility rooms where there are hot water heaters.

2.1.5.16. (Added-Randolph AFB) Ensure facility users do not alter the arrangement of, move,
or remove permanent water, heat, lighting, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing, and related
fixtures or other installed equipment. Ensure HVAC systems do not become obstructed by
office/systems furniture or other means.

2.1.5.17. (Added-Randolph AFB) Assist the real property accountability officer (12
MSG/CECG, at 7-3172) in determining liability for damage to the facility and its installed
equipment by occupants, users, or others. After determination of liability, the manager will
assist the commander of the unit to which the facility is assigned in the preparation of statements
of charges and reports of survey. Attach Report of Survey to the work request (AF Form 332).

2.1.5.18. (Added-Randolph AFB) Perform timely custodial service checks to ensure all
custodial service performed for the contractor are accomplished. Each manager will be familiar
with the terms of the contact, areas to be serviced, frequencies of service, and days and dates
services are scheduled.

2.1.5.19. (Added-Randolph AFB) Immediately report unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors to the Civil Engineer Custodial Contract Monitor, 12 MSG/CECJ, Quality Assurance
Evaluator (QAE) at 7-5655, and not the contractors or their personnel. It is the responsibility of
the QAE, to settle discrepancies or problems with the contractors.

2.1.5.20. (Added-Randolph AFB) Ensure the facility is left in a clean and orderly condition
and all organization property is removed when vacating the . Manager duties are terminated
when the property is completely vacated by the using organization and the manager has been
relieved by the Real Property Officer, 12 MSG/CECG.

2.1.5.21. (Added-Randolph AFB) Assist the real property accountability officer (12
MSG/CECG) in reporting any space or customer utilization changes within the .

2.1.5.22. (Added-Randolph AFB) Contact Bioenvironmental Engineering, 12 ADS/SGGB,
and the Energy Monitoring and Control Shop, 12 MSG/CEOF, to coordinate assistance for issues
regarding mold and/or indoor air quality (IAQ) problems.

2.1.6. (Added-Randolph AFB) Utilities Management:

2.1.6.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) The manager is key to an effective energy conservation
program and has a primary function of energy conservation monitor. With the support of unit
commanders, he/she should ensure the facility users do not waste utilities. In connection with
these duties, managers will:

2.1.6.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Establish procedures to control all thermostat settings
between 76 or 78 degrees cooling and between 70 or 72 degrees heating for general office space,
unless otherwise controlled by EMCS. Ensure doors and windows do not remain open during
AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                24 AUGUST 2005                                           5

the heating and cooling season. Ensure no organization provided auxiliary heating or cooling
occurs without obtaining waiver from CE.

2.1.6.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Keep exterior doors and windows closed when heating or air
conditioning system is on. Keep heat generation equipment (e.g. copiers or printers) away from
thermostats. Eliminate outdoor air infiltration with weather-stripping or caulking. Report any
excessive outdoor air infiltration to your maintenance service call desk.

2.1.6.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) Prevent heat loss on cold days by keeping drapes and blinds
closed on windows in the shade. During the heating season take advantage of “free” heating on
sunny days by opening drapes and blinds on windows where the sun is shinning. During the
cooling season prevent excessive heat gain on sunny days by keeping drapes and blinds closed
on windows in the sun.

2.1.6.5. (Added-Randolph AFB) Prevent water lines from bursting during freezing
temperatures, disconnect all exterior hoses from facility. Wrap exterior pipes with roll
insulation. Leave hose bib dripping to prevent pipes from freezing.

2.1.6.6. (Added-Randolph AFB) Eliminate all electric space heaters in areas heated by other
systems.

2.1.6.7. (Added-Randolph AFB) Establish procedures to ensure interior and exterior lights are
turned off when appropriate. Ensure only needed lights are on during evening cleanup periods.
Reduce lighting in all work areas to the minimum acceptable level for the required tasks being
performed. Ensure all outside lights are off during the day to include weekends; this includes all
facilities on Randolph, Seguin, Hondo, and Canyon Lake.

2.1.6.8. (Added-Randolph AFB) Obtain replacement of all burned-out lamps, including
fluorescent tubes, up to a height of 12 feet. For lamps above 12 feet, managers can perform lamp
replacement if they choose or furnish the necessary lamps to your Civil Engineer Area
Maintenance Unit who will perform the lamp replacement. Ladders, if required, are available for
sign-out through the Self-Help Center. IAW AFOSH Standard 91-501, personnel who use
ladders at working heights of 6 feet or more will be adequately trained in the care and use of
different types of ladders. There are two possible exceptions to the 12 foot rule: areas that are
hazardous or require special equipment may be re-lamped by Civil Engineer Area Maintenance
Unit; and, facilities with retrofitted lighting fixtures still under warranty should be re-lamped by
the contractor.

2.1.6.9. (Added-Randolph AFB) Managers are responsible for acquiring replacement lamps
through Base Supply or the Base Service Store. When purchasing replacement fluorescent lamps
it is imperative that they be the same type as the burned-out lamps so they are compatible with
the installed ballast.

2.1.6.10. (Added-Randolph AFB) Identify, request, and follow-up on facility maintenance,
repair, or construction requirements in connection with utility systems and energy conservation.
Ensure purchases of office equipment are “Energy Star” rated when available.
6                                     AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                24 AUGUST 2005

2.1.6.11. (Added-Randolph AFB) For facilities that have tenants who reimburse Civil
Engineer for utilities, report to 12 MSG/CECG, 7-3172, at the beginning of each fiscal year, any
changes to square footage or personnel for each reimbursable tenant.

2.1.7. (Added-Randolph AFB) Pest Management:

2.1.7.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Obtain prior approval from the 12 MSG/CE Pest Management
Professional (PMP), at 7-4668, before engaging the services of a private, non-government,
commercial pest control firm or applying any pesticide or conducting any pest management
operation that has not been previously approved.

2.1.7.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Conduct self-help pest control operations, i.e., apply
pesticides (for use by the general public, i.e., non-trained or certified or licensed personnel),
approved by the 12 MSG/CE PMP in accordance with the base Integrated Pest Management Plan
(IPMP) to control minor nuisance pest problems inside facilities or on adjacent grounds.

2.1.7.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Ensure all pesticides i.e., self-help or private, non-
government, commercial pest control contractor, are reported to the 12 MSG/CE PMP for
inclusion on the Air Force’s Automated Pest Management Program (AFAPMP) in a timely
manner, i.e., within five working days after the pesticide application.

2.1.7.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) Maintain environment and sanitary conditions that will not
contribute to or support the continuation of pest problems.

2.1.7.5. (Added-Randolph AFB) Provide the 12 CE PMP with State of Texas license
information of all private, non-government, commercial pest control contractor personnel under
the contract. All personnel applying pesticides within the State of Texas must have a valid
license from the Texas Structural Pest Control Board for all categories of pest control conducted.

2.1.8. (Added-Randolph AFB) Resource Protection:

2.1.8.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Prevent loss of property, theft or injury to personnel. Know
your HVAC system, and know procedures for “shut down” during emergencies.

2.1.8.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Conduct routine security checks of your , inside as well as
outside.

2.1.8.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Ensure all windows and doors are locked during non-duty
hours. If you have a broken lock or window, initiate a work order immediately. If this breach in
security causes your facility to be insecure, inform the service desk of this, so an urgent work
order can be initiated and the problem corrected.

2.1.8.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) To get a better look at your , do your walk-through in the
morning, afternoon and evening during closing/non-operating hours. This way, you get an
accurate assessment of your . Always examine all exterior doors and windows for damage.
Keep all storage closet and cabinets locked.
AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                24 AUGUST 2005                                           7

2.1.9. (Added-Randolph AFB) Fire Prevention:

2.1.9.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Each manager is responsible to their unit commander for the
fire-safe condition of the facility with the following specific duties and responsibilities:

2.1.9.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Accompany fire inspectors during scheduled inspections of
the facility and initiate corrective action for all noted fire hazards. Follow up to ensure
corrective action.
2.1.9.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Do inspections at the end of each workday or activity period
to ensure areas are left in a fire-safe condition.

2.1.9.4. (Added) (Randolph AFB) Conduct monthly inspections of all assigned fire
extinguishers and annotate same on AF Form 3130 in accordance with AFOSH Standard 91-501.

2.1.10. (Added-Randolph AFB) Request for Work and Services:

2.1.10.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) The facility users are most familiar with their facilities and
should, as problems are identified, inform the facility manager. Managers serve as the point of
contact for all work order request reported to the Maintenance Service Call Desk unless it is an
emergency.

2.1.10.2. (Added-Randolph AFB)             Identification of Direct Scheduled Work Orders
Requirements.

2.1.10.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Direct scheduled work orders are broken down into three
categories in accordance with AFI-32-1031: Emergency-must be completed within 24 hours;
Urgent-must be completed within 7 days; and Routine-must be completed within 30 calendar
days. The manager is responsible for a work order log, listing all work orders in his/her,
identifying work order number, description, date submitted, and date completed as a minimum.

2.1.10.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) Identify, request, and following up on facility minor
maintenance and repairs. Routine direct scheduled work orders can be logged down on AF Form
1219 and turned in at your Area Maintenance Service Call Desk for completion.

2.1.11. (Added-Randolph AFB) Identification of Large Measured Work Requirements:

2.1.11.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Work requests are submitted on AF Form 332 to the Civil
Engineer Maintenance Unit. All work requests should be coordinated through Fire Protection,
Safety, Bio-Environmental, and Security Police as required. Fire Protection, Bio-Environmental
and Safety coordination will take place during the Civil Engineer Screening Board process. If
there is a requirement for Security Police, then and only then will their coordination take place at
the Screening Board.
2.1.11.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Work requests should include floor plans, sketches, and site
plans to help the review and approval process. Work requests for new work, modifications, and
construction will be signed by the organizational commander. If the facility is historic or in the
historic district, all work projects will be coordinated with the Cultural Resource Manager
(CRM) 12 MSG/CECG at 7-7103, prior to starting the project.
8                                     AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               24 AUGUST 2005

2.1.11.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Self-Help work request should include floor plans, sketches,
and site plans to help the review and approval process; the amount of work to be done dictates
the details. The requester will coordinate the request (AF Form 332) with the Manager. All final
coordination will be accomplished at the Civil Engineer Screening Board.

2.1.11.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) All minor construction self-help work requests (AF Form
332) must have prior approval and be signed by your unit commander.

2.1.11.5. (Added-Randolph AFB) The manager ensures unauthorized self-help work is not
performed within the facility. Self-help is not normally authorized for electrical, plumbing,
heating and air conditioning work or for the construction of real property.

2.1.11.6. (Added-Randolph AFB) In-house work orders are inserted into the Commander’s
Priority Program (CPP). Contract work orders are forwarded to Engineering for potential
inclusion in the base program presented to the facilities board. This program is designed so that
the Group Commanders can prioritize all the work for their respective organizations. Therefore,
when following up on work requests that you submitted, keep in mind that 12 MSG/CE will only
act on work orders which are on the “Top 10” of your Group listing. Each Group Commander
must designate a representative to serve as the liaison between his/her Group and 12 MSG/CE.

2.1.11.7. (Added-Randolph AFB) The manager will maintain a work requirements log to track
all requests identified to the 12 MSG/CE. The log should track Work Order number, description
of work requested, date submitted, and completed date. This log prevents duplication of requests
and provides accurate information for requesting follow-up status of various projects. The
manager will keep a copy of all written AF Form 332, requests and cross reference them to a
manager’s requirement log.

2.1.12. (Added-Randolph AFB) Managers Training. A mandatory managers briefing for
newly appointed managers and alternates will be held the second week of the first month of each
quarter. These briefings are designed to explain and assist each manager in accomplishing
his/her duties. The briefings are announced by letter and by e-mail. When notified, it is the
responsibility of each manager to attend these informative training sessions.



                                               JOHN W. HESTERMAN III, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing

1 Attachment (Added-Randolph AFB)
3. Sample Manager Appointment Letter
AFI32-9002_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                                 24 AUGUST 2005                                                                   9


                                        Attachment 3 (Added-Randolph AFB)

                              SAMPLE MANAGERS APPOINTMENT LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR 12 MSG/CEOA

FROM: Squadron/Office Symbol

SUBJECT: Assignment or Change of Facility Manager/Alternate

1. In accordance with Wing Supplement 1 to AFI 32-9002, the following individuals are
appointed as facility managers/alternates for facility listed:

     a. Facility Number: (List each number; do not consolidate into one category, i.e.,
        maintenance facilities or athletic fields; etc.)

     b. Present Manager: Name and Grade

     c. Proposed Manager: Name and Grade
                          Organization/Office Symbol
                          Duty Phone
                          Home Phone
                          E-Mail Address

     d. Present Alternate Manager: Name and Grade

     e. Proposed Alternate Manager: Name and Grade
                                    Organization/Office Symbol
                                    Duty Phone
                                    Home Phone
                                    Email Address

2. If additional information is required, please contact ______________, Squadron/Office
Symbol, and Phone Number.


                                                                 UNIT COMMANDER’S SIGNATURE

CC: 12 MSG/CEF
    12 SFS/SFO
    Each Individual
                                                               PERSONAL DATA
This document contains personal data subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 and must be safeguarded in accordance with AFI 33-332. Disclosure of
home telephone numbers for other than Official Business is unauthorized.
