BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER
505TH COMMAND AND CONTROL
WING                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-1201
                                                  505TH COMMAND AND CONTROL WING
                                                                        Supplement
                                                                           16 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                         Services

                                                                                    PROTOCOL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 505 CCW/CCP                                                 Certified by: 505 CCW/DS (Mr.
                                                                           Christopher J. Berger)
                                                                                       Pages: 13


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 34-1201, Protocol. The purpose is
to present broad guidance on the duties and responsibilities of all units subordinate to the 505th
Command and Control Wing concerning protocol.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                            AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011



                                             Chapter 1

                                            GENERAL

1.1. Purpose. The purpose of this OI is to set forth guidance for 505 CCW protocol events such
as ceremonies and hosting distinguished visitors. This instruction does not apply to Air Force
Reserve or Guard units.
1.2. Commander’s Guidance. Commanders will be supported in the planning and execution of
official functions and in elements related to hosting distinguished visitors, either by assigned
protocol personnel or assigned project officers with guidance from the appropriate protocol
office in accordance with this instruction and governing Air Force Instructions (AFI).
1.3. Definitions.
     1.3.1. Distinguished Visitor (DV). Any visitor of Code 6 (brigadier general, senior
     executive service, or state positions) equivalent or above, nationally or internationally known
     personalities, international dignitaries, international visitors, prominent corporate vice
     presidents and above, and prominent government or elected officials.
     1.3.2. DV Monitor. The agency or individual (i.e., protocol, executive support officer, etc.)
     responsible to the respective commander for monitoring all visits by distinguished persons to
     this command. The DV monitor is responsible for preparing and distributing the final visit
     plan to any involved organizations and staff agencies.
     1.3.3. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The organization, or staff office, designated
     by the commander as having primary interest or functional responsibility for a DV visit.
     1.3.4. Support Facilities. All agencies on the installation that will support a DV (i.e.,
     transportation, lodging, clubs, etc.).
     1.3.5. Visitor’s Itinerary: A schedule provided the DVs for reference and guidance during
     their stay. The itinerary is a condensed and concise schedule of events involving the DV. It
     usually indicates time, date, place, and dress for specified activities. It does not include
     specific instructions to support agencies.
     1.3.6. OPR: The OPR is responsible for providing to the DV monitor, in a timely manner,
     the composition of the visiting party and all details of schedule of events. The OPR will also
     coordinate all staff participation and arrange support requirements as determined by the DV
     monitor.
1.3.7. For Nellis AFB. Refer all requests to visit Nellis AFB activities to AWFC/DS, the
coordinating agent for all Nellis AFB visits.
AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011                                                              3


                                            Chapter 2

                             DISTINGUISHED VISITOR VISITS

2.1. Reporting Distinguished Visitors.
   2.1.1. DVs visiting 505 CCW organizations:
       2.1.1.1. Groups will appoint an individual who will report all DVs visiting their
       organization to the Chief of Protocol, 505 CCW.
       2.1.1.2. Groups will report DV information by email or phone as soon as the reporting
       office is informed of the projected visit or at least two weeks in advance of the visit.
       Information not available at the time of reporting should be updated as soon as the
       information becomes available. On short-notice visits, no matter what the time frame,
       report the DV information promptly. Include the following information in the email or
       by phone:
       2.1.1.3. Full name, rank, duty title or position, organization and location.
       2.1.1.4. Dates of visit, including arrival and departure dates/times. If arrival and
       departure information is not immediately know, report what is known and update with
       confirmed information as soon as it becomes available.
       2.1.1.5. Purpose of visit. Be clear and specific. If you use an acronym, provide the
       definition.
       2.1.2.1. Report the office of primary responsibility (OPR), the project officer’s name,
       office symbol,and telephone number.
       2.1.3.1. OPRs will input information into the 505 CCW Enterprise Schedulilng Tool
2.2. Distinguished Visitor Slides / Projection.
   2.2.1. 505 CCW/CCP will compile DV information from the 505 CCW staff agencies and
   groups for 505 CCW/CC/CV. The following information will be reflected on the weekly
   staff meeting slides prepared by 505 CCW/CCP: rank, full name, organization/office
   symbol, date of visit, purpose of visit, and organization being visited. This information will
   be used for the weekly staff meetings for CC, CV, DS, and staff.
   2.2.2. 505 CCW/CCP will prepare a DV Projection on an as needed basis but not less than
   one every two weeks based on the information provided by the organizations. The following
   information will be reflected on the DV Projection: arrival date, mode of transportation, time
   of arrival, departure date, mode of transportation, time of departure, rank, full name, purpose
   of visit, where lodged, project officer, and protocol name. This information is used to keep
   the organization appraised of the DVs visiting all locations.
   2.2.3. 505 CCW/CCP will deliver all 505 CCW/CC/CV welcome notes to visitors at
   Hurlburt Field.
2.3. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The OPR is the office having primary interest in
the visit. The OPR will appoint a project officer who will complete visit arrangements and
coordinate all visit activities with appropriate offices. The project officer may also be required to
 4                                              AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011


work closely with other external offices as required. The project officer may want to appoint an
escort officer, as appropriate.
     2.3.1. The project officer for all DVs will do whatever is required to support the visit. The
     duties will vary from visit to visit, but for almost any visit the following duties will be
     required:
     2.3.2. When DVs arrive at Base Operations, a senior officer should greet the DVs. At
     Hurlburt Field, the 16 SOW has primary responsibility for meeting and greeting all DVs
     arriving; however, the 505 CCW/CC/CV will also be required to meet any DVs visiting 505
     CCW. At Nellis AFB and Kirtland AFB, the group CC/CD should greet any DVs visiting
     their locations. The project officer and escort officer should be there as well.
     2.3.3. Create the itinerary with transportation arrangements included; plan and prepare the
     briefing agenda; prepare interest items and list of attendees; contact all other internal/external
     staff offices to schedule visits or briefings; prepare other necessary backup information of
     interest to the DVs, briefers or other people involved in the visit; and reserve required
     meeting rooms and equipment. Reserve rooms for social activities, as appropriate.
     2.3.4. At the request of the DV, schedule any courtesy visits with 505 CCW/CC/CV, 1
     SOW/CC/CV, AFSOC/CC/CV at Hurlburt Field. For Nellis AFB and Kirtland AFB,
     schedule any courtesy visits with host organizations.
     2.3.5. Arrange billeting at base lodging. Lodging arrangements for DV-6 and above will be
     made through 505 CCW/CCP for Hurlburt Field. For Nellis AFB and Kirtland AFB, make
     lodging arrangements through host organization.
     2.3.6. Make transportation arrangements with protocol.
     2.3.7. Plan social functions for DVs. Work closely with protocol in planning, organizing,
     and scheduling functions.
     2.3.8. Prepare welcome packages for all DVs, as required.
     2.3.9. When the civilian media is expected to be involved with your visit, notify 505 CCW
     Public Affairs.
2.3.10. The escort officer for DVs will perform duties as outlined by the project officer. Duties
will vary from visit to visit, but the following duties will be required for almost any visit.
        2.3.10.1. Consult with 505 CCW/CCP for advice on appropriate protocol policies.
        2.3.10.2. Coordinate with the project officer on agenda, lodging, and transportation
        requirements. Be familiar with the DV’s biographical information. Confirm daily
        transportation requirements/schedule. If major changes occur, notify the project officer if
        time permits; otherwise, notify the other people involved in the visit. Get lodging keys
        from protocol. Check lodging room; make sure you can open room door easily. When
        you meet the DV at base operations, give him/her the lodging key.
        2.3.10.3. Meet the DV at base operations. Load the luggage into base transportation and
        transport to lodging.
        2.3.10.4. Escort the DV to quarters. Provide visitor with any information he/she
        requires. Review the itinerary to ensure DV understands the plan.
AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011                                                          5


       2.3.10.5. Accompany the DV to all official functions, as required, and advise the project
       officer and the DV of any changes. The project officer will coordinate all changes with
       affected staff offices.
       2.3.10.6. Confirm DV’s flight information.
   2.3.10.7. Accompany DV to base operations and ensure luggage is loaded onto the aircraft.
   Do not leave the facility until the aircraft has departed.
2.4. Itineraries. Itineraries for Hurlburt Field are prepared by 505 CCW/CCP. Itineraries for
Nellis AFB are prepared by USAFWC/CCP. Itineraries for Kirtland AFB are prepared by host
wing protocol unless the visitor is visiting 505 DWG only. All itineraries for Hurlburt Field are
found on the y:\drive (y:\505CCW\505CCW Protocol\Itineraries).
6                                             AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011


                                            Chapter 3

                                         CEREMONIES

3.1. Change of Command
    3.1.1. Early planning is the key to the successful execution of a change of command. The
    protocol office plays a supporting role with a more senior officer acting as the overall project
    officer. The project officer will coordinate for any out-going commander’s guidance or
    desires. Coordination will have to be done with staffs and agencies from the entire base. A
    firm date for the event must be selected as early as possible. A standard macro-level
    sequence of events for a change of command ceremony might include the following: Arrival
    of new command designee and distinguished visitors, pre-ceremony coffee, change of
    command ceremony, post-ceremony reception, departure of relieved commander and
    distinguished visitors. A current USAF protocol checklist can be found on the 505
    CCW/CCP SharePoint site.
       3.1.1.1. Invitations. Invite lists are coordinated with the out-going and in-coming
       commanders and mailed NLT three weeks prior to the event.
       3.1.1.2. Rehearsals. All practice/rehearsal sessions should be as reasonably realistic as
       possible. Any final dress rehearsal should exercise the exact ceremony sequence
       including all personnel (ushers, VIP stand-ins, flag bearer, etc.) and all equipment
       necessary for the actual event.
       3.1.1.3. Transportation. Identify any transportation requirements early on. The out-
       going commander and spouse should be the last to arrive at the ceremony, even if some
       guests and participating officers outrank him/her. The new commander and spouse
       should be the first to leave the ceremony after its completion, so they can welcome guests
       at the follow-on reception.
       3.1.1.4. Ceremony Site. The ceremony site should be laid out so guests have the best
       possible view of the site. The principals should be centrally located. Proper positioning
       of the ceremony reader to a flank will preclude his/her attracting undue attention. DV by-
       name seating should include the families of the in-coming and out-going commanders
       and other guests of honor.
       3.1.1.5. Parking. The overall parking plan should support the concept of operation and
       allow efficient support to DV participates and the mass audience. Local resources and
       base geography will dictate the appropriate parking plan for the mass audience. DV
       participates should have parking available at the ceremony site. This includes the
       families of the in-coming and out-going commanders.
       3.1.1.6. Flags. Flags should always be used during the change of command. A
       combination of national, service, and general officer flags, if officiating, will be used.
       DVs in the audience do not have their flags included in the flag display.
       3.1.1.7. Programs. Change of command programs are not only helpful for the guests, but
       also serve as welcome souvenirs of this memorable event. Programs designated for DVs
       may have subtle upgrades (tassel, braid, etc.) to distinguish them from programs given to
       the mass audience.
AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011                                                              7


       3.1.1.8. Ushers/Escorts. Include enough ushers/escorts in adequate numbers to support
       the overall concept of the operation. All ushers/escorts should have a final copy of the
       seating plan and be briefed so they may offer assistance to guests. At least one
       usher/escort should be able to identify any local dignitaries in attendance and guide them
       to their seats. The left arm is offered to any female guests. Prior to the ceremony starting
       an usher/escort will ensure the families of the out-going and in-coming commanders are
       taken to their seats.
       3.1.1.9. DV Seating. Limit by-name seating to some portion of the DV seating area.
       The protocol office will help in recommending who is/is not a DV for the change of
       command. Normally, the by-name seating will include the families, their special guests,
       any O-6 and above, and command chiefs. The seating plan should allow for other guest
       seating in reserved seating areas without by-name seating. This will include squadron
       commanders and directors of operations.
       3.1.1.10. Honors. Unless there is a general officer officiating, there will be no honors
       accorded. If a general officer officiates, honors will include saluting during “Ruffles and
       Flourishes” and the “General’s March.” Everyone should stand during “Ruffles and
       Flourishes,” the “National Anthem,” and the “Air Force Song.”
       3.1.1.11. Reception. The new commander will host a reception immediately following
       the change of command. The new commander, accompanied by his/her family, will have
       to move quickly to the reception site so the receiving line can start. The receiving line is
       normally comprised of the aide or executive assistant as announcer, the new commander
       as host, his/her spouse, and any other family members. If the receiving line uses an
       announcer, the reception line will not shake the announcer’s hand, but will give the
       announcer their name who in turn passes it to the commander. The reception line will
       shake the commander’s hand and any other family members in the receiving line.
3.2. Retirement Ceremony. Recognition of members who are retiring from a career of long,
faithful, and honorable service is one of the oldest traditions of military service. Each retiree
should leave the service with a tangible expression of appreciation for his/her contribution to the
Air Force, and with the assurance they will continue to be a member of the Air Force family in
retirement. The basic information on retirements and retirement ceremonies is in AFI 36-3203,
Service Retirements.
   3.2.1. A project officer from the office of the retiree should be appointed. It is important to
   plan this ceremony as far in advance as possible for it to be a success. The personnel system
   must be engaged to ensure the appropriate retirement and appreciation certificates are
   prepared for the retiring person and spouse.
   3.2.2. If a retirement decoration is to be presented, the award request must be written and
   submitted for approval in accordance with AFI 36-2803 timelines.
   3.2.3. If a United States flag that was flown over the capital is presented, it must be
   coordinated far in advance of the ceremony. Any US Senator or US Representative will have
   an office that handles flag requests. A good web site to use for information and addresses is
   http://www.webslingerz.com/jhoffman/congress-email.html.
   3.2.4. The project officer will need to confirm the ceremony and reception locations,
   schedule the officiating officer’s participation, get an invitation list from the retiree and send
 8                                             AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011


     out invitations, and arrange for flags, photographer, mementos (normally presented at a
     separate farewell event), and a myriad of other details to ensure a professional departure from
     active military service. Also, make sure the presiding officer has an information package
     detailing the retiree’s career and a sequence of events at an appropriate time before the
     ceremony occurs.
     3.2.5. A typical retirement ceremony will begin with a short meeting between the presidin
     official and retiree and family. The family is then escorted to their seats (front row, to the
     right of the center aisle). The narrator will then begin the script. Once the narrator has
     finished the introductory comments, the presiding officer and retiree will advance and take
     their places in front of the audience. The retiring member will be on the presiding officer’s
     left side. If the presiding officer is a general officer, the appropriate General’s March/Ruffles
     and Flourishes is played. Posting of the colors is appropriate, or flags may be positioned
     beforehand. National Anthem is played. Ensure chairs are provided up front for the
     presiding officer and retiree.
        3.2.5.1. The retiree may request an invocation by the unit chaplain.
        3.2.5.2. The presiding officer makes comments and after finishing, the retiring member
        joins the presiding officer facing the audience after which the presiding officer says
        “Publish the order.”
        3.2.5.3. The narrator reads the citation. The presiding officer pins the medal, the retiree
        salutes, and photographs are taken. The proffer then gives the presiding officer the
        citation who presents it to the retiree and again photographs are taken.
        3.2.5.4. The narrator reads the retirement certificate which is then presented by the
        presiding officer, photographs taken.
        3.2.5.5. The presiding officer asks the spouse to come forward. An escort officer can
        escort the spouse to the place up front to the left of the presiding officer. The narrator
        reads the certificate and the presiding officer presents the spouse’s certificate,
        photographs are taken.
        3.2.5.6. The presiding officer turns the floor over to the retiring member for comments.
        3.2.5.7. Ceremony concludes and reception follows.
        3.2.5.8. It is usually not appropriate to present mementos other than retirement
        certificates and decorations during the ceremony. There are exceptions, however. A US
        Flag or shadow box can be presented by the presiding officer (or someone else) to the
        member after the retirement certificate is presented to the spouse.
3.3. Decoration Ceremony. Decoration ceremonies are somewhat similar to portions of
retirement, promotion, or other ceremonies. The commander’s timely presentation of the
appropriate decoration at a “public” ceremony greatly enhances the value of the award to the
recipient and is a plus for the entire unit. They can be formal reviews to presentations at
commander’s call to much smaller informal office ceremonies, depending largely on the
recipient’s desires. The presiding officer should be senior in rank or position to the highest
ranking individual being decorated. The 505 CCW goal is to have decorations presented prior to
the member’s leaving the unit on a PCS move.
AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011                                                           9


3.3.1. The sequence of events for the ceremony is: Member and family meet with presiding
(if appropriate), guests arrive at ceremony location, presiding officer and awardee take position,
presiding officer delivers opening remarks, narrator reads decoration/award order, proffer hands
decoration/award to presiding officer, presiding officer pins on decoration/award, photos taken,
exchange salutes, presiding officer turns floor over to awardee for comments, awardee makes
comments, presiding officer concludes ceremony and invites guests to congratulate awardee.
   3.3.2.1. Decoration ceremonies are also often done at commander’s calls. In that case, the
   family may not be present, the presiding officer and awardees take positions, narrator reads
   highest decoration/award on down to the lowest level decoration/award, proffer hands
   decoration/award to presiding officer for each awardee, presiding officer pins on
   decoration/award, photos taken, exchange salutes, awardees dismissed to audience, presiding
   officer makes comments.
3.4. Promotion Ceremony.
   3.4.1. Promotion ceremonies can be as simple as reading the order and pinning of the
   insignia and as complicated as having multiple activities occurring. For all promotion
   ceremonies, ensure rank insignia and the promotion certificate are on hand. Frocking
   ceremonies should have very little variance from a regular promotion ceremony except for
   the content of the order.
   3.4.2. Multiple promotion ceremonies should be sequenced in descending rank order.
   3.4.3. Officers and enlisted traditionally reaffirm their oath upon promotion.            (See
   Attachment 1 for orders and oaths.)
   3.4.4. Sequence of events for the promotion ceremony is: Member and family meet with
   presiding officer (if appropriate), guests arrive at the ceremony location, narrator announces
   arrival of official party, presiding officer delivers opening remarks, narrator reads promotion
   order, proffer hands insignia to presiding officer and promotee’s spouse, presiding officer
   and promotee’s spouse remove old insignia, presiding officer pins insignia on right shoulder,
   promotee’s spouse pins left shoulder, photos taken, exchange salutes, presiding officer gives
   promotion oath, presiding officer asks newly promoted to make remarks, member makes
   remarks, presiding officer concludes ceremony and invites guests to congratulate member.
 10                                          AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011


                                           Chapter 4

                              FUNDING PROTOCOL EVENTS

4.1. Official Representation Funds (ORF). These are funds specifically appropriated through
the Secretary of Defense to the Secretary of the Air Force and are intended to “uphold the
standing and prestige of the U.S. by extending courtesies to certain officials and dignitaries of
the U.S. and foreign countries “(see AFI 65-603, “Official Representation Funds Guidance and
Procedures”.) The Secretary of the Air Force then allocates these funds to the MAJCOM
commanders. ACC gives the 505 CCW a set amount of monies for certain officials and
dignitaries of the U.S. and foreign countries. If the 505 OG or the 505 DWG has need of ORF
monies they will inquire from 505 CCW/CCP NLT 20 days in advance to ensure the money is
available or a gift is purchased on their behalf and mailed to their organizations.
4.2. Special Morale and Morale Funds (SM&W). Another source of funds used to support
protocol events is SM&W funds. These funds represent a portion of profits made by
nonappropriated activities and Base Exchanges. There are specific principles governing when
these funds can be used and these principles take precedence even if an event, on the surface,
seems to qualify for SM&W funds. Each host base Services Squadron is responsible for
distributing SM&W monies with the host wing commander signing the letter of approval. Refer
to AFI 34-201 “Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs)” Chapter 12 for complete details and
your host base Services Squadron on what can be done with SM&W monies.
   4.2.1. Hurlburt Field personnel can use the SM&W letter found on the y:\drive under y:\505
   CCW\505 CCW Protocol\SM&W Info\SM&W Request.
   4.2.2. Kirtland AFB and Nellis AFB will follow the host wing guidance on using SM&W
   funds from their bases.
4.3. Funding Conferences. In the past, refreshments and snacks at conferences would have to
be prorated among the attendees. However, changes to the JFTR and JTR now allow
appropriated funds (APF) to be used to fund conferences.
   4.3.1. For Air Force sponsored conferences, the organization that sponsors the conference
   will fund any light refreshments served during breaks in conference sessions, and therefore, it
   is the sponsoring organization’s option as to whether they wish to have such refreshments.
   Each commander will approve the use of APF funds for this purpose, but funds may only be
   spent to procure the amount of snacks and refreshments required to serve those employees in
   a travel status. Those employees who are not in a TDY status at the location where the
   conference is being held are not authorized refreshments at Government expense.
   4.3.2. Light refreshments for morning, afternoon, or evening breaks (excludes alcoholic
   beverages) are defined as coffee, tea, milk, juice, soft drinks, donuts, bagels, fruit, pretzels,
   cookies, chips, muffins, and similar items.
   4.3.3. Meetings primarily involving permanently assigned members or civilians on any
   installation cannot be classified as a conference in order to justify serving snacks and
   beverages. There must be a significant number of personnel in a TDY status attending, not
   merely one or two.
AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011                                                         11


  4.3.4. The Air Force policy is that Air Force organizations sponsoring a conference that does
  not fall under the authority of formal training will fund the expenses of a conference, rather
  than recover the cost through a registration fee (AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Chapter 4, para 4.42.2.2.)




                                           EDWARD L. MCKINZIE, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 12                                AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011


                                 Attachment 1
                         ORDERS AND OATHS OF OFFICE

Officer Orders

ATTENTION TO ORDERS
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, ACTING UPON THE RECOMMENDATION
OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE HAS PLACED SPECIAL TRUST AND
CONFIDENCE IN THE PATRIOTISM, INTEGRITY, AND ABILITIES OF (PREVIOUS
GRADE AND NAME). IN VIEW OF THESE SPECIAL QUALITIES AND (HIS/HER)
DEMONSTRATED POTENTIAL TO SERVE IN THE HIGHER GRADE, (PREVIOUS
GRADE AND NAME) IS PROMOTED TO THE PERMANENT GRADE OF (NEW GRADE),
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, EFFECTIVE (DATE). BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY
OF THE AIR FORCE.
Officer Oath
I, STATE YOUR FULL NAME / HAVING BEEN APPOINTED A CAPT, MAJ, ETC IN THE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE / DO SOLEMNLY SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) / THAT I WILL
SUPPORT AND DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES / AGAINST ALL
ENEMIES, FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC / THAT I WILL BEAR TRUE FAITH AND
ALLEGIANCE TO THE SAME / THAT I TAKE THIS OBLIGATION FREELY / WITHOUT ANY
MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION / AND THAT I WILL WELL AND
FAITHFULLY DISCHARGE THE DUTIES OF THE OFFICE / UPON WHICH I AM ABOUT
TO ENTER / SO HELP ME GOD.

Officer Frocking Order

ATTENTION TO ORDERS
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, ACTING UPON THE RECOMMENDATION
OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE, HAS PLACED SPECIAL TRUST AND
CONFIDENCE IN THE PATRIOTISM, INTEGRITY, AND ABILITIES OF (PREVIOUS
GRADE AND NAME). IN VIEW OF THESE SPECIAL QUALITIES, AND (HIS/HER)
DEMONSTRATED POTENTIAL TO SERVE IN THE HIGHER GRADE, (PREVIOUS
GRADE AND NAME) IS AUTHORIZED TO ASSUME THE GRADE OF (NEW GRADE),
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, EFFECTIVE (DATE). BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY
OF THE AIR FORCE.

Enlisted Order

ATTENTION TO ORDERS
(NAME) IS PROMOTED TO THE PERMANENT GRADE OF (RANK) EFFECTIVE (DATE)
WITH A DATE OF RANK OF (DATE). FOR THE COMMANDER. SIGNED (NAME)
AFI34-1201_505CCWSUP 16 FEBRUARY 2011                           13


Enlisted Oath

 I, STATE YOUR FULL NAME / DO SOLEMNLY SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) / THAT I
WILL SUPPORT AND DEFEND THE CONSTITUION OF THE UNITED STATES /
AGAINST ALL ENEMIES, FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC / THAT I WILL BEAR TRUE
FAITH AND ALLEGIANCE TO THE SAME / AND THAT I WILL OBEY THE
ORDERS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES / AND THE ORDERS OF
THE OFFICERS APPOINTED OVER ME / ACCORDING TO REGULATIONS / AND
THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE / SO HELP ME GOD.
