BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-111
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                              RANDOLPH AFB SUPPLEMENT

                                                                                8 OCTOBER 2008

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                            VOICE SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:          There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 12 CS/SCOC                           Certified by: 12 CS/CC (Lt Col D. Brown)
Supersedes AFI33-111_RANDOLPHAFBSUP, 3 February 2004                      Pages: 6

This publication implements and extends the guidance in AFI 33-111, Voice Systems
Management, 24 March 2005. This supplement applies to all base organizations and associate
units. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS) located at:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Changes to this supplement include: changing all references from 12 CS/SCBC to 12 CS/SCOIC,
12 CS/SCBCS to 12 CS/SCOIS and 12 CS/SCQ to 12 CS/SCX; delete guidance for controlling
official calls placed from off base telephones (paragraph 9.4.1 (Added-Randolph AFB); delete
Verifies cellular phone bills, enduring calls are for official government use only (paragraph
26.5.4.1 (Added Randolph AFB); delete 185 FTS base operator assistance and 188 DSN base
operator assistance (paragraph 38); deleted guidance on outgoing morale calls during family
crises (paragraph 40.1.5 (Added-Randolph AFB); and non-duty hours requirements for calls
outgoing from Randolph AFB (paragraph 30.3.1 (Added-Randolph AFB).

9.9.1. 12 CS/SCOIS conduct annual training to all existing TCOs and alternates, all newly
appointed TCO’s are trained after appointment letter is received Attendance is mandatory for
both primary and alternate TCOs, and unit commanders are responsible for ensuring attendance.

9.9.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) The base CSO briefs all TCOs on their duties and
responsibilities. Appointees will be in the grade of staff sergeant or above, or GS-5 or above. A
letter of appointment and a DD Form 577, Signature Card, will be submitted for new appointees
to 12 CS/SCOIC within 10 working days of appointment. The letter must identify the primary
and alternate TCOs.
2                                     AFI33-111_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                8 OCTOBER 2008

9.12.2.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Abandoned, non-operational C4 cables may be present.

9.12.2.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Responsibilities. All government organizations or agencies,
civilian contractors, and individuals desiring to construct or excavate will:

9.12.2.2.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Coordinate with appropriate agencies, including base
communications cable maintenance, not later than 10 working days prior to expected start of
construction excavation.

9.12.2.2.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Notify base communications cable maintenance no less
than 48 hours in advance of actual construction or excavation start, to ensure monitoring of Red
Zones.

9.12.2.2.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Emergency work clearances will be processed on an “as
soon as possible” basis.

9.12.2.2.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) Expose all C4 systems cables in a Red Zone by hand
digging prior to beginning construction/excavation to prevent damage.

9.12.3.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Damage To or Interruption of Service. When damage to or
interruption of service on C4 systems cable occurs through the negligence of the excavator or
contractor, including any failure to obtain proper coordination of the AF IMT 103 prior to start of
construction or excavation, the civilian contractor is responsible.

9.12.3.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Repair and restoration of all damage to C4 systems cable of a
nonpriority nature is through the contractor’s own resources. Repair actions must be in
accordance with Air Force directives.

9.12.3.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Reimbursement of the U.S. Government for man hours,
materials, and circuits cost when damage to or interruption of service of a priority nature occurs
on the C4 cable requires immediate restoration of the priority portion of the C4 cable by base
communications cable maintenance. The contractor will then complete restoration of the
nonpriority of the C4 cable.

9.12.3.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) Restorations by contractors must begin within 24 hours and
are subject to final acceptance inspection by base communication cable maintenance.

10.2.2.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) When government telephone service is required, the unit
needing the service originates the request through the on-line Communications-Computer
Systems Requirements Document (CSRD) located on the Randolph intranet. When intranet
access is not available, an AF IMT 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document may be used. The on-
line or AF IMT 3215 forms are used to request the different types of services, i.e. phone
installation, relocation, disconnection, etc. The requesting organization’s primary or alternate
Telephone Control Officer (TCO) must submit all requests. As a minimum, include the TCO
name, organization, office symbol, phone number, and TCO account number in the request. The
TCO will submit a diagram via FAX or e-mail to 12 CS/SCXP showing the proposed telephone
layout.
AFI33-111_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               8 OCTOBER 2008                                         3

10.2.2.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Requests for relocation of telephone equipment within one
year of a previous request for installation or relocation of the same equipment, will not be
approved unless fully justified. Routine telephone service requests are normally processed and
completed within 30 working days depending on telephone systems workload. Any requests
requiring material should be submitted at least 30 days in advance of the requester’s projected
operational date. Advanced notification should be given as early as 60 days in advance where
service must be ordered from commercial companies, i.e. T1s, long-haul circuits, 1-800 service,
calling cards, and commercial business lines. Priority requests must be fully justified, stating
why the request must be completed before other scheduled telephone work and approved by the
organizational commander, director, deputy commander, or deputy director.

10.2.5.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Ensures DD Form 2056, Telephone Monitoring Notification
Decal, and Randolph AFB VA 36-6, Emergency 911 Sticker, are visibly displayed on all
telephone instruments.

10.2.6.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) TCO or POC must ensure that there are no obstructions
placed in front of or adjacent to any telephone equipment, including terminals, power supplies,
relay cabinets, external bells, etc., that would prevent telephone maintenance personnel from
having free, workable access. It is the subscriber’s responsibility to clear any obstruction
blocking access to telephone systems prior to maintenance or installation work being started.
This includes closets and utility rooms.

10.4. (Added-Randolph AFB)           Base    Communication     Responsibilities.     The   12th
Communications Squadron:

10.4.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Provides on-site monitoring of construction and excavation in
Red Zone areas to prevent deviations from the AF IMT 103.

10.4.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) Identifies C4 cable routes and marks same if not marked.
Tones out C4 cable for contractor. When more than one C4 cable is installed in the same trench,
or along the same route, ensure the contractor is aware of the total number of working C4 cables
installed.

10.4.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) There will be instances when abandoned in place (AIP) cables
will be unidentifiable due to their removal from Computer Systems Installation Records (CSIRs).

10.4.5. (Added-Randolph AFB) When reimbursable damage to ground C-E cable by civilian
contractors occurs, notify the Contracting Division, Army Corp of Engineers, or the Staff Judge
Advocate, as applicable.

10.4.6. (Added-Randolph AFB) Itemizes man hours, material, and circuit downtime costs and
submits them to the Purchasing and Contracting Office, Army Corps of Engineers, or Staff Judge
Advocate, as applicable, for reimbursement to the U.S. Government when C4 systems cable
damage occurs as described.
4                                     AFI33-111_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                8 OCTOBER 2008

14.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Do not obligate the government by accepting collect calls on a
base telephone. When circumstances require accepting collect calls for official business or
emergency situations, the party accepting the collect call must record the call particulars (time,
date, calling number, calling party’s name, and location, etc.), and inform the TCO as soon as
possible to have the call logged on AF IMT 1072, Authorized Long Distance Telephone Calls.

14.1.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Accepting collect calls on a government telephone, when not
specifically authorized as above, is illegal. Any individual who does so is subject to disciplinary
action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) Article 92, AFI 36-704, Discipline
and Adverse Actions, and civilian regulations.

27.1.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Only authorized telephone maintenance personnel will
relocate, change, or disconnect telephone instruments or equipment. Any change in an office’s
present telephone configuration by unauthorized personnel could result in service interruption
and/or telephone equipment damage. Under the provision of Title 18, USC 1362, any actions of
this nature by unauthorized telephone customers may result in the immediate disconnection of
the formerly approved and installed telephone service. Violators can be fined not more than
$10,000 or imprisoned for not more that 10 years, or both.

27.2.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Requests for commercial or leased communication services are
submitted through the on-line CSRD or on AF IMT 3215 and forwarded to 12 CS/SCXR. The
minimum required information includes justification, type of equipment or service, location
(building and room number), points of contact, desired service date, and detailed description of
the work requested. Data modem options must also be included in the initial request when
applicable. When requesting a commercial circuit for use with a customer furnished modem, the
FCC registration number (FCCN) and ringer equivalency number (REN) must be furnished.

40.1.4. (Added-Randolph AFB) HMW calls must be placed through the originating installation
operator or, in the absence of an operator, from a telephone under a commander's supervision to
ensure compliance with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6215.01. The
caller should state the purpose of the call (morale call) and identify the originating location.

43.4.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) DOD-owned or leased telephones and telephone systems are
provided for the transmission of official government communications and are subject to
COMSEC monitoring IAW DoD Directive 4640.6, Communications Security Telephone
Monitoring and Recording, and AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment
Program (TMAP).

43.4.2. (Added-Randolph AFB) DD Form 2056 will be attached to telephones subject to
COMSEC monitoring. Use of official DOD telephones and telephone systems constitutes
consent by the user to COMSEC telephone monitoring.

52.1.3.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) The TCO ensures the responsible person completes a DD
Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, including name, unit of assignment, date of the call, date
of bill, vendor, city and number called, amount owed plus tax, and pays these charges at the
AFO.
AFI33-111_RANDOLPHAFBSUP             8 OCTOBER 2008                                  5

71.1. Telephone Directory Clerk

73.3.1. Adopted Forms and IMTs. DD Form 2056, Telephone Monitoring Notification Decal.




                                          JACQUELINE D. VAN OVOST, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing


Attachment:
1. Glossary of References and Supporting Information
6                                     AFI33-111_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                8 OCTOBER 2008

                                           Attachment 1

          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms

Backfill—To fill an open trench or hole.

Blacktop—To pave a road with a bituminous surface.

Build—To create a structure by assembling parts or materials.

Dig—To remove dirt from a specific area with an implement or machine.

Drag—To smooth dirt with a tinned implement or machine.

Drill—To create a small deep hole in the ground with a rotating implement.

Drive—To push into the ground using hand implements or machine.

Erect—To build or raise

Green Zone—An area that contains C4 systems cables vulnerable to mechanical damage outside
of a three feet radius of where construction or excavation is to take place.

Lay Foundation—To place in position, the base on which some surface structure rests.

Level—To evenly distribute.

Pave—To cover with stones, tiles, concrete, or the like so as to make a firm, level surface.

Red Zone—An area which contains C4 systems cables vulnerable to mechanical damage within
a three feet radius of where construction or excavation is to take place.

Trench—To dig a long narrow channel with hand implements or machine.
