BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-239
GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
                                                           GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                                    6 JULY 2012

                                                                                         Services

                                                            FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT
                                                                            PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 17 FSS/FSVF                                                        Certified by: 17 MSG/SV
                                                                         (Mr. Joseph Caruso, Jr.)
                                                                                         Pages: 2


This supplement implements AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program, 20 Feb 2004.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
per AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS),
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. It applies to all military and
civilian personnel that may be authorized to dine in the military dining facilities on Goodfellow.
It also applies to tenants. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct
supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification
and approval.


                                             MARK T. DAMIANO, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 2                                      AFI34-239_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP 6 JULY 2012


A3.4.1. Civilian firefighters assigned to the 17th Civil Engineer Squadron are authorized to
purchase meals in the dining facilities while on duty. This category of individuals are not
authorized to have guest(s) accompany them unless the individual is authorized this privilege
below.
A3.5. ESM personnel with visiting family members may have the individuals accompany the
member for meals in the dining facility not to exceed a period of 7 days duration. All relatives
or guests will pay the standard rate except spouses and children of E-4 and below which will pay
the discount rate. The ESM sponsor must accompany the individuals any time they use the
dining facility.
A3.7. (Added) Group Reservations. Due to high utilization rates during the lunch meal,
special group reservations are limited to those sponsored by 17 TRW/CC and arranged by Wing
Protocol (17 TRW/CCP). To prevent any interruption of service or inconvenience to our junior
enlisted members on Essential Station Messing, these functions will be limited to 20 attendees.
Exceptions to this policy must be staffed through the appropriate group commander to 17
TRW/CV for final approval. All reservations that include officer grades or civilian equivalency
of O-6 or higher must be coordinated through the base Protocol Officer prior to request
submission. Special group reservations for breakfast or dinner meals may be submitted directly
to the Food Service Officer (17 MSG/SVMF). Reservations must be received in the Food
Service Office 48 hours prior to the event. As a reminder, dining facility reservations are not
intended for squadron meetings, commanders roll call sessions, or class dinners.

A9. Note 11. (Added) The Services Division Food Service Officer will develop a method to
identify commanders and officers authorized to consume meals in the dining facilities for the
purpose of determining the quality and quantity of food served to Goodfellow enlisted personnel.
The 17th Mission Support Group Commander or his/her designated representative is the
approving official to authorize these individuals dining facility privileges.
