                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-507
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   21 July 1994

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                         MOBILIZATION OF THE CIVILIAN WORK
                                                                                     FORCE


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: AF/DPCX (Ms Peggy L. Snelling)                       Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Mr. J. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-910, 25 November 1988.                                                  Pages: 30
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, DoDD 1400.31,
DoDD 1404.10 and DoDD 1200.7 and provides the requirements and procedures for contingency plan-
ning for civilian work force. Title 10, United States Code, Section 8012 authorizes maintaining the system
of records required by this regulation. The Privacy Act of 1974 applies to this instruction. Forms affected
by the Privacy Act include an appropriate Privacy Act Statement. Failing to comply with paragraph 1.8
may result in action under AFI 36-704.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This is the initial publication of AFI 36-507, substantially revising AFR 40-910 (25 Nov 1988). It
updates, clarifies, and streamlines previous guidelines on mobilizing the civilian work force.
                                               Chapter 1
                                        RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Headquarters Air Force.
   1.1.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Operations (HQ USAF/XO) sets overall policy and pro-
   cedures for Air Force war planning and readiness, including relevant civilian issues.
   1.1.2.   The Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics (HQ USAF/LG):
       •    Sets policy and provides guidance for equipment issue..
       •    Manages deployment processing.
       •    Manages transportation of Emergency-Essential (E-E) civilian employees and evacuees.
   1.1.3. The Air Force Director of Programs and Evaluation Directorate (HQ USAF/PE) sets policy and
   procedures determining manpower requirements for wartime commitments.
   1.1.4. The Air Force Chief of Security Police (HQ USAF/SP):
       • Sets policy and provides guidance for issuing firearms to E-E civilian employees.
       • Manages training of civilian employees in their use.
   1.1.5.   The Air Force Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG):
       •    Sets policies and procedures for providing medical care to E-E civilian employees.
       •    Implements DoD medical care policy per DoD Directive 1404.10.
       •    Uses identification procedures set by DoD or Theater Commander, such as panographic den-
            tal x-rays (PANOREX), or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) samples.
   1.1.6. The Air Force Judge Advocate (HQ USAF/JA) sets policies and procedures for providing legal
   services to E-E civilian employees.
   1.1.7. The Director of Personnel Plans (HQ USAF/DPX) sets policies and provides guidance con-
   cerning personnel strength accountability.
   1.1.8. The Air Force Director of Civilian Personnel (HQ USAF/DPC):
       • Sets civilian personnel policies and procedures to meet worldwide mission requirements dur-
          ing national emergencies, mobilizations, war, military crises, or other contingencies.
       • Complies with DoD policy and procedures.
       • Determines the requirements for civilian personnel systems and processes that support contin-
          gency planning and execution and comply with DoD and OPM requirements.
       • Identifies and develops solutions for civilian work force issues that might limit availability of
          qualified civilian employees to meet Air Force mission requirements.
       • Identifies civilian work force benefit, entitlement, and protection issues which must be
          addressed during contingency and exercise planning.
       • Includes civilian personnel functions in Air Force planning and execution manual and auto-
          mated systems, including the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS), the Contin-
          gency Operation/Mobility Planning and Execution System (COMPES), and the Manpower
          and Personnel Module (MANPER) of COMPES. NOTE: Submit requirements for Personnel

                                                2
           functionality to COMPES MANPER to AFMPC/DPMYR for approval and coordination with
           the MANPER Configuration Management Board. Send requirements for Manpower func-
           tionality to AFWMPRT/CC.
       •   Uses the manpower and personnel readiness center (MPRC) network. Provide instructions
           through MPRC network to MAJCOM and base-level civilian personnel offices during exer-
           cises and actual contingencies.
       •   Prepares and sends annual Reserve screening reports at the request of the Office of the Secre-
           tary of Defense, Reserve Affairs (OSD/RE).
       •   Implements danger pay (title II, section 2311(a) of Pub. L. No. 96-465) when conditions
           threaten physical harm or imminent danger to the health or well-being of civilian employees
           in an overseas theater of operation. Submit requests for danger pay through the Office of the
           Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness) to the Department of State.
       •   Keeps HQ USAF/PER informed about the civilian wartime manpower and personnel require-
           ments system (WARMAPS) data call. HQ USAF/PER consolidates information and submits
           it to the Office of the Secretary of Defense Personnel and Readiness.
   1.1.9. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM)
   ensures payroll servicing for the civilian work force during contingencies.
   1.1.10. The Director of Services (HQ USAF/SV) sets policies and provides guidance for services to
   support deployed civilian employees.
   1.1.11. HQ USAF organizations work with HQ USAF/DPC to employ skilled civilians to meet any
   personnel shortfalls in their functional areas that individual MAJCOMs cannot resolve.

1.2. Air Force Civilian Personnel Management Center (AFCPMC):
    • Provides E-E data to the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) as part of the quarterly consol-
       idation of civilian personnel data (RCS: DD-FM&P(Q) 1458, Consolidation of Automated Civil-
       ian Personnel Records - see attachment 4).
    • Follows procedures in this instruction when filling career program Key or E-E positions.
    • Develops or modifies automated civilian personnel systems to support contingency planning and
       execution.

1.3. Supported Air Force Component Commands :
    • Keep supporting commands and HQ USAF/DPC up-to-date on civilian issues specific to the sup-
       ported command's area of responsibility (AOR).
    • Identify theater clearance requirements for civilian employees deploying to the command's AOR
       if they differ from the clearance requirements in DoD 4500.54-G, Department of Defense Foreign
       Clearance Guide.
    • Decide whether to require Air Force civilian employees to wear uniforms in the AOR.
    • Determine, at employees' requests, if E-E civilian employees may carry weapons for personal
       defense while in AOR.
    • Decide if E-E civilian employees entering AOR need small arms training. Include the information
       in the operation or contingency plan development process, to the extent possible.

                                               3
   •   Coordinate issues with the theater command as much as possible.
   •   Notify HQ USAF/DPC when conditions endanger the health or well-being of E-E employees in
       their AOR and request danger pay.
   •   Use the procedures in AFI 10-215 to request civilian work force replacements when component
       command civilian personnel resources are exhausted.
   •   Provide support and account for civilian employees in the command's AOR.
   •   Evacuate dependents of E-E employees using the same priority as family members of military.

1.4. Major Commands (MAJCOM):
   1.4.1. Make sure that enough qualified civilian employees are available to meet worldwide mission
   requirements during a national emergency, mobilization, war, military crisis, or other contingency.
   1.4.2. Integrate civilian work force, Air Force, and MAJCOM contingency and wartime planning
   and execution, including:
       •   Deliberate planning process.
       •   Wartime manpower requirements and force sizing exercise (MANREQ/ FORSIZE).
       •   Manpower force packaging (MANFOR).
       •   Base level planning process (BLPP).
       •   Support force.
       •   Deployment, Mobilization, Evacuation, Exercise.
       •   Operation and contingency planning.
       •   Execution procedures.
   1.4.3. Document comprehensive and integrated planning. Document that a sufficient number of
   qualified employees will be available to meet worldwide mission requirements.
   1.4.4. Resolve civilian skills shortfalls identified by installations within a MAJCOM and request HQ
   USAF for assistance, if necessary.
   1.4.5. Guard the quality of the data in the civilian personnel data system and the integrity of the
   Reserve screening program.
   1.4.6. Do not extend overseas tours for E-E employees who do not sign DD Form 2365.
   1.4.7. Make sure that MAJCOM plans and supplements to Air Force instructions (for example, AFIs
   10-215, 10-216, 10-403, 36-507) cover support for the civilian work force.
   1.4.8. Ensure civilian personnel support for Manpower and Personnel Readiness Center (MPRC) or
   local equivalent when the MPRC is activated. Use MPRC to communicate civilian personnel require-
   ments and issues.

1.5. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPF): :
   1.5.1. Maintain accurate mobilization data in the automated personnel system. Use AF Form 3598 to
   obtain Reserve category information from employees.



                                              4
   1.5.2. Chair the DoD Recruiting Area Staffing Committee (RASC) if an Air Force installation is the
   largest DoD employer in the area. Actively participate in the RASC when the AF installation is not the
   largest DoD employer. (EXCEPTION: This paragraph applies only in the United States and its terri-
   tories. Overseas areas should use the Joint Labor Affairs Committee to address local national contin-
   gency issues.)
   1.5.3. Support the Manpower and Personnel Readiness Center (MPRC) or local equivalent when the
   MPRC is activated.
   1.5.4. Plan and implement an evacuation using the following guidelines:
       • Set up civilian personnel support procedures to use during evacuations caused by military
          operations or natural disasters. CPFs must support DoD civilian employees and their depen-
          dents during evacuations. The level of support depends on whether installation is an evacua-
          tion processing site, transit center, reception center, repatriation center, or safehaven.
       • Create procedures to reestablish CPF services to commander and employees after a disaster.
       •   Inform employees that they must contact the Air Force CPF nearest the safehaven and work
           while at the safehaven.
       •   Keep the permanent duty station informed on the status of evacuees.
   1.5.5. Support designated Key or E-E positions using the following guidelines:
       1.5.5.1. Request removing known Key and E-E employees from their military mobilization obli-
       gation. Send requests to the addressees in attachment 5.
       1.5.5.2. Use vacancy announcements to fill unoccupied Key and E-E positions. State in the
       announcements if employees must be removed from military mobilization obligation in order to
       be employed. For E-E positions, indicate that selectees must sign DD Form 2365. (If you do not
       use vacancy announcements, develop local procedures to make sure the CPF or supervisor notifies
       candidates of any applicable conditions when they are referred for a Key or E-E position.)
       1.5.5.3. Counsel deploying employees on their benefits, entitlements, and responsibilities while
       deployed.
   1.5.6. Ensure the next-of-kin are promptly notified when a civilian employee is injured or becomes a
   casualty because of a military operation or terrorist action (AFI 36-809, Survivor Assistance).
   1.5.7. Identify in base support plans how personnel support will be provided to employees and super-
   visors during contingencies.
   1.5.8. Assist the Military Personnel Flight, Personnel Systems and Readiness Section (PSRS) or
   equivalent and deployment processing officer with developing and implementing civilian personnel
   deployment processing and strength accountability procedures during contingencies, wartime, exer-
   cise, and emergency operations. Include procedures in appropriate base plans and supplements to Air
   Force instructions.
   1.5.9. Extract civilian resource file from Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS). Give
   file to PSRS on floppy diskette or equivalent electronic medium to fresh the MANPER-B system.

1.6. Commanders integrate and document contingency plans for the civilian work force in all deliberate
and execution planning processes and make sure to address civilian issues during execution.


                                               5
1.7. Supervisors:
   1.7.1. Explain wartime and exercise roles to civilian employees.
   1.7.2. Integrate civilian work force preparedness planning into all automated and manual contingency
   deliberate planning and execution processes.
   1.7.3. Notify the CPF when the Reserve category or military recall status of employees change.
   1.7.4. Include training required to meet contingency needs in the base training plan.
   1.7.5. Keep emergency notification information for employees up-to-date and accessible.
   1.7.6. To administer E-E positions:
       • Include the statement shown in attachment 4 (A4.2.2.) on the position description or core doc-
          ument.
       • Identify E-E employees and alternate E-E employees during the deliberate planning process.
          Limit exigency designations. Send the names of E-E and alternate E-E employees to CPF.
       • Advise E-E employees of the requirements of E-E positions and their predeployment planning
          responsibilities at least once a year.
       • Train and equip E-E employees for their E-E duties.
       • Process civilian employees for deployment according to AFI 10-403, 10-215, and this instruc-
          tion.
       • Advise candidates and selectees for E-E positions that they must sign DD Form 2365 and be
          removed from military mobilization obligation as conditions of employment.
       • If E-E or alternate E-E employees are also Reserve members of the Armed Forces, request
          their removal from their military mobilization obligations. Use the format shown in Figure
          A5.1. Send requests to CPF.
   1.7.7. To manage Key positions or Key employees:
       •
       • Include the statement in attachment 5 (A5.12) on the position description or core document.
       • Identify Key employees during the deliberate planning process. Provide names of Key
          employees to CPF.
       • Advise candidates for Key positions that they may be removed from their military recall sta-
          tus.
       • If Key employees are also Reserve members of the Armed Forces, request their removal from
          their military mobilization obligations Use the format shown in Figure A6.1. Send requests
          to CPF.
   1.7.8.   To manage local national employees:
       •    Update the military recall status of employees.
       •    Identify local national civilian employees who are essential in contingencies during BLPP.
       •    Give the names of these employees to the CPF.
       •    Meet all protections required by the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA). Request employ-
            ees' removal from their military mobilization obligations if SOFA allows.

                                               6
1.8. Employees:
   1.8.1. Report to work at your normal duty station during periods of national emergency, mobilization,
   war, military crisis, natural disaster or other contingency, unless you are officially told not to report at
   all or to report to another location.
   1.8.2. Participate in test alerts and practice exercises when your supervisor so directs you. Overtime
   and callback procedures in AFI 36-807 and SOFAs apply when you work during the alert or an exer-
   cise occurs outside of regularly scheduled duty hours.
   1.8.3. If you are a Reserve member of the Armed Forces, tell your supervisor about your Reserve cat-
   egory and military recall status and any changes in your status.
   1.8.4. If you are an E-E employee, alternate E-E employee, or you are otherwise designated to per-
   form E-E duties, you must:
       • Deploy to or remain in overseas theaters of operation after other noncombatants evacuate the
           area.
       •   Sign a DD Form 2365 when you are selected for a vacant E-E position.
       •   Agree to your removal from any military mobilization obligations.
       •   Comply with deployment processing procedures as outlined in AFI 10-403, AFI 10-215, and
           any reporting instructions provided by the Deployment Processing Unit (DPU)/PSRS.
       •   Follow work guidelines for the theater of operation (for example Geneva Conventions and the
           customs of country to which you are assigned).
       •   Be prepared. See AFI 4-103 and attachment 4 (A4.23.) of this instruction.
   1.8.5. If you evacuate your permanent duty station in the United States or overseas:
       • Go to your designated safehaven. The safehaven information appears on your evacuation
           orders or may be given to you verbally.
       • Contact the Air Force civilian personnel flight (CPF) nearest your safehaven as instructed in
           official announcements.
       • Give your safehaven location, address, telephone number, and any changes in the address or
           telephone number to the CPF.
       • Perform your assigned work at the safehaven.
   1.8.6. Tell your supervisor who to contact in an emergency. When a natural disaster is imminent,
   provide an emergency contact outside the commuting area.

1.9. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA):
   1.9.1. Issues the National Plan for Emergency Preparedness which specifies Federal agency responsi-
   bilities for managing national resources in emergencies.
   1.9.2. Supervises and coordinates overall civilian emergency preparedness of Federal agencies that
   respond to national crises. If the President or Congress declares a national emergency,, a cabi-
   net-level Office of Defense Resources (ODR) assumes FEMA's duties and manages the nation's
   resources to meet critical demands from military, defense, and essential civilian activities.



                                                  7
1.10. Department of Labor (DoL), through regional and state employment offices, mobilizes the civil-
ian labor force in a national emergency, except for health services, railroad, and maritime resources.

1.11. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) mobilizes the nation’s health services labor
force.

1.12. Department of Defense (DoD):
    • Recommends initial military and civilian strength goals, phasing, and sources to the President.
    • Advises FEMA, ODR, and DoL at the same time.
    • Allocates civilian employees who are in short supply among DoD components.




                                               8
                                              Chapter 2
                                   THE COMMANDER’S PLAN

2.1. Why Plan? Integrated planning guarantees:
    • Sufficient civilian employees with the right skills where and when you need them to meet world-
      wide mission requirements during contingencies.
    • A well-trained civilian work force that knows what is expected of them during contingencies.
    • A civilian work force that receives pay, benefits, entitlements, and personnel support during con-
      tingencies.
    • Accountability for deployed and evacuated civilian employees.
    • Personnel procedures that meet the contingency needs of managers and employees.

2.2. Planning Requirements . If you have civilian employees, you must integrate plans for managing
the civilian work force into all wartime and contingency deliberate and execution plans and processes.
   2.2.1. Overall Wartime and Contingency Planning :
       • Identify civilian wartime and contingency manpower requirements during the deliberate plan-
          ning process (AFI 38-205, Wartime Manpower Planning and Programming).
       • Identify Key, E-E, and contingency essential civilian positions as specific subsets of wartime
          manpower requirements.
       • Compare wartime manpower requirements with peacetime work force and identify skill short-
          falls. Explain how you will resolve shortfalls. Try resolving shortfalls during peacetime by
          using or modifying existing processes. Point out command skills shortfalls to next your next
          level in the chain of command when you can't resolve them at your level.
       • Find out which employees are Reserve members of the Armed Forces and assess the impact
          on skills needed in the civilian work force during a Presidential Selected Reserve Call-up
          (PSRC), partial mobilization, and military retiree recall.
       • Identify employees who meet the criteria for Key employee.
       • Identify employees who meet the criteria for E-E employee and alternate E-E employee.
       • Identify local national employees who meet the definition of contingency-essential employee.
       • Explain how your installation will participate in the Department of Defense (DoD) Recruiting
          Area Staffing Committee (RASC). Consider using other intra-DoD committees to perform
          RASC activities.
       • Document planning in annexes to base and MAJCOM plans.
       • Make sure the CPF can access plans to provide needed support.
   2.2.2. E-E Planning . If you have E-E employees:
       • Identify who is responsible for equipping and training E-E employees.
       • Identify and address civilian deployment issues and requirements in deployment plans and
          deployment processes.



                                               9
   •   Identify and address issues and requirements unique to E-E civilians who remain in a theater
       of operation during base support planning.
   •   Account for E-E employees.
   •   Outline how you will make sure that E-E employees receive pay, benefits, and entitlements
       during a contingency.
2.2.3. Reserve Screening . If you have Key, E-E, or contingency essential employees who are
Reserve members of the Armed Forces:
    • Request that E-E, alternate E-E, and Key employees be removed from their military mobiliza-
       tion obligations.
    • Request that contingency-essential local national employees be relieved of their military obli-
       gations if SOFA permits.
    • Send removal requests to the CPF.
2.2.4. Evacuation and Disaster Plannings:
   •   Identify and address civilian personnel issues in evacuation and disaster planning.
   •   Outline how you will reestablish the reporting chain of command.
   •   Notify the civilian work force of unique civilian issues.
   •   Account for evacuated employees and their dependents.
   •   Process civilian employees and their dependents through evacuation processing centers, repa-
       triation centers, and safehaven reception centers.
   •   Tell employees when and where they should report for duty in case of disaster.
   •   Tell employees about safehaven. Explain the benefits and entitlements they will receive while
       at safehaven.
   •   Tell employees they must contact the Air Force CPF nearest the safehaven and that they must
       work while at safehaven. Keep the permanent duty station informed on the status of evacu-
       ees.
   •   Provide pay, benefits, entitlements, and civilian personnel services to evacuated civilian
       employees and their dependents.
2.2.5. Assessing Quality . Show how you will assess the effectiveness and quality of your plans.
2.2.6. Exercises . Incorporate pertinent civilian issues in exercises and tests.




                                      BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                      DCS/Personnel




                                             10
                                           Attachment 1
    GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training Systems
AFI 10-215, Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO)
AFI 10-216, Evacuation and Repatriation of Air Force Family Members and Other US Non-Combatants
AFI 10-401, Operation Plan and Concept Plan Development and Implementation
AFI 10-402, Mobilization Planning
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions (PA)
AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees
AFI 36-809, Survivor Assistance
AFI 36-2908, Dependent Care Responsibilities
AFI 38-205, Wartime Manpower Planning and Programming
AFM 67-1, Vol 2, Pt 2, USAF Standard Base Supply System
DoDD 1200.7, Screening the Ready Reserve
DoDD 1400.31, Mobilization Management of the DoD Civilian Work Force
DoDD 1404.10, Emergency-Essential (E-E) DoD US Citizen Civilian Employees Overseas
DoDI 1444.2, Consolidation of Automated Civilian Personnel Records
DoD 1400.25-M, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manual (CPM)
DoD 4500.54-G, Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide
JTR Volume II, Joint Travel Regulation
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work
AFM 40-8, Use and Administration of Local Civilians in Foreign Areas During Hostilities
DoDD 1400.32, Mobilization Preparedness Planning for the DoD US Citizen Civilian Work Force
DoDI 1342.19, Family Care Plans

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force (as used on forms)


                                               11
AFCPMC—Air Force Civilian Personnel Management Center
AFC2S—Air Force Command and Control System
AOR—Area of responsibility
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
COMPES—Contingency Operation Mobility Planning and Execution System
CONUS—Continental United States
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DHHS—Department of Health and Human Services
DoD—Department of Defense
DD—Department of Defense (as used on forms)
DoL—Department of Labor
DMDC—Defense Manpower Data Center
E-E—Emergency-Essential
FAST—Force Augmentation Status and Tracking System
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
FPM—Federal Personnel Manual
JTR—Joint Travel Regulation
MAJCOM—Major Command
MANPER—Manpower and Personnel Module of COMPES
MDS—Manpower Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MPRC—Manpower and Personnel Readiness Center
ODR—Office of Defense Resources
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
RASC—Recruiting Area Staffing Committee
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Area of Responsibility—A defined area of land in which responsibility is specifically assigned to the
commander of the area for the development and maintenance of installations, control of movement and
the conduct of tactical operations involving troops under his or her control along with parallel authority to
exercise these functions.

                                                 12
Contingency—An emergency involving military forces caused by natural disasters, terrorists,
subversives, or military operation. Due to the uncertainty of the situation, contingencies require advance
plans, rapid response, and special procedures to ensure the safety and readiness of personnel, installations,
and equipment.
Contingency-Essential Civilian Employee—A direct or indirect hire local national civilian employee
who occupies a position designated as contingency-essential. Removal from military mobilization
obligation depends on the SOFA for the country and local labor agreement.
Contingency-Essential Civilian Position—A local national civilian position required in a crisis
situation. This is the local national equivalent of a Key or E-E position.
Crisis Situation—Civil insurrection, civil war, terrorism, war, or other hostile condition that threatens
physical harm or imminent danger to the health or well-being of E-E civilian employees.
Emergency—A declaration of war or declared national emergency, an attack on the United States, or
mobilization order issued by the Secretary of the Air Force or other appropriate au.thority.
Emergency-Essential (E-E) Alternate Civilian Employee—A direct-hire US citizen civilian employee
who is appointed, either temporarily or permanently, to a non-E-E DoD position but who agrees to
perform the duties of another E-E civilian during a crisis situation..
Emergency-Essential (E-E) Civilian Employee—A direct-hire US citizen civilian employee who is
appointed, either temporarily or permanently, to an E-E DoD position. Such employees must sign DD
Form 2365, DoD Civilian Employee Overseas Emergency-Essential Position Agreement.
Emergency-Essential (E-E) Civilian Position—A civilian position located overseas or that would be
transferred overseas during a crisis situation, or which requires the incumbent to perform temporary duty
assignments overseas during a crisis in support of a military operation. The position ensures the success
of combat operations or supports essential combat systems after a mobilization, evacuation order, or
other military crisis. The position cannot be converted to a military position because it requires
uninterrupted service in support of combat operations, or because the position maintains and repairs
essential combat systems.
Individual Ready Reserve (IRR)—The IRR and Inactive National Guard include Ready Reservists
(RR) who are not members of the Selected Reserve.
Key Position—A federal civilian position in the United States or US territories that must be filled during
a national emergency or mobilization, and which, if vacant, would seriously impair the functioning of a
federal agency or office.
Mobilization—Either of the following:
Assembling and organizing national resources to support national objectives in time of war or other
national defense emergencies—The process that brings the Armed Forces or part of them to a state of
war readiness or prepares them for other national defense emergencies. The process includes assembling
and organizing personnel, supplies, and material for active Military Service.
National Emergency—A condition declared by the President or Congress authorizing emergency
actions in the national interest including partial, full, or total mobilization of national resources.
Overseas—All locations outside the continental United States (CONUS), Alaska, and Hawaii.
Ready Reserve—The Selected Reserve and Individual Ready Reserve liable for active duty as prescribed

                                                 13
by law (Title 10, United States Code, sections 268, 672, and 673).
Recruiting Area—The geographic area from which an installation will usually recruit local employees.
Distance, geography, transportation systems, and other conditions determine an installation’s recruiting
area.
Recruiting Area Staffing Committee (RASC)—A committee used by two or more DoD installations in
one recruiting area. The committee includes personnel representatives from each area DoD installation.
Reserve Components—Reserve Components of the Armed Forces of the United States include:
The Army National Guard.
The Army Reserve.
The Naval Reserve.
The Marine Corps Reserve.
The Air National Guard.
The Air Force Reserve.
The Coast Guard Reserve.
Reserve Component Category—The category identifying an individual’s Reserve status. Each
Reservist has a specific Reserve component category designation.
Selected Reserve—Part of the Ready Reserve of each Reserve component including units and
individuals who participate in paid training periods and serve on paid active duty for annual training.
Standby Reserve—Units and members of the Reserve Components, other than those in the Ready
Reserve or Retired Reserve, liable for active duty per Title 10, United States Code, sections 273, 672, and
674.




                                                14
                                             Attachment 2
                                    PLANNING ASSUMPTIONS

A2.1. Assumptions for Civilian Work Force Contingency Planning . Base your contingency plans
on the assumptions outlined in AFI 38-205 and on the following DoD contingency or wartime use poli-
cies:
   A2.1.1. All civilian employees in the United States report to work to fulfill mission requirements dur-
   ing the emergency.
   A2.1.2. Local national employees report for duty during an emergency based on the terms of the Sta-
   tus of Forces Agreement (SOFA) for that country.
   A2.1.3. Units continue to use civilian employees in indirect combat support (noncombatant) posi-
   tions that need not be filled by military members.
   A2.1.4. Units terminate nonessential or low priority functions and reassign civilian employees hold-
   ing those positions to higher priority work. (Ready Program AFI 4-127)
   A2.1.5. Overseas E-E employees remain in-place or deploy to other in-theater locations and perform
   E-E duties.
   A2.1.6. E-E employees assigned to E-E positions or alternate E-E employees in the United States
   deploy to theater of operation and perform E-E duties.
   A2.1.7. Employees not in E-E positions evacuate overseas areas and become available to work in the
   United States.
   A2.1.8. Military resources in the United States deploy overseas to perform tasks previously per-
   formed by evacuated civilians.

A2.2. Mobilizing the Reserves. The civilian work force incurs losses during mobilizations or retiree
recalls, particularly among employees who are Reserve members of the Armed Forces.
   A2.2.1. The potential size of the civilian loss depends on whether a Presidential Selected Reserve
   Call-up, Partial, Full, or Total Mobilization, or a retiree recall is authorized..
   A2.2.2. Members of the Reserve Components who retain their military mobilization obligation may
   volunteer even if they are not ordered to active duty.
   A2.2.3. The Secretary of a Military Department may order Regular or Reserve 20-year active duty
   retirees and members of the Fleet Reserve and Fleet Marine Corps Reserve to active duty without their
   consent in the interest of national defense (Title 10, United States Code, section 688) at any time.
   A2.2.4. On declaration of war or national emergency, all Reserve component screening ceases. All
   civilian employees who are Reserve members of the Armed Forces become immediately available for
   recall to active military service. After mobilization, there are no further military recall deferrals or
   exemptions issued.
   A2.2.5. On mobilization, commanders may exercise the special personnel authorities described in
   attachment 3, subject to HQ USAF/DPC authorization.



                                               15
A2.2.6. Supervisors grant reservists annual leave, leave without pay, and compensatory time off con-
sistent with the contingency.




                                           16
                                           Attachment 3
                EMERGENCY PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES

A3.1. Emergency Authorities for Personnel Management . The Office of Personnel Management
(OPM), Department of Defense (DoD), and AFPDs/AFIs authorize the measures described in this attach-
ment to meet civilian work force contingency support requirements. OPM may issue additional regula-
tions during an emergency.
   A3.1.1. National Emergency Authorities When the United States Is Not Under At tack.
       A3.1.1.1. OPM allows emergency appointments to fill positions during national emergencies
       other than an attack on the United States.when:
           • The President calls up all or some military Reserves.
           • The Director of OPM confirms that normal appointment procedures cannot meet surge
               employment requirements.
       A3.1.1.2. The Director of OPM delegates additional authorities for Military Services and DoD
       components during national emergencies other than an attack on the United States. Until these
       delegations appear in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) or other OPM publication, "OPM
       Letter, June 18, 1986" authorizes agencies to:
           • Reassign employees without restriction during the 90 days immediately following
               appointment.
           • Make details and promote individuals without competition.
           • Extend details and promotions without competition for the duration of the emergency,
               plus 6 months.
           • Promotes regardless of time-in-grade restrictions, so long as the promoted employees
               qualify for the higher-graded positions.
           • Select noncitizens for indefinite emergency-appointments, assuming legal authority exists
               to pay them.
   A3.1.2. Authorities During an Attack on the United StatesS . If the United States is under attack,
   commanders may exercise their appointing authority to carry out necessary civilian personnel activi-
   ties. Under Title 5, United States Code, section 7106(a)(2)(D), collective bargaining agreements do
   not preclude commanders from taking any necessary actions to carry out the agency mission during
   such emergencies.




                                              17
                                             Attachment 4
              EMERGENCY-ESSENTIAL (E-E) POSITIONS AND EMPLOYEES

A4.1. Designating E-E Positions . Functional managers designate E-E positions (see A1.9) during
operational plan (OPlan) development and BLPP.
   A4.1.1. Limiting E-E Positions . Designate E-E positions according to the definition in attachment
   1 (A1.9.) and the following DoD criterion:
   "Ensure that civilian positions are designated E-E only when civilians are required for direct support
   to combat operations, or to combat systems support functions that must be continued and that could
   not otherwise be immediately met by using deployed military possessing the skills in the number and
   functions expected to be needed to meet combat operations or systems support requirements in a crisis
   situation" (attachment 1, definition A1.5).
   A4.1.2. Documenting E-E positions . Document E-E positions in Unit Type Code (UTC), the Man-
   power Data System (MDS), and the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS).

A4.2. E-E Position Descriptions.
   A4.2.1. Document the specific contingency duties, responsibilities, and physical requirements of
   each E-E position using one of the following methods:
      • Include the E-E duties in the existing peacetime position description.
      • Attach a brief statement of crisis situation duties if they differ substantially from peacetime
          duties.
      • Write a separate E-E position description.
   A4.2.2. Include a statement substantially similar to the following in each E-E position description:
   "This position is emergency-essential (E-E). In the event of a crisis situation, the incumbent, or des-
   ignated alternate, must continue to perform the E-E duties until relieved by proper authority. The
   incumbent or the designated alternate, may be required to take part in readiness exercises. This posi-
   tion cannot be vacated during a national emergency or mobilization without seriously impairing the
   capability of the organization to function effectively. This meets the criteria of an E-E position and
   requires that the incumbent, or the designated alternate, be removed from any military recall status."

A4.3. Agreeing to an E-E Position. Use DD Form 2365, DoD Civilian Employees Overseas E-E Posi-
tion Agreement. This form documents that incumbents in E-E positions accept the E-E conditions of
employment. : E-E employees must:
    • Perform temporary duty or relocate to duty stations in overseas areas.
    • Continue to work in overseas areas after non-E-E US citizens evacuate the area.
    • Work in the E-E position during a crisis until proper authority relieves them.
    • May be required to take part in readiness exercises.
    • Are unavailable for military recall. Follow the procedures in attachment 5 for removing employ-
       ees from military recall status.



                                               18
A4.4. Staffing Vacant E-E Positions .
   A4.4.1. Assign only qualified individuals who sign the E-E position agreement (DD Form 2365) to
   fill a vacant E-E position.
   A4.4.2. Qualifications include physical and medical standards established by the employing activity.
   Follow the criteria in "Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures."
   A4.4.3. Alert candidates for vacant E-E positions of the following conditions of employment:
      • The position is E-E; the selectee must sign an E-E agreement (DD Form 2365).
      • Selectees are exempt from Military Reserve or retired military recall status.
      • E-E dependents are evacuated from the crisis zone with the same priority as family members
          of military personnel.
      • Incumbents of E-E positions must maintain an adequate family care plan at all times.
       A4.4.3.1. PALACE Teams must advise career program candidates of E-E requirements at the
       time of referral.
       A4.4.3.2. When an E-E position requires that the candidate move to another duty station, do not
       issue permanent change of station (PCS) orders unless the candidate signs a DD Form 2365.
       A4.4.3.3. If a selectee will not sign the DD Form 2365, or agrees to sign DD Form 2365 but does
       not agree to a change in military recall status, do not offer the position.

A4.5. Managing Occupied E-E Positions . Ask the incumbent to sign the E-E agreement. If the
employee declines, reassign the employee to a non-E-E position without loss of grade or pay, as soon as
possible.

A4.6. Complying with E-E Agreement and Overseas Tour and Transportation Agreements.
   A4.6.1. MAJCOMs may not extend the overseas tour or give a new tour for an employee in an E-E
   position if the employee refuses to sign an E-E agreement (DD Form 2365) or will not agree to
   removal from military recall status. This includes:
      • Extensions for a new tour following renewal agreements.
      • Extensions beyond 5 years under DoD 1400.25-M, chapter 301, subparagraph 4-2a(4).
   A4.6.2. The E-E agreement takes precedence over any existing transportation agreement.

A4.7. Making Advance Arrangements for E-E Employees to Fill E-E Positions . I d e n t i f y E - E
employees during the deliberate planning process, BLPP, or operation or contingency planning processes.

A4.8. Selecting Alternate E-E Employees . During the planning process, identify qualified alternates
to fill E-E positions if:
     • The E-E position is vacant.
     • The incumbent can't work because of illness or casualty.
     • The incumbent has not signed the E-E position agreement.
     • Some other compelling reason exists.


                                              19
A4.9. Designating E-E Positions During Crises . Unexpected events or military crises may require a
different number of employees with different skills than those designated E-E or Alternate E-E. If you
must create new E-E positions during a crisis:
   A4.9.1. Ask employees in E-E positions after the outbreak of a military crisis to sign an E-E agree-
   ment.
       A4.9.1.1. If an overseas employee refuses to sign the agreement and no other qualified employee
       or military member is available:
           • Require the employee to continue working in that position.
           • Explain the benefits and protections of an E-E employee.
           • Relocate the employee as soon as possible according to the needs of the military situation.
       A4.9.1.2. If a US employee refuses to sign the agreement:
          • Try to find a a volunteer to fill the position.
          •   Detail or transfer the employee who declined to sign the agreement to a non-E-E position
              (if one is available) if another employee volunteers..
          •   Reassign or order the employee on involuntary temporary duty to wherever the
              employee's skills are needed if no one volunteers for the job or if the non-signing
              employee has unique skills and expertise.
       A4.9.1.3. Order civilian employees to work in E-E positions on an involuntary or unexpected
       basis only when no other solution is possible.

A4.10. Training E-E Employees . Train E-E employees for E-E duties.
   A4.10.1. Include training (commensurate with the anticipated threat and theater policy) in:
      • Chemical defense equipment.
      • The laws of war.
      • The Uniform Code of Military Justice (chapter 47 of 10 U.S.C.).
      • Standards of conduct.
      • Coping skills for prisoners of war (POW).
   A4.10.2. See AFI 10-401, paragraph 2.5, for additional training required by the Air Force.
   A4.10.3. Provide weapons training if paragraph A4.16 of this instruction applies.
   A4.10.4. Include E-E employees in the same cultural awareness training provided to military person-
   nel.

A4.11. Supporting E-E Employees . The Department of State authorizes DoD to retain or move desig-
nated E-E civilian employees into areas being evacuated by noncombatants. Address this contingency in
deployment plans. Plans must protect E-E employees and their benefits and entitlements during opera-
tions.

A4.12. Including Civilian Issues in Deployment Processing Planning . Include issues unique to civil-
ians in deployment processing planning:

                                              20
   •   Issue Geneva Conventions Identity Cards.
   •   Provide passports, visas uniform wear, small arms training, and so on as necessary for the specific
       operation.
   •   Specify who will issue and authenticate Contingency Exercise and Mobility (CEM) orders for
       civilians.
   •   Specify the management of benefits and entitlements including per diem, danger pay, and post
       differential allowances.
   •   Tell civilians where to go for processing when it differs from military processing.

A4.13. Managing Theater Clearance and Entrance Requirements . See DoD 4500.54-G for pass-
port, visa, country clearance, and immunization requirements. The Air Force Component Commander
notifies supporting commands and HQ USAF/DP if clearance for a specific contingency differs from
DoD guidelines.

A4.14. Issuing Orders. Deploy E-E employees on Contingency-Exercise-Mobility (CEM) orders. See
AFI 10-215 and AFI 10-401 for instructions.

A4.15. Wearing Uniforms . According to DoD Directive 1404.10 an E-E employee may wear a uni-
form while accompanying a military force. Capture of an E-E employee by an opposing force while the
employee wears a uniform does not deprive a civilian employee accompanying a military force of any
Geneva Conventions protections. AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees, outlines uniform policy
for civilians.

A4.16. Carrying Weapons . According to DoD Directive 1404.10, an E-E employee may carry a
weapon for personal defense while accompanying a military force. Capture of an E-E employee by an
opposing force while carrying a weapon does not deprive a civilian employee accompanying a military
force of any Geneva Conventions protections. DoD directives permit you to issue a weapon for personal
defense if the employee requests one and if the theater commander or Air Force component commander
approves.
   A4.16.1. Follow policy and procedures outlined in AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air
   Force Personnel for Air Force policy on issuing weapons and small arms training.
   A4.16.2. Determine if weapons training is necessary by reviewing the plan, warning order, deploy-
   ment information, or the theater admissions requirements.
   A4.16.3. When weapons are approved for personal defense, activities must train E-E employees in
   their use and inform employees of Geneva Convention protections, Air Force policy, and the applica-
   ble local laws on possessing weapons.

A4.17. Geneva Conventions Identity Cards . Issue a Geneva Conventions identity card to each E-E
employee or alternate E-E employee. Two Geneva Conventions cards exist:
   • DD Form 489, Geneva Conventions Identity Card for Civilians Who Accompany the Armed
       Forces.
   • DD Form 1934, Geneva Conventions Identity Card for Medical and Religious Personnel Who
       Serve in or Accompany the Armed Forces.

                                               21
A4.18. Equipping E-E Employees . See AFI 10-403 and AFM 67-1, volume 2, part 2, for authorized
personal equipment and supplies.

A4.19. Issuing Danger Pay . To ensure that Air Force E-E employees receive danger pay as soon as
possible, Air Force Component Command must notify HQ USAF/DPC when:
   • Wartime conditions exist in the command's AOR
   • Conditions threaten physical harm or imminent danger to the health or well-being of E-E employ-
       ees.
   A4.19.1. Supporting commands advise the supported command and HQ USAF/DPC if their employ-
   ees are working under conditions that meet the criteria for danger pay and danger pay has not yet been
   authorized.
   A4.19.2. HQ USAF/DPC sends the request to implement Title 2, section 2311(a), of Pub. L. No
   96-465 to the Secretary of Defense (Force Management and Personnel) (ASD[FM&P][CPP/EO]).
   A4.19.3. Commands should notify HQ USAF/DPC as quickly as possible, for example, by using the
   Air Force Manpower and Personnel Readiness Center (MPRC) network if activated.

A4.20. Releasing Employees from an E-E Agreement . Organization commanders may release E-E
employees from their E-E agreement and permit them to leave the crisis area after other noncombatants
evacuate only if:
   • The commanders determine they no longer need the employee.
   • The employee can no longer do the job. .
   A4.20.1. Commanders should consider the needs of the supported commander and any rotation pol-
   icy affecting military members for that contingency.

A4.21. Providing Strength Accountability for Civilian Employees in Military Op e r a t i o n s .
Strength accountability is critically important for any personnel office or Personnel Support for Contin-
gency Operations (PERSCO) team. Strength accountability during a military operation informs com-
manders at all levels of the current and projected status of their military and civilian personnel resources.
They must account for:
    • Employees deployed or projected to deploy during the operation.
    • Employees designated to remain overseas to support a military operation.
    • Potential and actual evacuees.
   A4.21.1. You must include plans to advise employees and supervisors of the need for such account-
   ability during military operations.
   A4.21.2. The supported command outlines unit responsibilities for strength accountability. They
   must follow procedures established for the particular operation.
   A4.21.3. E-E employees begin accountability by contacting the base Military Personnel Flight
   (MPF), Personnel Systems and Readiness Section (PSRS). See AFI 10-403 and AFI 10-215 for addi-
   tional instructions for strength accountability.



                                                 22
   A4.21.4. Upon arrival at the employment site, E-E employees must report to the PERSCO processing
   facility or MPF, as applicable, for in-processing. These items are required: CEM TDY orders and AF
   Form 245, Employment Locator and Processing Checklist.

A4.22. Filler-Replacement Actions . Refer to AFI 10-215 for filler-replacement request formats.

A4.23. Advising E-E Employees on Personal Preparedness. Supervisors advise E-E employees at
least annually on the benefits personal preparedness.
   A4.23.1. Making Family Care Plans . E-E employees may be away from their families for periods
   of time, for example when dependents evacuate an overseas location. or employees deploy overseas.
   Maintain an up-to-date family care plan to rapidly and smoothly transfer responsibilities to another
   individual during such separations:
       • Use AFI 36-2908, Family Care Plans, as a guide to preparing family care plans.
       • Leave a copy of your TDY orders with family members.
       •   Give family members the telephone numbers of critical base organizations such as your unit,
           family support center, and Red Cross representative.
       •   Tell family members they can communicate during emergencies through the Red Cross.
   A4.23.2. Medical Preparedness . Deployment locations may have limited medical support. Do not
   plan on being able to obtain prescription refills, replacement lenses for eyeglasses or contact lenses, or
   hearing aid batteries. Bring sufficient supplies to carry you through until resupply arrangements are
   in place.
   A4.23.3. Making Legal Arrangements. . Legal issues affecting you or your family members may
   arise during your absence. Preparations should include:
       • Providing powers of attorney to family members and updating your will.
       • Leaving copies of each legal document designating a person to act on your behalf or on behalf
           of your estate in the United States so that the designee can access the documents.
   A4.23.4. Making Financial Arrangements. Make sure to start or stop proper allotments or other
   arrangements before you must deploy to ensure that bills get paid.

A4.24. Failing to Fulfill E-E Duties . All E-E employees, voluntary or involuntary, must perform E-E
duties during a crisis or after noncombatants evacuate.
   A4.24.1. Overseas E-E employees must remain overseas.
   A4.24.2. US-based E-E employees must relocate to the overseas duty location on a temporary duty
   (TDY) or permanent change of station (PCS) basis.
   A4.24.3. Failing to fulfill your assigned E-E duties may cause action to be taken against you under 5
   CFR 752 and AFI 36-704.

A4.25. Receiving Pay and Allowances . The Department of State authorizes overseas allowances.
Depending on the situation, E-E employees may be eligible for danger pay and post differential allow-
ances, evacuation payments, and separate maintenance allowances for overseas locations. The Joint


                                                23
Travel Regulations, Volume 2, outlines eligibility criteria. Missing E-E employees continue to receive
pay and allowances.

A4.26. Receiving Health Care While Deployed. The DoD Military Health Services System may give
free care to E-E employees needing treatment for disease or injury sustained overseas during hostilities.
The scope of care is the same as that given to active duty military personnel. DoD directives require the
Military Department that provides treatment to seek reimbursement from third party payers.

A4.27. Being Removed from Military Recall Status . E-E employees who sign DD Form 2365 are
removed from military recall status. See Figure A5 for removal instructions.

A4.28. Retaining Grade or Pay During a Reduction in Force (RIF).
   A4.28.1. CPFs may not set separate competitive levels for civilian E-E positions and administer all
   RIF actions in the standard order for retaining workers.
   A4.28.2. CPFs make best offers without regard to E-E position status, but must advise employees of
   such status.
   A4.28.3. If an employee accepts an E-E position but can’t fulfill the requirements of the position
   because of military recall status, the CPF reassigns the employee to a non-E-E position as soon as pos-
   sible. In the interim, the organization must identify an alternate E-E employee who will sign the DD
   Form 2365.
   A4.28.4. An employee identified for mandatory placement on an E-E position is unable or unwilling
   to fulfill the conditions of employment for such position is not cause to terminate their retained grade
   or pay.

A4.29. RCS: DD-FM&P(Q) 1458 . DoD requires including E-E data in the quarterly consolidation of
civilian personnel data sent to the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC). See Figure A4.1 for instruc-
tions.
Figure A4.1. RCS: DD-FM&P(Q) 1458, CONSOLIDATION OF AUTOMATED CIVILIAN PER-
SONNEL RECORDS.


1. Report data on E-E civilian employees and E-E alternate civilian employees as part of the existing
requirement for consolidation of civilian personnel records (DoD Instruction 1444.2).
2. Use record field called "Key-Emer-Esntl-Empl."
3. Key-Emergency-Essential-Employee is data element number 1253. Submit it in position 159 of the
quarterly automated tape submission to DMDC, in accordance with DoDI 1444.2.
4. Submit data in both master and transaction automated files each quarter.
5. Updated Key-Emergency-Essential-Employee data should remain associated with all active individual
employee records.
Data element number: 1253Key-Emergency-Essential-Employee
Submission number: 159(A one-position numeric field)

                                               24
CODING                                  DESCRIPTION
  1      The employee is in an E-E position and signed the E-E position agreement (DD
         Form 2365) to remain overseas or to deploy from CONUS, Alaska, or Hawaii


  2      The employee is in an E-E position and has not signed the E-E position agreement
         (DD Form 2365).


  3      The employee is not in an E-E position, but agrees to serve as an alternate in an E-E
         position and has signed the E-E position agreement (DD Form 2365).


  4      The employee is not in an E-E position, but agrees to serve as an alternate in an E-E
         position and has not signed the E-E position agreement (DD Form 2365).


  5      The employee is in a Key position.


  0      The employee is not assigned to either a Key or Emergency-Essential position.




                                     25
                                              Attachment 5
              KEY POSITIONS AND EMPLOYEES AND RESERVE SCREENING

A5.1. Background . Some Air Force civilian employees are also Reserve members of the Armed
Forces. All members of Reserve Components of the Armed Forces are immediately available for recall to
active military service unless they are exempt from military mobilization obligations. A potential conflict
of obligation occurs when an employee is also a member of the Reserves and occupies a Key civilian
position (definition A1.11). You must resolve such conflicts before a mobilization occurs. This attach-
ment explains how to designate Key positions and Key employees and exempt Key employees from mil-
itary mobilization obligations.

A5.2. Call-up and Recall Authority . Title 10, United States Code, authorizes call-ups, mobilizations,
or Reserve recalls.

A5.3. Annual Reserve Screening . The Reserve Components of the Armed Forces conduct an annual
screening to determine availability of Ready Reserves. On mobilization, all screening activity ceases.
Those remaining in the Ready Reserve are immediately available for active duty service.

A5.4. Civilian Employment . After mobilization, no deferments, delays, or exemptions from mobiliza-
tion are granted to Reserve members because of their civilian employment.

A5.5. BLPP.
   • Identify Key positions during BLPP (AFI 38-205).
   • Document Key position designations in MDS and DCPDS.

A5.6. Deciding Case-by Case. Decide cases individually rather than by class or group.

A5.7. Designating Key Positions . Criteria for designating Key positions are:
   • Employees cannot vacate these positions during national emergencies without seriously impairing
      the capability of the Air Force to function effectively.
   • Employees occupying these positions must have unique or scarce managerial or technical skills
      that the wartime mission requires.
   • The position would be very hard to fill after mobilization.
   • No alternative arrangement is available that will fulfill these functions during a mobilization.

A5.8. Designating Key Employees . Document Key employee designation in DCPDS. Criteria for Key
employees are:
   • The employee has unique or scarce managerial or technical skills that the wartime mission
      requires.
   • The employee would be very hard to replace during a mobilization.
   • No other qualified employee exists who could assume the Key position during a mobilization.



                                                26
    •   You cannot reassign the incumbent to a vacant "non-Key" position or locate an eligible replace-
        ment who is not subject to recall.

A5.9. Performance of Duties During a Contingency .
   • Request removal of Key employee from any military mobilization obligation.
   • Arrange for Key employees to perform in Key positions throughout the contingency. Do not pre-
      vent Key employees from being chosen for another position, but do ensure the Key employee can
      continue performing duties of the Key position.

A5.10. Removing Key Employees from Military Mobilization Obligations .
    A5.10.1. The commander requests removal (or screens) the incumbent from military mobilization
    obligations when there is no other acceptable way to fulfill the duties of the Key position if the
    incumbent were recalled to active military service.
    A5.10.2. Commanders request removal of Key employees from military mobilization obligations
    through the CPF to the cognizant service personnel center. Use the format in figure A5.1. Provide all
    information shown in the figure so the Reserve personnel center can assess the request and take appro-
    priate action.
    A5.10.3. The Military Department transfers Key employees who are Ready Reservists to the Standby
    Reserves or the Retired Reserve, or discharges them under 10 U.S.C. 271(b).

A5.11. Describing Key Positions. State that the job is a Key position on the position description: "This
is a Key Position. Incumbents must be removed from their military recall status if alternatives for filling
the position during an emergency are not available."

Figure A5.1. Requesting Removal of an Employee from Military Recall Status.
FROM:1 MSSQ/MSC
45 Nealy Ave Ste 217
Langley AFB VA 23665-2096


SUBJ: Request to Exempt or Remove Employee From Military Recall Status


TO: (Appropriate Military Center)


1. This certifies that the employee identified below is vital to the nation's defense efforts in (his or her)
civilian job and cannot be mobilized with the Armed Force in an emergency for the following reasons:


(reason . . . )


(reason . . . )

                                                  27
(reason . . . )


Therefore, (I, we) request that you exempt or remove this employee from his or her military recall status
(or military mobilization obligation) and that you advise this office when you complete this action.


2. The employee is:


Name of Employee:


Military Grade and Component:


Social Security Number:


Current Home Address (street, city, state and zip code):


Military Unit to Which Assigned or Military Status (location and unit):


Title of Employee’s Civilian Position:


Pay Plan and Grade (or Salary) of Employee:


Date Hired or Assigned to Position: (See note below)


FOR THE COMMANDER


Copy to: (Employee)

NOTES:
For requests to the Air Reserve Personnel Center, include the civilian position control number below the
line "Date Hired or Assigned to Position."




                                               28
Figure A5.2. Addresses of Military Reserve Personnel Centers.
Air Force: Commander (ARPC/DP)
Air Reserve Personnel Center
7300 East First Ave
Denver CO 80280-5000
Air National Guard: Submit requests to the Adjutant General of the state, commonwealth, or territory
(including the District of Columbia).


Army and Army National Guard:
Headquarters
Department of Army
Attn: DAPE-PSM
Washington DC 20310

Navy:
Officers: Commander
         Naval Military Personnel Command
Attn: NMPC-911
Washington DC 20370
Enlisted: Commanding Officer
Naval Reserve Personnel Center
New Orleans LA 70149


Marine Corps:
Commandant (Code RES)
Headquarters, US Marine Corps
Washington DC 20380


Coast Guard:
Commandant (G-RSA)
US Coast Guard Headquarters
2100 Second St. SW
Washington DC 20593

                                              29
                                              Attachment 6
                     RECRUITING AREA STAFFING COMMITTEE (RASC)

A6.1. Reason for a RASC . A call-up of all or some of the Reserve Component of the Armed Forces
will probably affect all DoD activities in a given geographic area. In wartime, these activities would com-
pete for the same resources as the demand for skilled labor increases.

A6.2. Goal of the RASC . To avoid counterproductive competition by coordinating staffing and recruit-
ing in the commuting area among DoD installations, local employment offices, and OPM.

A6.3. RASC Chair . The DoD installation with the largest serviced civilian population is usually
responsible for organizing and chairing the RASC.

A6.4. RASC Ground Rules . RASCs establish their own schedules, agendas, and ground rules for mobi-
lization planning and execution. RASCs should establish procedures to:
    • Allocate scarce skills to the highest priority DoD mobilization mission.
    • Reassign or detail excess employees from one installation to another in the area where a need
        exists for such employees.
    • Plan and share advertising expenses and applicant supply files, including lists of former employ-
        ees who might have an interest in returning to Government service.
    • Use Manpower Data Center (DMDC) listings of DoD civilian and military retirees in the area.
    • Recruit through private sector labor unions and professional organizations.
    • Consolidate recruiting for efficient use of OPM and local employment office inventories.
    • Borrow employees from non-DoD Federal agencies.

A6.5. Air Force Mission Priority . The overall Air Force mission takes precedence over local DoD
mobilization requirements. Meet the requirements of Air Force installations outside your recruiting area
before detailing employees to other area DoD installations. You may make exceptions if the DoD instal-
lation has a DoD mobilization mission with higher priority than Air Force mobilization mission or the
exception is in the best interest of the Air Force.

A6.6. Integration with Peacetime Processes . Consider using an existing peacetime interagency com-
mittee as the RASC.




                                                30
