BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7086
82D TRAINING WING
                                                                              SHEPPARD AFB
                                                                                  Supplement
                                                                            26 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 82 CES/CEV                                                         Certified by: 82 CES/CL
                                                                         (Mr. Mark Mc Burnett)
Supersedes:   SHEPPARDAFBI 32-7086,                                                      Pages: 5
              29 Mar 2012


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of the Air Education and Training
Command Supplement to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-7086, Hazardous Materials
Management, 1 November 2004, and has aligned management functions at all levels. The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. If
there is any conflict between statements in this supplement and AFRIMS regarding retention of
records, AFRIMS applies.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revised
supplement establishes a mandatory annual requirement for shop level validation to ensure all
materials have current and appropriate MSDS sheets, that material quantities don’t exceed
authorized limits or expiration dates, and that all materials are properly stored. A standardized
form, created by and provided to all shops by the Hazardous Material Management Process
Team, must be forwarded within five days of the date of validation to the Hazardous Material
Program manager. Failure to complete the validation and/or submit the validation form within
five days will result in Functional Level Commander or COR notification.
 2                      AFI32-7086_AETCSUP_SHEPPARDAFBSUP 26 OCTOBER 2012


1.4.1. The 82 TRW Hazardous Material Management Process (HMMP) is part of the
82 TRW overarching Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System
(ESOHMS), reporting to the 82 TRW Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
(ESOHC) through the Pollution Prevention subcommittee. The HMMP has the authority and
responsibility to elevate HMMP issues or concerns (following the chain of command) to ensure
senior leadership involvement when problems or obstacles hinder the effectiveness of hazardous
materials management on Sheppard AFB. In addition, all HMMP issues will be coordinated
through the HMMP team prior to being presented to the ESOHC chair.
1.4.2. The core HMMP team members are Civil Engineering Environmental Flight (82
CES/CEV), Surgeon General (SG), Wing Safety (82 TRW/SE), and a maintenance function
representative. The core team lead is the CE Hazardous Materials Manager. The core team is
responsible to ensure the effective day-to-day management of hazardous materials (HAZMAT).
The core HMMP team will request other HMMP team members as required to address issues at
scheduled meetings.
1.4.2.1. (Added) Mandatory support membership consists of:
1.4.2.1.1. (Added) All group level Unit Environmental Coordinators.
1.4.2.1.2. (Added) 82 LRS/LGSSDH, HAZMART Representative.
1.4.2.1.3. (Added) 82 CES/DS2/CEOSH, CEMAS Representative.
1.4.2.1.4. (Added) 82 CES/DS2/CEV, Pollution Prevention Representative.
1.4.2.1.5. (Added) 82 CONS/LGCA, Contracting Office Representative.
1.4.2.1.6. (Added) 82 CS/SGQ, Communication Squadron Representative.
1.4.2.1.7. (Added) 80 FTW/CM, Representative.
1.4.2.1.8. (Added) 982 MXS/MAQ, Representative.
1.4.2.2. (Added) Advisory membership in an on-call basis consists of, but is not limited to:
1.4.2.2.1. (Added) 82 CES/CEF, Fire Department Representative.
1.4.2.2.2. (Added) 82 SFS/S4, Security Representative.
1.4.2.2.3. (Added) 82 TRW/JAD, Judge Advocate Representative.
1.4.2.2.4. (Added) All squadron level Unit Environmental Coordinators.
1.4.4. The installation Hazardous Materials Management Process Team is the focal point for the
development of HAZMAT policies and guidance deemed to be in the best interests of Sheppard
AFB.
1.4.5. (Added)      All shops employing Hazardous/Potentially Hazardous Materials will
periodically, but not less than annually validate and document the validation process of all
HAZMAT authorizations assigned to their shop.
1.4.5.1. (Added)     The validation process will include verification that a current and
manufacturer appropriate MSDS is readily available for all material on hand.
AFI32-7086_AETCSUP_SHEPPARDAFBSUP 26 OCTOBER 2012                                                 3


1.4.5.2. (Added) The validation process will ensure that the quantity of materials on hand does
not exceed authorized quantities, all materials are properly stored, and the material shelf life has
been vetted to guard against possession of expired product.
1.4.5.3. (Added) The HMMP Team will establish a standardized form to aid shops in the
validation process. Completed validation forms will be forwarded to the Installation Hazardous
Materials Manager.
1.4.5.4. (Added) All shop validation documentation will be forwarded to the Installation
Hazardous Materials Manager no later than five business days after the validation is complete.
Functional Level Commanders and CORs will be notified if said documentation is not received.
1.5.5. (Added AETC)           Surveillance/Review. HMMP teams perform surveillance in
HAZMARTs and shops where HAZMATs are used and stored. All shops utilizing HAZMAT
are required to complete Tier I quarterly self-inspections IAW AFI 90-801, as such no notice is
expected to be given the shops. An installation Hazardous Materials Management Team member
will conduct the surveillance and communicate all findings as noted below.
1.5.5.1. (Added AETC) Results of surveillance in shops that are wholly governmental will be
documented in a formal letter addressed to the functional commander of the area reviewed.
1.5.5.2. (Added AETC)        Surveillance in shops operated by contractor personnel will be
coordinated with the appropriate Contracting Officer Representative (COR). Any HMMP Team
member performing the surveillance will be accompanied by a COR for the shop. Results of
surveillance in contractor shops will be documented in a formal letter addressed to the
appropriate Contracting Officer (CO). In the event the CO is at a geographically separated area,
the letter will be addressed to the COR who accompanied the HMMPT member during the
surveillance.
1.10.3.3. Periodically, the installation HMMP Team or higher authority may establish metrics to
assess installation hazardous materials management effectiveness.
1.11.5. (Added AETC) The minutes of the installation HMMP team will be published and
copies forwarded to HQ AETC/A7CAN.
2.3.1. All HAZMAT entering Sheppard Air Force Base will be tracked through a HAZMART,
to include geographically separated units, tenants, and contractors. All HAZMART/supply
points will process all HAZMAT transactions in the Air Force approved HAZMAT tracking
system; Enterprise Environmental Safety Occupational Health Management Information System,
(EESOH-MIS). At no time will any HAZMAT be released to any shop, unless there is a
verifiable emergency and the issuance of HAZMAT has been coordinated through the HAZMAT
Program Manager.
2.3.2. Sheppard AFB HAZMARTS service and support various sources of supply and are
identified as follows, but not limited to:
2.3.2.1. (Added) HAZ10, 82 LRS.
2.3.2.2. (Added) HAZ20, 82 CES.
2.3.2.3. (Added) HAZ30, 82 FSS.
2.3.2.4. (Added)     HAZ40, 82 MDG.
 4                       AFI32-7086_AETCSUP_SHEPPARDAFBSUP 26 OCTOBER 2012


2.3.2.5. (Added) HAZ70, Transient Contractors.
2.3.2.6. (Added) HAZ86, T6 COMBS Supply Point.
2.4.5.2. Immediately upon return to the installation, customers procuring HAZMAT via GPC
will notify the appropriate HAZMART for validation of their purchase. This may result in an
“Eyes-On” review of the material at the discretion of the appropriate HAZMART after
consultation with the HAZMAT Program Manager. In all cases of GPC HAZMAT purchases,
the customer will provided a receipt from the vendor for continued EESOH-MIS processing of
receipts and issues and a current MSDS.
2.4.5.2.1. (Added) All known violations of GPC/HAZMAT procedures will be immediately
reported to 82 CONS/LGCP with any supporting documentation of the appropriated funds
purchases and the appropriate squadron level commander for corrective action. This includes, but
is not limited to discrepancies in size of container, unit of issue, manufacturer or exceeding
allowable maximum on hand as specified in EESOH-MIS for each shop. With the
responsiveness of our current operating platform, there should no incidence of procuring an
incorrect material.
2.4.5.2.2. (Added)     Non-Appropriated funds purchase violations and all supporting
documentation will be reported to 82d Force Support Squadron UEC and appropriate squadron
level commander for corrective action.
2.4.5.2.3. (Added) Where a contractor’s corporate credit card is used or COR approved
purchase order, the offending individual’s COR will be notified for guidance/resolution.
2.4.15. EESOH-MIS allows for MSDS submission to a central MSDS repository. Sheppard
AFB has a minimum of three gatekeepers who are authorized to submit new or updated MSDS’
to the repository. POC for all gatekeepers is 82 CES/CEV (676-7842).
2.4.16. (Added)   Absolutely no HAZMAT will be introduced to the installation without
approval. HAZMAT from any source, including but not limited to the following is included in
this requirement:
2.4.16.1. (Added) Credit card purchase, inclusive of Government Purchase Card (GPC), Non-
Appropriated Funds (NAF), corporate credit cards. Within EESOH-MIS, “GPC” is used
generically to indicate any credit card purchase.
2.4.16.2. (Added) Requestors will route all HAZMAT authorization requests through the
EESOH-MIS process authorization workflow.
2.5.3.1.4. Absolutely no classified justification documents will be entered into EESOH-MIS nor
retained by the HMMP.
2.5.5.2.4. Contractor requests for use of HAZMAT in the performance of their contract will be
forwarded to the core HMMP team for review and approval/authorization by the appropriate CO
who will ensure a current and appropriate MSDS accompanies the request. The installation’s
HAZMAT program manager will process all contractor requests through EESOH-MIS.
2.10.1.2. Sheppard AFB will utilize a “Non-Confirmed” Master Stock Number load request for
each contractor HAZMAT request when a MSN cannot be readily identified. The load request
will include, but is not limited to data that discloses material unit of issue, quantities, weight of
materials for EPCRA reporting, process description and storage location if allowed on base.
AFI32-7086_AETCSUP_SHEPPARDAFBSUP 26 OCTOBER 2012                                               5


2.10.2.9. Access to EESOH-MIS will be accomplished via DD Form 2875, System
Authorization Access Request (SAAR) request of the individual. DD Form 2875 will be
completed in its entirety by Common Access Card (CAC) enabled electronic means.
2.10.2.9.1. (Added) The HAZMAT program manager will serve as the local EESOH-MIS
administrator as appointed by HQ AETC/A7CAN and sole local repository for all completed DD
Form 2875s. Roles granted in EESOH-MIS will be at the lowest possible functional level.
2.10.2.9.2. (Added)        Individual users of EESOH-MIS will provided an ADLS printed
certificate indicating currency of their Information Assurance date of training when called for by
the local EESOH-MIS administrator.
2.10.4.11. The Hazardous Materials Management Team will develop and deploy a contingency
procedure for tracking and accounting for HAZMAT during periods of EESOH-MIS system
outage. Upon approval, the contingency plan will be sent to all HAZMART/Supply points for
immediate implementation.
2.10.4.12. (Added) Each HAZMART (free standing or virtual) will update their records
within 24 duty hours of EESOH-MIS system recovery after outages.




                                             OM PRAKASH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Vice Commander
