BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-502
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             30 MARCH 1994
                                                                         45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                        19 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                      MANAGING CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                                                                        RESOURCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                     www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPCX                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Mr John R.
                                                                                 Graham)
Supersedes:   AFR 40-312, 20 February                                             Pages: 5
              1980 and AFR 40-112, 25
              October 1973.
                                           (45SW)
OPR: 45 FSS/FSMC                                     Certified by: 45 FSS/CC (Major Robert J.
                                                                                    Jackson)
Supersedes:   AFI 36-502_45SWSUP1, 18                                                Pages:2
              January 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and AFPD
36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It includes instructions for
commanders, managers, and financial management specialists who oversee civilian employees.
Use this instruction with Air Force 38- and 65-series publications. Attachment 1 contains a
glossary of terms.

(45SW) AFI36-502, Managing Civilian Personnel Resources, 30 March 1994, is supplemented
as follows: The purpose of this supplement is to establish policy and procedures unique to the
45th Space Wing. This supplement applies to all 45th Space Wing and tenant units. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
 2                                                 AFI36-502_45SWSUP_I 19 DECEMBER 2012


accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS), Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://www.myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the first publication of AFI 36-502, substantially revising AFRs 40-312 and 40-112. It
updates, clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on managing civilian personnel resources.

(45SW) This publication renumbers the supplemental paragraphs; incorporates functional
managers from civilian personnel, financial management and manpower communities (as
referenced in paragraph 2.2. of the AFI) as members of the corporate board (paragraph 2.2.1.);
expands the existing local advisory committee to include the wing Executive Director and group
Technical Directors, and updates office symbols (paragraph 2.2.2.).
1. Objective. The Air Force needs to manage civilian human resources within budget while
balancing:
            Mission needs.
            Operational economy and efficiency.
            Skills and career paths.
            Employee development and motivation.
            Recruitment and retention of competent people.
2. Civilian Resource Management Responsibility. Civilian resource management
responsibility is assigned down through the Air Force chain of command from the Secretary of
the Air Force to commanders of major commands (MAJCOM) or comparable organizations, to
subordinate commanders on down to first-level supervisors. Each manager who employs
civilian personnel within the chain of command must manage civilian resources properly and is
accountable for their immediate supervision. Managers and supervisors at each level must
evaluate their subordinate supervisors on how well they manage their civilian resources and take
appropriate action to correct or reward managers" performance.
     2.1. All managers and supervisors:
              Match civilian appointments (permanent, term, or temporary) to the projected length
               of the workload and the available funding. Appoint employees on a temporary basis
               when execution year dollars are used to fund the position from other than civilian
               pay. Make sure that employee work schedules accommodate both the employees"
               needs and the efficient and effective accomplishment of the mission.
              Make sure the Air Force Resource Allocation process approves reprogramming of
               civilian pay funds prior to committing to long-term resource management plans
               (decisions that commit resources for more than 2 years). Exercise personnel
               management authority to minimize adverse impact on the civilian workforce. Track
               civilian resource costs and take action to ensure successful budget execution.
              Tell the corporate board about surplus funds for redistribution (see paragraph 2.2.).
              Prepare an employment plan for the following fiscal year, not later than March of
               each year.
AFI36-502_45SWSUP_I 19 DECEMBER 2012                                                              3


     2.1.1. Managers and supervisors must set up positions and compensate and reward
     personnel within their civilian resource budget and in accordance with:
           Applicable authorities.
           Sound management practices.
           The advice and assistance of manpower, comptroller, and personnel specialists.
  2.2. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies, direct reporting units, and installation
  commanders establish a corporate board to make sure that civilian resources are used most
  efficiently and effectively. The commander or designated representative chairs the board,
  which includes functional managers and representatives from the civilian personnel, financial
  management, and manpower communities. The board:
         Reviews civilian resource management operating budget submissions at installation
          level.
         Periodically reviews employment plans and compares civilian pay expenditures
          against budgetary targets. Provides managers and supervisors with targets for the
          civilian resource operating budget, allocates directed adjustments, and redistributes
          any surplus funds.
         Establishes instructions on civilian resource management for the installation.
     2.2.1. (Added-45SW) The corporate board shall consist of the 45 SW/CC, 45 SW/CV
     and 45 SW/CD (Executive Director), any of whom may serve as Chairperson, and
     45 LCG/CC,        45 OG/CC, 45 MSG/CC, 45 MDG/CC, and functional managers from
     civilian personnel, financial management and manpower communities (as required by
     paragraph 2.2., and as indicated in 2.2.2.). The group retains its existing name of the
     Civilian Resources Board (CRB). The CRB advises the commander to ensure civilian
     resources are used efficiently and effectively. The CRB also serves as the Installation
     Training Committee.
     2.2.2. (Added-45SW) A civilian resources committee (CRC) shall consist of the wing
     Executive Director (chair), group Technical Directors, Chief of the Civilian Personnel
     Office (45 FSS/FSMC), Chief of the Manpower Office (45 FSS/FSMM) and the 45
     Comptroller Squadron Commander (45 CPTS/CC). The CRC will preview and finalize
     civilian personnel resources issues being presented to the CRB, and will advise the CRB
     on those issues.
  2.3. Air Force civilian personnel, financial management personnel, and manpower personnel
  jointly help managers and supervisors by:
         Developing, defending, and coordinating budgets, funding, utilization, and
          projections for civilian resources.
         Allocating manpower resources.
         Forecasting, executing, and adjusting civilian pay budgets.
         Advising managers and supervisors on human resource issues.
  2.4. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPF) assist managers and supervisors by:
         Helping them plan employment.
         Consolidating installation employment plans not later than March and forwarding
          them to HQ USAF as required.
 4                                            AFI36-502_45SWSUP_I 19 DECEMBER 2012


            Advising managers on how best to use civilian human resources.
        2.4.1. CPFs help determine the costs of position management, personnel administration,
        and operational requirements, including:
                 The costs of recruitment and staffing.
                 The kinds of skills available in the local labor market.
                 Affirmative employment goals.
                 The use of flexible work schedules and appointment types.
     2.5. Manpower offices help managers and supervisors by:
            Determining and validating manpower requirements needed to accomplish the
             mission.
            Processing authorization change requests to the MAJCOMs for validated manpower
             requirements.
            Advising managers on how best to use manpower resources.
     2.6. Financial managers and comptrollers help managers and supervisors by:
            Developing and defending civilian resource budget projections based on programs
             approved by the corporate board.
            Advising managers on budgeting techniques and practices, on how to execute their
             civilian resource budget, and on how best to use civilian resource funds.
3. Reporting Requirements. Civilian Man-Year Cost Management Program Reports (RCS:
HAF-DPC [AR] 7401), is assigned any reports generated by this instruction. This reporting
requirement is designated Status Code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions,
precedence priority. Submit data requirements assigned this category as prescribed or by any
means to ensure arrival on the established due dates.




                                            BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                            DCS/Personnel

                                            (45SW)

                                            BEGIN SIGNATURE
                                            ANTHONY J. COTTON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI36-502_45SWSUP_I 19 DECEMBER 2012                                                        5


                                        Attachment 1
                                  GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Civilian Pay Budget—The total obligation authority comprised of Direct Obligating Authority
dollars and earnings from reimbursements.
Civilian Resource Management—The practice of balancing mission needs, operational
economy and efficiency, skills and career paths, employee development and motivation, and
recruitment and retention of competent people within a civilian pay budget.
Employment Planning—Identifying employment levels and work years needed to accomplish
the mission within the civilian pay budget.
Resource Allocation Process—The Air Force corporate approach to planning, programming,
and budgeting the resources needed to execute Air Force programs now and for the next 6 years.
The process uses six functional teams who develop options and make recommendations to senior
leadership.
Civilian Personnel Resources—The dollars allocated to an organization for the purpose of
civilian employment.
