BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2863
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    31 JULY 2009
                                                                                         Personnel

                                                                             HISTORY AWARDS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/HO                                             Certified by: AF/HO (Mr. C. R. Anderegg)
Supersedes: AFI36-2863, 1 July 2005                                                    Pages: 8



This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations, for the Air Force History
and Museums Program. It provides guidance for recognizing superior work by individuals and
teams. Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), and Field Operating
Agencies (FOAs), after approval by AF/HO, may supplement this instruction to provide
additional guidance to subordinate units and conduct command award programs. This
publication applies to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. The Air National Guard
(ANG) headquarters’ history office performs MAJCOM functions under this instruction. This
instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain such information is contained in the applicable
Privacy Act System of Records Notice F036 AF PC V, Awards and Decoration. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision of AFI
36-2863 clarifies eligibility and judging criteria for all awards. It creates an additional Heritage
Award category. This revision also changes submission and review processes for all awards. It
2                                                                    AFI36-2863 31 July 2009


establishes the Dennis F. Casey Award for best periodic histories and an Excellence in
Contingency History Award. This revision establishes and names the Excellence in MAJCOM,
DRU and FOA Program and Annual History Awards. In addition, the Career Contributions
Award is designated as the Grant M. Hales Career Contributions Award. Finally, this revision
establishes the History Support Award which recognizes exceptional support provided to Air
Force historians or the Air Force History and Museums Program from people outside to the
program. A margin bar indicates newly revised material ( ).
1. Excellence in History Programs. These awards recognize history programs that have
provided superior historical services to their units and submitted a periodic history (RCS:HAF-
HO(AR)7101) that met standards during the past calendar year. Programs that submitted
histories and met a normal or adjusted due date are eligible for these awards. Circumstances for
the adjusted due date must be explained in the AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award.
    1.1. The Allan S. Major Award recognizes a single-person wing or independent group
    history office. A “single-person” history office is authorized one historian on the unit
    manning document. Airman First Class Major was the first enlisted historian killed in the
    line of duty. He perished in a KC-135 crash at Wake Island on 24 September 1968 while
    returning to Pease AFB, New Hampshire, from deployed duty at Andersen AFB, Guam.
    1.2. The John R. Burton Award recognizes a multi-person wing or independent group
    history office. Chief Master Sergeant Burton was the first Air Force History Program
    Assistant for Enlisted Program Management. He played a key role in integrating unit
    historians into Air Force contingency plans. In 1991, he established the Central Air Forces
    (CENTAF) history office in Saudi Arabia. Under his leadership, deployed historians
    collected data that provided the foundation for post-Operation DESERT SHIELD/DESERT
    STORM studies and reports.
    1.3. The Albert F. Simpson Award recognizes a history office at the NAF, Center, or
    Laboratory level. Dr. Simpson was the first Air Force Historian (1947-1969). In 1961, Dr.
    Simpson received the Air Force Association’s highest award—The Aerospace Power Award
    for Distinguished Service in the Field of Arts and Letters—honoring his many years of
    dedicated service as the Air Force Historian.
    1.4. MAJCOM History Offices nominate deserving candidates for these awards using an AF
    IMT 1206 (two pages maximum). The Specific Accomplishments block of the AF IMT
    1206 must address the following elements:
       1.4.1. Periodic History. Clearly state the period covered by the history submitted for
       consideration as part of the award package. Consider the following factors in weighing
       nominations: accuracy, objectivity, comprehensiveness, consistency, balance, analysis,
       clarity, and selection of supporting documents.
       Note: MAJCOMs must ensure the history designated as part of the nomination package
       has been received by the Air Force Historical Research Agency (AFHRA). If the
       AFHRA does not have the complete history when the award panel meets, the package
       will not be considered.
       1.4.2. Historical Services. This element should be derived from unit semi-annual
       Historical Activity Reports (RCS: HAF-HO(SA)8202), including an assessment of how
       these services contributed to the unit’s ability to accomplish its mission.
AFI36-2863 31 July 2009                                                                      3


       1.4.3. Other considerations. Include information discussing the barriers the historian
       encountered and overcame. This might include a high operations tempo, temporary duty
       assignments, additional duty commitments, short time on the job, Professional Military
       Education completed during the year, etc.
   1.5. The MAJCOM/HO may nominate one assigned history office in each category. Send a
   transmittal memorandum signed by the MAJCOM commander, vice commander, or staff
   director electronically to AF/HO and the Director, AFHRA. The Director chairs the panel
   and selects two additional members to review the submissions. The panel sends its
   recommendations to AF/HO for final approval. The chair provides AF/HO with draft letters
   to award winners.
2. Excellence in Periodic History Awards . These awards recognize the best periodic history
reports (RCS:HAF-HO(A)7101) submitted during the past calendar year. Those histories
submitted as part of a program award package will be considered for these awards. In addition,
each MAJCOM may nominate one additional history not submitted as part of a program award
package for consideration in each category. The panel that evaluates the program award
nominations will evaluate these histories.
   2.1. The Dennis F. Casey Award recognizes the single best periodic history submitted for the
   Major, Burton, and Simpson award categories. Dr. Dennis F. Casey served as an Air Force
   historian for over 30 years. During this career, Dr. Casey worked at the Numbered Air
   Force, FOA and MAJCOM levels. Most importantly, he influenced a generation of
   historians through his work as an instructor at Air Force History and Museums Program
   (AFHMP) historian training courses. There will be a Dennis F. Casey Award presented for
   each of the three categories (best single-person history office, best multi-person history
   office, and best NAF, Center, or Laboratory history office).
   2.2. The assessment process will focus on compliance with AFI 84-101, Historical Product,
   Services, and Requirements, DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program Regulation, and
   other publications (see AFI 84-101, Attachment 1). Evaluators will also consider accuracy,
   objectivity, comprehensiveness, consistency, balance, analysis, clarity, and selection of
   supporting documents.
3. Excellence in Contingency History Awards . These awards recognize the best contingency
historical report (RCS: HAF-HO(M)8901) submitted during the year. Each Component-
Numbered Air Force (C-NAF) supporting contingency operations nominates one history at the
Air Force Forces-level and one at the wing or independent group-level per AEF rotation. Submit
an AF IMT 1206 (two pages maximum) to AF/HO and the Director, AFHRA, designating each
of the contingency history reports to be considered. A three-member panel, chaired by the
Deputy Director for Readiness, Manpower, and Personnel at AF/HO will evaluate the histories
according to the criteria described in AFI 84-102, Historical Operations in Contingency and
War, and the Expeditionary Historian Deployment Guide. If the AFHRA does not have the
complete history when the award panel meets, it will not be considered for the award.
4. Excellence in MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA Program and Annual History Awards . These
awards recognize the best major command, DRU, and FOA programs and annual histories.
   4.1. The John T. Bohn Award recognizes a MAJCOM history office for the excellence of its
   overall program during the past calendar year. Mr. Bohn served as an historian at the
4                                                                      AFI36-2863 31 July 2009


    Continental Air Forces and as the Strategic Air Command (SAC) Historian, 1946-1989. He
    championed the idea that history was not just “nice to have,” but carried great practical value
    for the Air Force. Mr. Bohn built a field and headquarters history program that strongly
    supported SAC and the USAF for decades.
    4.2. The Brig Gen Brian S. Gunderson Award recognizes DRU and FOA history offices for
    the excellence of their overall program during the past calendar year. General Gunderson
    served as the Chief of the Office of Air Force History from June 1972 until his retirement in
    May 1974. General Gunderson served as president of the Air Force Historical Foundation
    (AFHF) from 1970 through 1974. After his retirement from active duty, General Gunderson
    continued to support the Air Force History and Museums Program. He served as an AFHF
    board member and publisher of the Air Power History magazine from 1983-1987.
    4.3. The General Bryce Poe II Award recognizes a MAJCOM history office for the
    excellence of its annual history during the past calendar year. General Poe had a 38-year
    career, which culminated as commander, Air Force Logistics Command. He was a longtime
    and vigorous supporter of the Air Force History and Museums Program. After his retirement
    from active duty, General Poe served as the President of the Air Force Historical Foundation
    until 1996.
    4.4. The Warren Trest Award recognizes a DRU or FOA history office for the excellence of
    its annual history during the past calendar year. Mr. Trest was a member of the Air Force
    History and Museums Program for 34 years. During the Southeast Asian conflict he
    authored numerous Contemporary Historical Evaluation of Combat Operations (CHECO)
    reports and played a key role in establishing and conducting Project Corona Harvest. Mr.
    Trest served as Chief Historian at two major commands, United States Air Forces in Europe
    (USAFE) and Air Education Training Command (AETC), where he promoted the publication
    of timely histories and special studies. Mr. Trest later served as Senior Historian at the
    Office of Air Force History and at the Air Force Historical Research Agency. During this
    period he wrote several books. He retired in 1986.
    4.5. All MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA histories submitted on time (including those that met an
    approved revised due date) will be considered for the Poe (MAJCOM) and Trest
    (DRU/FOA) awards. The assessment process will focus on compliance with AFI 84-101,
    DOD 5200.1.R, and other publications (see AFI 84-101, Attachment 1). Evaluators will also
    consider accuracy, objectivity, comprehensiveness, consistency, balance, analysis, clarity,
    and selection of supporting documents. If the AFHRA does not have the complete history
    (narrative and supporting documents) when the award panel reviews the histories, it will not
    be considered for the award.
    4.6. MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA historians will nominate their programs for the Bohn
    (MAJCOM) and Gunderson (DRU/FOA) awards by submitting an AF IMT 1206 (two pages
    maximum). Historians should use this form to present the accomplishments of their office.
    Work accomplished by subordinate history offices will not be considered for this award.
    4.7. An awards panel consisting of the Deputy Director, Air Force History and Museums
    Polices and Programs; the Air Force Senior Historian; the Director, Office of Air Force
    History, Anacostia Annex; and the Director, Air Force Historical Research Agency, will
    review the histories and programs considered for the Bohn, Gunderson, Poe, and Trest
    awards and send its recommendations to AF/HO for final approval.
AFI36-2863 31 July 2009                                                                           5


5. The Robert F. Futrell Award. This award recognizes those who have produced outstanding
publications during the past calendar year. Dr. Frank F. Futrell served as an Air Force civilian
historian who wrote, among other works, the definitive History of the United States Air Force in
Korea and the two-volume classic Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine: A History of Basic Thinking in the
United States Air Force, 1907-1984. He also served as a professor of military history at Air
University and taught many of the Air Force’s future leaders at Air Command and Staff College
and Air War College. He retired in 1974 as Senior Historian at the Albert F. Simpson Historical
Research Center after a 31-year career.
   5.1. The Director, Air Force History Office, Historical Studies Office; the Director, AFHRA;
   and MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU History Offices nominate candidates for this award.
   Forward one electronic copy of an AF IMT 1206 to AF/HO with a transmittal memorandum
   signed by the commander, vice commander, or staff director. In the form, describe the
   usefulness of the publication to the organization and its expected value to the Air Force.
   Contact the AF/HO Senior Historian for instructions on dissemination of product
   submissions to panel members.
   5.2. The AF/HO Senior Historian chairs a panel of Air Force historians who have
   distinguished research and writing credentials to evaluate the nominations. The panel sends
   its recommendations to AF/HO for final approval. The chair provides AF/HO with draft
   letters to award winners.
   5.3. The panel judges the nominees against the following criteria: content (challenge of
   topic; depth or breadth of research; completeness, consistency, and accuracy of information;
   quality of interpretation, analysis, and conclusions); utility (to the organization, the Air
   Force, and other researchers); writing style (clarity, correctness, creativity, and readability);
   format and presentation (logic and balance of organization; value of illustrations, front
   matter, and back matter; security/administrative markings; attractiveness of final product).
6. Air Force Heritage Award. This award recognizes outstanding accomplishments by Air
Force History and Museums Program personnel that foster a better understanding and
appreciation of the Air Force, its history and accomplishments. Examples of eligible projects
include displays, videos, and restorations. MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU History Offices and the
National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) may nominate deserving
candidates for this award. Forward to AF/HO an AF IMT 1206 with a transmittal memorandum
signed by the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU commander, vice commander, or staff director. Use the
Specific Accomplishments block of the AF IMT 1206 to explain the value of the project to the
organization and the Air Force. Contact AF/HO for instructions on dissemination of nomination
packages to panel members. AF/HO appoints a panel of at least three Air Force History and
Museums Program personnel to evaluate the submissions. The panel judges the nominees
against the following criteria: content (depth and breadth of research, completeness, consistency
and accuracy of information, quality of interpretation, and conclusions); utility (timeliness and
relevance of the topic to the organization and to the Air Force); and presentation (attractiveness
of final product). The panel ranks the candidates and sends its recommendations to AF/HO. The
panel will recommend no more than two award recipients in each of the following two
categories: Museums (including the NMUSAF) and Heritage Centers, and Historical Holdings
and other heritage projects. The selection panel provides AF/HO with draft letters to award
winners and to nominees considered but not selected for the awards.
6                                                                       AFI36-2863 31 July 2009


7. Submission and Award Announcement Deadlines. Nominations for all periodic history,
program, publications, and heritage awards must be submitted to the appropriate offices and
individuals indicated above by 15 March. AF/HO announces the final results not later than
31 May and forwards the appropriate letters to award winners and nominees.
8. The Grant M. Hales Career Contributions Award. This award recognizes an individual
for a career of outstanding performance and impressive achievements in advancing the mission
and strategic goals of the Air Force History and Museums Program. In a career spanning more
than 39 years, Mr. Hales served as a wing, numbered air force, and command historian as well as
the senior historian for field history programs, Office of Air Force History, U.S. Air Force
Headquarters. He published more than 30 Air Force histories, numerous studies and
monographs and has served on many boards, panels and committees. Many of the current
AFHMP programs and procedures were developed by Mr. Hales. This award is only presented to
deserving individuals on their retirement or departure from the Air Force History and Museums
Program. The primary consideration for this award is a long history of contributions that had
program-wide impact. AF/HO, the NMUSAF, and MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs submit an AF
IMT 1206 nominating deserving individuals. The nomination must describe the individual’s
specific program-wide contributions and achievements in detail, and must include a biography or
a career brief. Nominations must arrive at AF/HO at least three months prior to the planned
presentation. The Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Program convenes a
panel of three senior members of the program to evaluate each submission.
9. Recognition. The Director of Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs signs a
memorandum of commendation for each award recipient and provides an appropriate memento.
In addition, recipients of all awards will receive an entry in their personnel records and are
entitled to wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon (military) or Lapel Pin (civilian). Awards will
be designated according to the year they are presented.
10. Director’s Special Recognition Coin. This coin recognizes individuals who have
contributed to the Air Force History and Museums Program. Preparation of exceptional
historical studies/histories, significant participation in special history and museum related events
are two examples of these contributions. The Director’s Coin is given at the discretion of the
Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs.
11. History Support Award. This award recognizes individuals who have provided
exceptional support to Air Force historians or the Air Force History and Museums Program.
Members of the AFHMP nominate deserving individuals to AF/HO, through their MAJCOM,
DRU, or FOA History Office, using AF IMT 1206. Describe in detail the nature of the
individual’s contributions and the effect such support had on the program. The Director, Air
Force History and Museums Policies and Programs will evaluate each submission and, when
appropriate, provide a memento and memorandum of recognition. Members of the AFHMP are
not eligible for this award.
12. MAJCOM/FOA Awards. MAJCOMs and FOAs are encouraged to establish their own
awards in supplements to this AFI to complement the Air Force program.
AFI36-2863 31 July 2009                                                       7


13. Adopted Forms. This publication adopts AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, as
referenced in AFPD 36-26, Awards and Decorations Programs.




                                    C. R. ANDEREGG
                                    Director, Air Force History and Museums
                                    Policies and Programs
8                                                                  AFI36-2863 31 July 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 84-101, Historical Product, Services, and Requirements, 1 June 2009
AFI 84-102, Historical Operations in Contingency and War, 1 August 2005
DoD 1348.33, Military Awards Program, 1 July 2004
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program Regulation, 14 January 1997
Expeditionary Historian Deployment Guide, 1 April 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF/HO—Office of the Air Force Historian
AFHF—Air Force Historical Foundation
AFHRA—Air Force Historical Research Agency
AFHMP—Air Force History and Museums Program
AFI—Air Force Instruction
NAF—Component-Numbered Air Force
CENTAF—Central Air Forces
CHECO—Contemporary Historical Evaluation of Combat Operations
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agencies
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAJCOM/HO—Major Command History Office
NMUSAF—National Museum of the United States Air Force
SAC—Strategic Air Command
USAF—United States Air Force
