BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-309
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          17 DECEMBER 2010
                                                              Certified Current, 25 January 2013
                                                                                        Services

                                                                NONAPPROPRIATED FUND
                                                                       UNEMPLOYMENT
                                                                COMPENSATION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSVA/SVXHI                                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/A1S
Supersedes: AFI 34-309, 6 October 2008;                                   (Mr. Charles E. Milam)
            AFMAN 34-314,                                                              Pages: 10
            3 January 1995


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-3, Nonappropriated Funds
Personnel Management and Administration, for the AF Nonappropriated Fund (AFNAF)
Unemployment Compensation (UC) Program. It describes the administration of the UC for
Federal Employees (UCFE) Program of AF Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs).
This instruction directs collecting and maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013. System of records F065 Air Force Services Agency
(AFSVA), Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFI) Financial System, applies. The
Department of Labor (DOL) has determined that disclosure of wage and separation information
needed by a State Employment Security Agency (SESA) to adjudicate UCFE claim is a
permitted routine use under the Privacy Act of 1974 and that a UCFE claimant‘s written release
for the disclosure of such information is not required. This instruction does not apply to active
duty military, Air National Guard, or Air Force Reserve members. This AFI may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this Instruction must be
routed to AF/A1S for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional‘s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                 AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision combines Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-309, NAF Unemployment Compensation
Program, and AFMAN 34-314, NAF Unemployment Compensation Procedures, and renames
the publication Nonappropriated Fund Unemployment Compensation Program.
1. Program Responsibilities. The following responsibilities are designated to comply with the
DOL Unemployment Compensation for Federal Employees (UCFE) Program for former and
current AFNAF employees paid on the United States dollar payroll.
     1.1. Headquarters AFSVA, Insurance Branch (HQ AFSVA/SVXHI) oversees day-to-day
     operation of the UC Program to include:
        1.1.1. Quarterly auditing of UC and state billings to pay the DOL bill and resolve errors.
        1.1.2. Providing expertise in all matters relating to UC benefits, state determinations, and
        appeal actions.
        1.1.3. Formulating managerial statistics and information in the form of quarterly reports
        to assist major command (MAJCOM) and installation UC programs.
        1.1.4. Assisting Human Resource Offices (HROs) and MAJCOMs to identify problems
        with UC payments and State Employment Security Agencies (SESAs) decisions.
     1.2. MAJCOMs. Reviews quarterly managerial reports received from HQ AFSVA,
     Director, Plans and Force Management (HQ AFSVA/SVX) to identify problems and assist
     subordinate installations in resolving them. Upon announcement of subordinate installation
     closures, MAJCOMs will furnish HQ AFSVA/SVX the new AF mailing address where wage
     and separation information of former employees can be obtained. Send inquires to
     afsva.svx.distro@randolph.af.mil.
     1.3. HROs. Administer the installation-level program and communicate with their local
     SESA and HQ AFSVA/SVXHI as necessary to efficiently operate the program.
     1.4. HROs record wages on SESA Form Employment Security (ES) 931, Request for Wage
     and Separation Information using information from Discover Viewer (DV). NAF
     Accounting Offices (NAF AO) may assist HRO with wages in some special requests. Some
     states may have a different form than ES Form 931, which will suffice for reporting
     purposes.
     1.5. Servicing Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) Offices. Provide support and assistance when
     requested by the HRO to include:
        1.5.1. Interpretation of state and federal laws.
        1.5.2. Assist HRO formulating legal strategy in appeal actions.
        1.5.3. Participation in on-site appeals, as appropriate.
2. HRO Program Responsibilities. HROs are an integral part of this program. HROs ensure
that managers, supervisors, and employees know the UCFE program‘s requirements and
responsibilities to include the following:
     2.1. HROs provide each newly hired and rehired employee the following written statement:
     ―If you have applied for or have been receiving UC benefit payments, it is your responsibility
AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   3


  under penalty of law to promptly notify the appropriate local SESA, in writing, to
  discontinue issuance of UC benefits now that you are employed. Failure to notify the state
  agency can result in a penalty such as a fine, imprisonment, or both.‖
     2.1.1. File the statement, signed and dated by the employee, in the employee‘s Official
     Personnel Folder.
     2.1.2. Destroy the statement upon employment termination.
  2.2. HROs make every effort to rehire qualified employees separated by reason of Business
  Based Action (BBA) or previous NAF-employed spouses returning from overseas
  assignments as a result of military sponsors reassignment. Rehiring employees affected by a
  BBA in specialties requiring similar skills and knowledge is in the best interest of both the
  employee and the Air Force.
     2.2.1. Active recruitment is accomplished through:
         2.2.1.1. Installation newspapers, daily bulletins, and other available communications
         methods.
         2.2.1.2. Recruiting notices posted within the HRO and other frequently visited NAF
         activities on installation.
  2.3. HROs complete and deliver to all NAF employees who are separated for any reason, or
  who are placed in a non pay status of seven or more consecutive days, Standard Form (SF) 8,
  Notice to Federal Employee About Unemployment Insurance, on or before their last duty
  day.
     2.3.1. HROs include on completed form SF 8 all of the following information:
         2.3.1.1. The name ―AF NAF‖ followed by the complete organizational address of the
         HRO where the employee‘s records are maintained.
         2.3.1.2. The 3-digit identification (ID) number, ―ID number 427.‖
         2.3.1.3. The name and telephone number of the designated point of contact in the
         HRO.
     2.3.2. Separating employees apply at SESA offices with the completed SF 8; their social
     security card; and AF Form 2545, NAFI Notification of Personnel Action.
  2.4. HROs ensure entry of wage and separation information on ES Form 931, Request for
  Wage and Separation Information, or Addendum ES Form 931A, Supplemental Information
  (used by some states).
     2.4.1. Incomplete or inaccurate wage and separation information results in the
     installation being charged for UC benefits that would not otherwise be chargeable.
     2.4.2. Follow separation examples outlined in Attachment 2.
  2.5. Employees may appeal or grieve separation actions in accordance with Air Force
  Manual (AFMAN) 34-310, NAF Personnel Program Management and Administration
  Procedures. HROs advise SESA when a UC claimant appeals or grieves a separation action.
  The SESA then defers action until the HRO notifies SESA of final appeal or grievance
  decision.
4                                                               AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010


    2.6. HROs ensure ES Form 931 and all other related documents are completed and returned
    to SESA within four workdays after arrival on installation.
       2.6.1. Send copies of all completed ES Forms 931 to HQ AFSVA/SVXHI via e-mail.
       2.6.2. HRO assures copies of ES Form 931 sent to HQ AFSVA/SVXHI includes the
       activity code where the employee was employed, such as Enlisted Club, Officers‘ Club,
       Bowling Center, Youth Center, Golf Course, Lodging, etc.
    2.7. HROs perform the following functions to operate this program:
       2.7.1. Maintain suspense file of ES Forms 931, state determinations, and appeal actions.
       2.7.2. Send copies of all ES Forms 931 to HQ AFSVA/SVXHI.
       2.7.3. Follow-up with SESA for questionable separation actions, as described below.
           2.7.3.1. State laws define questionable separations as:
               2.7.3.1.1. Involuntary separation for cause.
               2.7.3.1.2. Voluntary resignation without good cause.
               2.7.3.1.3. Refusal to accept a suitable job offer.
    2.8. Normal state processing procedures require a UC determination within two weeks of the
    claim filing date.
       2.8.1. The HRO initiates written or telephone tracer action with the appropriate SESA
       when the HRO has not received the determination within three weeks after it sent the
       completed ES Form 931 to the SESA.
    2.9. States normally deny UC benefits for questionable separations. Such as ‗left to get a
    better job‘, or ‗left to relocate to another state‘. However, if the state allows UC benefits, the
    HRO, in conjunction with the NAF Activity Manager prepares and submits an appeal to
    SESA, in accordance with paragraph 4.
    2.10. HROs must give enough information to SESA to allow proper adjudication of claims
    under individual state laws. For example:
       2.10.1. Some states exclude temporary or seasonal employees from UC eligibility.
       2.10.2. Other states exclude school employees from UC eligibility when           the    school
       employer certifies that rehire will occur after summer break.
    2.11. When a former employee refuses suitable employment, HRO determines whether the
    individual has an active UC claim. If affirmative, HRO sends a notice to SESA indicating:
    2.11.1. Date of job offer.
       2.11.2. Nature of job offer.
       2.11.3. Location of job.
       2.11.4. Grade and salary of job offered.
       2.11.5. Reason for refusal, if known.
AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   5


3. The HRO, in conjunction with the NAF AO completes the ES Form 931.
   3.1. HRO Responsibilities. HRO completes basic information about employee:
      3.1.1. Uses DV to enter wage information as shown on the ES Form 931 for the base
      period requested. Enter zero under gross wages if no wages were paid during reportable
      quarters.
      3.1.2. Enters name, social security number, reason for termination/separation, and
      activity code.
   3.2. NAF Accounting Office (AO) provides certain required wages, as explained below.
      3.2.1. NAF AO completes the lump-sum terminal leave portion of ES Form 931. Lump-
      sum terminal leave payments are not included as wages, but reported separately as
      required.
      3.2.2. When required, the NAF AO enters detailed severance pay information on ES
      Form 931.
   3.3. HRO returns the completed ES Form 931 to SESA within four workdays after it arrives
   on the installation.
   3.4. The effect of back-pay awards on UC benefit amounts differ depending on state law.
      3.4.1. Some states require their SESA to collect overpayments resulting from back-pay
      awards.
      3.4.2. Some states require the employer to recover overpayments.
      3.4.3. A few states do not consider back-pay awards to cause an overpayment.
   3.5. Special Situations for back-pay and overpayments.
      3.5.1. If a separated employee applies for UC benefits and is also entitled to back-pay,
      the HRO contacts the SESA to obtain a revised UC benefit calculation.
      3.5.2. When the SESA or the employer identifies an overpayment, the HRO assists the
      SESA by providing the following information:
          3.5.2.1. Employee name and social security number.
          3.5.2.2. Time period of the overpayment.
4. Handling Appeals. All SESAs provide UC appeal rights. The claimant or the separating
activity may initiate an appeal. The procedures for appeal actions are discussed below:
   4.1. The applicable Activity Manager, is responsible for appealing SESA determinations.
   HRO provides technical and administrative assistance as needed.
      4.1.1. SESAs should send all determinations and hearing notices to the HRO address
      listed on the SF 8.
   4.2. When an unfavorable SESA determination is received, the HRO:
      4.2.1. Contacts the NAF Activity Manager to determine if an appeal is warranted.
      4.2.2. Contacts the servicing SJA for assistance, when necessary.
 6                                                            AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010


        4.2.3. Contacts HQ AFSVA/SVXHI for guidance, when necessary.
            4.2.3.1. Has a limited number of days to file an appeal.
     4.3. Hearings outside the local area are normally conducted by telephone.
        4.3.1. The HRO must contact the SESA for supporting documents including witness
        affidavits in lieu of personal appearance.
     4.4. In-person hearings are usually conducted within commuting distance from the
     installation.
     4.5. The following officials will participate in appeal hearings as required either by
     telephone or in person:
        4.5.1. NAF Activity Manager or Supervisor.
        4.5.2. HRO Representative.
        4.5.3. SJA Representative, if necessary.
        4.5.4. Any witness having first-hand knowledge of circumstances surrounding the
        separation.
     4.6. SESAs normally send appeal determinations to HROs within 30 days after the appeal
     hearing date. If appeal determination is not received within 30 days, the HRO initiates
     follow-up action with the appropriate SESA.
5. Cost, Assessment, and Payment. Installations fully absorb the cost of UC benefits to former
and current employees.
     5.1. HQ AFSVA/SVX authorizes payment of quarterly DOL bill and establishes the
     installation premium assessment rate required to recover these costs.
     5.2. Installation Commanders and NAF Activity Managers must work together to eliminate
     improper UC benefit payments.
        5.2.1. Providing timely, accurate, and complete wage and separation information to
        SESA helps prevent incorrect eligibility decisions and improper payment of benefits.
6. DOL Forms. Each SESA will provide forms and other required documents to administer the
UC Program, including ES Form 931 and Addendum ES Form 931A.
7. UCFE Program Information. HROs may contact the SESA for assistance in completing
and returning UCFE forms. SESA representatives may be invited for on-site visits to help HROs
and NAF Activity Managers comply with UCFE law.
8. Contingency Actions. The HRO will counsel affected NAF employees about collecting UC
benefits when they are displaced from work by reason of natural disaster, national emergency,
armed conflict, or war.
9. Joint Basing Installations. The supporting component will contact the supported component
for wages previously earned. The supporting component will record the employee‘s wages on
ES Form 931. The supported component must provide the wages to the supporting component to
meet the required 4-day turnaround.
AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010                                                            7


10. Adopted Forms.

   AF Form 2545, NAFI Notification of Personnel Action
   Standard Form (SF) 8, Notice to Federal Employee about Unemployment Compensation
   Insurance
   Form ES 931, Request for Wage and Separation Information – UCFE
   Form ES 931A, Request for Wage and Separation Information – UCFE Addendum




                                        RICHARD Y. NEWTON III
                                        Lieutenant General, USAF
                                        DCS, Manpower and Personnel
 8                                                    AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCESAND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-3, Nonappropriated Funds Personnel Management and Administration, 10 September
93
AFMAN 34-310, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel Program Management and Administration
Procedures, 1 December 1995

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNAF—Air Force Nonappropriated Fund
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
DOL—Department of Labor
ES—Employment Security
HRO—Human Resources Office
HQ AFVSA/SVX—Headquarters, Air Force Services Agency (Director, Plans and Force
Management)
HQ AFVSA/SVXHI—Headquarters, Air Force Services Agency (Insurance Branch)
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAF AO— NAF Accounting Office
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SESA—State Employment Security Agency
SF—Standard Form
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
UC—Unemployment Compensation
UCFE—Unemployment Compensation for Federal Employees
AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010                                                                                                      9


                                                      Attachment 2
           A2.1 SAMPLE SEPARATION OR NONPAY STATUS STATEMENTS
If Reason Is     For                      Then Sample Statement Should Read

1. Separation    1a. Inefficiency         Separation for Inefficiency—The employee was unable to pass a scheme-sorting test
                                          after four trials.
                 1b. Disqualification     Separation for Disqualification—The employee through carelessness, repeatedly failed
                                          to meet the job requirement of preparing accurate, neat letters according to a standard
                                          format, even though the employee demonstrated the ability to do so and received
                                          supervisory warnings on three occasions during the probationary period. (Attach a
                                          copy of the separating letter to the employee indicating the reason for separation.)
                 1c. Displacement         Separation for Displacement—Temporary employee was displaced by a permanent
                                          employee.
                 1d. Abandonment          Separation for Abandonment of Position—The employee walked off the job without
                 of Position              giving notice before or after leaving the position.

                 1e. Disability           Separation for Disability—The employee was unable to perform the duty of loading
                                          and unloading trucks. No less-strenuous work was available at the equivalent grade.

2. Resignation   2a. To move to           Resignation—To accompany spouse to a new duty station.
                 another city
                 2b. To return            Resignation—To return home to care for an aged parent.
                 home
                 2c. Personal             Resignation—Transportation or child care problems, etc., and no other suitable job
                 reasons                  was available.
                                          OR
                                          Resignation—Employer was preparing charges to separate the employee for drinking
                                          on the job on four occasions within the 30-day period prior to separation.

                 2d. Dissatisfied         Resignation—To seek other employment
3. Retirement    3. Retirement            Retirement (Optional)—To engage in a public accounting practice.
(Optional)       (Optional)
                                          Retirement (Optional)—Rather than accept a two-grade decrease in pay in another line
                                          of work as a result of a Business Based Action.

                                          Retirement (Optional)—Rather than move with unit from Texas to Colorado. (The
                                          employee was offered similar work at the same grade in Texas.)

                                          Retirement (Optional)—Because the employee was no longer able to perform regular
                                          job and no other job was available.



If Reason Is     For                    Then Sample Statement Should Read
4. Business-     4. Business-           BBA—The employee was not offered another job.
Based Action     Based Action
(BBA)            (BBA)

                                        OR
                                        BBA—The employee, an NFII administrative assistant, was offered other NFI
                                        administrative work.
10                                                                          AFI34-309 17 DECEMBER 2010

5. Removal       5. Removal-       Removal—For excessive tardiness. During the last 20 days prior to removal, the
                 Insubordination   employee was tardy 1 hour on 8 days and 2 hours on 5 days with no explanation except,
                                   ―I oversleep‖

                                   OR
                                   Removal—For giving false information on the employment application. (Common
                                   examples include misrepresenting education and work experience, as well as failure to
                                   disclose criminal violation as the employment application requires.)

                                   OR
                                   Removal—For security reasons. (Attach a copy of the separation letter to the employee
                                   that indicated the reason for separation.)

6. Termination   6. Termination—   Termination—Lack of work.
                 Lack of work


                                   OR
                                   Termination—Expiration of the employee‘s 90-day appointment. The employee refused
                                   an extension of the appointment.
