BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2805
18TH AIR FORCE
                                                                                        18TH AIR FORCE

                                                                                             Supplement

                                                                                          23 APRIL 2009
                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                 SPECIAL TROPHIES AND AWARDS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                          Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 18 AF/CCCE                                       Certified by: 18 AF/CS (Col William Featherston)
                                                                                             Pages: 4


AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, dated 29 June 2001, and Air Mobility Command
Supplement, dated 29 September 2006, are supplemented as follows: This supplement establishes
the Eighteenth Air Force (18 AF) Legends of the Sword Award, provides guidance and outlines
procedures to be used by Air Force units to nominate and select outstanding leaders for induction. This
supplement is applicable to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and Air National Guard (ANG).
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In
Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

4.7. Prescribed Forms.AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award

                                         Chapter 5 (Added)

  EIGHTEENTH AIR FORCE GENERAL JAMES A. HAWKINS LEGEND OF THE SWORD
                          LEADERSHIP AWARD

5.1. Objective. The 18 AF Legend of the Sword Award is designed to recognize and honor outstanding
leaders for conspicuous and significant contributions to the welfare, development, and prestige of the
enlisted force. Induction into the Legend of the Sword is the highest honor and tribute enlisted airmen
within 18 AF can bestow on someone within the numbered Air Force (NAF) level.
5.2. Master Display. The sword is a symbol of strength and leadership rightfully used. The 18 AF
Command Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt) maintains a symbolic master sword in stone on display at
2                                                  AFI36-2805_AMCSUP_18AFSUP 23 APRIL 2009


Headquarters (HQ) 18 AF. Individuals presented the 18 AF Legend of the Sword award will be forever
enshrined in a display maintained at HQ 18 AF.
5.3. Selection Committee. The selection committee will be composed of the 18 AF Command Chief
and the command CMSgts assigned to the Expeditionary Mobility Task Forces (EMTF), wings, and the
group superintendents assigned to the stand alone groups. The 18 AF Vice Commander, will be the
final approving authority. If the vice commander is the nominee, the 18 AF Commander will approve
the award.
5.4. Criteria for Selection. Any airmen serving in a leadership role within 18 AF may be nominated for
this award. These leadership positions include but are not limited to commanders, vice commanders,
and command chiefs at the NAF, EMTF, wing, and stand alone group level. Other personnel may be
considered if their actions and impact have had a broad and enduring affect on the enlisted airmen of the
entire EMTF, wing, or stand alone group level.
5.4.1. The award is specifically designed to recognize commanders and senior enlisted at the NAF and
wing level. Commanders and senior enlisted assigned to stand alone groups may also be considered.
Selection in either case is not a given based only on filling such positions; members must meet specific
guidelines.
5.4.1.1. Nominees must have engaged in activities which address issues that support enlisted
advancement and their ability to support the mission.
5.4.1.2. There must exist concrete proof to validate that the leader made significant improvements to the
unit as a whole and the enlisted force. Specific actions will be detailed covering the time frame used for
nomination of the award.
5.4.1.3. Nominees must have demonstrated the ability to motivate/inspire the enlisted force to
accomplish a specific goal or mission objective.
5.4.1.4. The award is not designed to recognize a member for a single act.
5.4.1.5. Nominees must have taken action to further enhance enlisted leadership development and
education.
5.4.1.6. Nominees must have implemented or fostered development of courses of action having a direct
impact on quality of life.
5.5. Nomination and Selection. Any enlisted person in 18 AF may nominate any individual for
selection for the award of the Legend of the Sword. Nomination procedures are as follows:
5.5.1. Nominations should be submitted on an AF IMT 1206, one page maximum in bullet or narrative
format. The nomination should be concise, but in sufficient detail to substantiate the recommendation.
A cover memorandum signed by the first command chief in the chain and addressed to the 18 AF
Command Chief must accompany the nomination. The memorandum must identify the nominating
organization and a clear recommendation for approval by the signatory. Attachments or additional
endorsements are not authorized.
5.5.2. The 18 AF Command Chief will forward the nomination to committee members. After evaluating
the nomination, committee members will respond in writing with their recommendation to approve or
disapprove the nomination. A three-fourths affirmative vote of the committee is required for approval.
Upon receiving a three-fourth affirmative vote, the 18 AF Command Chief will forward the results to
the 18 AF/CV for final approval. Once approved by the vice commander, the command chief will notify
the nominating person (or group) by memorandum, of the committee's approval. If the nomination is
disapproved by the committee, the command chief will notify the nominating person, with an
information copy to the vice commander.
5.6. Memento. The memento will be an 18 inch dagger encased in a wooden box with glass top. The
box will be lined with blue felt, and constructed in such a way to be used as a wall or desk top display.
5.7. Recognition Process. If approved, the nominating command chief will coordinate the recognition
program presentation ceremony. The 18 AF Command Chief will consult with the nominating chief to
AFI36-2805_AMCSUP_18AFSUP 23 APRIL 2009                                                         3


coordinate the details. The 18 AF Command Chief will travel to make the presentation whenever
practical. If not practical, the nominating command chief may preside over the ceremony.
4                                            AFI36-2805_AMCSUP_18AFSUP 23 APRIL 2009


                                         Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Management System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
NAF—Numbered Air Force
CMSgt—Chief Master Sergeant
HQ—Headquarters
EMTF—Expeditionary Mobility Task Force




                                       WINFIELD SCOTT III, Brigadier General, USAF
                                       Commander
