BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-322
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   4 JUNE 2012
                                                         455TH AIR EXPEDITIONARY WING
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                          13 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                      RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/A6PP                                                            Certified by: SAF/A6PP
                                                                          (Lt Col Hewett Wells)
                                                                                        Pages: 26
Supersedes:AFI 33-322, 7 October 2003
                                     (455AEW)
OPR: 455 ECS/SCXK                                                     Certified by: 455 MSG/CC
                                                                       (Col Brian S. Greenroad)
                                                                                         Pages:8




This Air Force instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3,
Information Management; DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program; DoDD 5100.3,
Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands; and DoD Standard
5015.02 (DoD 5015.02-STD), Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management
Software Applications. It establishes roles and assigns responsibilities for the Air Force Records
Management Program.

This instruction applies to all Air Force personnel to include active duty, guard, and reserve
military, civilian, foreign nationals employed by the Department of the Air Force and Air Force
contractor personnel. Contractors who perform roles associated with records management,
defined in this instruction, must fully comply with the duties for their assigned role.
Performance work statements for contracts awarded to perform any of the records management
roles in this instruction will reflect this requirement.
 2                                                            AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


This instruction sets forth policies regarding penalties associated with unauthorized concealment,
removal, mutilation, obliteration or destruction of records without proper authority in paragraph
1.2 that are applicable to civilian and military personnel, including the Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard. Failure by military personnel to observe prohibitions and mandatory provisions
of this directive in paragraph 1.2, is also a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military
Justice. Violations may also result in administrative disciplinary action for civilian and
contractor employee personnel.

In the case of a conflict, this AFI takes precedence over any Air Force publication that addresses
Air Force records. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Send supplements and implementing publications of this
instruction to the Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6),
1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1800 for review and coordination prior to
publication.

(455AEW) This supplement implements AFI33-322, 4 June 2012 Records Management
Program. It establishes procedures for the 455th Air Expeditionary Wing (455 AEW) records
management program. This supplement applies to all military and civilian personnel assigned to
the 455 AEW. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publications; route the AF Form 847 from the field through major command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updating roles and responsibilities for program and portfolio managers, publication
OPRs, and specific new responsibilities associated with the Electronic Records Archive (ERA).


       1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    3
       2.      Definition of Records. ............................................................................................            4
       3.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               4
       4.      Commanders. .........................................................................................................          4
       5.      Users. .....................................................................................................................   5
       6.      Records Professionals. ...........................................................................................             6
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                               3


       7.     Portfolio Manager (PfM) of IT investments. .........................................................   15
       8.     Program Manager (PM) of an IT investment. ........................................................     15
       9.     Publication and Form Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). ...........................               16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                       17

Attachment 1—(455AEW) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT
             INFORMATION                                                                                             22

Attachment 2—(Added-455AEW) ORGANIZATIONAL LISTING                                                                   23

Attachment 3—(Added-455AEW) FARM CONTINUITY BOOK                                                                     24

Attachment 4—(Added-455AEW) BAF FARM/RC CHECKLIST                                                                    25


1. General. Air Force records serve a crucial role in supporting the mission of the Air Force by
ensuring information is available to support effective decision making through authoritative
information and to protect the legal rights of the Air Force, our employees, and the public.
Records document official business, serve as the memory of the organization, provide a record of
past events, and are the basis for future actions. This publication defines the roles and
responsibilities to effectively manage Air Force records. This publication establishes the Air
Force program for Records Management (RM).
   1.1. Air Force units at all levels have a requirement to document their organization’s,
   functions, policies, procedures, and activities. This documentation serves as the official
   record of the Air Force. These records must be preserved by implementing effective life-
   cycle management procedures and must be managed systematically to ensure they are
   complete, accurate, trustworthy, and easily accessible. Every Air Force activity must manage
   its records to comply with legal accountability requirements.
   1.2. Personnel employed by the Department of the Air Force, shall not conceal, remove,
   mutilate, obliterate or destroy records without proper authority. Unauthorized concealment,
   removal, mutilation, obliteration or destruction of records, or any attempt to do so, is a
   violation of Title 18, U.S.C., Section 2071 and may be punished by up to three years
   confinement and a fine. Failure to obey the prohibitions in this paragraph is also a violation
   of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice. Failure of civilian employees to follow the
   prohibitions in this paragraph may also result in administrative disciplinary action under
   applicable civilian personnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or
   civil sanctions.
   1.3. The keys to an effective Records Management Program are the integrity of the filing
   system and effectively resourced and trained personnel. The filing system ensures a standard
   methodology for filing, storing, retrieving, and ultimately disposing of records according to
   published retention schedules. Criteria for establishing a file plan is provided in AFMAN
   33-363 along with the AF RDS. The AF RDS is located in the AF Records Information
   Management System (AFRIMS) located at
   https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 4                                         AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


2. Definition of Records. Consistent with the definition of ―records‖ used in 44 U.S.C. § 3301
records include ―all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable materials, or other
documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an
agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with the transaction
of public business and is preserved or is appropriate for preservation by that agency or its
legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policy, decisions, procedures,
operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value of data in
them.‖ Materials exempt from the definition of records include extra copies of documents kept
only for reference, stocks of publications and processed documents, and library or museum
materials intended solely for reference or exhibit.
3. Roles and Responsibilities. The Air Force Chief Information Officer (SAF/A6 & CIO) has
overall responsibility for the Air Force Records Management Program. The Policy and
Compliance Division (SAF/A6PP ) develops policy and guidance and administers procedures
necessary to implement the Air Force Records Management Program. The Air Force Records
Officer (AFRO) administers the program for the CIO, represents the Secretary of the Air Force
(SAF) on records management issues, and oversees the legal requirements for the management
of Air Force records.
     3.1. Effective management of records for an organization, the scope and size of the Air
     Force, requires a network of records professionals. The network of roles include the AFRO,
     Command and Agency Records Managers (CRM/ARM), Base Records Managers (BRM),
     Functional Area Records Managers (FARM), Chiefs of Office of Record (COR) and Records
     Custodians (RC).
4. Commanders. Commanders and civilian directors at all levels must implement the AF
Records Management Program for their organizations IAW this instruction. Commanders and
civilian directors:
     4.1. Have responsibility for the physical and legal custody of all records within their
     organization and for ensuring the proper management of all records IAW the AF Records
     Management policy and guidance.
     4.2. MAJCOM A6s serviced by the centralized CRM function at the Air Force Network
     Integration Center (AFNIC) shall be responsible for working with the CRM to obtain
     resolution of records management issues at units within their respective commands.
     4.3. Commanders and civilian directors of field operating agencies shall appoint in writing
     an ARM to manage the records management program within their agency. The appointment
     memorandum shall be provided to the AFRO. Exceptions are authorized for field operating
     agencies (FOA) within the National Capital Region that receive records management support
     through agreement with the HQ USAF Records Manager.
     4.4. Host Base Wing Commanders and supporting Air Force Joint Base Wing Commanders
     shall appoint in writing a BRM to manage the records management program within their
     Wing and/or Joint Base. The appointment memorandum shall be provided to their respective
     CRM/ARM. The minimum recommended grade for the primary BRM is a GS-09 or MSgt
     (7-level).
     4.5. Group and/or Squadron Commanders shall appoint in writing, subject matter experts for
     each functional area to serve as FARM and provide appointment letter to the BRM.
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                           5


   Depending upon span of control the recommended minimum grade is a GS-05 or SrA (5-
   level). Multiple FARMs may be required based on the complexities of the mission and the
   size of the organization. The FARM shall have overall understanding of the functions being
   performed by the organization and the types of records required to accurately document its
   functional procedures and activities. If the appointed FARM is a military member, an
   alternate is required to ensure coverage during extended periods of absence due to training
   and/or deployment.
   4.5. (455AEW) Group Commanders will appoint a FARM for their subordinate squadrons
   identified in Attachment 2 (Groups are identified in bold) and forward a current
   appointment letter to the Base Records Manager (BRM) (455 ECS/SCXK) within 2 weeks of
   the vacancy.
   4.6. Will support and ensure AF records management data calls and records searches are
   conducted and completed IAW defined requirements.
   4.7. Will ensure assigned records professionals have appropriate clearance to access
   classified records (paper/electronic); to include sensitive compartmental information facilities
   (SCIF), to ensure proper oversight of classified records and to comply with AF records
   management data calls and records searches. The BRM, FARM, and RC have a valid need
   to access Air Force records for the purpose of ensuring compliance with records management
   policy and guidance.
   4.8. Each installation commander shall maintain a base staging facility, ensuring the facility
   is compliant with Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National
   Archives and Records Administration, Part 1234, Electronic Record Management Facility
   Standards, and that funding is available to cover costs associated transfer to AFRO
   authorized records centers.
   4.9. Each installation commander shall direct the BRM to conduct a base RM program self-
   assessment every 24 months. Provide signed report of self-assessment to CRM/ARM as
   appropriate.
5. Users. Defined as all military, civilian, foreign nationals employed by the Department of the
Air Force and contractors:
   5.1. Complete Total Force Awareness Training (TFAT) – Information Protection training on
   an annual basis to meet requirements directed in DoDD 5015.2.
   5.2. Create and declare records that sufficiently document the function, organization,
   administration, policies and procedures. File records IAW office procedures.
   5.3. Notify the office RC upon notification of retirement, separation, or change of
   assignment.
   5.4. Comply with FARM/RC request to search using provided search terms, for all
   information including paper, non-electronic, and electronic within his or her assigned
   workspace, on his or her respective government provided desktop/laptop computer, and
   personal government e-mail accounts/.psts/and files in time to meet assigned suspense. The
   search will include all information, regardless of classification or format. All information in
   the custody, possession, or control of the Air Force is subject to the discovery process and
   may contain potentially relevant information. Notify the RC when the search has been
 6                                          AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


     completed. If responsive information is found, notify the RC as soon as possible for
     preservation guidance. Any potentially relevant information shall immediately be suspended
     from additional modification or destruction.
     5.5. Must inform the COR and RC of any actual or potential unlawful or inadvertent
     removal, change, or destruction of Air Force records.
     5.6. Must distinguish records from non-record materials and maintain personal papers
     separately.
6. Records Professionals. Records professionals must protect record content and comply with
FOUO, sensitive, Privacy Act, and other policy and legal requirements.
     6.1. Air Force Records Officer.
        6.1.1. Works with the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and
        General Services Administration (GSA) using the guidelines from 36 Code of Federal
        Regulations (CFR), Parks, Forest, and Public Property and 41 CFR, Public Contracts
        and Property Management.
        6.1.2. Develops and issues policies governing life-cycle management of Air Force
        records.
        6.1.3. Works with the Archivist of the United States in applying standards, rules, and
        techniques to improve managing records of any media type, to improve how the Air
        Force identifies, maintains, and protects permanently valuable records, and separates and
        disposes of records of temporary value in accordance with Titles 36 and 41 CFR.
        6.1.4. Certifies to the Archivist of the United States that all temporary records meeting
        their retention period are no longer of value to the Air Force and shall be disposed.
        Serves as approving official for the transfer of records with a permanent retention and the
        Transfer Approving Official in NARA’s ERA for the approval and transfer of permanent
        electronic Air Force records to the Archivist.
        6.1.5. Reports to the Archivist of the United States potential unlawful removal, change,
        or destruction of Air Force records.
        6.1.6. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure the Air Force properly creates and
        preserves records that document all aspects of its business to protect the rights of the
        United States Government and of persons directly affected by Air Force actions. Ensures
        that all records including e-mail, electronic documents, databases, and those in automated
        information systems, Web 2.0 technology or social media, generated by processes and
        prescribed in Air Force publications are scheduled. Ensures that system developers
        include official records management requirements in automated information systems
        development and redesign.
        6.1.7. Applies DOD records management functional and system requirements to all
        electronic record-keeping systems.
        6.1.8. Obtains written approval or concurrence from the Comptroller General of the
        United States to dispose of records of claims and demands by or against the United States
        Government or accounts affecting the United States Government.
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                       7


     6.1.9. Negotiates agreements to transfer Air Force records to NARA, Federal Records
     Centers (FRC), other Federal agencies, or private organizations and implements
     agreements to store, service, dispose of, access, or use records.
     6.1.10. Publishes an RDS authorizing disposal of organization records and directing
     prompt and proper retention of temporary records and retirement of permanent records.
     Serves as the Certifying Official in ERA for submission of an AF Records Schedule to
     NARA for approval.
     6.1.11. Conducts or directs evaluations of the Air Force Records Management Program
     during staff visits or Inspector General (IG) team visits, ensuring compliance with
     Federal, DOD, and Air Force requirements. This may include staff visits to Command or
     Agency Records Managers as needed or upon request.
     6.1.12. Issues guidance on authenticating records.
     6.1.13. Directs CRMs/ARMs/BRMs/FARMs and RCs to conduct non-FOIA record
     searches upon receipt of a written request from a valid legal or Federal authority.
     6.1.14. Maintains awareness of developments in the field of records technology and
     systems, and potential application to the Air Force’s record systems.
     6.1.15. Advises the DOD Records Officer of any matters pertaining to records
     management that may have DOD-wide implications.
     6.1.16. Advises personnel on recovery or reconstruction of records.
     6.1.17. Ensures functional series records dispositions are current. Initiates a functional
     review of the RDS, on a biennial basis in the month of September, to ensure currency.
     Any required additions, changes, or deletions will be processed following the procedures
     in AFMAN 33-363.
     6.1.18. Establishes initial and annual role based training requirements for all appointed
     records professionals to include CORs.
     6.1.19. Establishes metrics and determines frequency of reporting to assess areas of
     compliance and evaluate program resource and training requirements. AFRIMS will be
     the data source for metrics associated with program management, i.e., file plan approval
     rates, staff visits (visited/not visited), training, and staging.
     6.1.20. Ensures records generated by AF directives and instructions are scheduled.
     6.1.21. Assigns Air Force Records Office staff to serve as Records Schedulers in ERA
     for the purpose of developing AF RDSs.
     6.1.22. Assigns Air Force Records Office staff to serve as Transferring Official in ERA
     to create records Transfer Requests for submission to the Transfer Approving Official for
     approval.
     6.1.23. Serves as the Transfer Approving Official to approve records Transfer Requests
     in ERA.
     6.1.24. Serves as the approval authority for accounts in NARA’s Archives and Records
     Centers Information System (ARCIS).
8                                          AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


       6.1.25. Serves as the decision authority for individuals seeking access to AF records
       staged at any FRC.
    6.2. Chief of the Office of Record (COR). Defined as the individual designated as the head
    of an office where records are created, received, or maintained. The COR should have
    working knowledge of the E-Government Act including privacy aspects, the Paperwork
    Reduction Act, and the Federal Information Quality Act. While it is preferred that the COR
    be in the senior position of authority in the respective office of record, these duties may be
    delegated as appropriate. Delegation of the COR must be made in writing to the applicable
    BRM or ARM as appropriate. Delegation should be made to someone with adequate
    authority and a thorough knowledge of the office’s mission and the records created by the
    office. The delegation letter should include an overview of the primary responsibilities of
    CORs and contain information regarding any training required to effectively carry out those
    responsibilities.
       6.2.1. Responsible for the physical and legal custody of all records the office creates or
       receives, regardless of their physical characteristics. In smaller organizations the COR
       can also serve as the Records Custodian.
       6.2.2. Completes initial COR role-based training upon assignment to the office of record
       and annual role-based training. Notifies the applicable FARM upon completion to ensure
       it is documented in AFRIMS.
       6.2.3. Ensures the office creates only essential records, permanently preserves valuable
       records, promptly stages eligible records and disposes of temporary records according to
       the RDS. Determines records access and enforces RM compliance.
       6.2.4. Ensures each office of record under his or her purview develops a file plan and
       approves by digitally signing the file plan coversheet (reference guidance for digital
       signatures found in AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records.)
       6.2.5. Appoints a primary and alternate (if possible) RC in writing to the FARM. If an
       RC is unavailable for more than 90 days a new RC shall be appointed.
       6.2.5. (455AEW) The COR appoints an individual assigned to the office as the RC
       within 1 week of the RC vacancy.
       6.2.6. Upon appointment provides the RC an orientation to the office to include, at a
       minimum, what records are created and managed by the office, location of files, office
       filing procedures, and vital records, if applicable.
       6.2.7. Ensures RCs complete all required records management training within 90 days of
       appointment. Air National Guard (ANG) personnel will be trained within 6 months of
       appointment.
       6.2.8. Ensures a thorough office-wide search for all data calls (e.g. record searches), to
       include active and inactive, physical and electronically stored final and draft documentary
       materials both classified and unclassified.
       6.2.9. Ensures RC provides written response, preferably in AFRIMS, to all staff visit
       findings within 30 days of receiving report, and provides written follow-up responses
       every 30 days until all findings are closed.
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                         9


     6.2.10. Works with RC(s) to properly identify vital records and establish a restoration
     and disaster recovery plan for paper and electronic records. Ensures identified vital
     records are included in the base, agency or MAJCOM emergency preparedness plans.
  6.3. Command Records Managers (CRM) and Agency Records Managers (ARM).
     6.3.1. Oversees the records program within their commands or agencies as specified in
     Federal laws, NARA guidelines and applicable Air Force 33-series publications.
     6.3.2. HQ MAJCOM/FOA/DRU internal record-keeping programs will comply with
     host base records management program guidelines for storage, staging, retrieval, and
     training.
     6.3.3. Establishes and manages a training program for newly appointed BRMs and for
     continuing training and education.
     6.3.4. Enforces the federal mandate of the E-Government Act of 2002, requiring
     electronic processes be applied to records created and maintained electronically that have
     a retention disposition of 10 years or less. If records are to be maintained electronically,
     ensure Records Professionals verify OPRs have authoritative guidance pertaining to legal
     recognition and validity before approving transfer (ie. scanning documents) to electronic
     form. This includes protecting the scanned paper records from destruction until such
     authoritative guidance is provided.
     6.3.5. Reviews MAJCOM/Agency directives and forms before publication to ensure
     compliance with records management directives. Ensures records generated by
     command or agency directives and information collections (forms) are scheduled. When
     a command or FOA is designated as the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for an Air
     Force publication, the CRM or ARM will ensure records generated by the prescribed
     processes are scheduled. Send documentation to support this action to the AFRO.
     6.3.6. Provides assistance to OPR in submitting and ensuring requests for new, updated,
     or deleted records retention recommendations are properly coordinated using an AF Form
     525, Records Disposition Recommendation or its equivalent.
     6.3.7. Reviews documentation used to survey electronic data and records in AF
     information systems on AF Form 1341, Electronic Record Inventory. The CRM and
     ARM validate proposals on information systems managed in their respective MAJCOM,
     FOA, DRU, and affected unified and specified commands’ portfolios containing records
     or records data with an approved disposition schedule in the AF RDS for less than 25
     years.
     6.3.8. Reviews and makes recommendations to the AFRO for their respective
     MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, and affected unified and specified commands for pre-
     accessioning and accessioning permanent electronic records in NARA's ERA system.
     6.3.9. Works with the IG to:
        6.3.9.1. Identify areas requiring special review by command IG teams.
        6.3.9.2. Provide compliance evaluation criteria and standards for functional area
        inspectors.
10                                        AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


        6.3.9.3. Establish crossfeed procedures to ensure command units are aware of records
        management evaluation contained in IG reports. Send a copy of procedures to
        SAF/A6PP.
     6.3.10. Provides guidance to tenants and BRMs on local support agreementsfor program
     assistance, training, electronic records storage (where applicable), staff visits, staging, or
     records shipping services.
     6.3.11. Directs BRM to conduct non-FOIA records management data calls and records
     searches upon receipt of an official request from the AFRO.
     6.3.12. Ensures all subordinate BRMs, FARMs and RCs complete and report responses
     to non-FOIA records searches in AFRIMS before closing out base response in AFRIMS.
     6.3.13. Oversees the implementation of the AFRIMS according to AFMAN 33-363.
     6.3.14. Develops meaningful metrics in the areas of file plan approval rates, staff
     assistance visits (visited/not visited), staging, and training. The AFRO will establish and
     determine frequency of reports. AFRIMS will be utilized as much as possible.
     6.3.15. Accomplishes initial training upon appointment and maintains proficiency by
     completing the Information Protection module of TFAT and annual role-based training.
     6.3.16. ARMs will ensure appropriate network permissions for FARMs, CORs, and RCs
     upon completion of training.
     6.3.17. ARMs will ensure each Office of Record receives a staff visit at least once every
     24 months. ARMs will complete the Base Records Management checklist in AFRIMS
     for all applicable.
     6.3.18. ARMs will direct subordinate BRMs and/or FARMs to conduct non-FOIA
     records management data calls and records searches upon receipt of an official request
     from the AFRO.
     6.3.19. Ensures all subordinate BRMs, FARMs and RCs complete and report responses
     to non-FOIA records searches in AFRIMS before closing out agency response in
     AFRIMS.
  6.4. Base Records Manager (BRM). The BRM administers the installation records
  management program. Recommended minimum grade for the primary is GS-09 or MSgt (7-
  level), depending upon span of control. His or her duties fall into three major areas:
  providing assistance, managing staging areas, and training.
     6.4.1. Providing Assistance:
     6.4.1. (455AEW) 19 (Added) Squadron Commanders or equivalent are the approval
     authority for all 3215 office symbol addition or subtraction changes maintained by the
     BRM.
        6.4.1.1. Implements the AF Records Management Program across the base.
        6.4.1.2. Makes recommendations on records storage issues prior to supporting
        Communications Squadron or base submitting request to purchase additional storage
        space. Provides guidance on using document imaging systems for records storage
        and authorized disposition of paper-based records following imaging.
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                     11


       6.4.1.3. Provides guidance on electronic record-keeping requirements and
       implements MAJCOM/local procedures for creating, transferring, storing, retrieving,
       and disposing of electronic records. Performs the role of Electronic Transfer Staff for
       the purpose of packaging and transmitting electronic records to ERA via an
       electronic transfer method.
       6.4.1.4. Reviews proposals for electronic storage and document imaging of records,
       makes recommendation to improve processes, and sends the proposal to the CRM
       before implementation.
       6.4.1.5. Implements AFRIMS according to AFMAN 33-363.
       6.4.1.6. Implements procedures for processing and approving file plans. The BRM is
       the file plan approval/disapproval authority and may delegate the authority to the
       FARMs.
       6.4.1.7. Investigates incidences of lost records and unauthorized destruction of
       records.
          6.4.1.7.1. Provides guidance and assistance to reconstruct lost/destroyed records.
          6.4.1.7.2. Makes recommendations to management on preventing future records
          loss.
          6.4.1.7.3. Provides a report as prescribed by AFI 33-364, Records Disposition –
          Procedures and Responsibilities.
       6.4.1.8. Reviews base directives and forms before publication to ensure compliance
       with records management directives.
       6.4.1.9. Provides instruction to the OPR on submitting AF Form 525, or its
       equivalent, recommending new, modified, or deletion of a records schedule.
       6.4.1.10. Reviews documentation used to survey electronic data and records in AF
       information systems, (AF Form 1341 or its equivalent) and proposed disposition (AF
       Form 525 or its equivalent) of system from OPRs and Program Managers. Submits
       documentation and review to the CRM or ARM. Information systems which contain
       Privacy Act System of Records, coordinate with the program manager to ensure
       disposition of data in the survey and schedule is consistent with the records
       disposition in the System of Records Notice.
       6.4.1.11. Serves as the base POC for ARCIS used for transactions with FRCs.
       Unless otherwise approved by the AFRO, a base will have two ARCIS account
       holders, one primary and one alternate.
       6.4.1.12. Performs staff visit on each unit FARM at least once every 24 months. For
       short tour bases and in the Area of Responsibility (AOR), staff visits will be
       performed at least once every 12 months. Schedules, manages and documents all
       staff visits in AFRIMS using the AF-wide checklist. Open findings must be tracked
       and documented using AFRIMS.
       6.4.1.12. (455AEW) Performs staff visit on each unit FARM every 6 months.
12                                       AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


        6.4.1.13. Conducts self-assessment of base records management program at least
        every 24 months. Self-assessment shall be signed by the base commander and a copy
        of the report of self-assessment provided to the CRM/ARM as appropriate.
        6.4.1.13. (455AEW) Conducts self-assessment of base records management
        program at least every 12 months. Self-assessment shall be signed by the 455 AEW
        Commander and a copy of the report of self-assessment provided to the CRM as
        appropriate.
        6.4.1.14. Directs FARMs and RCs to conduct non-FOIA records management data
        calls and record searches upon receipt of an official request from the CRM or ARM.
        6.4.1.15. Ensures all subordinate FARMs and RCs complete and report responses to
        non-FOIA records searches in AFRIMS before closing out base response in AFRIMS.
        6.4.1.16. Requests appropriate network permissions for FARMs, CORs and RCs
        upon completion of training.
        6.4.1.16. (455AEW) The BRM establishes electronic records user access for the
        FARM and RC (read, write, and modify) groups. The 455th Expeditionary
        Communications Squadron (455 ECS) establishes Electronic Records Management
        (ERM) (read and write) access rights for other individuals assigned to the office at the
        direction of the CORs.
        6.4.1.17. Coordinates on the local base Disaster and Recovery Plan to account for the
        Vital Records Program. At a minimum, plan will include a description of how vital
        records are protected and recovered during a disaster or link to the vital records plan.
        6.4.1.18. Reviews all support agreements for records management issues.
     6.4.2. Managing Staging Areas:
        6.4.2.1. Manages a staging area for temporary storage of records pending destruction
        or transfer to a FRC including centralized storage of electronically stored inactive
        records.
        6.4.2.2. Provides records staging service for Air Force tenant activities, or other
        DOD tenants as provided for in a support agreement.
        6.4.2.3. Maintains custody of and accountability for staged records, and
        accountability for records transferred to other agencies or FRCs by maintaining the
        Standard Form (SF) 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, in AFRIMS and an
        official copy on ERM drive or AFRO approved system, as prescribed in AFI 33-364.
        6.4.2.4. Conducts an annual inventory of records in base staging area and validates
        holdings staged to FRC(s).
        6.4.2.5. Makes the determination as to whether records have met criteria for
        disposition. Where required, the BRM negotiates contracts for the disposal of paper-
        based records stored in the staging area.
        6.4.2.6. Shall ensure vital records maintained in the staging area are readily identified
        and properly documented in AFRIMS as to their location in the staging area.
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                         13


     6.4.3. Training:
         6.4.3.1. Accomplishes initial training upon appointment and maintains proficiency by
         completing the Information Protection module of TFAT and annual role-based
         training.
         6.4.3.2. Trains all records professionals within 3 months of assignment, including
         tenant activities’ personnel. ANG personnel will be trained within 6 months of
         appointment.
         6.4.3.2. (455AEW) Trains all records professionals within 30 days of assignment,
         including tenant activities’ personnel.
         6.4.3.3. Training shall include command-unique or local operating procedures or
         requirements, particularly where electronic storage processes are implemented.
  6.5. Functional Area Records Manager (FARM). Serves as the point of contact for and
  monitors the Records Management Program of their unit or functional area. Shall have
  knowledge of the categories of records created and used by the units under his or her
  functional area. Serves as liaison with the BRM for his or her functional area. The FARM:
  6.5. (455AEW) 12 (Added) Briefs newly delegated RCs on required records management
  training and provides desk-side training after RCs complete the mandatory training.
  Maintain the training completion documentation for the CORs and RCs.
     6.5.1. Accomplishes initial training upon appointment and maintains proficiency by
     completing the Information Protection module of TFAT and annual role-based training.
     6.5.2. Assists in preparing files maintenance and disposition plans.
     6.5.3. Conducts staff visits on each Office of Record at least every 24 months using the
     AFRIMS Staff Visit module. Staff visits will be performed at least every 12 months for
     short tour bases and in the AOR. If the FARM also serves as the Office of Record RC,
     the BRM will perform the staff visit on the respective office.
     6.5.3. (455AEW) Conducts staff visits on each Office of Record at least every 6 months
     using the AFRIMS staff visit module. FARM will use prescribed checklist (see
     Attachment 4).
         6.5.3.1. (Added-455AEW) FARMs will schedule offices for evaluation and forward
         a copy of the schedule to 455 ECS/SCXK NLT 60 days after appointment and advise
         455 ECS/SCXK of any rescheduled visits. Schedule the offices to ensure 50 percent
         completion by the end of the third month of FARMs rotation and 100 percent by
         month 6. The FARM performs staff assistance visits (SAVs) on offices of record
         every 6 months, except the offices surveyed by records management personnel. The
         FARM will out brief the COR and complete the SAV checklists in AFRIMS NLT the
         5th workday following the SAV. Notify the BRM after completion of the SAV
         checklist. Enter the latest FARM SAV dates in AFRIMS.
     6.5.4. Assists offices of record to retire eligible records.
     6.5.5. Schedules attendance for all records professionals in their unit or functional area to
     take base records management classroom, hands on, or one-on-one training sessions.
     Ensure CORs and RCs complete required annual role-based training.
14                                        AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


     6.5.5. (455AEW) Schedules attendance for all records professionals in their unit or
     functional area to take base records management classroom training sessions within 15
     days of appointment. Ensure CORs and RCs complete required annual role-based
     training prior to attending classroom instruction.
     6.5.6. Assists the BRM in providing guidance on using document imaging systems and
     electronic storage media for records. Evaluates the effect of document imaging and
     electronic storage on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of office
     records. Reports problems to the COR and BRM.
     6.5.7. Guides and assists assigned personnel in maintaining and disposing of records.
     6.5.8. Creates AFRIMS accounts for RCs; reviews and documents user accounts
     biannually to ensure records professionals are current.
     6.5.9. Reviews record and non-records drives to ensure proper records management
     practices and procedures.
     6.5.10. Works with COR in conducting non-FOIA records management data calls and
     record searches upon receipt of an official request when the appointed RC will be
     unavailable to respond in a timely manner.
     6.5.11. Ensures all subordinate RCs complete and report responses to non-FOIA records
     searches in AFRIMS before closing out assigned unit(s) in AFRIMS.
     6.5.12. (Added-455AEW) Briefs newly delegated RCs on required records
     management training and provides desk-side training after RCs complete the mandatory
     training. Maintain the training completion documentation for the CORs and RCs.
     6.5.13. (Added-455AEW) Maintains a listing of offices that stage records. The listing
     will include the office's name, tables and rules, and series title. Validate the listings each
     rotation, and forward to 455 ECS/SCXK.
     6.5.14. (Added-455AEW) Is also the Privacy Act monitor.
     6.5.15. (Added-455AEW) Maintains a FARM continuity book using Attachment 3
     format.
     6.5.16. (Added-455AEW) Maintains the administrative portion of the AFRIMS
     database current (names of CORs and RCs with appointment and training dates, office
     titles, office mailing addresses, office phone numbers, organizational e-mail accounts and
     latest SAV dates).
     6.5.17. (Added-455AEW) Approves RCs file plan. If the FARM is also the RC the
     BRM will approve their file plan.
     6.5.18. (Added-455AEW) Establishes AFRIMS user accounts for CORs and RCs and
     enter the assignment and training date in AFRIMS.
     6.5.19. (Added-455AEW) FARMs are required to transfer eligible records to the BRM
     no later than 15 days after either fiscal year (30 Sep) or calendar year (31 Dec) according
     to table and rule for cutoff of record. Create the SF 135s utilizing the staging module in
     AFRIMS in coordination with the FARM. Remove all fasteners, paper clips, staples,
     extra paper, etc. Maintain the official record of the SF 135 in active files.
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                        15


   6.6. Records Custodian (RC). The RC maintains and disposes of the office’s active and
   inactive records IAWthe RDS. Each RC must learn the functional mission of the office of
   record that the records support and know the purposes the records serve. If assigned, a
   knowledge operator (Air Force Specialty Code 3D0X1) will be the RC; otherwise any
   military career field, civil service series, or contractor can perform these duties. The RC:
      6.6.1. Accomplishes initial training upon appointment and maintains proficiency by
      completing the Information Protection module of TFAT and annual role-based training.
      6.6.2. Develops and maintains the office file plan within AFRIMS, and establishes
      electronic and paper records in IAW AFI 33-364 and AFMAN 33-363. Creation of new
      paper records is only authorized with approval of the AFRO.
      6.6.3. Promptly and properly transfer eligible records to the base staging area or the
      designated FRC. Create the SF 135s utilizing the Staging module in AFRIMS in
      coordination with the FARM. Maintains the official record of the SF 135 in active files.
      6.6.4. Must be proficient on the equipment used for storing and retrieving records.
      6.6.5. Knows and implements the records maintenance, use, and disposition policies and
      procedures for records maintained.
      6.6.6. Consults with the COR and FARM as necessary on problems that affect creating,
      maintaining, using, and disposing of records.
      6.6.7. Conducts non-FOIA records management data calls and record searches.
      6.6.8. Responds to questions on records requirements and the RDS.
      6.6.9. Provides office orientation to newly assigned personnel (to include new CORs).
      6.6.10. (Added-455AEW) The RC establishes the ERM files structure on the base
      shared (S:) and official (O:) network drive. The RC trains the COR and assigned
      individuals on maintaining electronic records.
7. Portfolio Manager (PfM) of IT investments.
   7.1. Communicates AF Records Office guidance and direction to his or her IT
   program/project managers and others responsible for IT portfolio management data
   collection and maintenance. Partners with them to collect and manage data to support the Air
   Force Records Management process in addition to Air Force IT portfolio management and
   other processes in AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management
   and IT Investment Review.
   7.2. Informs the IT program/project managers’ functional process owner of non-compliance.
8. Program Manager (PM) of an IT investment.
   8.1. Ensures records or records data in IT investments under his or her purview are
   compliant with records management requirements per AFMAN 33-363.
      8.1.1. Ensures accuracy of records management requirements in Enterprise Information
      Technology Data Repository (EITDR).
      8.1.2. Prepares AF Form 1341 or its AFRO-approved equivalent, to survey the IT
      investment’s records data and system characteristics as required by AFMAN 33-363 and
 16                                       AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


      36 CFR 1236.26, What actions must agencies take to maintain electronic information
      systems?
      8.1.3. Proposes a customized records disposition using an AF Form 525, or its AFRO-
      approved equivalent, IAWAFMAN 33-363 and AFI 33-364 if an approved, applicable
      records disposition does not exist or if an existing one cannot be executed in the IT
      investment. Coordinates the AF Form 525 with relevant stakeholders before submission
      to Records Professionals and the AF Records Officer for review and approval.
      8.1.4. Ensures compliance with approved disposition for IT investment records or
      records data during normal operations and responds to authorized suspensions.
      8.1.5. Ensures the records or records data is not prematurely disposed upon
      decommissioning of the IT investment. Maintains required hardware and software to
      access records or records data until approved disposition is met.
9. Publication and Form Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).
   9.1. A publication OPR ensures that records created as a result of processes prescribed in his
   or her publication has a NARA approved RDS.
   9.2. A form OPR ensures the form has a NARA approved RDS.
   9.3. If an approved disposition does not exist in the AF RDS, the publication or form OPR
   shall propose a customized records disposition using an AF Form 525, or its AFRO-approved
   equivalent, IAWAFI 33-364 and AFMAN 33-363. The OPR shall coordinate the AF Form
   525 with relevant stakeholders before submission to records professionals and the AF
   Records Officer for review and approval.




                                            WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                            Chief Information Officer

                                            (455AEW)

                                            JOSEPH T. GUASTELLA Jr., Brigadier General,
                                            USAF
                                            Commander
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                     17


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Part 1234, Electronic Record Management Facility Standards
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003 (certified current as of
November 20, 2007)
DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000 (certified current November
21, 2003
DoD 5015.02-STD, Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software
Applications, 25 April 2007
DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands,
November 15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000, Change 2, December 5, 2003 (certified current
March 24, 2004)
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 Sep 2011
AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management and IT Investment
Review, 23 Dec 2008
AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records, 3 Aug 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 8 Apr 2009
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation, 1 Jul 1999
AF Form 1341, Electronic Record Inventory, 1 Jan 1995
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
Standard Form 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, July 1985

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF CIO—Air Force Chief Information Officer
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
 18                                       AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARCIS—Archives and Records Centers Information System
ARM—Agency Records Manager
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
COR—Chief of the Office of Record
CRM—Command Records Manager
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DOD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EITDR—Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository
ERA—Electronic Records Archives
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FRC—Federal Records Centers
GSA—General Services Administration
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
ISO—Information System Owner
IT—Information Technology
MAJCOM—Major Command
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PfM—Portfolio Manager
PM—Program Manager
RC—Records Custodian
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RM—Records Managers
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                            19


SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SCIF—Sensitive Compartmental Information Facility
TFAT—Total Force Awareness Training
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Agency Records Manager (ARM)—Records managers at FOAs, DRUs, and Combatant
Commands for which the Air Force is the executive agent.
Area of Responsibility (AOR)—The geographical area associated with a combatant command
within which a combatant commander has authority to plan and conduct operations.
Certifying Official—Electronic Records Archives role assigned to the individual who will
certify that the agency is officially submitting a Records Schedule to NARA for approval. The
paper equivalent of this role is the person who signs in Box 6 of the paper Request for Records
Disposition Authority (SF 115).
Chief of the Office of Record (COR)—Person designated as head of an office where records
are created, received, or maintained; has responsibility for physical and legal custody of records.
COR duties may be delegated, as appropriate, to someone with adequate authority and a
thorough knowledge of the office’s mission and the records created by the office.
Command Records Manager (CRM)—Records managers responsible for management and
oversight of MAJCOM records programs centrally located at the AFNIC, with the exception of
the ANG CRM.
Disposable—Temporary and approved by NARA for disposal, either immediately or after a
specified retention period.
Disposition—(1) A comprehensive term that includes destruction, salvage, or donation; transfer
to a staging area or records center; transfer from one organization to another; (2) Actions taken
with inactive records. These actions may include erasure of data, transfer to a records center, or
transfer to the National Archives (Title 36, CFR, Chapter XII, Part 1234).
Disposition Instructions—Precise instructions in the Air Force RDS located in AFRIMS,
specifying the date or event for cutoff, transfer, retirement, or destruction of records.
Electronic Records Archives—ERA is a technology system designed to preserve and manage
NARA’s electronic records and to manage the lifecycle of paper records and other holdings,
including support for records retention schedules and the accessioning process for all Federal
records.
Electronic Transfer Staff—A role in ERA that is used to package and transmit electronic files
to ERA via an electronic transfer method to the Transfer Approving Official.
File—An organized collection of related data, usually arranged into logical records that are
stored together and treated as a unit.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
 20                                         AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


Office of Record—An office within an organization, defined by its mission or function, that is
responsible for the creation and management of records that sufficiently document its function,
organization, administration, policies and procedures. Recommend geographically separated
offices be identified as individual offices of record. At Headquarters level, the span of control
for an office of record should be no larger than a staff agency or branch; at Squadron level, the
span of control for an office of record should be at or below flight level.
Personal papers—Include family and personal correspondence and materials documenting
professional activities and outside business or political pursuits. These materials belong to the
individual, and the Government exerts no control over them. Personal papers shall be clearly
designated as such and kept separate from Air Force records.
Program Manager (PM)—The individual specifically designated to be responsible for the life
cycle management of a system or end item. The PM is vested with full authority, responsibility,
and resources to execute and support an approved Air Force program. The PM is accountable for
credible cost, schedule, and performance reporting to the Milestone Decision Authority (DoDD
5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System). Throughout this document the term ―Program
Manager‖ is used for consistency with DOD policy and documentation. Air Force organizations
may use ―System Program Manager‖ as an equivalent to the DoDD 5000.01 ―PM‖ term. (AFI
63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Lifecyle Management).
Records—Records include all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine-readable materials, or
other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, created or received
by the Air Force in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or
appropriate for preservation by the Air Force as evidence of the organization, functions, policies,
decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Air Force or because of the
informational value of the data in them. Library and museum material made or acquired and
preserved solely for reference or exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents preserved only
for convenience of reference, and stocks of publications and of processed documents are not
included. Records are media neutral. Different content types such as e-mail, data in IT systems,
web pages, and instant messaging, etc. may be considered an Air Force record if they meet this
definition.
Records Custodian—Person designated within an office of record to manage the internal record
keeping program, having guardianship and control of records.
Records Professional— Individual whose area of expertise advances beyond introductory
records management. The term record professional encompasses AFRO, COR, CRM, ARM,
BRM, FARM, and RC. RP skills extend beyond familiarity to intermediate or advanced record
management.
Records Scheduler—Role in ERA assigned to users who prepare records retention schedules for
submission to the Certifying Official for approval.
Retire—The transfer of inactive records to a Federal Records Center (FRC).
Routine Use—A disclosure of records to individuals or agencies outside DOD for a use that is
compatible with the purpose for which the Air Force created the records
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                           21


Scheduled—Having final retention approved by NARA. Scheduling provides mandatory
instructions for what to do with records (and nonrecord materials) no longer needed for current
Government business.
Transfer Approving Official—A role in ERA assigned to users who have authority to approve
Transfer Requests and the Legal Transfer Instruments on behalf of the agency. The paper
equivalent of this role is the person who signs in Box 2A of the paper Agreement to Transfer
Records to the National Archives of the United States (SF 258).
Transferring Official—A role in ERA assigned to users who will create Transfer Requests and
submit them to the Transfer Approving Official for approval.
Users—All Air Force personnel to include military active duty, reserve, guard, civilian, foreign
national’ s employed by the Department of the Air Force and Air Force contractor employees.
Working Documents/Drafts—Documentary materials in any media or format that have not
been signed or officially released; can be altered and are discoverable in response to litigation or
FOIA requests.
 22                                    AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


                             Attachment 1 (455AEW)
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
455 AEW—455th Air Expeditionary Wing
455 ECS—455th Expeditionary Communications Squadron
455 ECS/SCXK—Base Records Manager
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BRM—Base Records Manager
ERM—Electronic Records Management
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                  23


                          Attachment 2 (Added-455AEW)
                          ORGANIZATIONAL LISTING

455th Air Expeditionary Wing
455 AEW/CCE
455 AEW/CCEA
455 AEW/CCP
455 AEW/HO
455 AEW/PA
455 AEW/SE
455 AEW/HC
455 AEW/CP
455 AEW/SARC
455 AEW/XP
455 AEW/FM
455 AEW/EO
455 AEW/ATFP
455 AEW/JA

455th Mission Support Group
455 EMSG Command Staff
455 ELRS
455 EFSS
455 EMSG
455 ECES
455 ESFS
455 ECS
455 EAPS

455th Expeditionary Operations Group
455 EOG Command Staff
455 EOSS
774 EAS
83 ERQS
4 ERS
455 EAES
104 EFS

455th Expeditionary Maintenance Group
455 EMXG Command Staff
455 EAMXS
455 EMXS
 24                                   AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012



                             Attachment 3 (Added-455AEW)
                               FARM CONTINUITY BOOK

Table A3.1. Contents for FARM Continuity Book.

 TAB      RECORDS                            COMMENTS
      A   FARM /RC/COR Appointment Letters   N/A
          – Signed by the Commander.
          Training certificates.
      B   SAV Schedule and Completed         Maintain the SAV checklists electronically.
          AFRIMS SAV Checklists              Completed paper copies can be kept.
      C   AFRIMS Listing of                  Maintain the listing electronically. Paper
          Vital Records                      copies can be kept.
      D   Records Staging Listing            Maintain in the electronic files and identify
                                             location at this tab.
      E   Unit Privacy Act Training          Maintain the certificates electronically.
          Records/Certificates               Completed paper copies can be kept.
AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                       25


                                  Attachment 4 (Added-455AEW)
                                    BAF FARM/RC CHECKLIST

Table A4.1. FARM/RC Checklist.
Unit:                                                                             Date:
                                   FARM Checklist                                   SAT   UNSAT
 1      Has a FARM been appointed at each         AFI 33-322, para     Critical
        unit, principal staff office within an AF 4.5.
        organization, or contractor unit?
 2      Has the Chief of the Office (COR)          AFI 33-322, para    Critical
        appointed a Records Custodian?             6.2.5.
 3      Has the COR taken the Role-Based           AFMAN 33-363,
        CBT?                                       para 6.1.1.2.6.1
 4      Has the RC received RM training and        AFI 33-322, para
        completed the RC Role-Based CBT?           8.5. and AFMAN
                                                   33-363, para
                                                   6.1.1.2.6.1
 5      Does the FARM ensure each office of        ERM Guide,
        record under their purview develop a       Attachment 2
        file plan?
 6      Does the FARM ensure each RC creates       AFMAN 33-363,       Critical
        office file plans in AFRIMS?               para 6.1.1.4.2.1.


 7      Does the FARM/RC ensure records are        ERM Guide,          Critical
        maintained under the correct Table and     Attachment 2
        Rule from the AFRIMS RDS?

 8      Does the FARM ensure each office file      AFMAN 33-363,
        plan is official/signed by the COR?        para 2.2.1.

 9      Are all file plans approved and current?   ERM Guide, Table
                                                   4.3.
 10     Does the RC maintain the office file       AFI 33-322, para    Critical
        plan and accountability for Active and     6.6.
        Inactive records?

 11     Does the FARM/RC ensure the RDS is         AFMAN 33-363,       Critical
        followed and records are properly          para 2.1.
        destroyed, cutoff, or staged?

 12     Are files reviewed at least annually,      AFMAN 33-363,
        cutoff according to the RDS, and are       para 4.4.
        Active records separated from Inactive?
26                                               AFI33-322_455AEWSUP_I 13 NOVEMBER 2012


13   Are all media types correctly marked in      ERM Guide, Table
     AFRIMS?                                      4.3.
14   Does the FARM use AFRIMS to track            AFI 33-322, para    Critical
     appointments, training, staff assistance     6.5.3.
     visits, and staging area data?

15   Does the FARM ensure each office of          AFI 33-322, para    Critical
     record receives a SAV at least once          6.5.3.
     every 6 months and follow-up with the
     COR on corrective actions for
     discrepancies noted during visits?
     (CRITICAL)
16   Are disposition guide cards and              AFMAN 33-363,
     AFRIMS-generated disposition control         para 2.2.3.
     labels prepared for each record series on
     a file plan for both active and inactive
     files?
17   Are official electronic records set up       AFMAN 33-363,       Critical
     and filed according to the latest version    para 6.1.1.2.7.
     of the AF ERM Solution?
18    Is the RC ensuring all official             ERM Guide, 4.3
     documents have been transferred and
     maintained on the O: drive?
19   Are all AFRIMS file plan disposition         ERM Guide, 4.6.2.   Critical
     and folder titles replicated to the O:
     drive including CY and FY markings?

20   Does the FARM ensure end-users are           ERM Guide,          Critical
     utilizing the Official-Drive electronic      Attachment 2
     repository for storing records?

21   Do FARMs have access to all                  AF ERM Solution,
     directories and shared drives under their    para 4.1.3.
     purview to ensure final and draft e-
     records are maintained according to
     ERM policies?
22   Is access restricted on electronic folders   AFMAN 33-363,       Critical
     containing sensitive and privacy act         para 6.1.1.4.6.2.
     data using controlled passwords and/or
     group permissions?
23   Are vital e-records marked with a "V"        AF ERM Solution,    Critical
     or the word Vital after the folder title?    para 4.2.13

 Critical items are identified as anything that is important to the program but does not
                  constitute an automatic “Unsat” rating on inspection.
