BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-1203
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   1 MAY 1996

                                                                            DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                       Supplement 1
                                                                                     21 OCTOBER 2004
                                                                       Certified Current on 3 March 2014
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                           ADMINISTRATIVE GRIEVANCE SYSTEM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: AFPOA/DPW                                                                  Certified by: AFPOA/DP
       (Ms Millicent Kidder)                                                          (Mr Steve N. Smith)
Supersedes AFR 40-771, 17 June 1985.                                                              Pages: 8
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-12, Dispute Resolution, and Department of Defense Civilian Per-
sonnel Manual Subchapter 771, The Administrative Grievance System. This instruction contains the Air
Force system for considering employee grievances. It reflects the policies of the Secretary of the Air
Force concerning matters that are discretionary with the Air Force. It applies to US citizen employees of
the Air Force who are paid from appropriated funds and who are either nonbargaining unit employees or
bargaining unit employees in a unit where no collective bargaining agreement has been negotiated or
where the negotiated procedure excludes the matters at issue. It also applies to supervisors, civilian per-
sonnel officers, career Senior Executive Service (SES) and Senior Intelligence Executive Service (SIES)
members, Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System (CIPMS) employees, and other manage-
ment officials of the Air Force. It applies to civilian employees of the Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve, except it does not apply to Air National Guard Technicians administered by the National Guard
Bureau under Title 32, U.S.C. Section 709. It does not apply to employees of the Army and Air Force
Exchange Service. It does not apply to applicants for employment. It also does not apply to matters
which employees may appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board or matters that are covered by AFI
36-1201, Discrimination Complaints.

(DOVER) AFI 36-1203, dated 1 May 1996 is supplemented as follows. It implements and outlines
Dover AFB procedures for the administrative grievance process. Grievants, representatives, and wit-
nesses are free from restraint, interference, coercion, reprisal or discrimination in the exercise of their
rights under this system.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction has been revised throughout.Certified Current 3 March 2014
2                                              AFI36-1203_DOVERAFBSUP1_I 21 OCTOBER 2004


(DOVER) Paragraph 3. changes the Deciding Official from the Group Commander to the Squadron
Commander. Paragraph 11.7.2. (Added) changes reviewer designation from 436 AW/CC or appropriate
tenant unit commander to appropriate group or tenant commander. Paragraph 11.7.3. (Added) changes
reviewer designation. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.

Section A—Authorities and Responsibilities

1. HQ USAF. The Air Force Personnel Operations Agency, Work Force Appeals and Relations Division
(AFPOA/DPW) provides overall Air Force guidance on the administrative grievance system.

2. Major Command (MAJCOM). The MAJCOM director of civilian personnel will designate a princi-
pal point of contact for administrative grievances for subordinate installations and with AFPOA/DPW.

3. Commanders. Installation commanders or their designee(s), except as provided below, will make
final written decisions on grievances. This includes decisions on the rejection and cancellation of griev-
ances.
    • The deciding official must be at a higher organizational level than any person involved in the
        grievance or having a direct interest in the matter being grieved. If to meet this requirement, it is
        necessary to elevate the grievance above base level, the deciding official will be an individual in
        the next higher management level in the grieving employee's chain of command.
    • Grievances filed by employees of a tenant organization will be decided by an official in the griev-
        ant's chain of command, except where the grievance concerns matters outside the authority of that
        chain of command.
    • Grievances filed concerning career program issues will be processed in accordance with Air
        Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-606, Volume 1, Air Force Civilian Career Program Management,
        Section H, Grievances and Complaints, paragraph 1.45. Settlement agreements involving career
        program policies or positions must be in compliance with AFMAN 36-606, Volume 1, Section H,
        paragraph 1.46.
3. (DOVER) Commanders. The employee’s Squadron Commander will be the deciding official.

4. Civilian Personnel Flights. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPFs), in conjunction with management,
shall develop their own procedures in accordance with the system outlined in this AFI. CPFs provide pol-
icy direction and technical advice to management; serve as principal advisors to deciding officials and
supervisors; assist them in processing and resolving grievances; publicize the grievance process to
employees; and advise employees regarding grievance procedures.

Section B—Administrative Grievance System (AGS) General Provisions

5. Matters Covered and Those Excluded. The Air Force AGS establishes a process under which an
employee or a group of employees acting as individuals, may request personal relief in any matter of con-
cern or dissatisfaction relating to the employment of the employee(s) which is subject to the control of Air
Force management. Grievances do not include any matters that are subject to review outside the Air Force
or for which other authorized complaint or appeal systems, such as the Merit Systems Protection Board or
the Inspector General (IG), are prescribed. See Section E for subject matter coverage which lists other
excluded matters.
AFI36-1203_DOVERAFBSUP1_I 21 OCTOBER 2004                                                                    3


6. Representation Rights. Air Force employees are entitled to present grievances, communicate with
management officials and their servicing CPF; and represent themselves, or be represented by someone of
their choosing. The representative may accompany the employee or may act for the employee without the
employee's presence. If the employee elects representation, he or she must designate the representation in
writing and must notify management in writing of any change in that designation of representation. The
choice of representative may be denied if it would result in a conflict of interest, conflict with mission pri-
orities, or result in unreasonable costs. Employees must be notified in writing, as soon as possible, after
the decision of any disallowance of representation and provided rationale for the disallowance.

7. Use of Official Time. Employees and their representatives will be allowed, upon request, a reason-
able amount of duty time, if otherwise in a duty status, to prepare and present a grievance. Determinations
of what constitutes a reasonable amount of duty time will be based on the facts and circumstances of each
case. Additional time may be granted to the employee, upon request, when it is practical and reasonable.

8. Local Procedures. Installation commanders and management officials with delegated appointing
authority, with the assistance of the CPF, may tailor the AGS to meet local needs, such as specification of
deciding officials, time frames for holding grievances in abeyance, and organization or individual desig-
nated for review of grievance decisions. Matters excluded from grievance coverage by DoD and this AFI
may not be changed unless approved by DoD. Neither may the types of employees covered by the AGS
be changed. Processing time limits, as stated in this AFI, must also be observed.

9. Grievance Files. Activities must establish a grievance file whenever a formal grievance is filed. Upon
request, the grievance file shall be made available to the grievant and/or the grievant's representative for
review. The file shall contain all official documents or copies of documents related to the grievance.
Grievance files will be retained for four years in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and records
retention schedules.

Section C—Administrative Grievance Procedure

10. Informal Dispute Resolution Process. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) techniques, such as
mediation, peer review panels, facilitation, and settlement conferences, should be utilized to the maxi-
mum extent possible with the consent of the parties to the dispute. ADR reduces the time and costs of set-
tling disputes and empowers deciding officials to resolve issues in controversy more creatively and
expeditiously. ADR may be invoked at any stage of the grievance process; however, it is most successful
when initiated early or when the dispute is raised. Information about ADR should be made available to the
parties.
   10.1. An employee may seek informal resolution of a matter before filing a formal grievance, unless
   the matter involves an action that was effected through a notice of proposed action, a right to answer,
   and a notice of final decision.
   10.2. The employee initially shall present the matter either orally or in writing, to the immediate
   supervisor. If the matter involves an action taken by, or a relationship with, that supervisor, the matter
   may be presented to the next level supervisor. The employee must clearly advise the supervisor of the
   basis of the matter and the personal relief or remedy sought.
   10.3. The supervisor must consider the employee's problem and should not reject the grievance for
   any reason. However, if the supervisor believes the matter is not covered by the AGS or is untimely,
4                                               AFI36-1203_DOVERAFBSUP1_I 21 OCTOBER 2004


    the supervisor should inform the employee. The employee must be allowed to subsequently submit a
    formal grievance on the matter if so desired.
    10.4. The supervisor to whom the grievance has been submitted must attempt to resolve it and pro-
    vide a written decision within 15 calendar days (but no later than 30 calendar days) from the date the
    matter is raised. If the initial 15 day time limit cannot be met, the supervisor shall inform the
    employee (and the employee's representative) in writing of the date by which a decision will be
    received.
    10.4. (DOVER) Supervisors must attempt to resolve grievances informally and participate in ADR
    procedures.
    10.5. If the matter is not resolved in the informal stage, the supervisor should inform the employee of
    the procedures for filing a formal grievance when conveying the decision to the employee. The
    employee should also be given the name of the CPF representative or union official, as appropriate,
    who can advise the employee regarding procedures for requesting further grievance consideration.

11. Formal Grievance Resolution Process.
    11.1. An employee may file a formal written grievance if the matter is not resolved in the informal
    process (e.g., the requested relief is not granted or management's time limit expired with no decision)
    or where the employee chooses to bypass the informal process and initially file a grievance.
    11.2. The employee shall file the grievance in writing with the locally designated deciding official.
    The grievance must be signed, dated, and contain a sufficiently detailed statement of the specific
    issue(s) and the personal relief sought; a statement that the employee has not filed an appeal or com-
    plaint (such as an IG or an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) complaint) on the same issue; cop-
    ies of any documents in the employee's possession related to the grievance; and the name, address, and
    telephone number of the employee's representative, when applicable. Identical issues raised by the
    employee in any other grievance, appeal, or complaint are not grievable under this procedure.
    11.3. Identical or similar grievances may be joined and processed together provided this does not
    adversely affect the rights of any employee and joint processing is more effective and efficient. Griev-
    ances are identical and similar when the concerns expressed and the relief requested are identical or
    similar.
    11.4. The deciding official shall issue a final written decision which shall respond to all issues and
    shall provide the reasons for the decision. If the grievance is canceled or rejected, the deciding official
    should also give the reasons in writing for the decision. Deciding officials must be assigned to an
    organizational level higher than any employee involved in the grievance or having a direct interest in
    the matter being grieved unless the deciding official is the Secretary of the Air Force. The decision is
    final and not subject to review. However, an employee may request review of the following: a deci-
    sion to reject, cancel, or otherwise terminate a grievance without a decision on its merits; a decision
    that did not grant the relief sought when the grievance involved a suspension without pay; or any other
    decisions as established by local procedures.
    11.5. Deciding officials shall determine:
       11.5.1. The disposition of issue(s) which may arise in the processing of a grievance, such as
       whether to cancel or suspend processing of all or a portion of a grievance.
       11.5.2. Whether the parties are willing to attempt an ADR procedure.
AFI36-1203_DOVERAFBSUP1_I 21 OCTOBER 2004                                                                5


     11.5.3. Whether to require an impartial investigation. Note: This is recommended when the
     grievance concerns the separation or removal of a CIPMS employee or a suspension without
     pay.
     11.5.4. Whether to allow the grievant's choice of representative.
     11.5.5. Which issue(s) shall be investigated if the grievance is accepted.
     11.5.6. How much duty time shall be granted to the employee and the employee's representative.
  11.6. The deciding official may investigate the grievance. The official may also designate a
  fact-finder or select an investigator from the DoD Office of Complaint Investigations (OCI). The
  fact-finder or investigator must not have been involved in the grievance or have a direct interest in the
  matter being grieved. The official shall also decide the scope of the investigation, i.e., whether to
  require a report of fact, a report of facts with analysis, or report of fact with analysis and recommen-
  dations.
  11.7. Requests for review by the grievant (as allowed in paragraph 11.4.) are sent directly to the
  reviewer for a decision. Local procedures may specify that this review may be done by the Air Force
  Civilian Appellate Review Office (AFCARO) or by a deciding official at a higher organization level
  than the official who made the initial decision. Note: Review by AFCARO is recommended in cases
  involving suspensions without pay or for removal, reduction in grade or pay, or furlough for 30
  days or less of a CIPMS employee. Employees should be notified of their review options, if any, by
  the deciding official.
     11.7.1. (Added-DOVER) Requests to review must be submitted in writing to the 436 MSS/DPCE
     within 15 calendar days of receiving the final decision. A request must fully and clearly explain
     the reasons for disagreeing with the decision.
     11.7.2. (Added-DOVER) The 436 MSS/DPCE forwards the entire grievance file to the appropri-
     ate Group or Tenant Commander, as appropriate, within 10 calendar days of receipt.
     11.7.3. (Added-DOVER) The appropriate Group or Tenant Commander reviews the grievance
     file and provides a written response to the grievant, within 30 calendar days of receipt.
  11.8. A grievance or a portion of the grievance may be canceled or temporarily suspended:
     11.8.1. At the grievant's request (cancel or suspend processing the grievance as requested).
     11.8.2. If the subject matter of the grievance is excluded (cancel the grievance or that portion of
     the grievance containing excluded matters and advise the employee of any other appropriate
     forum for resolving the excluded issues).
     11.8.3. Because the grievant failed to provide sufficient detail to clearly identify the matter being
     grieved or specify the personal relief requested (cancel the grievance or suspend processing the
     grievance until the deficiency is corrected).
     11.8.4. Where the grievance requests disciplinary or other detrimental action be taken against
     another employee (cancel that portion of the grievance).
     11.8.5. If the grievant fails to comply with established time frames (cited in paragraphs 12.1. and
     12.2.) or procedures (cancel the grievance if time frames are not met or - if otherwise procedurally
     deficient, cancel the grievance or suspend processing the grievance until the deficiency is cor-
     rected).
6                                               AFI36-1203_DOVERAFBSUP1_I 21 OCTOBER 2004


       11.8.6. Where the grievant files a formal appeal, complaint or other challenge on the same matter
       under the AGS or under another formal dispute resolution process identified above (cancel that
       portion of the grievance pending or resolved in another process).
    11.9. When an employee alleges discrimination based upon race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
    physical or mental disability, or age, in connection with a grievance, the deciding official will hold the
    grievance in abeyance and refer the allegation of discrimination to the activity's Chief Equal Employ-
    ment Opportunity (EEO) Counselor. The official will notify the employee, the employee's represen-
    tative, and the CPF in writing of the referral. If the grievant withdraws the allegations of
    discrimination and requests further processing under the AGS, the deciding official will resume pro-
    cessing the grievance and notify all parties in writing. If the grievant files a formal discrimination
    complaint, or does not withdraw the allegations of discrimination in the grievance and requests further
    processing under the AGS, the grievance will be canceled by the deciding official.

12. Time Frames.
    12.1. If the employee uses the informal dispute resolution process, he/she must raise the matter no
    later than 15 calendar days following the date of the act or event creating the problem or the date the
    employee became aware of (or reasonably should have become aware of) the act or event. An
    employee may present a matter of concern regarding a continuing practice or condition at anytime. If
    the informal dispute resolution process is not successful in resolving the employee's concerns, the
    employee must file a formal grievance no later that 15 calendar days after the mediation or other ADR
    process concluded or a decision was rendered on the informal grievance.
    12.2. If the employee does not use the informal dispute resolution process, the employee must raise a
    matter within 15 calendar days following the date of the act or event creating the problem, or the date
    the employee became aware of (or reasonably should have become aware of) the act or event. An
    employee may present a matter of concern regarding a continuing practice or condition at anytime.
    12.3. The deciding official shall thoroughly and fairly consider the formal grievance and issue a writ-
    ten decision as soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days from the filing of the grievance.
    The deciding official may extend time frames when warranted by special circumstances (i.e. when
    those involved are geographically dispersed or when a third party fact-finder is used in the process).
    If extensions are used, a grievance decision must be issued no later than 90 calendar days from the fil-
    ing or 120 calendar days from the filing if a third party fact-finder is utilized, i.e. an examiner from
    OCI. The 120 calendar days time limit may be extended only when OCI is unable to schedule and
    complete the grievance examination during this period. In that case, a decision will be rendered no
    later than 30 calendar days after receipt of the OCI report.
    12.4. When calculating time limits under the AGS, the day of an action or receipt of a document is not
    counted. The latest day of the time limit is counted unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday,
    or day on which the employee is not regularly scheduled to work. In those cases, the last day of the
    time limit shall be moved to the next regularly scheduled workday.

Section D—Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System (CIPMS) Employees

13. CIPMS (Title 10, U.S. Code, Section 1590) Employees. Non-preference eligible CIPMS employ-
ees who have completed one year of continuous service in the same or similar positions within DoD under
other than a temporary appointment limited to two years or less, may grieve their removal, suspension,
AFI36-1203_DOVERAFBSUP1_I 21 OCTOBER 2004                                                                 7


reduction in grade or pay, or furlough for 30 days or less. This provision does not apply to terminations
for national security reasons under Section 1590(e)(1) of Title 10, United States Code. Activities should
normally conduct an impartial hearing in removal cases. Such hearings may be conducted by OCI or
another independent fact-finding party.

Section E—Subject Matter Coverage

14. Matters Excluded. Any employment matter may be grieved under this procedure except for the fol-
lowing:
   14.1. The content of established agency regulations (Air Force Instructions) and policy.
   14.2. Any matter covered by a negotiated grievance procedure or subject to formal review and adju-
   dication by the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Office of Personnel Management, the Federal
   Labor Relations Authority, or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any matter that the
   employee files under another review process or reconsideration procedure, or dispute resolution pro-
   cess (e.g. classification appeals) within the DoD.
   14.3. Non-selection for promotion from a group of properly ranked and certified candidates or failure
   to receive a non-competitive promotion.
   14.4. Preliminary notice of an action that, if effected, would be covered under the Air Force appeal or
   grievance systems or adjudication by the agencies cited in paragraph 14.2.
   14.5. The substance of performance standards, elements and or work objectives.
   14.6. The granting of, or failure to grant a performance award or the adoption of, or failure to adopt a
   suggestion or invention under 5 CFR Part 451. The receipt of or failure to receive a performance
   award under 5 U.S.C. 5384, performance awards in the SES/SIES. The receipt of or failure to receive
   a quality step increase under 5 U.S.C. 5336.
   14.7. The payment of, failure to pay, or the amount of a recruitment bonus, a relocation bonus, a
   retention allowance, or a supervisory differential under 5 CFR Part 575 or 10 U.S.C. 1590. The pay-
   ment of, or failure to pay, or the amount of critical position pay under 5 U.S.C. 5377; or the failure to
   request or grant an exception to the dual compensation restrictions under 5 CFR 575 or 10 U.S.C.
   1590.
   14.8. Any action taken under a voluntary formal agreement entered into by an employee involving
   geographic relocation or return from an overseas assignment.
   14.9. The termination of a probationer.
   14.10. The return of an employee serving a probationary period as a supervisor or manager to a non-
   supervisory or nonmanagerial position for failure to satisfactorily complete the probationary period.
   14.11. The separation or termination of an employee during a trial period.
   14.12. Reassignment of a SES/SIES member following receipt of an unsatisfactory rating. Also
   return of a SES/SIES member to another pay system during the one-year period of probation or for
   less than fully successful executive performance, and failure to be recertified, conditional recertifica-
   tion, or termination during probation for unacceptable performance.
8                                            AFI36-1203_DOVERAFBSUP1_I 21 OCTOBER 2004


    14.13. The termination or expiration of a term or temporary appointment or promotion, whether in
    the competitive or excepted service, in accordance with conditions of the appointment or promotion
    provided the employee was informed in advance of the temporary nature of the appointment or pro-
    motion and is returned to his or her former or equivalent position if temporarily promoted.
    14.14. SES/SIES performance evaluations and awards (including meritorious or distinguished execu-
    tive rank awards) and SES/SIES or Senior Level pay rate changes.
    14.15. A separation or termination action from a permanent position, except as provided for in para-
    graph 13.




                                     MICHAEL D. McGINTY, Lt General, USAF
                                     DCS/Personnel
