BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-9004
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                21 JULY 1994
                                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 03 May 2007

                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                                      DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFREA/MI                                                                      Certified by: SAF/MI
                                                                                 (Mr Phillip P. Upschulte)
Supersedes AFR 87-4, 23 April 1976; AFR 87-6,                                                   Pages: 16
           12 December 1979; and AFR 87-10,
           29 June 1990.

This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management, Department of Defense (DoD)
Directive 4165.6, Real Property Acquisition, Management, and Disposal, September 1, 1987 and DoD
Directive 5160.63, Delegation of Authority Vested in the Secretary of Defense to Take Certain Real Prop-
erty Actions, June 3, 1986. It guides the disposal of real property that the Air Force doesn't need to sup-
port the mission. It does not cover real property acquired for industrial facilities or property disposed of
under authority of the Base Closure and Realignment Acts. It provides procedures to efficiently use real
property installed equipment (RPIE) on excess installations. This instruction interfaces with AFI
32-7020, Environmental Restoration Program; AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis Process;
AFI 32-7062, Base Comprehensive Planning; AFI 32-7064, Natural Resources Management; AFI
32-7065, Cultural Resources Management; and AFI 32-7066, Environmental Baseline Surveys in Real
Estate Transactions. Attachment 1 is a glossary of terms.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change replaces Chapter 4, DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY OUTSIDE THE UNITED
STATES, THE COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO, AND TERRITORIAL AREAS ADMINIS-
TERED BY THE UNITED STATES in its entirety. It adds content on residual value negotiations at over-
seas locations, and updates procedures, office symbols, and references. It also adds the terms, combatant
commander and residual value negotiations, and replaces the outdated SAF/MII office symbol with SAF/
IEI in Attachment 1, GLOSSARY OF TERMS. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.
2                                                                           AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994


                                               Chapter 1

    DISPOSING OF LAND OR LAND INTERESTS WITH OR WITHOUT IMPROVEMENTS

1.1. Declarations of Excess (DE). Base Civil Engineer (BCE) prepares a DE if land or land interests are
no longer required to support current or programmed missions. After the facilities board (FB) approves it,
submit the DE through the major command (MAJCOM) to the appropriate approval authority. Send DEs
above the MAJCOM approval authority through the MAJCOM to the Air Force Real Estate Agency
(AFREA/MI). Attachment 2 gives instructions for completing the DE.

1.2. Approval Authority. These authorities must approve the DE:
    1.2.1. Congress. Under 10 U.S.C. 2662, the Congress approves disposals with an estimated fair-mar-
    ket value of $200,000 or more.
    1.2.2. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations) (SAF/MII) approves:
       •   All fee-owned land disposals with or without improvements.
       •   Requests for "holds" or "withdrawals" from excess of real property reported to General Ser-
           vices Administration (GSA).
       •   Leases, easements, and other interests in nonfederal land with a fair-market rental value
           exceeding $200,000 per annum.
       •   Leases, easements, and other interests in nonfederal land with government improvements
           exceeding $25,000 in value.
    1.2.3. AFREA/MI. Approves GSA leased space outside the National Capitol Region.
    1.2.4. MAJCOM. Approves the following or delegates to the installation level:
       •   Leases, easements, and other interests in nonfederal land with a fair-market value of $200,000
           or less.
       •   Leased property with or without government improvements that do not exceed a total of
           $25,000 in value.
    1.2.5. Installation commanders may dispose of excess real property facilities, but not the underlying
    real estate in whatever manner that best serves the government when the facilities have no estimated
    value.

1.3. Disposal Commitments. Installation commanders or MAJCOMs must not commit the Air Force to
transfers of real property or real property interests outside the government. Refer queries received from
outside the government to AFREA/MI.

1.4. Disposing of Timber. MAJCOM must consult the Environmental Resources Division, Air Force
Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE/ESER), Natural Resources Manager before disposing of
land with marketable timber (see AFI 32-7064). However, planned forest products sales on lands
reported as excess may continue until the land is disposed of or transferred.
AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994                                                                                     3


   1.4.1. If, after disposal, forested areas are to become, or likely to become, recreation or public park
   areas, do not clear-cut them. Thinnings, intermediate cuttings, and salvage cuttings within the next 5
   years are permissible when already scheduled by forest management.

1.5. Family Housing With Land. Installation commanders must send all requests for disposal of family
housing with underlying fee land through the MAJCOM to AFREA/MI. Family housing located on land
to be declared excess may not be demolished or otherwise disposed of separately from the land.

1.6. Report of Excess Real Property. Excess facilities and related land and improvements are reported
to GSA on separate SFs 118, Report of Excess Real Property; 118A, Buildings, Structures, Utilities,
and Miscellaneous Facilities; 118B, Land (Used only by CONUS, Alaska, and Hawaii); and 118C,
Related Personal Property. Secure and protect all RPIE. Mark all property removed for storage and
return it to the unit for disposal by GSA. Use a DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Doc-
ument, to list related personal property. List Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) or nonap-
propriated fund (NAF) personal property on a separate SFs 118C. (See AFI 34-205, Non-Appropriated
Fund Capital and Facility Requirements.)
   1.6.1. When the BCE accepts DD Form 1149, establish a file for each building containing the form
   and its related documents.
   1.6.2. Do not remove any related personal property listed on SF 118C from the reported excess real
   property without prior GSA approval. Approved additions or deletions from the Report of Excess are
   identified by submitting a "corrected" SF 118C to GSA.

1.7. Environmental Compliance. The real estate office identifies proposed transactions early to the
environmental office to ensure timely completion of environmental requirements. Include the environ-
mental compliance documents in the real estate transaction records throughout the real estate transaction.
Maintain the completed environmental compliance documents as part of the real estate transaction
records. See Attachment 2 for a list of documents required in the DE package. The Environmental
Office accomplishes actions in paragraphs 1.7.1. through 1.7.4. as required.
   1.7.1. Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). Prepares the EIAP documentation if anal-
   ysis is required according to AFI 32-7061.
   1.7.2. Cultural Resources. Consultations with the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Advi-
   sory Council on Historic Preservation are required for historic and prehistoric real property such as
   archeological sites. Refer to AFI 32-7065.
   1.7.3. Natural Resources. Consultations with regulatory agencies are required if real property
   includes wetlands, floodplains, coastal zones, or threatened or endangered species. Refer to AFI
   32-7064. When property located in floodplains or wetlands is proposed for disposal (to nonfederal
   public or private parties; or for lease, easement or right-of-way), reference restrictions identified
   under federal, state, or local regulations and attach any other appropriate restrictions to the uses of the
   property in the conveyance.
   1.7.4. Contamination. The Environmental Baseline Survey (EBS) documents the nature and magni-
   tude of the environmental contamination of property or interests in property considered for disposal
   (as well as acquisition, interagency transfer or outgrant). Make real property records available for the
   preparation of the EBS according to AFI 32-7066. Pursuant to the Community Environmental
4                                                                             AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994


    Response Facilitation Act (CERFA), P.L. 102-426, October 19, 1992, the appropriate state Environ-
    mental Protection Agency or its equivalent must concur with the EBS. Additionally, if the excess
    property is located on an installation contained on the National Priorities List (NPL), the regional fed-
    eral Environmental Protection Agency office must concur with the EBS findings.

1.8. Withdrawn Public Land. If the Air Force has no further need for withdrawn or reserved public
land, AFREA/MI will obtain SAF/MII approval (see paragraph 1.2.2.) and direct the Corps of Engineers
file a "notice of intention to relinquish" with the state office of the Bureau of Land Management. Send
information copies of executed instruments to the MAJCOM, GSA, and AFREA/MI.

1.9. Screening Real Property. Once the appropriate authority has determined that the real property is
excess to Air Force requirements, other DoD services and federal agencies must have a chance to acquire
the real property if they can show a valid need. The MAJCOM prepares a Notice of Availability and cir-
culates it to all military activities within a 50-mile radius.
    1.9.1. AFREA/MI coordinates DEs with the Bases and Units Division, Deputy Chief of Staff, for
    Plans and Operations (HQ USAF/XOOB), Departments of the Army and Navy, and defense agencies
    to determine if another MAJCOM or DoD element needs the property.
    1.9.2. Do not screen leased space assigned by GSA if annual rental is $25,000 or less. Also, you do
    not have to provide screening if the government uses, occupies, or controls excess property under a
    lease, permit, easement, or similar legal instrument in which:
       •   The excess property has a remaining lease term of less than 9 months.
       •   The lease precludes transfer to another activity.
       •   The property contains offices or storage space of 2,500 square feet or less.
    1.9.3. Screen properties listed in 1.9.1. if government improvements are located on premises.
    1.9.4. If no DoD element wants the property, continue disposal as described in paragraph 1.9. How-
    ever, if another MAJCOM needs the property, transfer it as described in AFI 32-9005, Establishing,
    Accounting and Reporting Real Property.
    1.9.5. If no DoD element needs the property, GSA screens the property with other federal agencies.

1.10. Responsibilities for Disposal After Screening:
    1.10.1. Within the limits of authority in paragraph 1.2.4., MAJCOMs will:
       •   Authorize disposal.
       •   Direct the Corps of Engineers to initiate disposal.
       •   Give AFREA/MI an information copy of the disposal directive.
    1.10.2. Disposals not within the limits of authority in paragraph 1.2.4., AFREA/MI will:
       •   Obtain SAF/MII approval, if required.
       •   Submit a disposal report to the Congressional Armed Services Committee.
       •   Issue a preliminary real estate disposal directive to the Chief of Engineers.
AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994                                                                            5


1.11. Accountability and Care of Excess Real Property. The Air Force must retain accountability and
protect excess property from vandalism and theft until the disposal has been completed at all levels.
6                                                                            AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994


                                                Chapter 2

    DISPOSING OF EXCESS OR DETERIORATED BUILDINGS AND IMPROVEMENTS ON
                              NONEXCESS LAND

2.1. Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Responsibilities. BCEs set up building disposal programs as part of
their long-range plans in installation Base Comprehensive Plans (see AFI 32-7062, Base Comprehensive
Planning).

2.2. Criteria for Disposing of Buildings on Nonexcess Land. Installation commanders must dispose of
any unneeded or deteriorated building on nonexcess land if such buildings meet one or more of the fol-
lowing conditions:
    •   Deterioration beyond the point of economical repair.
    •   Building interferes with a site approved for construction.
    •   Dangerous to people, likely to damage adjoining structures, or creates a nuisance.
    •   Requires more than normal maintenance, and its disposal will not create a deficiency.
    •   Design is obsolete and it cannot be reasonably altered or economically used.

2.3. When To Submit AF Form 300, Facility Disposal. The Facilities Board must confirm that build-
ings or other improvements on nonexcess land meet the criteria of paragraph 2.2. After confirmation,
installation real property personnel will:
    •   Determine, with the assistance of the environmental office, if facilities contain hazardous or toxic
        materials.
    •   Determine if the facility is subject to the reporting requirements of the Stewart B. McKinney
        Homeless Assistance Act.
    •   Submit AF Form 300 to the appropriate authority for approval.

2.4. Approval Authority for AF Form 300. MAJCOMs have the authority to approve disposal of all
buildings and other improvements on nonexcess land except as noted in paragraph 2.4.3. Commands
issue approval through AF Form 300.
    2.4.1. A MAJCOM may redelegate any portion of its disposal authority to an intermediate or installa-
    tion commander, except as noted in paragraph 2.4.3. and buildings destroyed by fire. An approved
    Military Construction Program (MILCON) project may authorize disposal of facilities committed to
    the Congress by the installation.
    2.4.2. This does not include those identified by the Directorate of Plans and Programs (HQ USAF/
    CEP) as requiring Secretary of the Air Force approval. Identify MCP projects on the AF Form 300.
    2.4.3. Regardless of their fair-market value, disposal of the following facilities requires submittal of
    AF Forms 300 through the MAJCOM to the appropriate offices for approval:
        •   Chapel facilities: to the Chief of Chaplains (HQ USAF/HC).
        •   Hospital and Medical facilities: to the Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SGSF).
AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994                                                                                     7


       •   Munitions storage and handling facilities. On property exceeding 40,000 SF: to Deputy Chief
           of Staff Logistics (HQ USAF/LGMW).
       •   Hazardous waste storage, treatment, or disposal facilities: to Directorate of Environmental
           Quality (HQ USAF/CEV).

2.5. Buildings Committed to the Congress. The Air Force commits to dispose of substandard buildings
when the Congress approves the construction of replacement facilities. Such buildings are identified as
disposal commitments after a replacement building is constructed, on DD Form 1391, FY__ Military
Construction Program, or during congressional testimony. If the Air Force subsequently needs to retain
a committed building, the MAJCOM's civil engineer may issue a waiver for retention or substitution of
another building. Use AF Form 3217, Commitments to Dispose of Buildings FY __ MCP, to monitor
the disposal of buildings committed to the Congress.

2.6. Disposing of Family Housing Without Land. MAJCOMS must closely monitor the demolition or
disposal of family housing.
   2.6.1. If you have family housing that blocks new construction, submit AF Form 300 to the Chief or
   Deputy Chief, Directorate of Plans and Programs, Office of the Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/CEP).
   2.6.2. Do not demolish family housing unless the underlying land is badly needed or the building has
   no salvage value or value for offsite removal. If you dispose of family housing without the underlying
   land, make every effort to sell the buildings. Credit the proceeds to the family housing account
   (57X0704).
   2.6.3. When requesting approval to dispose of family housing located on the site of new construction,
   state the approved MCP project title, fiscal year approved, and construction start date. Try to sell
   these units for offsite removal before construction begins, rather than including their demolition in
   new construction contracts.

2.7. Screening Excess Buildings and Improvements on Nonexcess Land. Do not screen this property
if removal from the land is physically impractical or if it warrants salvage in place. If removal is practical
and the value of the improvements is $25,000 or less, MAJCOMS screen property with other DoD ele-
ments within a 50-mile radius. This does not include facilities listed in paragraph 2.4.3.
   2.7.1. AFREA/MI ascertains whether other DoD element needs the excess buildings which are
   beyond the MAJCOM's approval authority.

2.8. Donation of Buildings and Improvements on Nonexcess Land. When excess buildings and
improvements on nonexcess land has no commercial value, they can be donated to any agency of the Fed-
eral Government or to a "public body." Prior to donation, ensure that there is no reasonable prospect of
selling them.
   2.8.1. Buildings and improvements on nonexcess land may not be donated to any private person or
   philanthropic, nonprofit, or patriotic organization such as a church, Boy Scout group, or the American
   Legion. See 10 U.S.C. 483(h).

2.9. Transferring Excess Buildings or Improvements on Nonexcess Land. U s e D D F o r m 1 3 5 4 ,
Transfer and Acceptance of Military Real Property, to document the transfer of real property within
8                                                                                AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994


the Air Force or other DoD components. When transferring real property between military departments
exceed MAJCOM authority, AFREA/MI asks the Chief of Engineers to do the transfer. See AFI 32-9001,
Acquisition of Real Property, for details.

2.10. Disposing of Property by Sale or Salvage. The BCE determines facility values. The estimated
value may be reduced by the cost required to restore the land.
    2.10.1. Upon receiving MAJCOM approval, when an excess facility has an estimated value not
    exceeding $25,000, the BCE submits AF Form 300 to the DE requesting disposal by sale. Excess
    facilities having an estimated value exceeding $25,000 are forwarded to AFRA/MI for approval.
    2.10.2. After you send AF Form 300 to the DE, do not remove any installed equipment from the facil-
    ity.
    2.10.3. If the site requires extensive restoration, such as removal of slabs, piers, reseeding, or level-
    ing, the BCE may have this work done in-house or by contract. This need not be part of the dis-
    posal-by-sale contract.
    2.10.4. If the disposal is not completed within 6 months after MAJCOM approves AF Form 300, the
    BCE must report the delay to the MAJCOM and give the new scheduled disposal date.

2.11. Disposing of Improvements in the Way of New Construction. If the improvements have a value
of less than $25,000, the MAJCOM may approve the disposal.
    2.11.1. If the improvements are valued at over $25,000, the MAJCOM sends AF Form 300 to
    AFREA/MI.
    2.11.2. If the improvements are on a site being acquired for military construction, disposal will occur
    when the property is acquired.

2.12. Abandoning In-Place Facilities on Nonexcess Land. Normally, buildings and above-ground
structures are not abandoned "in place." However, facilities such as underground utility lines, fuel tanks,
roads, sidewalks, and vehicle parking areas, can be abandoned in place under these conditions:
    •   The facility will be rendered unusable by new construction.
    •   Cost of removal would exceed the salvage value.
    •   The facility has deteriorated and cannot be repaired or rehabilitated.
    •   It does not pose or create a hazard to health or safety and cannot be removed at reasonable
        expense.
    •   It is located under or in such close proximity to existing structures that damage to the structure
        could occur.
    2.12.1. In compliance with existing state and local environmental laws, the Air Force surveys facili-
    ties abandoned in place to make sure no health or safety hazards exist. Flush, clean, and seal under-
    ground tanks to prevent accidental use. Underground tanks to be abandoned in place must be filled
    with a solid inert material (see AFI 32-7044). Cap water wells abandoned in place to prevent contam-
    ination or accident. Mark the location and description of all of facilities abandoned in place on the
    Base Comprehensive Plan (see AFI 32-7062).
AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994                                                                            9


2.13. Disposing of Buildings Containing Asbestos. Before planning for the disposal of a building, the
installation commander, bioenvironmental engineering personnel, and BCE must work together to:
   •   Conduct an asbestos survey and prepare a report of findings for each building.
   •   Certify in writing that the building contains or does not contain asbestos.
   •   Start decontamination, if necessary.
   •   Consult the bioenvironmental engineer before completing an Invitation for Bids (IFB).
   2.13.1. The bioenvironmental engineer, must advise the building manager and the installation real
   property officer when asbestos is determined present in the building.
   2.13.2. In soliciting bids, include all applicable safety and health clauses.
10                                                                           AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994


                                                Chapter 3

                                  REMOVING AND REUSING RPIE

3.1. Removing and Reusing RPIE. To ensure efficient use of real property installed equipment at
excess facilities, the base commander makes the equipment available for possible reuse at other Air Force
installations. Items must satisfy an OSD-approved budget-year requirement and be "need to buy" items
or each item must satisfy a requirement for a project in the future year defense program. The RPIE is then
removed or held in storage for approved projects.
     3.1.1. HQ USAF/CE asks the Air Force Civil Engineering Support Agency (AFCESA) to inventory,
     evaluate, and screen selected items of installed equipment for removal and reuse. After AFCESA
     inventories the items:
        •   BCE completes AF Form 539, Installed Equipment Inventory Worksheet.
        •   AFCESA reviews AF Form 539 to evaluate items.
        •   AFCESA lists available items for reuse on AF Form 540, Real Property Installed Equip-
            ment Availability List, and sends it to all MAJCOMs installations within a 500-mile radius.
        •   MAJCOMS review AF Form 540 and respond within 60 days.

3.2. Approval Procedure. AFCESA consolidates the requirements and sends AF Form 540 to AFREA/
MI for approval. After approval, AFREA/MI sends a copy of AF Form 540 to AFCESA and to the MAJ-
COM responsible for the RPIE.
     3.2.1. The MAJCOM asks the installation to place items "on hold" to make sure they are salvaged
     when the facility is reported to the GSA as excess.
     3.2.2. AFCESA/DMC helps the MAJCOM remove, overhaul, pack, ship and coordinate the transfer
     of accountability for items on "hold" for other MAJCOMs. The gaining MAJCOM uses DD Form
     1149 to document acceptance of RPIE items and to account for them on the base real property records.
     3.2.3. HQ AFESC/DEC screens all equipment not specifically earmarked for a known project for
     possible inclusion in the excess RPIE "hold" program.
     3.2.4. After HQ USAF/CE approval and with the assistance of MAJCOM or NGB, AFCEE arranges
     to remove, overhaul, pack, crate, and ship items that fill requirements annotated on the AF Form 540.

3.3. Storage of "Hold" Items. HQ AFCESA/DMC ships "hold" items listed on the approved AF Form
540 to a preselected depot or storage point.
     3.3.1. AFCESA/DMC inspects "hold" items and keeps them in storage. Designated "hold" items that
     stay in place remain on the base real property records. HQ AFCESA/DMC oversees items stored at
     Civil Engineering Maintenance and Inspection Repair Team (CEMIRT) locations. If a "hold" item is
     stored at the installation that needs it, the BCE shows accountability on the Custody Receipt Listing.

3.4. Cost of Removing, Overhauling, and Shipping Equipment. HQ AFCESA/DMC charges the cost
of removing, overhauling, and shipping equipment to funds allocated to the project for which the item is
used. Ship the items directly to the requestor. HQ AFCESA/DMC funds the cost of removing and ship-
ping items placed in a depot or held in storage. Later shipments are funded as outlined in AFI 65-601,
volume 1, US Air Force Budget Policies and Procedures.
AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994                                                                                 11


                                               Chapter 4

     DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, THE
COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO, AND TERRITORIAL AREAS ADMINISTERED BY
                        THE UNITED STATES

4.1. DoD Policy on Foreign Real Property. All disposals of foreign excess real property must comply
with DoDI 4165.69, Realignment of DoD Sites Overseas, and AFI 10-504, Overseas Basing Realign-
ments.

4.2. DELETED

4.3. Property Subject to International Agreement. If an international agreement affects the disposal,
the MAJCOM representative shall coordinate with the appropriate U.S. State Department officials and
SAF/IA.

4.4. DELETED

4.5. Residual Value Negotiations. Air Force officials will comply with DoDI 4165.69, Realignment of
DoD Sites Overseas, and ensure that the negotiations are conducted in a timely manner.

4.6. Documenting real property disposal overseas. For excess real property outside the United States,
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and Territorial Areas Administered by the United States, the MAJCOM
will submit to AFRPA a Declaration of Excess (DE) including:
   4.6.1. Recommendations of the Army and/or Navy and combatant commander. Document their rec-
   ommendations on the DE or AF Form 300. Once documented, proceed with DE as noted in this AFI.
   4.6.2. Recommendations of the combatant commander if the value is more than 5% of the overall
   installation in land area or infrastructure value.
   4.6.3. A copy of each legal instrument that affects relinquishment of leasehold or other interest.
   4.6.4. Housing will be disposed of IAW AFI 32-6001.



                                               RODNEY A. COLEMAN
                                               The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower,
                                               Reserve Affairs, Installations and Environment
12                                                                         AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994


                                              Attachment 1

                                       GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Acquired Land—Land obtained from any private or public source. Land withdrawn from the public
domain is not considered acquired land.
Combatant Commander—A commander of one of the unified or specified combatant commands
established by the President.
Contaminated Real Property—Property contaminated by live ordnance, chemical or biological warfare
agents, radioactive material, or other hazardous substances.
Declaration of Excess (DE)—A narrative description of real property that the Air Force no longer needs
for current or programmed missions.
Disposal—For purposes of this instruction, any authorized method of permanently relinquishing Air
Force control of, responsibility for, or any real property interest in, a piece of real property.
District Engineer—A member of the US Army Corps of Engineers, who, under AFI 32-9006, Army and
Air Force Basic Real Estate Agreements (Joint), normally acts as the Air Force real estate agent for an
assigned geographic area (for example, Baltimore District Engineer).
Estimated Current Value—The estimated current fair-market value of buildings or improvements is
established by the base civil engineer (BCE); the estimate is not established by a formal appraisal. The
BCE adjusts this value to allow for the cost of site restoration.
Excess Real Property—Air Force real property that has been screened within the Air Force and with
other military departments and defense agencies and that is excess to Department of Defense
requirements.
Historic Real Property—Real property having significant characteristics relating to American history,
architecture, archeology, engineering, or culture that, under 16 U.S.C. 470 et seq., make it eligible for
listing in the National Register of Historic Places.
Industrial Facility—Any Air Force-owned, -leased, or -controlled real property facility that a contractor
uses to fulfill government research, development, test, evaluation, production, maintenance, or
modification contracts, or to store production machinery and equipment in support of such activity.
International Agreement Property—Real property held under the terms of an agreement between the
United States and another country.
Public Body—Any state, territory, or possession of the United States; also, any political subdivision,
agency, or instrumentality of these (including the District of Columbia).
Public Lands—Any land and interest in land owned by the United States within its boundaries and
administered by the Secretary of the Interior through the Bureau of Land Management regardless of how
the United States acquired ownership. The term does not include:
     •   Lands located on the Outer Continental Shelf.
     •   Lands held for the benefit of Indians, Aleuts, and Eskimos (43 U.S.C. 1702 [e]). (See "Withdrawn
         Land.")
AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994                                                                                 13


Real Property—Lands, buildings, structures, utilities systems, improvements, and appurtenances
thereto. Includes real property installed equipment attached to and made part of buildings and structures
(such as heating systems) but not movable equipment (such as plant equipment).
Residual Value—The negotiated monetary or non-monetary compensation DoD receives from host
nations for DoD-funded facilities or other capital improvements returned to the host nation under a
realignment action. The applicability or terms of residual value will vary depending on the host nation,
affected by such factors as the applicable international agreement, and the extent of environmental effects
and reuse potential of the property.
SAF/IEI—The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations).
Screening—Circulating a notice of availability of real property to determine whether another federal
agency needs it.
Site Restoration—Returning the land to a usable condition. This includes removing unnecessary
sidewalks, withdrawing surface foundations, filling excavations, mitigating hazardous substance
contamination, and reseeding or resodding the affected ground area.
Surplus Real Property—Real property that GSA has screened through all federal agencies, and
officially been determined not needed by the Federal Government.
Transfer—As used in this instruction, a real estate action that transfers the custody and control of real
property and its related personal property from one Air Force activity to another, or to another military
department or federal agency.
Wetlands—Areas that are inundated by surface or ground water often enough to support, and under
normal circumstances do or would support, a prevalence of vegetative or aquatic life that requires
saturated or seasonally saturated soil for growth and reproduction. Wetlands generally include swamps,
marshes, bogs, and similar areas such as sloughs, potholes, wet meadows, river overflows, mud flats, and
natural ponds.
Withdrawn Land—Public land that has been set aside or designated for a specific public purpose, such,
as a national park, wildlife refuge, or national defense use. Withdrawal of public lands generally
segregates them from lease, sale, settlement, or other dispositions under the public land laws.
14                                                                             AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994


                                               Attachment 2

      FORMAT FOR DECLARATION OF EXCESS (DE) REAL PROPERTY (LAND, LAND
                       INTERESTS, AND LEASEHOLDS)

A2.1. Declaration of Excess Form (DE). At the request of the of the real estate function, the installation
environmental office provides required information. Upon receiving the DE, the MAJCOM, environmen-
tal office will review and approve information and documents prior to the MAJCOM real estate function
forwarding the package to AFREA/MI. The DE package must include the following environmental infor-
mation and documents:
     A2.1.1. Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) Documents. If this analysis is required,
     include the Categorical Exclusion, Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact
     or Environmental Impact Statement and the Record of Decision in the DE package.
     A2.1.2. Consultations. If consultations with regulatory agencies, such as the Environmental Protec-
     tion Agency, are required, ensure copies of associated correspondence are included in the DE pack-
     age.
     A2.1.3. Environmental Baseline Survey (EBS). This document or a statement of waiver is required
     for all transactions. The appropriate state Environmental Protection Agency, or its equivalent, corre-
     spondence concurring with the EBS findings must be included in the DE. Additionally, if the property
     is contained on the National Priority List, correspondence from the Regional Federal Environmental
     Protection Agency concurring with the EBS findings must be included in the DE.
     A2.1.4. The DE must include these certificates:
        •   Notice of Contamination or Finding of No Contamination.
        •   PCB Clearance.
        •   Asbestos Clearance.
     A2.1.5. A base map showing locations of all underground storage tanks, a description of what has
     been done to keep underground tanks from leaking, and a statement outlining any restrictions on their
     future use.

A2.2. Reason for Declaring Excess. Explain why the property was determined to be excess to current
and programmed mission requirements (for example, installation survey, Executive Order 12512 Survey,
or change in mission). Include a statement that the installation does not plan to acquire any property at or
near this location in the foreseeable future.

A2.3. Location and Identification of Land and Improvements. Pr ovide a ma p, a nd a pro p e r ty
description if available indicating the land area and a list of buildings and other facilities that are recom-
mended for excess. Identify any wetlands and flood plains on the map.

A2.4. Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act. Explain what efforts you have made to screen
the property for use by the homeless and whether a homeless assistance provider has expressed interest in
the property.
AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994                                                                                15


A2.5. Present Use. Describe how the property was historically or most recently or is currently being
used.

A2.6. Screening. Describe how the installation screened other defense services and agencies and state
whether anyone wanted the property.

A2.7. Outgrants. Attach a list of all outleases, easements, permits, and similar legal agreements. This
list should include the document number, beginning and ending date of agreement, and general descrip-
tion of property. If available, attach a copy of the initial outgrant document and any supplemental agree-
ments.

A2.8. Recommended Disposal Date. Give the date that the property is no longer required and identify
any known obstacles to disposal.

A2.9. Caretaker Costs. Describe what security and maintenance the property needs and how much it
would cost.

A2.10. Restoration. Describe what needs to be restored and how much it would cost. Tell whether
MAJCOM or installation funds are available for this purpose.

A2.11. Brief History. Indicate when the installation was first activated. Describe how it was acquired
and any subsequent significant events.

A2.12. Future Use. Identify any interest that the Air Force plans to retain (for example, clearance, road,
avigation easement). Say whether there has been any local interest in the future use of the property.

A2.13. Minerals. List any known minerals that are located within the excess area.

A2.14. Historic, Archaeological, Wetlands and Endangered Species. Include historic, archaeological,
wetlands, and endangered species information in the Environmental Assessment (see paragraph A2.1.1.).

A2.15. AF Form 1192, USAF Installation Characteristics Report. If an entire installation is being
recommended for excess, submit an original and two copies of this report showing the installation as
"excess."

A2.16. Hazardous Ordnance Contaminated Land. Land recommended for disposal that has poten-
tially hazardous ordnance contamination (primarily Air Force ranges) also requires:
   A2.16.1. Decontamination in accordance with AFI 32-3002.
   A2.16.2. A certificate of clearance must be prepared in accordance with AFI 32-3002 and approved
   by the Department of Defense Explosive Safety Board (DDESB). Send the certificate with the Report
   of Excess (SF 118) to the General Services Administration.

A2.17. Real Property and Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE) of the Army and Air Force
Exchange Service (AAFES) and Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Facilities. Identify all real property
and RPIE of the AAFES and NAF activities. State whether the owner wants to remove or receive appro-
16                                                                        AFI32-9004 21 JULY 1994


priate compensation for their owned property at fair-market value from the receiving agency or individ-
ual. Sell these items either by direct negotiation between AAFES or NAF and the receiver, or under
special sales conditions and values that the owner includes in the Declaration of Excess.
NOTE: This reporting requirement is exempt from licensing according to AFI 37-124, The Information
Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force
Information Collections.
