                         •                                             •
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                AFI32-7086
OFFUTTAFB                                                               OFFUTT SUPPLEMENT 1


                                                                                      16 August 2004


                                                                                    Civil Engineering


                                                     HAZARDOUS MATERIAL MANAGEMENT


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

The official version of this publication is available digitally on the Offutt AFB Intranet site at:
https://wwwmil.offutt.af.millbase/publications/indexhom.htm. If you lack access, please contact the Base
Publications Office for an electronic copy.
OPR: 55 CES/CEV (Mr. Lueninghoener)                                         Certified by: 55 CES/CE
Approved by: Mr. Keyser                                                         (Maj Barton Barnhart)
Editor: MSgt Springer                                                                         Pages: 6
Supersedes: None                                                                       Distribution: F
Air Force Instruction 32-7086, Hazardous Material Management, is supplemented as follows:
This supplement establishes responsibilities and guidance for Offutt's Hazardous Material
Management Program (HMMP). These procedures apply to all base users of hazardous materials
(HAZMAT). This supplement requires the use of Air Force Form 3952, ChemicallHazardous
Material Request and Authorization (in paper or electronic form) to establish new HAZMAT
requirements. All paper and digital records maintained by this publication will be retained
according to AFMAN 37-139 (33-322V4), Records Disposition Schedule. In cases where Air
Force and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) records retention and disposition contradict,
the most stringent records retention rules will apply.

SUMMARYOFREV~IONS

This is the revised Offutt Air Force Base supplement to Air Force Instruction 32-7086,
Hazardous Material Management and Air Combat Command Supplement 1 to AFI 32-7086,
Hazardous Materials Management, which incorporates interim change 1 highlighted in yellow.


1.9.1.1. (Added) The Offutt HMMP Team is a subcommittee of the Offutt Environmental
Protection Committee (EPC). The Environmental Management Flight Chief or their designated
representative from the Civil Engineer (CE) Squadron will chair the Offutt HMMP Team.
                          •                                           •
2                                                       AFI 32-7086/0AFBSUP1, 16 Aug 04


1.9.2.6. (Added) Ensure unresolved HMMP issues or concerns are elevated directly to the Offutt
EPC and the Offutt EPC Chair.


1.9.3.1. (Added) The Offutt AFB HMMP team will consist of representatives from:


       55 th Wing                   Financial Management Office
                                    Safety Office
                                    Staff Judge Advocate


       Communications Group


       Maintenance Group


       Medical Group                Aerospace Medicine Squadron
                                    - Bioenvironmental Engineer


       Operations Group


       Mission Support Group        Civil Engineer Squadron
                                    - Environmental Flight
                                    - Fire Department
                                    - Govt-Operated CE Supply Store (GOCESS)
                                    - Heating/Ventilating/Air Conditioning Shop (HV AC)
                                    Services Squadron
                                    Contracting Squadron
                                    Logistics Distribution Division
                                    - Hazardous Materials Warehouse
                                    - Vehicle Maintenance
                       •                                        •
AFI 32-7086/0AFBSUP1, 16 Aug 04                                                             3


       Air Force Weather Agency


       U.S. Strategic Command


1.9.7. (Added) Air Force Weather Agency will appoint a member to participate on the Offutt
HMMP team. See Paragraph 2.6.11. (Added).


1.9.8. (Added) United States Strategic Command will appoint a member to participate on the
Offutt HMMP team. See Paragraph 2.6.12. (Added).


1.9.9. (Added) The Offutt HMMP Team will meet at least quarterly.


1.9.10. (Added) The HMMP Team will report their activities quarterly to the Environmental
Protection Committee.


2.3.1.1. (Added) Offutt's HAZMAT Pharmacy Program (HPP) and the 55 th Logistics Distribution
Division HAZMART Warehouse will follow the Air Force standard of a partially decentralized
operation.


2.6.1.1.1. (Added) Neither privatization or a Most Efficient Organization (MEO)-type operation
of Offutt's HPP or HAZMART Warehouse will change HAZMART's responsibilities for
procurement, free issue, Air Force Environmental Management Information System (AF-EMIS)
data entry, and overall hazardous material usage reduction. The HAZMART Warehouse will
support data gathering as required for the Air Force-developed HAZMAT metrics.


2.6.2.8.1. (Added) All CE-obtained and managed contracts will require the contractor to submit
hazardous material data to the HAZMART Warehouse by supplying it to the 55th CE's
Construction Management Element (55 CES/CECC) person assigned to that contract, or the
contract's Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE), who will review the information with the
Environmental Flight (55 CES/CEV) and then provide the information to the HAZMART
Warehouse for entry into EMIS.
                         •                                          •
4                                                        AFI 32-7086/0AFBSUP1, 16 Aug 04


2.6.3.3. (Added) All CONS-obtained and managed contracts will require the contractor to submit
hazardous material data to the HAZMART Warehouse by supplying it to the contract's Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) or Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE), who will review the
information with 55 CES/CEV and then provide the information to the HAZMART Warehouse
for entry into EMIS.


2.6.4.21.1.4. (ACCSUPl)(Added) With the exception of other Sources of Supply (SOSs) with
EMIS connectivity, the HAZMART Warehouse is the preferred Offutt location for all container
data to be entered into EMIS.


2.6.4.21.2. (ACCSUPl)(Added) The Offutt HMMP will utilize bar codes to track containers
containing hazardous materials. Offutt will operate in a non-sequential manner so that containers
are depleted. at the time of issue (or entry) and shops will not have to notify HAZMART when a
container is empty .


2.6.8.4.5. (ACCSUPl)(Added) Work area supervisors will review their EMIS account annually
to make sure HAZMA T approvals have not expired. Because approvals must be renewed every
two years, shop supervisors must make sure they have valid approvals on hand for all chemicals
currently in use in the shop.


2.6.8.8.1. (Added) Ensure records for all hazardous materials approved on Air Force Form 3952
and purchased with the Government Purchase Card (GPC) credit card are recorded in EMIS.
Normally, the purchaser does this by giving either the HAZMART Warehouse or their Source of
Supply the pertinent information. See AFI 32-7086, Atch 2, for instructions on how to fill
out/process the form.


2.6.9.2.1. (Added) The Contracting Squadron will ensure each contract vehicle contains a
requirement for the contractor to supply all HAZMAT data: materials to be used, Material Safety
Data Sheets (MSDSs), the amount of HAZMAT to be kept on-site, and the estimated amount of
HAZMAT to be used. At the end of the contract, the contractor will report the actual amount of
HAZMAT used to the contract QAE or contract OPR. The contract QAE (or OPR) will review
this information with the Environmental Flight and, with 55 CES/CEV concurrence, give the
data to the HAZMART Warehouse to be recorded in EMIS. For any contractor-operated
Sources of Supply (SOSs), including anything resulting from competitive sourcing, the same
procedures will apply.
                        •                                            •
AFI 32-7086/0AFBSUP1, 16 Aug 04                                                                    5


2.6.11. (Added) Air Force Weather Agency, as a tenant on Offutt AFB, will participate in the
Offutt HMMP by appointing a member who is knowledgeable of AFW A's operation, so that all
hazardous materials (either purchased by AFWA or utilized by AFWA contractors) are reported
to the HAZMART Warehouse for entry into EMIS.


2.6.12. (Added) United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM), as a tenant on Offutt, will
participate in the Offutt HMMP by appointing a member who is knowledgeable of
STRATCOM's operation so that all hazardous materials (either purchased by STRATCOM or
utilized by STRATCOM contractors) are reported to HAZMART for entry into EMIS.


2.6.13. (Added) Prior to bringing hazardous materials onto Offutt AFB, 55 th Wing or Tenant
organizations will include, in all contract solicitations, a requirement for the contractor to supply
to the Construction Management Element official, contract OPR, or contract QAE, the Material
Safety Data Sheets and quantity information on all hazardous materials they intend to use
throughout the life of the contract. During the life of the contract, at the end of each calendar
year, the contractor will total the amount of each hazardous material used. The contractor will
give that information to one of the government representatives listed above, before 1 February of
the following year. At the end of the contract, the contractor will provide the total amount used
to the same government representative before the appropriate Financial Management Office
makes the final contract payment. The government representative will review the data with the
Environmental Flight and provide the data to the HAZMART Warehouse for entry into the
EMIS computer database.


2.7.1.1 (Added) At Offutt AFB, the Boeing Aerospace Operation, Inc. supply function will issue
materials to the aircraft maintenance personnel (mainly E-4B aircraft maintainers), who will
report hazardous materials usage through the HAZMART Warehouse.




OFFICIAL                                      JOHN C. KOZIOL, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander, 55th Wing
                     ••
IC 2004-1 TO AFI 32-7086/0AFBSUP1, HAZARDOUS MATERIAL MANAGEMENT

20 JULY 2004

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

This change updates units office symbols throughout. Adds the Contracting Squadron
and Logistics Distribution Division to para 1.9.3.1. Adds "Offutt will operate in a non-
sequential manner so that containers are depleted at the time of issue (or entry) and shops
will not have to notify HAZMART when a container is empty." to para 2.6.4.21.2.

1.9.3.1. (Added) The Offutt AFB HMMP team will consist of representatives from:

       55 th Wing                     Financial Management Office
                                      Safety Office
                                      Staff Judge Advocate

       Communications Group



       Medical Group                  Aerospace Medicine Squadron
                                      - Bioenvironmental Engineer

       Operations Group

     .!!~lWIR Support Group           Civil Engineer Squadron
                                      - Environmental Flight
                                      - Fire Department
                                      - Govt-Operated CE Supply Store (GOCESS)
                                      - HeatingN entilatinglAir Conditioning Shop
                                      (HVAC)
                                      Services




                                                                           th, ""   'tit,,"" ,',,,
2.3.1.1. (Added) Offutt's HAZMAT Pharmacy Program (HPP) and the 55 tQ~
Il"~.~~b,t&tt~i~i HAZMART Warehouse will follow the Air Force standard of a
partially decentralized operation.
                     ••
2.6.2.8.1. (Added) All CE-obtained and managed contracts will require the contractor to
submit hazardous material data to the HAZMART Warehouse by supplying it to the 55th
CE's Construction Management p~imel!t (55 CES/CECC) person assigned to that
contract, or the contract's Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE), who will review the
information with the Environmental Flight (55 CES/CEV) and then provide the
information to the HAZMART Warehouse for entry into EMIS.

2.6.3.3. (Added) All.~S-obtained and managed contracts will require the contractor to
submit hazardous material data to the HAZMART Warehouse by supplying it to the
contract's Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) or Quality Assurance Evaluator
(QAE), who will review the information with 55 CES/CEV and then provide the
information to the HAZMART Warehouse for entry into EMIS.

2.6.4.21.2. (ACCSUPl)(Added) The Offutt HMMP will utilize bar codes to track
containers         hazardous materials.



2.6.13. (Added) Prior to bringing hazardous materials onto Offutt AFB, 55 th Wing or
Tenant organizations will include, in all contract solicitations, a requirement for the
contractor to supply to the Construction Management ;11~it= official, contract OPR, or
contract QAE, the Material Safety Data Sheets and quantity information on all hazardous
materials they intend to use throughout the life of the contract. During the life of the
contract, at the end of each calendar year, the contractor will total the amount of each
hazardous material used. The contractor will give that information to one of the
government representatives listed above, before 1 February of the following year. At the
end of the contract, the contractor will provide the total amount used to the same
government representative before the appropriate Financial Management Office makes
the final contract payment. The government representative will review the data with the
Environmental Flight and provide the data to the HAZMART Warehouse for entry into
the EMIS computer database.




                                        BARTON V. BARNHART, Major, USAF
                                        Commander, 55th Civil Engineer Squadron
