                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                            HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                         WASHINGTON DC



                                                                        AFI32-7040_AFGM2013-01

                                                                                      30 October 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: HQ USAF/A4/7

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance and
Resource Management

        By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this AF Guidance Memorandum immediately
changes AFI 32-7040. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360.

       The Attachment to this Memorandum provides guidance to installation commanders on
compliance with applicable vehicle inspection and maintenance programs using the Employee
Vehicle Certification and Reporting System (ECARS) and prescribes the new AF departmental
form for that purpose.

       The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of
this Memorandum or upon incorporation by interim change to, or a rewrite of AFI 32-7040,
whichever is earlier.




                                             PATRICIA M. YOUNG, SES
                                             Asst DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support




Attachment
Guidance Changes
                          AFI32-7040_AFGM2013-01 30 October 2013


                                         ATTACHMENT
                                         Guidance Changes


The below changes to AFI 32-7040, dated 27 August 2007, through Interim Change 1, dated 8
June 2011, are effective immediately.

(Add New) 3.4.2.1. For all AF facilities located in an area with an applicable vehicle I/M program,
commanders are required by 42 U.S.C. § 7418(d) to ensure that employees provide proof of
compliance with the local (or an equivalent) I/M program for vehicles that the employees operate on
the affected facility. An applicable I/M program is one in which the State has either been required,
or voluntarily opted, to establish a vehicle I/M program for O3 or CO as part of the required SIP
pursuant to CAA §§ 182 or 187 and EPA has approved that portion of the SIP.

(Add New) 3.4.2.2. All employees assigned to the affected facility for more than 60 days shall
certify compliance by digitally signing the AF Form 4434, available in the ECARS module of
APIMS. The AF Form 4434 shall be maintained on the ECARS server for a period of five years.
Hard copy AF Form 4434 may be used in lieu of the electronic ECARS in situations where
government employees are not identified in the AF Personnel System, such as non-AF employees
on an AF hosted base.

(Add New) 3.4.2.3. All employee vehicle operators shall maintain documentation of compliance
with the applicable I/M program requirements while operating their vehicle on the affected facility,
and supply such documentation as required by the facility.

(Add New) 3.4.2.4. All employees assigned to the affected facility must periodically recertify
compliance consistent with the requirements of the applicable I/M program.

(Add New) 3.4.2.5. When an AF facility is located in an area that becomes subject to a new
applicable I/M program, the commander shall adopt a program which complies with this
requirement no later than 90 days after the applicable I/M program becomes effective.

(Add New) Chapter 6 – RECORDS MANAGEMENT

 (Add New) 6.1. Records Management. The Employee-Vehicle Certification and Reporting
System (ECARS) automated system shall be used by affected facilities to document compliance
with this requirement. ECARS is a module of the APIMS system used for preparing facility Air
Emission Inventories, as described in paragraph 3.2. The ECARS system sends email certification
instructions and reminders to employees, collects the minimum personal information required to
document employee compliance on AF Form 4434 in accordance with the Privacy Act Statement,
prepares automated reports on employee compliance, and archives the digitally signed employee
certification forms on a secure server.

(Add New) 6.2. Prescribed Forms:
AF Form 4434, Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (I/M) Program Self-Certification
BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7040
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             27 AUGUST 2007
                                                           Incorporating Change 1, 8 JUNE 2011
                                                              &HUWLILHG&XUUHQW$SULO
                                                              Civil Engineering
                                                            AIR QUALITY COMPLIANCE AND
                                                                 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
                       http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A7CAQ                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/A7CA (Colonel
                                                                                 Liesel Golden)
Supersedes:    AFI 32-7040, 9 May 1994                                                Pages: 36


Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance And Resource Management,
implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-70, Environmental Quality. It provides details
of the Air Force Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management Program and explains how
to assess, attain, and sustain compliance with the Clean Air Act (CAA); other federal, state and
local environmental regulations; Final Governing Standards (FGS) or the Overseas
Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD); applicable international agreements;
and related Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force directives. Guidance on indoor air
quality is not addressed in this AFI - see appropriate engineering design manuals or technical
letters for design considerations which impact indoor air quality, and AFI 48-145, Occupational
and Environmental Health Program, for the Bioenvironmental Engineer’s role in performing
Health Risk Assessments in facilities which may have poor indoor air quality. For DoD
components at installations outside the U.S., its territories and possessions (e.g. overseas),
implement the applicable portions of this AFI in accordance with international agreements and
the applicable FGS or OEBGD. See AFI 32-7006, Environmental Program in Foreign Countries
for additional environmental guidance for overseas installations. Unless otherwise noted, the
guidance and procedures outlined in this instruction apply to all Air Force installations within the
U.S., its territories, and in foreign countries. Additionally, this AFI applies to the Air Force
Reserves, the Air National Guard, Government Owned-Contractor Operated facilities, and Direct
Reporting Units (DRU) and Field Operating Agencies (FOA) not located on Air Force
installations. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
 2                                                                                             AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Any organization may supplement this instruction. MAJCOMs,
FOAs, and DRUs send one copy of each supplement to HQ USAF/A7CA; other commands send
one copy of each supplement to the next higher headquarters. See Attachment 1 for a glossary
of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change clarifies the SAF/IEE role in Clean Air Act (CAA) conformity analysis;
revises the roles of the Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE) and the
Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA); deletes references to the former Air Force
Institute for Operational Health (AFIOH); clarifies the role of the Installation Commander as the
responsible official; clarifies that the Air Program Information Management System (APIMS) is
the Air Force information system for air quality permit management, air emission inventory, and
air emission reporting; clarifies the CAA conformity analysis coordination process and its
relationship to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process; adds information
regarding greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting; adds guidance on the CAA Title V permit process;
adds guidance on vehicle inspection requirements under CAA Section 118(a); and updates the
appendices to include new references.

Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                            4
       1.1.    Background. ...........................................................................................................            4
       1.2.    Concept. .................................................................................................................         4
       1.3.    Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................                   4
       1.4.    Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System. .................                                                  9

Chapter 2—PLANNING                                                                                                                              10
       2.1.    General Planning Guidelines. ................................................................................                    10
       2.2.    Pollution Prevention in Planning. ..........................................................................                     10
       2.3.    Emissions Control Technology. .............................................................................                      10
       2.4.    Conformity Planning. .............................................................................................               11
       2.5.    National Environmental Policy Act and Environmental Impact Analysis Process Planning.
                ................................................................................................................................. 12
       2.6.    Preconstruction Review. ........................................................................................                 12
       2.7.    Utilizing Air Emission Reduction Credits in Planning. .........................................                                  13
       2.8.    Planning for Military-Unique Sources. ..................................................................                         13
       2.9.    Risk Management Planning. ..................................................................................                     13
       2.10.   Episode Planning. ..................................................................................................             13
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                                                               3


     2.11.   Emergency Planning. .............................................................................................        14

Chapter 3—IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION                                                                                                15
     3.1.    General Program Guidelines. .................................................................................            15
     3.2.    Air Emissions Inventory (AEI). .............................................................................             15
     3.3.    Title V and State Operating Permits. .....................................................................               15
     3.4.    Mobile Sources. .....................................................................................................    16

Chapter 4—CHECKING AND CORRECTIVE ACTION                                                                                              19
     4.1.    General Program Guidelines. .................................................................................            19
     4.2.    Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and Management
             Program. ................................................................................................................. 19
     4.3.    Data Management. .................................................................................................       19
     4.4.    Payment of Fines and Penalties. ............................................................................             19

Chapter 5—MANAGEMENT REVIEW                                                                                                           20
     5.1.    Regulatory Agency Noncompliance Actions. ........................................................                        20
     5.2.    Automated Civil Engineer System-Program Management. ...................................                                  20
     5.3.    Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Councils. ......................................                             20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        21

Attachment 2—AIR QUALITY COMPLIANCE AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
             REGULATIONS, EXECUTIVE ORDERS, AND DOD DIRECTIVES                                                                        30

Attachment 3—AIR EMISSION REDUCTION CREDITS                                                                                           35
 4                                                                  AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007



                                             Chapter 1

                                         INTRODUCTION

1.1. Background. It is Air Force policy to promote environmental stewardship in all activities
to ensure uninterrupted access to the air, land, and water assets needed to conduct the Air Force
mission. By focusing on the warfighter’s operational requirements while following the regulatory
strictures for sustaining resources and protecting human health, the Air Quality Compliance and
Resource Management Program will sustain, restore and modernize natural infrastructure assets.
The Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management Program identifies essential Air Force
requirements and actions to manage Air Force air resource assets in order to maximize their
military value and optimize their economic, ecologic, and community value, while attaining and
maintaining compliance with the CAA (Title 42, United States Code (U.S.C.) Sections 7401 et
seq.) in addition to all applicable federal, state, and local air quality regulations, or for overseas,
the FGS or OEBGD, where no FGS exist, and any relevant obligations under a binding
international agreement.
1.2. Concept. This instruction establishes a framework for all Commands to use in complying
with air quality requirements and AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality. All references to
Commands in this AFI include the Air National Guard Readiness Center and other agencies that
Headquarters, U.S. Air Force designates as “Major Command equivalent.” Commands will
provide administrative and technical support to ensure installations comply with Air Force
policies and regulatory requirements.
1.3. Roles and Responsibilities. The Air Force Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/A7C) implements
policy, allocates resources, and oversees execution of the Air Quality Compliance and Resource
Management Program throughout the Air Force, including the review of all Air Force CAA
Conformity Determinations before submission to SAF/IEE for approval.
     1.3.1. The DoD Environmental Executive Agent (EEA) represents DoD in environmental
     matters to include air quality in the countries in which they are designated (DoDI 4715.5,
     Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations). The EEA is
     responsible for determining applicability of new Host Nation (HN) laws, incorporating new
     laws into the FGS, representing DoD to HN environmental regulators, establishing consistent
     environmental standards for all DoD components within the particular HN, coordinating with
     other DoD EEAs to avoid setting precedent within the theater, and providing guidance to
     installations and other DoD components operating within the HN on regulatory issues to
     include air quality compliance and resource management.
     1.3.2. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety, and
     Occupational Health (SAF/IEE) promulgates and oversees policy for air quality compliance
     and resource management, including:
        1.3.2.1. Approving each Air Force CAA General Conformity determination prior to
        release for public review and prior to finalization.
        1.3.2.2. Reviewing all requests for the payment of state punitive fines and penalties
        assessed under the waiver of federal sovereign immunity under § 118(a) of the CAA.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                   5


  1.3.3. The Air Force Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/A7C) implements policy, allocates
  resources, and oversees execution of the Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management
  Program throughout the Air Force, including the review of all Air Force CAA conformity
  determinations before submission to SAF/IEE for approval.
  1.3.4. The Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE), upon request,
  provides technical support, guidance, contracting services, and training related to
  environmental compliance or air resource management.
     1.3.4.1. Maintains expertise to provide technical support to major commands
     (MAJCOMs) and installations for air emissions inventories, air quality permitting, CAA
     General Conformity analysis, emissions testing, and other CAA related requirements.
     1.3.4.2. AFCEE Regional Environmental Offices (REOs), upon request, represent the
     Air Force to federal, state and local environmental regulatory agencies, facilitate
     application of consistent environmental standards across regions, advise and assist
     MAJCOMs and installations on air quality regulatory issues, and monitor air quality
     regulatory initiatives developed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and
     state agencies.
     1.3.4.3. Serves as the program management office for the APIMS.
  1.3.5. AFCESA provides criteria, standards, guidance, and technical support for air emission
  controls and sources planning, design, construction, operations, maintenance, and contract
  management services to the Air Staff, MAJCOMs, Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), and
  installations as requested.
  1.3.6. The Air Force Legal Operations Agency, Environmental Law and Litigation Division
  (AFLOA/JACE), including the Regional Environmental Counsels (AFLOA/JACE-ER;
  AFLOA/JACE-CR and AFLOA/JACE-WR), provides legal advice to Air Staff and
  Commands. AFLOA/JACE establishes policy necessary to execute Staff Judge Advocate
  (SJA) program responsibilities established pursuant to AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation, and any
  subsequent implementing instructions.
     1.3.6.1. AFLOA/JACE will ensure coordination with Department of Justice (DoJ),
     SAF/IEE, and the Secretary of the Air Force, General Counsel, Installations and
     Environment (SAF/GCN) regarding the payment of CAA penalties. AFLOA/JACE must
     provide approval before settlement of any administrative action where the terms of the
     settlement include provision for the payment of fines or supplemental environmental
     projects. The Regional Counsels will assist in resolving enforcement actions processed
     against Air Force installations.
  1.3.7. DELETED.
     1.3.7.1. DELETED.
  1.3.8. The Air Force Institute of Technology Civil Engineer and Services School
  (AFIT/CESS) will provide educational programs in support of the Air Quality Compliance
  and Resource Management Program.
  1.3.9. MAJCOM commanders shall provide oversight of Air Quality Compliance and
  Resource Management Programs at their installations, including the provision of
  supplemental policy and program execution guidance to this AFI. MAJCOMs will:
6                                                                AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


       1.3.9.1. Coordinate with HQ USAF/A7CA, AFCEE REOs, and other MAJCOMs to
       cross-feed and standardize Air Force Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management
       Programs within states.
       1.3.9.2. Validate and allocate resources to enable installation compliance with air quality
       regulations.
       1.3.9.3. Develop procedures that document exempt and clearly de minimis actions for
       the Air Force under the CAA General Conformity Rule determination process.
    1.3.10. MAJCOM SJAs will ensure coordination of all actions as appropriate, to include
    coordinating with the DoD EEA on any formal settlement agreements overseas that have the
    potential to set precedent.
    1.3.11. Installation Commanders will:
       1.3.11.1. Ensure proper air quality compliance and resource management principles are
       emphasized to appropriate installation personnel.
       1.3.11.2. Ensure their installation Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management
       Program is managed to ensure compliance with all applicable U. S. federal, state, and
       local requirements (including permits), or for overseas, the FGS or OEBGD, where no
       FGS exist, and obligations under international agreements; and conforms with applicable
       MAJCOM Supplements, Instructions, or Standard Operating Procedures, or higher level
       AF/DoD policies or directives.
       1.3.11.3. Ensure enforcement actions or notices of violations are promptly reported,
       tracked, and managed in accordance with the latest AF/A7CA guidance.
       1.3.11.4. As the “Responsible Official” under the CAA, and 40 Code of Federal
       Regulations (C.F.R.) § 70.2, 40 C.F.R. § 71.2, and applicable state or local regulations,
       certify compliance with CAA Title V operating permit requirements and sign all CAA
       Title V permit applications. The duties of the “responsible official” are not delegable.
       1.3.11.5. Maintain the authority to shut down any non-compliant air emissions source at
       the installation as a function of being the Responsible Official charged with ensuring
       compliance with federal, state, or local permit requirements.
    1.3.12. The installation Base Civil Engineer environmental function (MSG/EM for ANG
    Units) has overall management and execution responsibility of the installation’s
    environmental program (reference AFI 32-70 series) and is the installation commander’s
    organization for ensuring the installation is in compliance with all applicable federal, state,
    and local requirements. Note; some bases have an environmental management function
    aligned directly under the wing commander (or center commander in Air Force Materiel
    Command (AFMC)) with the same authority and responsibility of the Base Civil Engineer
    environmental function. The environmental function will:
       1.3.12.1. Act as the liaison office for air quality compliance and resource management
       issues with regulatory agencies, and with both internal and external audit or assessment
       personnel.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                    7


     1.3.12.2. Identify and request needed environmental sampling, analysis, and monitoring
     to support the Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management Program at its
     installation.
     1.3.12.3. Develop and submit funding requests for air quality compliance and resource
     management requirements, regardless of fund source.
     1.3.12.4. Establish local procedures and provide technical expertise with regard to air
     quality compliance and resource management requirements.
     1.3.12.5. Oversee proper programming, recordkeeping, and reporting procedures, to
     include timely regulatory notifications of emissions events and response to Air Force data
     calls.
     1.3.12.6. Provide education and training, to include Air Management Training, Air
     Source Operator Training, and shop level training to meet applicable federal, state, and
     local air quality compliance requirements.
     1.3.12.7. Review all permits and permitting requirements and potentially applicable
     federal, state, and local requirements as necessary to ensure compliance conditions are
     met, for both current mission operations and under projected mission growth.
     1.3.12.8. Coordinate with the Civil Engineer Squadron, Programs Flight as early as
     practicable to ensure the MAJCOM project manager and/or construction agent for
     Military Construction (MILCON) and non-MILCON projects prepare, submit, and fund
     all necessary environmental permits and related fees with project funds.
     1.3.12.9. Establish procedures to document compliance with the EPA General
     Conformity rule, 40 Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.) Parts 51 and 93 for those
     installations located in areas that have been classified as either Nonattainment or
     Maintenance.
     1.3.12.10. If applicable, ensure the installation’s current actual and potential-to-emit
     (PTE) emissions contributions are explicitly documented as required, and periodically
     updated in the air emissions inventory and in the installation’s specific State
     Implementation Plan (SIP) Emission Budget. Maintain the installation’s baseline
     emissions inventory in order to determine if proposed physical or operational changes to
     stationary sources require “netting” or offset requirements under New Source Review
     (NSR) and other CAA programs.
     1.3.12.11. Ensure air quality compliance and resource management-related data are
     verified and maintained in the AF APIMS.
     1.3.12.12. Ensure comments on federal, state and local proposed rules, revisions, plans,
     protocols, permits, and negotiations with federal, state and local regulatory agencies
     regarding installation-specific issues (e.g., variances, permit limits and operating
     conditions) are coordinated through the chain-of-command.
     1.3.12.13. Coordinate permits, Open Enforcement Actions (OEAs), and other applicable
     documents and actions with the installation SJA.
8                                                                AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


       1.3.12.14. Coordinate with the installation contracting function to ensure the applicable
       regulatory requirements clauses and other appropriate conditions (Executive Order
       directives, Air Force requirements, etc.) are included in all contracts.
       1.3.12.15. Coordinate with the installation Bioenvironmental Engineer on any air
       pollution-related episodes or issues that could potentially require an occupational and
       environmental health risk assessment in accordance with AFI 48-145, Occupational and
       Environmental Health Program, as well as any resulting actions to address unacceptable
       health hazards identified by those assessments.
       1.3.12.16. Inform installation Public Affairs office of any remediation efforts, violations
       or issues impacting the base populace or local civilian community.
    1.3.13. Installation SJAs will:
       1.3.13.1. Report all enforcement actions to AFLOA/JACE, the MAJCOM SJA, and the
       appropriate Environmental function in accordance with the latest AF/A7CA guidance.
       Advise commanders responding to enforcement actions levied against Air Force
       facilities.
       1.3.13.2. Provide advice for appropriate aspects of the installation Air Quality
       Compliance and Resource Management Program (to include permits, compliance
       requirements, and funding), coordinating on all substantive advice with the MAJCOM
       SJA.
       1.3.13.3. Assist in negotiating permit limits and operating performance measures and any
       other type of air permits and agreements in close coordination with the installation
       environmental function.
       1.3.13.4. Review draft permits and proposed federal, state and local rules and protocols
       and provide comments to the installation environmental function before submission to
       regulatory agencies.
       1.3.13.5. Request approval through the MAJCOM SJA from AFLOA/JACE for any
       settlement where the terms include provisions for the payment of fines or supplemental
       environmental projects.
    1.3.14. Installation Bioenvironmental Engineers will coordinate air quality data from
    Occupational and Environmental Health Site Assessments (OEHSA) prescribed by AFMAN
    48-154, Occupational and Environmental Health Site Assessments with the installation
    environmental function.
    1.3.15. Installation organizations planning to purchase equipment that will generate air
    emissions which have potential permitting, authorization or registration requirements (e.g.
    degreasers, generators, boilers, painting or abrasive equipment, etc.) should first coordinate
    with the installation environmental function.
    1.3.16. Tenant organizations (to include AAFES) and other DoD services on Air Force
    installations or on joint installations where the Air Force is the lead component will comply
    with applicable federal, state, local and installation air quality requirements, and coordinate
    any actions which affect air quality (to include construction activities and installation of
    applicable equipment) with the installation environmental function.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                     9


       1.3.16.1. These organizations and services will maintain records to demonstrate
       compliance with Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management Program
       requirements.
       1.3.16.2. These organizations and services operating in foreign countries are not subject
       to the provisions of the CAA but must comply with the nation-specific FGS or OEBGD,
       where no FGS exists, and any obligations under a binding international agreement.
1.4. Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System. Consistent with
Executive Order (E.O.) 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and
Transportation Management, Air Force installations are directed to have an environmental
management system to sustain, restore, and modernize natural and built infrastructure to support
mission capability, as part of a larger undertaking toward an Air Force ESOHMS. All Air Force
installations and facilities will comply with E.O. 13423 and Air Force ESOHMS guidance. The
Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management Program, as a part of the overall ESOHMS,
seeks to appropriately plan, implement and operate, check, and review as necessary the
management of air resources to ensure mission completion. This AFI is organized to align with
that cycle of continual improvement, in chapters for Planning, Implementation and Operation,
Checking and Corrective Action, and Management Review.
 10                                                              AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


                                            Chapter 2

                                           PLANNING

2.1. General Planning Guidelines. It is critical that the Air Quality Compliance and Resource
Management Program be proactively developed to ensure air assets necessary to support (and
protect) the mission will be available for all present and future operations. Planning should be
focused on maximizing the military value of air resources, and optimizing their environmental,
economic, ecological and community value, while assessing, attaining and maintaining
compliance with applicable air quality laws and regulations. As a minimum, installation
environmental functions shall perform the following planning actions:
   2.1.1. As early as practicable, coordinate closely as appropriate with all applicable
   organizations (MAJCOM Air Program Manager, Civil Engineer Flights, Bioenvironmental
   Engineering, logistics functions, federal, state and local regulatory authorities, Metropolitan
   Planning Organizations, etc.) on plans for new construction, modification or replacement of
   emissions-related equipment, and on other requirements which will impact the installation’s
   air emissions.
   2.1.2. Actively compare the installation Air Emissions Inventory (AEI) and upcoming
   changes in installation emission levels against regulatory thresholds and emerging regulatory
   requirements to assure uninterrupted mission capability and continued compliance.
   2.1.3. Maintain an updated summary of all permit requirements, with a comparison to the
   regulatory requirements and schedules. Identify and document insignificant/exempt sources
   not subject to permitting program requirements.
   2.1.4. Track and assess new or emerging regulatory requirements for their potential impact
   on installation operations. Ensure any such requirements are incorporated into appropriate
   program elements, and report identified impacts through the chain of command.
2.2. Pollution Prevention in Planning. In accordance with E.O. 13423, Strengthening Federal
Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, it is Air Force policy to prevent and
reduce pollution by minimizing or eliminating the use of hazardous materials, and by minimizing
the release of pollutants into the air and other environmental media (i.e., soil and water) as much
as is technically and economically feasible. Air pollution prevention planning should be
integrated with air emission mitigation strategies, and should include an assessment of the
viability of obtaining emission offsets or emission reduction credits (ERCs) for quantifiable,
permanent, and surplus criteria pollutant emission reductions. See Section 2.7, Utilizing Air
Emission Reduction Credits in Planning, and Attachment 3 for additional information. Further
information on the pollution prevention environmental management hierarchy, requirements and
guidelines is outlined in AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program.
2.3. Emissions Control Technology. New major sources located in areas designated as
attaining National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) require utilization of Best Available
Control Technology (BACT). Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards are
technology-based air emission standards established to reduce emissions of hazardous air
pollutants (HAPs); the standards for smaller (area) sources are called Generally Available
Control Technology (GACT). Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) is required on new or
modified major sources in nonattainment areas. Reasonably Available Control Technology
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                      11


(RACT) is required for existing sources in nonattainment areas, and in most cases, is less
stringent than New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) or BACT. Perform value engineering
for each project requiring specification or installation of equipment for control of regulated air
pollutants. These analyses will ensure that the proposed control technology meets air quality
compliance requirements, does not create an unacceptable health or safety risk, and is cost
effective to the extent allowed by law.
2.4. Conformity Planning.
   2.4.1. The CAA, Section 176(c)(1), requires all federal actions in nonattainment and
   maintenance areas to “conform” to approved State Implementation Plan (SIP) requirements.
   40 C.F.R. Part 93 Subpart B (or a state, tribal or local conformity rule approved in
   accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 51.851) applies to federal activities during the interim period
   before the state revises and EPA approves the SIP. Under the EPA General Conformity Rule
   and any analogous state regulation the proponent shall analyze planned Air Force actions for
   conformity with the applicable SIP. As part of the planning process, the proponent will
   complete a General Conformity applicability analysis, as well as any required General
   Conformity determination, before completion of the Environmental Impact Analysis Process
   (EIAP) to allow incorporation of its information into the EIAP (32 C.F.R. Section 989.30). If
   the proposed action being considered in an EIAP document triggers the need to prepare a
   conformity determination, then the positive conformity determination must be issued prior to
   approval of the EIAP document by appropriate authority. [Note: See Section 2.5 and AFI
   32-7061 for EIAP information, and refer to the “United States Air Force Conformity Guide,
   August 2010” for further details on General Conformity.]
   2.4.2. Before implementing any federal action in an air quality nonattainment or
   maintenance area, the action must be reviewed to determine any adverse impacts to the
   applicable SIP. The action is not allowed to proceed if it negatively affects the
   implementation or goals of the SIP. In other words, air emissions must not violate any
   emission limitations established in the SIP for any year with a specified emission goal. The
   emissions are to include both direct and indirect mobile and stationary sources. The
   conformity determination must be approved before the EIAP process is completed.
       2.4.2.1. Proponents shall prepare required conformity documents in coordination with
       the installation and MAJCOM air quality program managers for the proposed location.
       The MAJCOM air quality program manager will transmit the draft conformity
       determination via electronic staff summary sheet to AF/A7CAN for higher HQ
       coordination and SAF/IEE approval prior to release for public review.
       2.4.2.2. Failure to complete public review of the draft conformity determination before
       any required EIAP public comment process will result in a delay of the EIAP process, as
       the EIAP must include valid CAA conformity analysis. The public comment periods can
       be run concurrently only if the draft conformity determination is issued at the same time
       as any draft EIAP document requiring a public comment period.
   2.4.3. Only designated officials have the authority to make a General Conformity
   determination that the proposed action conforms with the SIP. SAF/IEE is currently the
   lowest level of signature authority for a General Conformity determination.
 12                                                             AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


2.5. National Environmental Policy Act and Environmental Impact Analysis Process
Planning. Section 102(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. Section
4332(C)) requires the responsible federal official to consult with and obtain the comments of any
federal agency that has jurisdiction by law or special expertise with respect to any environmental
impact. Further, it requires the comments and views of the appropriate federal, state, and local
agencies be made available to the President, the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), as
well as the public, and they accompany the proposal through the existing agency review
processes. General Conformity applicability analyses and General Conformity determinations are
managed in conjunction with the Air Force’s EIAP outlined in AFI 32-7061, as promulgated at
32 C.F.R. Section 989. Section 989.30 (Air Quality), of that regulation requires all EIAP
documents to address General Conformity and the status of compliance. It also requires General
Conformity applicability analyses, as well as any required general conformity determination, to
be developed in parallel with EIAP documents, although they are separate and distinct
requirements that must be documented separately as well. The analyses, as well as any required
determination, should be completed prior to the completion of the EIAP in order to allow
incorporation of the information into the EIAP and allow for the agency and public review
required under the NEPA statute and the CEQ’s implementing regulations at 40 C.F.R. Part
1503.
   2.5.1. NEPA Air Quality Impacts Analysis (AQIA) Planning. In addition to the parallel
   development, documentation, and incorporation requirement for General Conformity
   analyses and determinations for nonattainment or maintenance criteria pollutants, the NEPA
   documentation must analyze and disclose all of the ambient air impacts and any permit
   requirements involving any attainment criteria pollutant emissions, HAP emissions, and
   emissions of any other regulated pollutants under the CAA, such as Ozone Depleting
   Substances (ODS), that will result from the proposed action.
2.6. Preconstruction Review. Under a process known as New Source Review (NSR) (40
C.F.R. Part 51, Requirements for Preparation, Adoption and Submittal of Implementation Plans
current edition, and Part 52, Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plans current
edition), new stationary sources of air pollution and major modifications to existing stationary
sources are required to undergo preconstruction review to determine if the source’s PTE is equal
to or greater than applicable regulated pollutant thresholds, and obtain a permit before
commencement of construction or modification activities. A facility is classified as a major
source if its PTE is equal to or greater than applicable regulated pollutant thresholds under the
act.
   2.6.1. There are three types of permits that can be issued under NSR for either new or
   modified sources: Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program permits for
   attainment areas, nonattainment area major NSR program permits, and minor new source
   permits.
       2.6.1.1. PSD permits apply to new major sources or major modifications at existing
       sources in areas designated attainment or unclassifiable for a particular NAAQS. For
       specific source categories a new major source has a PTE of 100 tons per year or more for
       at least one of the NAAQS, otherwise the threshold is set at 250 tons per year. Thresholds
       for modifications at existing major sources vary according to the regulated pollutant. For
       example, the significance threshold for ODSs at existing major sources is zero, while the
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                      13


       significance threshold for Nitrous Oxides (NOx) is 40 tons/year. Application of BACT is
       required to control emissions.
       2.6.1.2. Nonattainment area NSR permits apply to new major sources or major
       modifications to existing sources in areas designated nonattainment or maintenance for
       the NAAQS. Thresholds for new major sources and major modifications vary from 10
       tons/year to 100 tons/year, depending on the area’s classification or severity of
       nonattainment. Application of the LAER technology is required to control emissions.
       2.6.1.3. Minor source NSR permits apply to stationary sources that do not require PSD
       or nonattainment area permits. They may contain enforceable conditions that limit
       emissions or operating conditions in order to create “synthetic minor” sources that are not
       subject to PSD or nonattainment NSR requirements.
   2.6.2. Installations shall comply with appropriate NSR preconstruction review and
   permitting procedures before commencing construction or modification activities. Using
   installation AEI data, a “netting” analysis shall be conducted to ensure that all emissions
   changes (i.e. both increases and decreases) are considered when determining whether the
   proposed project triggers NSR thresholds or emissions offset requirements. For MILCON
   activities associated with new or modified emissions units, coordinate NSR applicability with
   the installation environmental function.
2.7. Utilizing Air Emission Reduction Credits in Planning. The CAA allows EPA and the
states to develop economic incentive programs (EIPs) to control and reduce air emissions.
Emission trading programs are one example of regulatory programs that, once final and approved
by EPA, govern the “generation”, “buying”, “selling”, “banking” and “trading” of ERCs,
depending on the program. ERCs are generated when a source voluntarily reduces its emissions
below required levels of control, and requests permission from the regulatory authority to emit
pollutants in an amount equal to the quantity specified when the ERC was generated. Credits
created under approved programs can be traded to another source to achieve emission reductions
requirements in lieu of on-site reductions, used to reduce program compliance costs, or banked
for future use as emission offsets in nonattainment areas. ERCs are treated as federal personal
property and disposed of in accordance with appropriate federal personal property disposal
regulations. More detailed information on Air Force generation, use and disposition of ERCs is
provided in Attachment 3.
2.8. Planning for Military-Unique Sources. Where military-unique sources exist, obtain the
most recent information on EPA, DoD, and Air Force policy and guidelines regarding air
resource management strategies for these sources.
2.9. Risk Management Planning. Owners or operators of stationary sources that have more
than a threshold quantity of regulated hazardous or extremely hazardous substance must have a
Risk Management Plan (RMP) under 40 C.F.R. Part 68 or applicable State law. States may
establish thresholds that are lower than the federal minimum. Regardless, all stationary sources
are subject to a “general duty” to plan for, prevent, and minimize the consequences of any
accidental releases of extremely hazardous chemicals under § 112(r)(1) of the CAA.
2.10. Episode Planning. Where required, develop and implement a contingency plan for air
pollution emergency episodes. Identify all actions that can reasonably be taken without
compromising essential services and mission responsibilities.
 14                                                             AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


2.11. Emergency Planning. Follow AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM)
Program Planning and Operations for emergency planning and response to major accidents;
natural disasters; terrorist use of weapons of mass destruction; and nuclear, biological, chemical
and conventional warfare.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                     15


                                           Chapter 3

                          IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION

3.1. General Program Guidelines. In order to assure uninterrupted mission accomplishment at
an installation, an Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management Program governing the
operation of all stationary and mobile sources of air pollution must be developed and
implemented at all Air Force installations to assess, attain, and maintain compliance with all
applicable federal, state, and local air quality regulations and permits. As a minimum, the
program will include establishing robust recordkeeping, reporting and monitoring processes,
maintaining and actively using emissions inventories, and identification and documentation of
trivial, de minimis and otherwise insignificant or exempt sources.
3.2. Air Emissions Inventory (AEI). Prepare and periodically update an AEI of all installation
stationary and Air Force owned or operated mobile sources at the frequency required by federal,
state and local regulations, via APIMS. If no periodic emission inventory requirements apply, it
is recommended that APIMS be updated no less frequently than every three years to accurately
reflect current emissions. Overseas installations shall conduct AEIs in accordance with Foreign
Governing Standards or Host Nation agreements. Mandatory emissions reports will be provided
to federal, state and local (including Metropolitan Planning Organization or other regional)
regulatory agencies as required. GHG reporting mandated by Executive Order (E.O.) 13514,
Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance, will be
accomplished at the SAF/HAF level. GHG reporting mandated by Title 40, Code of Federal
Regulations, Part 98, Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases shall be accomplished by the
affected installations. Installation AEI data stored in APIMS are available for use as needed by
AFCEE and higher headquarters.
3.3. Title V and State Operating Permits. The goal of the Title V Operating Permit Program
is to ensure compliance of major stationary sources of air pollution by consolidating all
applicable air pollution control requirements into a single comprehensive operating permit. Some
states were issuing operating permits before Title V was enacted, continue to issue such permits,
and may require permits for certain minor sources. After the effective date of an approved Title
V permit, it is unlawful to violate any requirement of the permit.
   3.3.1. Major source designations are determined after a review of installation AEIs and other
   applicable documents. A facility is classified as a major source if its PTE is equal to or
   greater than the applicable criteria pollutant and HAP thresholds. The general rule is that,
   except as expressly provided otherwise, a major source is any source that has PTE of 100
   tons per year or more of any regulated pollutant. A PTE of 100 tons per year or more is the
   typical criteria pollutant threshold -- except in certain ozone, carbon monoxide, and
   particulate matter nonattainment areas. The major source threshold for HAPs is 10 tons per
   year or more of any individual HAP, or 25 tons per year or more of any combination of
   HAPs. For a description of the express exceptions to the general rule, see the definition for
   “Major Stationary Source & Major Emitting Facility” in Attachment 1.
       3.3.1.1. In determining major source status, focus on existing records. During the
       application process ensure each requirement has a clearly defined and feasible
 16                                                               AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


       compliance demonstration and evaluate emission and throughput limits, versus material
       restrictions.
       3.3.1.2. To determine industrial groupings, review the EPA guidance memorandum,
       Major Source Determinations for Military Installations under the Air Toxics, New Source
       Review, and Title V Operating Permit Programs of the Clean Air Act, John Seitz, 2
       August 96. Installations must first obtain approval from the permitting authority prior to
       applying the EPA memorandum to their operations.
   3.3.2. If an installation can bring itself under major source emission thresholds by accepting
   self-imposed federally enforceable limits on PTE without negatively impacting the mission,
   the installation may want to consider the pros and cons of applying for a synthetic minor
   permit instead of a Title V operating permit.
   3.3.3. The federal Title V program may be operated and enforced at the federal, state or local
   air district level. Permits issued under Title V or other state permit programs include explicit
   conditions under which a particular emission unit or group of emission units will be required
   to operate. In many cases, the state or local regulatory agency (including MPOs) will have
   been delegated authority by EPA to administer federal rules and regulations under Title V;
   state or local regulatory agencies administer state-specific program regulations.
   3.3.4. Title V permits include explicit conditions under which a particular emission unit or
   group of emission units will be required to operate. While permit conditions are often taken
   directly from federal, state, and local regulations, they may also be more stringent to address
   installation-specific conditions and state and local rules. Such rules may include, but are not
   limited to, visible emissions (or opacity), odor, nuisance emissions and equipment
   malfunction. Generally, state and local regulatory requirements are included as conditions
   only when they have been approved by EPA as part of the SIP, i.e., federally applicable and
   enforceable requirements. Air Force installations shall operate all sources subject to approved
   Title V permits and state-specific operating permits in full compliance with permit terms and
   conditions.
   3.3.5. CAA Title V permits are typically issued to cover all applicable federal requirements
   for stationary sources of air emissions under common control of a single owner or operator
   entity at a military installation. When applying for or renewing a Title V permit installations
   should review the 1996 guidance, referenced in paragraph 3.3.1.2, and consult with the
   permitting authority to ensure proper application of the guidance. Common control may be
   determined, with approval of the state or local regulatory agency, at the military service level
   within DoD. Installations should periodically review permits to ensure their accuracy, and
   carefully consider the benefits and liabilities of including tenant activities, except as required
   (e.g., 50% support test), under the installation's Title V permit.
   3.3.6. It is recommended that all federal and state air permits be maintained as digital files,
   and that as they are updated these digital files should be sent to AFCEE as a reference for
   interested Air Force organizations (MAJCOMs, REOs, etc.) and installations.
3.4. Mobile Sources. Ensure that motorized Air Force vehicles and portable equipment are
operated, refueled, and maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local
requirements. Important mobile source requirements include, but are not limited to vehicle
inspection and maintenance (I/M) and refueling provisions.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                      17


  3.4.1. Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (I/M) programs typically apply in areas that do
  not meet federal ozone (O3) or carbon monoxide (CO) standards. Installations must ensure
  that either Air Force fleet vehicles, or privately owned vehicles (POVs) operated on the
  installation, or both, comply with non-discriminatory motor vehicle I/M programs that apply
  under § 118(a) of the CAA, with the terms of any Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)
  between the Department of Defense (DoD) and the State (e.g., California), or with any final
  regulations promulgated by EPA that implement the requirements of §§ 118(c) or (d) of the
  CAA.
  3.4.2. Installation Commanders must ensure that if § 118(d) requires that employee owned
  vehicles comply with I/M requirements, then a program consistent with § 118(d) is
  established to ensure all employees comply with the I/M program applicable to the
  installation. The program must ensure that all employees vehicles meet the applicable I/M
  requirements, regardless of where the employee’s vehicle is registered, and that the facility
  retains records indicating that all employees have supplied proof of compliance to the
  installation Additionally, the program must contain elements which ensure that compliance
  is maintained.
  3.4.3. Employees operating Air Force vehicles and equipment in areas subject to EPA or
  California clean, reformulated, oxygenated or ultra low sulfur fuel requirements, and Stage II
  vapor recovery programs, must ensure that compliant fuels and equipment are used during
  vehicle refueling operations, and that fuel pumps are labeled in accordance with the
  requirements of 40 C.F.R. 80.570.
  3.4.4. E.O. 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
  Management, establishes federal agency goals for reducing GHG emissions and the
  consumption of petroleum-based fuels in fleet vehicles. Relative to fiscal year 2005
  baselines, agencies are required to reduce the consumption of petroleum-based fuels by 2%
  annually through 2015; increase the consumption of non-petroleum-based fuels by 10%
  annually; and acquire and use plug-in hybrid (PIH) technology vehicles when they are
  commercially available at a life-cycle cost that is reasonably comparable to non-PIH
  vehicles. Installations are directed to begin establishing sustainable environmental, energy
  and transportation practices that will assist the Air Force in meeting the federal goals of E.O.
  13423 through the implementation or expansion of initiatives such as carpooling, use of
  public transportation, trip reduction techniques, and wider use of alternative fuels in fleet
  vehicles.
  3.4.5. E.O. 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic
  Performance goes beyond E.O. 13423 with regard to mobile source emission reductions. It
  identifies the Federal Government role as leading by example. Relative to fiscal year 2008
  baselines, federal agencies are required to measure, manage, and reduce GHG emissions
  toward agency defined targets; and reduce vehicle fleet petroleum use by 30%. Examples of
  mobile GHG sources include vehicles and equipment, employee business travel, and
  employee commuting. Although all GHG emissions sources must be reported in accordance
  with E.O. 13514, it defines the category of “excluded vehicles and equipment” which are not
  subject to the agency reduction targets. Examples of “excluded vehicles” are vehicles or
  aircraft or non-road equipment owned or operated by an agency that are used in combat
  support, tactical operations, training for such operations, federal law enforcement, or
  emergency response; or spaceflight vehicles or associated ground-support equipment.
18                                                          AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


  Agencies are also required to develop and maintain Strategic Sustainability Performance
  Plans (SSPPs). The DoD SSPP includes all E.O. 13514 related goals and indicators. The
  DoD SSPP tracks performance of the Services against DoD mobile source GHG reduction
  goals such as reducing use of petroleum products by vehicle fleets, reducing GHG emissions
  from employee business travel, and reducing GHG emissions from employee commuting by
  teleworking.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                       19


                                            Chapter 4

                         CHECKING AND CORRECTIVE ACTION

4.1. General Program Guidelines. The effectiveness of installation Air Quality Compliance
and Resource Management Programs is measured by the latest metrics established by the Deputy
Under Secretary of Defense (Installations & Environment) and presented by HQ USAF/A7CA.
4.2. Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program. Use the Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance
Assessment and Management Program (ESOHCAMP) as a tool for assessing and monitoring Air
Force compliance, and identifying and prioritizing recommended corrective actions as necessary.
The ESOHCAMP includes a protocol for air emissions and resource management, the
cornerstone of which is the internal self-evaluation. Complete ESOHCAMP requirements are
established pursuant to AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health, and any
subsequent implementing instructions.
4.3. Data Management. Federal laws, Presidential directives, and DoD and Air Force policies
require a change in how data are stored, disseminated, and used. The Air Force is integrating all
Civil Engineer environmental data into one system for management, tracking and reporting
activities. The Air Force-approved Management Information System provides a standardized,
integrated tool and methodology to track, manage, and report all data related to Air Force
environmental programs. The installation environmental function will ensure the air quality
compliance and resource management data are accurately maintained in APIMS in a timely
manner including data related to the installation air emission inventory, operating permits, and
other pertinent air resource management information to ensure full mission support through
effective management of natural infrastructure assets.
4.4. Payment of Fines and Penalties. The installation SJA, after coordinating with MAJCOM
and appropriate Regional Counsel and gaining authority from AFLOA/JACE, will authorize
installation personnel to commence any negotiations with state or local regulators concerning a
CAA enforcement action or other CAA compliance matter. The installation SJA will remain
informed or involved in all significant aspects of the negotiations and will continue to coordinate
with MAJCOM and appropriate Regional Counsel.
   4.4.1. When settling a state or local CAA case that includes a penalty, the settlement must be
   memorialized in a written agreement. The written agreement must be forwarded through
   MAJCOM to AFLOA/JACE. AFLOA/JACE will coordinate with SAF/GCN and DoJ, as
   required by current policy.
   4.4.2. No consent order with state or local regulators will be entered into that provides for
   any penalty or the payment of any amount without written authorization from
   AFLOA/JACE.
 20                                                             AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


                                           Chapter 5

                                  MANAGEMENT REVIEW

5.1. Regulatory Agency Noncompliance Actions. The installation environmental function will
review management action plans to ensure that outstanding OEAs are resolved within the
required time frames. Review the response to regulatory agency inspection findings to ensure
process owners take timely corrective actions, and ensure reporting timelines outlined in the
latest AF/A7CA guidance are followed.
5.2. Automated Civil Engineer System-Program Management. Use the Automated Civil
Engineer System-Program Management (ACES-PM) to plan, program, and budget requirements
for air quality compliance and resource management. Environmental managers are reminded it is
the Air Force’s policy to always pursue a feasible pollution prevention solution first in order to
meet a compliance requirement (AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program).
5.3. Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Councils. Installation Environment,
Safety and Occupational Health Councils (ESOHCs) are the appropriate forum for coordinating
air quality compliance and resource management program corrective actions that require cross-
functional review, deliberation and approval. ESOHCs will conduct management reviews to
ensure air planning goals are met, implementation and recordkeeping procedures are followed,
and assessment findings are tracked and completed. The ESOHC also ensures program goals are
appropriate and produce actions to fully support current and future mission requirements with
adequate air assets. See AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Councils for
further information.




                                             KEVIN J. SULLIVAN, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                    21


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
40 C.F.R. Part 98, Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases
AFCEE Emissions Factor Guide to Air Force Mobile Sources, December 2009 at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/DocView.asp?DocID=7808690
AFCEE Emissions Factor Guide to Air Force Stationary Sources, December 2009 at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/DocView.asp?DocID=8692790
E.O. 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance
E.O. 12088, Federal Compliance with Pollution Control Standards
E.O. 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management
42 U.S.C. 7401 - 7671q, Clean Air Act
42 U.S.C. 11001 - 11050, Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act
42 U.S.C. 4321 - 4370f, National Environmental Policy Act
42 U.S.C. 11001 - 11050, Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act
32 C.F.R. Part 989.30, Air Quality
40 C.F.R. Part 51, Requirements for Preparation, Adoption, and Submittal of Implementation
Plans
40 C.F.R. Part 51, Subpart I, Review of New Sources and Modifications
40 C.F.R. Part 51, Subpart S, Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
40 C.F.R. Part 60, Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources
40 C.F.R. Part 61, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants
40 C.F.R. Part 63, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source
Categories
40 C.F.R. Part 68, Chemical Accident Prevention Provisions
40 C.F.R. Part 70, State Operating Permit Programs
40 C.F.R. Part 71, Federal Operating Permit Programs
40 C.F.R. Part 80, Regulation of Fuels and Fuel Additives
40 C.F.R. Part 81, Designation of Areas for Air Quality Planning Purposes
40 C.F.R. Part 82, Protection of Stratospheric Ozone
40 C.F.R. Part 86, Control of Air Pollution from New and In-Use Motor Vehicles and New and
In-Use Motor Vehicle Engines; Certification and Test Procedures
40 C.F.R. Part 88, Clean Fuel Vehicles
 22                                                           AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


40 C.F.R. Part 93, Subpart B, Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or
Federal Implementation Plans (Conformity Rule)
48 FAR Subpart 23.7, Contracting for Environmentally Preferable Products and Services
EPA, Major Source Determinations for Military Installations under the Air Toxics, New Source
Review, and Title V Operating Permit Programs of the CAA, 2 Aug 96
DoDI 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations
DoDI 4715.6, Environmental Compliance
DoDI 5000.64, Defense Property Accountability
DoD 4715.5-G, Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD)
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality
AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health
AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Councils
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program
AFI 32-7006, Environmental Program in Foreign Countries
AFI 32-7045, Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program (ECAMP)
AFI 32-7047, Environmental Compliance Tracking and Reporting
AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact Analysis Process
AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program
AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assessment
AFMAN 48-154, Occupational and Environmental Health Site Assessment
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
United States Air Force Conformity Guide, August 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ACES-PM—Automated Civil Engineer System-Program Management
AEI—Air Emissions Inventory
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                        23


AFCEE—Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIOH—Air Force Institute for Operational Health
AFIT/CESS—Air Force Institute of Technology Civil Engineer and Services School
AFLOA/JACE—Air Force Legal Operations Agency/Environmental Law and Litigation
Division
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRPA—Air Force Real Property Agency
AQIA—Air Quality Impact Analysis
AQCR—Air Quality Control Region
BACT—Best Available Control Technology
CAA—Clean Air Act
CAAA—Clean Air Act Amendments
CEQ—Council on Environmental Quality
C.F.R.—Code of Federal Regulations
CO—Carbon Monoxide
CONUS—Continental United States
DERC—Discrete Emission Reduction Credit
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoJ—Department of Justice
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EEA—Environmental Executive Agent
EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
EIP—Economic Incentive Program
E.O.—Executive Order
EPA—United States Environmental Protection Agency
EPCRA—Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act
ERC—Emission Reduction Credit
ESOHC—Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Council
 24                                                       AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


ESOHCAMP—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program
ESOHMS—Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Management System
FFCA—Federal Facilities Compliance Act
FGS—Final Governing Standards
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GACT—Generally Available Control Technology
GSA—General Services Administration
HAP—Hazardous Air Pollutant
HQ USAF/A7C—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Office of the Civil Engineer
HQ USAF/A7CA—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Office of the Civil Engineer, Asset
Management & Operations Division
HQ USAF/A7CAQ—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Office of the Civil Engineer, Asset
Management & Operations Division, Environmental Quality Branch
HN—Host Nation
I/M—Inspection and Maintenance
IMT— Information Management Tool
LAER—Lowest Achievable Emission Rate
MACT—Maximum Achievable Control Technology
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILCON—Military Construction
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MPO—Metropolitan Planning Organization
NAAQS—National Ambient Air Quality Standards
NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act
NESHAP—National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants
NSPS—New Source Performance Standards
NO2—Nitrogen Dioxide
NOx—Nitrogen Oxides
NSR—New Source Review
O3—Ozone
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
ODS—Ozone-Depleting Substances
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                      25


OEA—Open Enforcement Action
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
OEHSA—Occupational and Environmental Health Site Assessment
OTR—Ozone Transport Region
Pb—Lead
PIH—Plug-in Hybrid
PM—Particulate Matter with an Aerodynamic Diameter Equal or Less than 10 Microns (PM10 )
and Equal or Less than 2.5 Microns (PM2.5 )
POVs—Privately Owned Vehicles
PSD—Prevention of Significant Deterioration
PTE—Potential To Emit
RACT—Reasonably Available Control Technology
REO—Regional Environmental Office
RMP—Risk Management Plan
SAF/IEE—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety, and
Occupational Health
SAF/GCN—Secretary of the Air Force, General Counsel, Installations and Environment
SARA—Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act
SIP—State Implementation Plan
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SO2—Sulfur Dioxide
USAF—United States Air Force
VOC—Volatile Organic Compound
U.S.—United States
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Air Pollutant—Any air pollution agent or combination of such agents, including any physical,
chemical, biological, radioactive (including source material, special nuclear material and
byproduct material) substances or matter which emitted into or otherwise enters the ambient air.
Such term includes any precursors to the formation of any air pollutant, to the extent the
Administrator has identified such precursor or precursors for the particular purpose for which the
term “air pollutant” is used.
Air Pollution—The presence of contaminant or pollutant substances in concentrations that
interfere with human health or welfare or produce other harmful environmental effects.
 26                                                               AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


Air Quality Standards—As prescribed by regulations, the level of pollutants that may not be
exceeded during a specific time in a defined area.
Attainment Area—An area considered to have air quality as good as or better than the NAAQS
as defined in the CAA. An area may be an attainment area for one pollutant and a nonattainment
area for others.
Class I, II, and III Areas—Under the CAA, clean air areas are divided into three classes. Very
little pollution increase is allowed in Class I areas, some increase is allowed in Class II areas and
even more of an increase is allowed in Class III areas. National parks, national monuments, and
wilderness areas receive mandatory Class I protection. All other areas start out as Class II. States
can reclassify Class II areas as either Class I or Class III, subject to Federal requirements.
Conformity—Conformity is the multi-step process used to determine and document whether a
proposed federal action meets the requirements of the General Conformity rule. There are two
main components to the overall process: an applicability analysis to determine whether a
conformity determination is required and, if it is, a Conformity determination to determine
whether the action conforms to the SIP.
Criteria Pollutant—Air pollutants for which NAAQS have been established. Criteria pollutants
include PM10 and PM2.5, CO, SO2 NO2, O3, and Pb.
Emission—An emission is any release into the atmosphere of an air pollutant as defined in the
CAA Amendments of 1990 Section 302 (g). Emissions can be released from boilers, generators,
motor vehicles and air fleet, degreasing operations, woodworking and welding, depainting and
surface coating operations, etc.
Emissions Inventory—A detailed listing, by source and type, of the quantity of air pollutants
emitted into the atmosphere.
Emission Reduction Credit—Emission reduction credits are a novel form of property for
emissions trading purposes. ERCs only exist when created in accordance with a system to
establish, bank, and trade the ERCs under a state or local (including MPO or other regional)
implementation plan.
Enforcement Action—Actions taken by regulators to obtain compliance with environmental
laws, rules, regulations, or agreements and/or obtain penalties for violations.
Hazardous Air Pollutants—Those substances listed by EPA or states that have been identified
as serious threats to human health or the environment.
Installation Commander—The host unit commander who discharges the duties directed by
United States statutes or Air Force directives.
Maintenance Area—Any geographic region of the United States previously designated
nonattainment pursuant to the CAA Amendments of 1990 and subsequently redesignated to
attainment subject to the requirement to develop a maintenance plan under Section 175A of the
CAA, as amended.
Major Stationary Source & Major Emitting Facility—Except as otherwise expressly
provided, both terms mean sources that emit 100 tons per year or more of any air pollutant. The
exceptions are:
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                           27


1) 250 tons per year of any regulated pollutant from any source in an attainment area other than
one of the twenty-eight listed sources in 42 U.S.C. Section 7479;
2) 50 tons per year/ 25 tons per year/ 10 tons per year of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) or
NOx in serious, severe, and extreme O3 nonattainment areas, respectively;
3) Five (5) tons per year of VOCs or NOx in moderate O3 nonattainment areas if state opted out
of the 15% reduction provision of 42 U.S.C. Section 7511a(b)(1);
4) 50 tons per year of VOCs for any source within an Ozone Transport Region (OTR) per 42
U.S.C. Section 7511c(b)(2), except such sources in severe or extreme nonattainment areas within
the OTR;
5) 50 tons per year of CO in serious CO nonattainment areas;
6) 70 tons per year of whose aerodynamic diameter is less than or equal to 10 microns (PM 10) in
nonattainment areas; or
7) 10 tons per year of any single HAP or 25 tons per year of all HAPs in the aggregate.
Mobile Source—Any non-stationary source of air pollution, such as cars, trucks, buses, planes,
trains, motorcycles and gasoline-powered lawn mowers. Mobile sources are typically classified
as being either “on-road” or “non-road” in nature. Examples of on-road sources include cars,
trucks and buses, while examples of non-road sources include construction equipment, aircraft,
aircraft ground support equipment, and other tactical equipment used in combat or combat
support operations.
Monitoring—Periodic or continuous surveillance or testing to determine the level of compliance
with statutory requirements and/or pollutant levels in various media or in humans, animals, and
other living things.
National Ambient Air Quality Standards—Standards established by the EPA for six criteria
air pollutants that are commonly found in ambient air throughout the country. Two types of
NAAQS have been established. Primary standards set limits to protect public health, while
secondary standards set limits to protect public welfare. Areas with good air quality are referred
to as being in “attainment” with the NAAQS, while areas with poor air quality are referred to as
being “nonattainment” with the NAAQS.
New Source—Any stationary source that is built or modified after publication of final or
proposed regulations that prescribe a standard of performance intended to apply to that type of
emission source.
New Source Performance Standards—Uniform national air emission standards established by
EPA that limit the amount of pollution allowed from new or existing sources that have been
modified. NSPS are found in 40 C.F.R. Part 60.
Nonattainment Area—Geographic area with measured air quality that does not meet one or
more of the NAAQS for the criteria pollutants designated through the CAA.
Operational Needs Requirement ERC—ERCs in an air quality district where an installation is
closing that the Air Force would justifiably need to acquire to fulfill its operations at another Air
Force facility in the same air quality district, or in any other air quality district that would accept
transfer of the credits. Operational needs requirement ERCs include all ERCs needed for the
Installation Restoration Program.
 28                                                                AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


Personal Property—Any property including military equipment, but excluding real property,
consumable items, component parts of a higher assembly, or items that lose their individual
identity through use.
Potential to Emit—The maximum capacity of a stationary source to emit any air pollutant under
its physical and operational design. Any physical or operational limitation on the capacity of a
source to emit an air pollutant, including air pollution control equipment and restrictions on
hours of operation or on the type or amount of material combusted, stored, or processed, shall be
treated as part of its design if the limitation is enforceable by the EPA.
Precursors of a Criteria Pollutant—Precursors are those pollutants that contribute to the
formation of a criteria pollutant. For O3, precursors are NOx (unless an area is exempted from
NOx requirements under the CAA, Section 182(f)), and VOCs; and for PM10, precursors are
those pollutants described in the applicable nonattainment area SIP as significant contributors to
PM10 levels. For PM2.5, the scientifically recognized precursors are ammonia, SO2, NOx, and
VOCs per EPA’s proposed implementation rule at 70 Federal Register 65983 (November 1,
2005). As of this writing it is uncertain which, if any, of these will actually be regulated as
precursors for purposes of NSR, General Conformity, or other SIP rules.
Prevention of Significant Deterioration—The EPA program in which federal and/or state
permits restrict emissions for new or modified sources in places where air quality is already
better than required to meet the NAAQS.
Related Personal Property ERC—Available ERCs, the removal of which would significantly
diminish the value of the property if not transferred with the real property. The Air Force will
consider development plans of the reuse groups and determine which ERCs will be available for
transfer as related personal property after Air Force “operational needs requirement” ERCs are
addressed.
Responsible Official—The installation commander for purposes of signing Title V Operating
Permit applications, amendments, supplements, or corrections and for certifying Title V
Operating Permit deviation reports, monitoring reports, compliance certifications, or any other
document that requires certification by a “Responsible Official” under the applicable regulations.
The responsibility to certify the federal agency Responsible Official may not be delegated.
Section 70.2 of the Title V Operating Permit regulations defines a Responsible Official as
follows: “For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: either a principal executive
officer or ranking elected official. For the purposes of this part, a principal executive of a Federal
agency includes the chief executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a
principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g., a Regional Administrator of EPA).”
Risk Management—The process of evaluating alternative regulatory and nonregulatory
responses to risk and selecting among them. The selection process requires consideration of
impact to human health and the environment, legal, economic, military and social factors.
Risk Management Plan—A plan that documents the actions a facility that stores, transports or
uses regulated hazardous substances at levels exceeding established thresholds will take to
prevent and mitigate their accidental release, and reduce the severity of releases that do occur.
RMP requirements are found at 40 C.F.R. Part 68.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                     29


Sovereign Immunity—The legal principal that the federal government can not be subjected to
state penalties or judgments of state courts except where Congress has expressly waived such
immunity in the CAA or other statute.
State Implementation Plans—SIPs are state plans for the establishment, regulation, and
enforcement of air pollution standards. SIPs approved by the EPA are federally enforceable.
Stationary Source—A fixed, non-moving producer of pollution, such as power plants and other
facilities using industrial combustion processes, paint spray booths, fuel storage tanks, and
solvent cleaning facilities.
Synthetic Minor—A facility or stationary source that has voluntarily limited its PTE by means
of a federally enforceable order, rule, or permit condition to ensure its emissions do not exceed
major source thresholds.
Volatile Organic Compounds—Any organic compound that participates in atmospheric
photochemical reactions, except for those designated by EPA as having negligible photochemical
reactivity.
 30                                                             AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


                                         Attachment 2
 AIR QUALITY COMPLIANCE AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS,
              EXECUTIVE ORDERS, AND DOD DIRECTIVES

A2.1. Regulatory Sources. This attachment briefly describes key elements of the regulatory
framework governing the air quality compliance and resource management responsibilities of all
Air Force organizations.
   A2.1.1. Air Quality Regulatory Authorities. Within the Continental United States (CONUS),
   the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) develops regulations, programs, policies
   and enforcement strategies for compliance with Clean Air Act (CAA) air quality standards.
   Of particular importance is EPA’s role in adopting CAA regulations which set minimum air
   quality requirements that state and local regulatory authorities must meet through their air
   programs and regulations. The Air Force complies with all EPA-adopted CAA regulations,
   found in 40 C.F.R. Part 50 - 99. In addition, EPA-adopted CAA policies and guidance on
   how CAA provisions should be applied by the regulated community should be generally
   followed in circumstances where applicable. EPA-proposed regulations and draft
   policies/guidance should generally not be followed but may be considered for informational
   purposes. However, major new or reconstructed sources of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)
   that begin construction or reconstruction after promulgation of applicable proposed standard,
   limitation, or regulation, should follow the proposed rule because (if operating) they must be
   in compliance with the proposed standards on the effective date of the rule.
   States have primary authority and responsibility to achieve and maintain air quality, and play
   major roles in implementation of the minimum requirements of the CAA through the
   preparation and adoption of State Implementation Plans (SIPs) and issuance of Title V
   permits. See, for example Sections 101(a)(3), 107(a), 112(r)(11), 116, and 304(e) of the
   CAA. States may adopt their own more stringent or additional air quality regulations
   according to the terms of their own state air quality statutes, unless Congress has expressly
   preempted such laws and regulations (e.g., regulation of new motor vehicles, nonroad
   engines, and fuels, except in California, as well as aircraft or engines in any state). The Air
   Force complies with all applicable state-adopted air quality laws and regulations in the same
   manner and to the same extent required for any nongovernmental entity. Section 118(a) of
   the CAA waives federal sovereign immunity for compliance with such requirements in the
   same manner and to the same extent as any nongovernmental entity, including the payment
   of fees. However, as discussed above the payment of punitive fines and penalties for wholly
   past violations of such state or local requirements requires coordination in advance with
   AFLOA/JACE via the activity’s legal chain of command. States are not required to apply
   EPA CAA guidance in making determinations concerning installation compliance with the
   CAA or other air quality statutes or regulations. Accordingly, installations interested in
   applying EPA guidance in connection with their CAA permits or related compliance
   activities must coordinate with their respective states to receive approval of applying the
   EPA guidance in that context. While state-adopted air quality policies and guidance should
   be generally followed by installations in that state in circumstances where applicable, state-
   proposed air quality regulations and draft air quality policies and guidance should generally
   not be followed, but may be considered for informational purposes.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                      31


   As political subdivisions of states, local regulatory authorities (including Metropolitan
   Planning Organizations (MPOs) and other regional authorities) also have primary authority
   and responsibility for air pollution control and abatement per Section 101(a)(3) and Section
   116 of the CAA. The Air Force complies with all applicable, duly adopted local and regional
   laws and regulations in the same manner and to the same extent as required of any
   nongovernmental entity.
   Air Force components at installations operating in foreign countries) shall implement
   relevant portions of this instruction in accordance with DoD and AF policies, the country-
   specific Final Governing Standards (FGS), or Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance
   Document (OEBGD), if no FGS exists, or any obligations under a binding international
   agreement. Additional direction, guidance and information may be obtained from AFCEE,
   AFCESA, AFIOH, and MAJCOM and installation Staff Judge Advocates (SJAs) as
   appropriate.
   A2.1.2. Air Quality Regulatory Information. Primary sources of regulatory information are
   EPA-adopted CAA regulations and applicable state air quality statutes and regulations. New
   and updated information regarding air quality compliance may be obtained from the Defense
   Environmental Network & Information eXchange (DENIX), the Air Force Federal CAA
   Toolbox and State CAA Toolbox available from AFCEE, and HQ USAF/A7CA. Other
   important sources of additional direction, guidance and information may be obtained from
   AFCEE, AFCESA, AFIOH, MAJCOM and installation SJAs, and from the DoD Services
   Steering Committee for Clean Air Act Implementation which facilitates compliance with and
   implementation of the CAA within DoD Components. After first utilizing the information
   sources described above, installations can consult with EPA, state and local (including MPO
   or other regional) authorities as appropriate to meet their regulatory obligations.
A2.2. Clean Air Act. (CAA Sections 101 - 618, 42 U.S.C. 7401 - 7671q) The CAA is the
primary statute for the control of air pollution through the regulation of air emissions from
stationary and mobile sources within the United States, its territories, and possessions including
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The CAA has historically regulated air quality
through prohibitions on pollution emissions from new and existing sources of air pollution that
cause the exceedance of ambient air quality levels in SIPs; more stringent control technology and
permitting requirements are provided for new sources of air pollution; and provisions to address
specific air quality problems and visibility impairment. The 1990 CAA Amendments (Pub. L.
No. 101-549, November 15, 1990) were the most recent and most substantial revision of historic
CAA coverage. The 1990 Amendments to the CAA contained six Titles. Titles I-III amended
Subchapters I-III of the existing CAA and Titles IV-VI contained major additions to the Act. The
1990 Amendments introduced sweeping changes including, but certainly not limited to,
requirements for a comprehensive operating permit program. The CAA is presently organized
into six Subchapters: Subchapter I—Programs and Activities; Subchapter II—Emission
Standards for Moving Sources; Subchapter III—General Provisions; Subchapter IV—Noise
Pollution; Subchapter IVa—Acid Deposition Control; Subchapter V—Permits; and Subchapter
VI—Stratospheric Ozone Protection. The following provides brief descriptions of major CAA
statutory requirements.
   A2.2.1. National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Criteria Pollutants. (CAA Subchapter I,
   Section 109, 42 U.S.C. 7409) Subchapter I of the CAA establishes national ambient air
32                                                             AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


  quality standards (NAAQS) for six major pollutants called criteria pollutants. For each
  criteria pollutant, primary NAAQS standards are set at levels sufficient to protect public
  health with an adequate margin of safety, and secondary NAAQS standards are set at levels
  to promote the public welfare (i.e., for non-human health-related concerns.)
  A2.2.2. State Implementation Plans. (CAA Subchapter I, Section 110, 42 U.S.C. 7410)
  Under Subchapter I of the CAA, each state must develop and adopt a SIP, which must be
  approved by EPA before it is fully enforceable. SIPs provide for implementation,
  maintenance, and enforcement of the NAAQS in each air quality control region (AQCR) for
  stationary and mobile sources.
  A2.2.3. Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources. (CAA Subchapter I, Section
  111, 42 U.S.C. 7411) Stationary sources are categorized as either major or minor based on
  their potential to emit regulated air pollutants. The determinations of “major” sources on
  military installations are essentially the same as for non-military industrial and commercial
  facilities. EPA guidance concerning major sources at military installations includes Major
  Source Determinations for Military Installations under the Air Toxics, New Source Review,
  and Title V Operating Permit Programs of the Clean Air Act, 2 August 96.
  A2.2.4. Hazardous Air Pollutants. (Subchapter I, Section 112, 42 U.S.C. 7412) At present,
  there are 186 CAA HAPs. Changes in the listing of HAPs are found in 40 C.F.R. Part 63,
  Subpart C. EPA promulgates National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants
  (NESHAP) to eliminate the adverse health effects caused by HAP emissions into the
  atmosphere. NESHAP standards typically apply to Air Force installations classified as major
  sources of HAPs that are involved in the manufacture or rework (including maintenance and
  repair) of commercial, civil, or military aerospace vehicles or components, or military-unique
  equipment and processes.
  A2.2.5. Control of Pollution from Federal Facilities. (Subchapter I, Section 118, 42 U.S.C.
  7418) Federal agencies are to comply with all federal, state, interstate and local requirements
  in the same manner and to the same extent as any nongovernmental entity.
  A2.2.6. Prevention of Significant Deterioration of Air Quality. (CAA Subchapter I, Part C,
  Sections 160 - 169B, 42 U.S.C. 7470 - 7492) Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD)
  requirements (40 C.F.R. Part 51.166 and 52.21) apply to major sources located in areas
  designated as attainment for the NAAQS.
  A2.2.7. Plan Requirements for Nonattainment Areas. (CAA Subchapter I, Part D, Sections
  171 - 193, 42 U.S.C. 7501 - 7515) Nonattainment New Source Review (NSR) requirements
  (40 C.F.R. Part 51.165(a) and (b); 40 C.F.R. Part 51 Appendix S; 40 C.F.R. Part 52.24) apply
  in areas where an established NAAQS for a CAA pollutant is not being met (nonattainment
  areas).
  A2.2.8. National Emissions Standards for Moving Sources. (CAA Subchapter II, Part A and
  C, Sections 201 - 219, 241 - 250, 42 U.S.C. 7521 - 7554) The National Emissions Standards
  consists of the following programs: (1) Mobile Source Emissions; (2) Inspection and
  Maintenance (I/M) Program; and (3) Alternative Fuel Programs. Air Force facilities must
  ensure that their vehicle fleets and POVs registered at the facility comply with applicable
  mobile source rules, including but not limited to I/M programs and where necessary clean
  fuel and alternative fuel programs.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                      33


   A2.2.9. Title V Operating Permits. (Subchapter V, Sections 501 - 507, 42 U.S.C. 7661c -
   7661g) Subchapter V of the CAA (Title V of the 1990 CAA Amendments, Pub. L. No. 101-
   549, November 15, 1990) and the related implementing regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 70, State
   Operating Programs current edition and 40 C.F.R. Part 71, Federal Operating Permit
   Programs current edition) require EPA to establish a national, federally enforceable operating
   permit program. The goal of the Title V Operating Permit Program is to ensure compliance
   of major stationary sources of air pollution by consolidating all applicable air pollution
   control requirements into a single comprehensive operating permit.
   A2.2.10. Stratospheric Ozone Protection. (Subchapter VI, Sections 601 - 618, 42 U.S.C.
   7671 - 7671q) The Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS) regulations in 40 C.F.R. Part 82
   implement the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and related
   provisions of the CAA.
A2.3. Other Federal Regulations. Although the CAA is the primary legislation for the control
of air pollution, other legislation contains requirements for air quality compliance, including:
   A2.3.1. Federal Facilities Compliance Act (FFCA) Public Law 102-386, Statute 1505)
   waives immunity with respect to substantive and procedural requirements for federal
   facilities.
   A2.3.2. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et. seq) regulates
   hazardous waste from the “cradle-to-grave” and mandates compliance with the CAA. The
   regulations implementing RCRA are contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 260 - 299.
   A2.3.3. Part C of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f - 300j-11) regulates
   underground injection. The regulations implementing the Safe Drinking Water Act are
   contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 141 - 149.
   A2.3.4. Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), also known as
   Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA), or SARA Title III,
   42 U.S.C. 11001 - 11050. Certain chemicals subject to the HAPs and risk management
   provisions of CAA Section 112 are also subject to EPCRA requirements. The regulations
   implementing EPCRA are contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 350 - 372.
   A2.3.5. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321 - 4370f) requires the
   Air Force to make a parallel air quality conformity determination for major actions that needs
   to be managed through the EIAP (32 C.F.R. Part 989.30).
A2.4. Executive Order 12088. E.O. 12088, Federal Compliance with Pollution Control
Standards, requires the Air Force to take all necessary actions to prevent, control, and abate
environmental pollution at all Air Force installations; and comply with applicable pollution
control standards including, but not limited to, those established pursuant to the various federal
environmental statutes listed in the E.O. A previous requirement to request sufficient funds for
environmental compliance and prompt correction of noncompliance was subsequently repealed
by E.O. 13148.
A2.5. Executive Order 13327. E.O. 13327, Federal Real Property Asset Management, requires
agencies promote the efficient and economic use of federal real property resources in accordance
with their value as national assets. The effectiveness of federal real property management is
determined by a variety of performance measures, such as consideration of the environmental
 34                                                             AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


costs associated with agency ownership of real property, including the costs of environmental
restoration and compliance activities.
A2.6. Executive Order 13423. E.O. 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and
Transportation Management, requires the Air Force to conduct its environmental, transportation,
and energy-related activities in support of its mission in an environmentally, economically, and
fiscally sound, integrated, continuously improving, efficient, and sustainable manner.
A2.7. Department of Defense Instruction 4715.5. DoDI 4715.5, Management of
Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations, establishes the framework of policies,
procedures and responsibilities as well as environmental “standards” that all permanent U.S.
installations operating in foreign countries must comply with. The OEBGD provides the
minimum environmental criteria and management practices to protect human health and the
environment. The FGS are a comprehensive set of country-specific substantive provisions,
typically technical in nature, derived from a comparative analysis of the OEBGD and Host
Nation (HN) standards. The more protective of the two standards are incorporated into the FGS
as determined to be applicable and appropriate in accordance with international agreements (e.g.,
Status of Forces Agreement).
A2.8. Executive Order 13514. E.O. 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and
Economic Performance orders that the Federal Government will lead by example in establishing
an integrated national strategy for sustainability. Using fiscal year 2008 baselines federal
agencies are directed to measure, manage, and reduce GHG emissions by 2020; reduce vehicle
fleet petroleum use by 30% by 2020; achieve 50% recycling and waste diversion by 2015; meet
sustainability requirements in 95% of applicable contracts; implement the 2030 net-zero-energy
building requirement; implement the stormwater provisions of the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007; and develop guidance for sustainable buildings.
AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007                                                                      35


                                         Attachment 3
                          AIR EMISSION REDUCTION CREDITS

A3.1. Air Emission Reduction Credits. The Clean Air Act (CAA) allows the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) and the states to develop economic incentive programs to control and
reduce air emissions. Such programs allow sources to “generate”, “buy”, “sell”, “bank”, or
“trade” emissions reduction credits (ERCs). ERCs are authorized and created by appropriate
state or local authorities, and will vary from location to location pursuant to applicable EPA
rules. ERC programs need to be approved by EPA in a State Implementation Plan (SIP) to
become effective. Credits earned by any source that permanently reduces emissions beyond its
reduction requirements can be traded to another source that could use such credits, in lieu of on-
site reductions, to meet its reduction obligations. ERCs may also be banked for future use as
offsets for nonattainment area New Source Review (NSR) or General Conformity
determinations. ERCs are treated as federal personal property and disposed of according to the
appropriate federal property disposal regulations. Flying operations shall not be reduced for the
sole purpose of obtaining ERCs; however, installations should ensure that emissions from
aircraft flying operations are accounted for in comprehensive emissions inventories and
memorialized in any applicable SIP emissions budget for the installation.
A3.2. Emission Reduction Credit Identification. ERCs can be created as a result of
operational changes or installation closure. They can be obtained by removing pollutant-emitting
equipment from service or reducing emissions from equipment, if the applicable air quality
district allows. Planning for ERC utilization should include a determination of the applicable
requirements for generation as soon as possible to avoid inadvertent loss of ERCs due to missed
requirements. For example, some local rules require submission of an application for ERCs
along with supporting documentation prior to any shutdown of the emissions source while other
local rules require submission of the application within 90 days of permanent shutdown. In
addition, some states may have laws that expressly apply to various aspects of ERC generation
and disposition involving military base closures and realignments, such as the Cannella Bill in
California, AB 3204 (1994), codified at Health and Safety Code Section 40709.7.
A3.3. Emission Reduction Credit Inventory and Classification. Within one year, or as early
as possible, prior to the departure of the active mission from a currently announced installation
closure or realignment (immediately at installations where the active mission has departed or
equipment emitting air emissions are discontinued, or within six months of an installation closure
announcement for future closures), the environmental function will complete an inventory of all
existing/potential sources of ERCs and associated emissions, and have a legal review prepared
summarizing the applicable air quality district regulations on ERCs. Copies of the applicable
ERC regulation will be included when facility ERCs are identified and any limitations on the
disposition of the ERCs will be noted in the legal review. Such limitations may include
prohibitions on the use of ERCs at closing facilities and if there are any restrictions on the
leasing of ERCs. Forward the inventory, legal review, and appropriate regulations governing the
use of these ERCs through the MAJCOM environmental function to the appropriate AFCEE
REO. The ERCs will be initially classified as “related personal property ERCs”, “operational
needs requirement ERCs”, or “personal property ERCs” on the inventory. The REO will
circulate the inventory to other MAJCOMs and installations in the same air quality district who
will identify ERCs they might need. The REO will then validate the list and forward it with
 36                                                             AFI32-7040 27 AUGUST 2007


comments back to the appropriate MAJCOM. MAJCOMs will review/validate the
ERCs/categories, coordinate with HQ USAF/A7C, and submit to SAF/IEE for final approval.
A3.4. Emission Reduction Credit Application. The CAA allows sources in nonattainment
areas with EPA-approved ERC programs to “trade” ERCs. Installations must follow regulatory
agency procedures to apply for and obtain ERCs if interested in obtaining ERCs and if they have
adequate funds for the associated fees. Installation realignment and closure funds may be used to
conduct the emission reduction credit inventory and to pay for application fees for installations
slated for closure. MAJCOMs must submit their requirements to the Air Force Real Property
Agency (AFRPA) in accordance with AFRPA programming procedures. MAJCOMs receiving
ERCs from closure installations will reimburse the installation realignment and closure account
for its proportionate share of the costs of the inventory and application fees. Reimbursement is
not required if the receiving installation is an installation realignment and closure site.
A3.5. Emission Reduction Credit Disposition. Once an air quality district issues ERCs, and
SAF/IEE has approved their use, ERCs can be disposed in the following manner.
   A3.5.1. “Operational needs requirement ERCs” can be banked for the requirements of the
   originating installation or can be transferred to another Air Force organization that would
   need to buy the credits.
   A3.5.2. “Related personal property ERCs” will be disposed of in the same manner as the real
   property on the inventory to which they are “related.”
   A3.5.3. “Personal property ERCs” will be screened with other DoD and other federal
   agencies. Thereafter, the installation will transfer any remaining ERCs as surplus property to
   the General Services Administration (GSA) for disposal under GSA regulations.
   SAF/IEE will resolve any disputes over disposition of ERCs.
A3.6. Emission Reduction Credit Use. ERCs can only be used in the same air quality control
district/region in which they are generated, except where state or local laws and regulations
provide otherwise. For example, the Discrete Emission Reduction Credit (DERC) regulations in
Texas allow stationary and mobile DERCs generated within the state, with certain limitations, to
be used anywhere within the state. In addition, and under certain circumstances, DERCs created
outside the state may also be used within the state. In California, Section 40709.6 of the Health
and Safety Code permits the inter-basin transfer of emission offsets or ERCs from an upwind to
downwind sources, even though they may be in different air quality control areas.
