                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-202
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              18 MARCH 1994

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                                                  CIVILIAN MOBILITY




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/DPCC                                                           Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC
       ( Ms. Glenda E. Atkinson)                                                    (Mr. John R. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-303, 1 May 90                                                                   Pages: 4
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-2, Employment and Affirmative Action, and DoD Directive
1400.24, Civilian Mobility Program, 20 October 1989. It prescribes the conditions for mobility programs
and agreements. It delineates procedures for involuntary assignments of employees not covered by mobil-
ity agreements. It applies to certain administrative, professional, technical, and managerial positions. It
does not apply to movement of Senior Executive Service members, employees assigned to U.S. Air Force
Reserve, or Air National Guard technician positions.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first publication of AFI 36-202, substantially revising AFR 40-303. This revision aligns the
instruction with AFPD 36-2.



1. Air Force Civilian Mobility Program. A mobility program allows management to readily identify
and move employees to meet critical needs and to provide assignments designed to give them the breadth
and depth of experience needed for placement in key managerial positions.

2. Applicability. The Air Force expects the following employees to be mobile:
   • All GS/GM-15s.
   • All, or selected, GS/GM-14s as determined by:
      • The career program policy council for occupations included in Air Force-wide career pro-
          grams, or
      • The Air Force or Secretariat-level functional chief for other occupations or career fields.
      • Other employees as explained in paragraph 3.1. below.
   2.1. These senior civilian employees are managed either by the civilian career programs or the Air
   Force-level functional chiefs.

3. Management Responsibilities. The Secretary of the Air Force manages all Air Force resources and,
as such, has the authority to require mobility and to establish civilian mobility programs.
   3.1. Assignments involving geographic relocation, except for those done at employee request and
   those resulting from reduction-in-force or transfer of function, are subject to this instruction.
   3.2. HQ USAF or Secretariat organizations, major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies
   (FOA), or civilian career program policy councils may create mobility programs (initiating organiza-
   tions) as part of intern or formal career development programs, to improve mission effectiveness, or to
   meet specific mission needs. The Air Force Director of Civilian Personnel and Personnel Plans (HQ
   USAF/DPC) and the initiating organization develop and implement mobility program procedures.
   3.3. Management officials must keep employees fully informed of the contents of this instruction,
   mobility programs and coverage, and of the benefits to the Air Force and its employees of planned
   assignment changes.

4. Program Requirements:
   4.1. Initiating organizations must inform candidates for positions of the details and operations of a
   program before assignment, including whether mobility may be a condition of employment or selec-
   tion and if a mobility agreement is required. (See Attachment 1 for a sample agreement.)
   4.2. The initiating organization decides if mobility agreements must be signed as a condition of selec-
   tion for a position. Mobility agreements are in effect for the employee’s entire Air Force career, the
   length of an assignment or internship, or other temporary circumstance as determined by the initiating
   organization.
   4.3. If employees occupy positions subsequently identified for mobility, they need not sign a mobility
   agreement to keep their jobs. These employees continue to be considered for promotions to vacancies
   at their present location.
   4.4. Management officials should consider an employee’s career objectives and geographic prefer-
   ences in determining assignments requiring relocation, however, an employee’s personal preference is
   not binding upon management.
   4.5. Mobility programs enhance career progression or mission effectiveness. They are not a form of
   disciplinary action.

5. Assignment with a Mobility Agreement. Individuals with a mobility agreement may request release
from the mobility requirement only for hardship. The career program policy chair, Air Force or Secretar-
iat-level functional manager, commander, or individual responsible for the mobility program decides
whether to release the individual from the mobility agreement. If a hardship exemption is not approved,
management’s options are to reassign the employee to a position not requiring mobility, remove the
employee from the program, or separate the employee from Federal service. (Employees who have
signed a mobility agreement or have their position description annotated to identify a mobility require-
ment before assignment into the position are ineligible for discontinued service retirement).



                                                2
6. Involuntary Mobility Assignment without a Mobility Agreement. The Secretary of the Air Force
delegates the authority to approve or direct involuntary assignments to the career program policy council
chair (Auditor General co-chair in the case of the Air Force Audit Agency) for those occupations man-
aged by the career programs or to the Air Force or Secretariat-level functional chief for those occupations
not managed by career programs.
   6.1. Approval requires that such action is in the best interest of the Air Force and warrants overriding
   the personal consideration of the employee. Examples of actions in the best interest of the Air Force
   include mission essentiality or the unique qualifications of the individual.
   6.2. Send requests for an involuntary assignment with a geographic move through the MAJCOM and
   HQ USAF/DPC. Include the following supporting documentation:
       6.2.1. Position description and organization chart.
       6.2.2. Employee’s statement of inability or reluctance to move voluntarily with validating com-
       ments by supervisors.
       6.2.3. Statement from Air Force or Secretariat-level functional chief, career program policy coun-
       cil chair, or other managers describing the special qualifications of the employee, the reasons
       which make the assignment imperative, and the effects on the mission.

7. Documentation. The gaining organization initiates the SF-52, Request for Personnel Action, effect-
ing the mobility assignment. The Civilian Personnel Flight of the gaining organization retains all support-
ing documentation.

8. Appeals and Grievances. Employees may request review of the decision under the appropriate
agency dispute resolution and grievance procedure or negotiated grievance procedure.




                                          BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Personnel




                                                 3
                                               Attachment 1

                            MOBILITY AGREEMENT FOR GS/GM-14/15


A1.1. The Air Force often needs to reassign the best qualified senior civilian employees to meet critical
needs or to provide employees opportunities for continued career progression. Selection for a GS/GM-14
or 15 position requiring mobility recognizes an individual’s skill, capability, and potential for senior level
positions.

A1.2. I agree for the duration of my employment with the Air Force to accept positions at the same or
higher grade, including an assignment to different geographic locations, to satisfy my obligation under
this agreement.

A1.3. I understand my personal career goals and geographic and assignment preferences will be consid-
ered but are not guaranteed. Management will consider compelling personal reasons for not accepting an
assignment, but the Air Force may still require me to relocate to meet Air Force needs.

A1.4. If I do not accept a mobility assignment, even if relocation is not required, I may be reassigned to
another position not requiring mobility, lose consideration for career development or enhancement
assignments or key managerial positions, or may face adverse action such as change to lower grade or
separation.
Employee’s Signature and Date
Civilian Personnel Flight Representative’s
Signature and Date




                                                  4
