                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-1101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                29 APRIL 1994

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                            CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL
                                                                         MANAGEMENT SYSTEM


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/DPCX (Mr Richard A. Wheat) Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Mr John R. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-9, 26 August 1991                                          Pages: 22
                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-11, Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System. It also
implements Section 504, Title V of Public Law 99-569, Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
1987, as codified in Section 1590, Chapter 81 of Title 10, United States Code; and DoD 1400.34-M, DoD
Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System (CIPMS), August 1989, with Changes 1 through 3.
DoD Manual 1400.34-M establishes the basic triservice policies of CIPMS and provides for supplements
by the military departments to tailor CIPMS to their unique requirements. Unless otherwise specified in
this instruction, procedures established by Air Force, DoD and the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) apply.
This instruction requires the Air Force to collect and maintain information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974. The authority to collect and maintain this information is in 10 U.S.C. 1590. OPM Govern-
ment-wide systems records apply.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 36-11.
                                              Chapter 1
                                   WHAT THE SYSTEMS DOES

1.1. Who the System Covers:
   1.1.1. Mandatory. Civilian employees in positions:
       • Assigned to organizations having a primary intelligence mission.
       • Assigned to nonintelligence organizations performing intelligence or intelligence related work
          which requires a significant degree of specialized intelligence knowledge, skills, and ability.
   1.1.2. Optional:
       1.1.2.1. Civilian employees assigned to nonintelligence organizations who:
           • Provide direct support to intelligence functions.
           • Are considered on a case-by-case basis.
       1.1.2.2. The Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) sends requests for coverage through the major
       command (MAJCOM) DPC, or comparable level, to HQ USAF/DPC who coordinates action
       with HQ USAF/IN. Requests must include:
           • Title, series, and grade of the position.
           • Justification for coverage or non-coverage.
           • Coordination (not concurrence) between the servicing civilian personnel flight (CPF) and
               the organizations owning the positions in question.

1.2. Who the System Excludes:
    • Nonappropriated fund (NAF).
    • Local national (LN).
    • Law enforcement.

1.3. Who Does What:
   1.3.1.Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence (ACS/I):
       • Serves as the co-chair for the Air Force CIPMS Advisory Group (AFCAG).
       • Coordinates on all Air Force publications for the CIPMS.
       • Participates in Air Force and DoD CIPMS evaluations.
       • Makes the Air Force affirmative employment program an integral part of CIPMS.
       • Delegates manage-to-budget responsibility to the lowest practical level and establish policy
         regarding program evaluation.
       • Represents Air Force views on functional issues with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
         Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (ASD/C3I) and the Assistant Secre-
         tary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (ASD(P&R).
   1.3.2. HQ USAF/IN:


                                               2
    •    Keeps intelligence organizations informed about funding for National Foreign Intelligence
         Program (NFIP) civilian personnel costs.
    •    Works with SIOs to fully exploit O&M account flexibilities.
    •    Provides consolidated fiscal guidance, manage-to-budget programs, etc.
    •    Periodically assesses the effectiveness of CIPMS manage-to-budget programs.
1.3.3.   Director of Civilian Personnel Policy and Personnel Plans (HQ USAF/DPC):
    •    Guides MAJCOM personnel staffs and servicing CPFs.
    •    Settles classification appeals for CIPMS positions serviced by Air Force CPFs.
    •    Serves as the co-chair for the Air AFCAG.
    •    Ensures that Air Force affirmative employment is part of the total program.
1.3.4. Air Force CIPMS Advisory Group (AFCAG):
    • Recommends improvements for CIPMS within the Air Force to the co-chairs.
    •    Advises on CIPMS policy changes before implementation.
    •    Recommends changes to the Air Force representative on the DoD CAG.
    •    Promotes affirmative action within the intelligence community.
1.3.5. Major Command (MAJCOM), Field Operating Activity (FOA), Unified and Specified (U&S)
Commands, or Comparable Organizations' Intelligence Management (SIOs):
    • Uses AFI 36-502 to assure aggregate cost and return on human resource investments are a
       controlling factor in personnel decisions.
    • Delegates personnel and human resource budget authorities to appropriate subordinate man-
       agers and informs HQ USAF/IN of the level of delegation.
    • Evaluates how well CIPMS works, recommends changes, and inputs budget data to support
       training requirements.
    • Approves accelerated promotions after coordination with the MAJCOM DPC, or comparable
       level.
    • Proposes termination action under 10 U.S.C. 1590(e).
    • Decides appropriate approval level for compensation awards.
    • Provides an intelligence member for MAJCOM financial committees and the Civilian
       Employment and Cost Management Committee (CECMC).
    • Annually guides IMs and management on available funding for compensation and awards.
1.3.6. MAJCOM, or Comparable Level, Director of Civilian Personnel:
    • Advises MAJCOM SIOs about personnel management and administration.
    • Monitors data from various support systems, including the Defense Civilian Personnel Data
       System (DCPDS), in support of CIPMS.
    • Evaluates CIPMS and proposes changes to meet needs peculiar to their organization.
1.3.7. MAJCOM, or Equivalent, Comptroller:



                                             3
    •    Provides data for intelligence O&M funding to the SIO, or equivalent, including funding for
         civilian personnel costs.
    •    Develops civilian personnel costs for CECMC and IM use in their planning.
    •    Provides data to CECMCs and IMs on actual and budgeted amounts for civilian personnel
         costs and the O&M account.
    •    Advises intelligence management on flexibilities and restrictions on funding availability.
    •    Provides guidance and leadership for functional issues related to CIPMS.
1.3.8. Local Installations Intelligence Commanders or the Chief of the Intelligence Activity and
U&S Commands SIO:
    • Coordinates with the local CPF on the implementation and administration of CIPMS.
    • Ensures that staffs are fully informed of and comply with CIPMS personnel management pol-
       icies, instructions, and guidelines.
    • Promotes affirmative action.
    • Takes action to ensure the effectiveness of CIPMS personnel management.
1.3.9.   Servicing Civilian Personnel Flights (CPF):
    •    Perform civilian personnel servicing responsibilities and administration as delegated.
    •    Coordinate with IM on appropriate CIPMS matters.
    •    Designate a primary point of contact for CIPMS matters, if necessary.
1.3.10. Local Budget Offices, if necessary, advise the SIO, or equivalent, and staff on civilian
employment costs and man-year utilization in relation to funding.
1.3.11. Supervisors and Intelligence Managers (IM):
    • Exercise leadership in the management of civilian resources in the administration of CIPMS
        policies and programs.
    • Recommend, or if delegated by the commander, approve payment of recruiting and retention
        incentives.
    • Promote Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and strive toward meeting established affir-
        mative action objectives.
1.3.12. Employees:
    • Verify the accuracy of DCPDS data in their career briefs.
    • Establish career objectives.
    • With their supervisors, evaluate their individual training, education, experience needs, and
        career objectives.
    • Strive for excellence in their work.
    • Maintain standards of conduct and conditions of employment.
    • Maintain current registration in the Defense Intelligence Special Career Automated System
        (DISCAS), if eligible.



                                              4
1.4. Program Evaluation. This evaluation is accomplished according to AFPD 36-1, AFI 36-108, and
procedures established by AFCAG and DoD.




                                           5
                                                 Chapter 2
                                     POSITION CLASSIFICATION

2.1. How Positions Are Classified:
   2.1.1. General Schedule (GS) positions:
       • Are placed in an occupational series and pay plan using the Office of Personnel Management
          (OPM) Classification Guidelines or DoD approved CIPMS Guidelines.
       • Grade levels are determined by using the CIPMS Primary Grading Standards contained in
          DoD Manual 1400.34-M.
       2.1.1.1. The servicing CPF receives approval of the respective Career Program Policy Chair prior
       to changing the grade of CIPMS positions covered by Air Force Career Programs. Submit dis-
       agreements through the appropriate chain-of-command for resolution.
       2.1.1.2. Before implementing experimental classification programs, IMs or servicing CPFs sub-
       mit their requests through the appropriate chain-of-command to HQ USAF/DPC and HQ USAF/
       IN for approval.
   2.1.2. Federal Wage Grade (FWS) positions are classified using OPM Classification Guidelines or
   DoD approved CIPMS Guidelines.
   2.1.3. Include in CIPMS positions descriptions (PDs): "This is a Civilian Intelligence Personnel
   Management System (CIPMS) position classified under authorities of 10 U.S.C. 1590, Chapter 81,
   and DoD Manual 1400.34-M.
   2.1.4.   Evaluation statements must:
       •    Be developed by the servicing CPF if necessary to clarify the titles, series, or grade decision.
       •    Contain the appropriate classification references.
       •    Include a narrative on how the factor-level points were determined, including any interpola-
            tion.

2.2. Resolving Classification Disagreements:
   2.2.1. If the classifier and IM do not agree on a classification determination, the SIO resolves the dis-
   agreement through the appropriate CPF and chain-of-command.
   2.2.2. An employee disagreement with a classification is resolved using Air Force and DoD
   guidelines.
      • HQ USAF/DPC makes the final decision instead of OPM.




                                                  6
                                               Chapter 3
                         HIRING, PLACING, AND MANAGING CAREERS

3.1. Recruitment and Selection Procedures:
    • CIPMS appointments are excepted by statute under 10 U.S.C. 1590.
    • Management may select from any candidate source.

3.2. Non-CIPMS Candidates:
   3.2.1. CPFs must notify candidates in writing that the position for which they are applying is in the
   Excepted Service and covered by CIPMS. A sample notification statement appears at Attachment 1.
   3.2.2.   The notification must be:
       •    Signed by the candidate before the date of appointment to a CIPMS position.
       •    Filed on the left side of the Official Personnel Folder (OPF).
       •    Provided (by copy) to the candidate.

3.3. Qualification Standards and Requirements:
   3.3.1. Servicing CPFs:
       • Need not use OPM guidelines, except to ensure applicants meet minimal educational, certifi-
          cation, or licensing requirements unless superseded by CIPMS Standards.
       • Must use DoD Manual 1400.34-M, Appendix D to determine the qualifications of candidates.
       3.3.1.1. Time-in-grade requirements do not apply.
   3.3.2. Servicing CPFs and intelligence management may
   develop local qualification standards (DoD Manual 1400.34-M, Chapter 3).
      • Prior to implementation, send proposed standards through the appropriate chain-of-command
          to HQ USAF/DPC and HQ USAF/IN for approval.
      • Include job-related physical requirements or requirements to undergo medical evaluation,
          including psychiatric examinations.
   3.3.3. Candidates:
       • Receive credit for demonstrated possession of knowledge, skills, and abilities.
       • Can enter a new occupation, even if they lack the specific requirements of the basic standard
          for that occupation, if their overall background clearly indicates the ability to perform the
          referred duties.
   3.3.4. Physical Requirements:
       •    A candidate must meet physical requirements of the position and may be required to take to a
            physical examination prior to being hired.
       •    Disqualification of veterans' preference candidates having a compensable service connected
            disability of 30 percent or more must be approved by MAJCOM/DPC, in coordination with
            the MAJCOM/IN, or equivalents.

                                                7
   3.3.5. Content or Application of Standards disagreements are resolved by:
       • MAJCOM Intelligence Commander in coordination with the owning MAJCOM or FOA/
          DPC.
       • U&S Commands SIOs in coordination with HQ USAF/DPC.

3.4. Conditions of Employment:
   3.4.1. Impose conditions of employment when required by law and regulation, or when determined
   by the appropriate management authority to be in either the interest of national security or mandatory
   for effective performance of the position.
       3.4.1.1. Examples include, but are not limited, to polygraph examinations, urinalysis testing, psy-
       chological examinations, and obtaining and retaining a security clearance or special access.
       3.4.1.2. Candidates sign a statement of understanding before filling CIPMS covered positions.
           • File the original statement on the left side of the OPF and provide a copy to the candidate.
          •   Nonfulfillment of the agreement can be the basis for reassignment or nondisciplinary
              adverse action, including demotion or removal.

3.5. Filling Air Reserve Technician (ART) Positions:
   3.5.1. Officer candidates must be eligible for commissioning as an officer in the US Air Force
   Reserve (USAFR) or presently be an officer on active duty AND eligible to join the USAFR.
   3.5.2. Enlisted candidates must be eligible to join the USAFR.

3.6. Suitability and Security:
   3.6.1. AFI 31-501 applies to CIPMS positions and employees.
   3.6.2. Process requests for security checks using AFI 31-501.
   3.6.3. Any of the reasons listed in OPM Guidelines can disqualify candidates for CIPMSpositions.
   3.6.4. Find additional factors that require access to classified information or assignment to sensitive
   duties in AFI 31-501.

3.7. External Recruitment Procedures (for Candidates New to Federal Civil Service):
   3.7.1. Open competition procedures are followed except when there is a shortage of qualified candi-
   dates or when qualification and security requirements are so strict that open recruitment is not feasi-
   ble.
       3.7.1.1. An appropriate intelligence management official other than the selecting supervisor
       approves exceptions.
   3.7.2. Servicing CPFs can develop local applicant supply files and skills banks for filling CIPMS
   positions.
       • Procedure must be in writing and applied uniformly to all applicants.
       • Title 5, CFR, Part 302C and OPM requirements in the accepting, rating, and referring appli-
           cants do not apply.

                                                8
3.8. Veterans' Preference:
   3.8.1. Identify external candidates entitled to veteran's preference using 5 U.S.C. 2108.
   3.8.2. "Rule of Three" does not apply.
   3.8.3. Requirement to refer eligible candidates by preference category does not apply.
   3.8.4.   Management's reasons for nonselection of a veteran's preference candidates must be:
       •    Clearly documented.
       •    Approved by an appropriate management official other than the selecting official.
       •    Provided to the candidate upon request.
   3.8.5. Appoint guards, messengers, custodians and elevator operators from among preference candi-
   dates, if available.

3.9. CIPMS Civilian Merit Promotion Plan (CMPP):
   3.9.1. The servicing CPF in coordination with the IM develops and implements a CMPP that meets
   the needs of serviced intelligence organizations.
   3.9.2. The CMPP:
       • Includes procedures for competitive selection processes using existing guidelines, including a
          negotiated bargaining agreement if appropriate.
       • Includes flexibilities for determining the area of consideration.
       • Allows for concurrent consideration of all candidates.
       • Identifies actions not subject to competition.

3.10. Noncompetitive Procedures:
   3.10.1. Exceptions to competitive promotion procedures provided in the competitive service apply to
   CIPMS.
   3.10.2. CIPMS allows noncompetitive promotions.
       • An employee may be promoted to grade bands of the employee's current position.
       • Rank-in-person promotions (RIP) appear in chapter 4.
       • An employee may be noncompetitively repromoted to a grade previously held.

3.11. Referral and Selection Priorities:
   3.11.1. CPFs observe candidate referral or assignment rights of any employee or former employee
   who is entitled to:
      • Restoration of employment following military duty or recovery from compensable injury or
          disability.
      • Reemployment under law or instruction.
      • Restoration due to a grievance or appeal.
      • Move with his/her position during a transfer of function.


                                                9
       •   Priority consideration for reemployment from the DoD Priority Placement Programs.
       •   Special consideration for promotion or repromotion according to the CMPP.
   3.11.2. The spouse preference provisions of DoD Instruction 1404.12 do not apply when filling
   CIPMS positions.

3.12. Reemployment Lists. These lists must include the name of each current or former employee who:
    • Is found by the Merit Systems Protection Board to have been unjustifiably separated.
    • Was furloughed or separated without misconduct from a continuing position because of a com-
       pensable injury and the recovery takes longer than 1 year from the date the employee started
       receiving compensation. The individual must apply for reemployment within 30 days after com-
       pensation stops.
    • Was separated from a CIPMS position by reduction-in-force (RIF).

3.13. Employing Relatives or Retired Members of the Uniformed Services. A i r F o r c e a n d D o D
guidelines apply when employing retired members of the Uniformed Services or relatives.

3.14. Details. Management uses details to assign an employee to another excepted service position, nor-
mally not to exceed 1 year.
   3.14.1. Details over 120 calendar days require an SF Form 52, Request for Personnel Action.
   3.14.2. Employees document details less than 120 days by submitting an SF Form 172, Amendment
   to Application for Federal Employment, to the servicing CPF.

3.15. How a Reduction-in-Force (RIF) Is Conducted:
   3.15.1. RIF is conducted using Air Force, DoD, and OPM guidelines.
   3.15.2. CIPMS employees have no assignment rights to filled positions outside their competitive lev-
   els.
   3.15.3. Commanders may consider released employees for vacancies in the excepted or competitive
   service.

3.16. Managing CIPMS Careers:
   3.16.1. AFI 36-601 applies except where special procedures are provided by this instruction.
   3.16.2. Positions covered by Air Force career programs prior to conversion to 10 U.S.C. 1590 con-
   tinue to be covered.
   3.16.3. CIPMS employees without competitive status can register and participate in the career pro-
   grams after one year of continuous CIPMS employment.
   3.16.4. CPFs must request referral certificates according to the respective career program procedures.
       • Candidates from other sources can be considered concurrently.
       • Management can select from any source.
   3.16.5. Eligible professional employees must register for the DoD-wide career development program
   established by DoD Manual 1430.10-M-3.
                                               10
3.17. Overseas Positions and Employee Return Rights:
   3.17.1. Employees who accept overseas assignments (including Alaska, Guam, US Territories) must
   sign an overseas employment agreement, if applicable, and be advised in writing of their return rights.
   3.17.2. Extensions to initial overseas tours can be initiated by managers or employees and can be
   extended up to 5 years with the approval of the local intelligence activity commander.
   3.17.3. Management initiated extensions are subject to employee concurrence.
   3.17.4. Extensions beyond 5 years require approval of the local intelligence manager or commander
   and the MAJCOM or FOA SIO.
   3.17.5. Copies of extension approvals or disapprovals must be forwarded to HQ USAF/IN.
   3.17.6. The respective Policy Chair must concur an extension beyond 5 years if the position is cov-
   ered by an Air Force career program.
   3.17.7. The SIO forwards disagreements over extensions to HQ USAF/DPC and HQ USAF/IN for
   resolution.
   3.17.8. CIPMS employees who accept assignment overseas to CIPMS or Intelligence Career Devel-
   opment Program (ICDP) positions have return rights in accordance with DoD guidance.

3.18. Training Agreements. Forwarded training agreements to HQ USAF/DPC for approval if they
contain provision for accelerated promotion.

3.19. SF Form 66C, Merged Records Personnel Folder (MRPF). The MRPF contains Title 5 and
CIPMS employment documentation.
   3.19.1. MRPF is accessed, maintained, and disposed of according to the Memorandum of Under-
   standing between the OPM, the National Archives and Records Administration, and the Air Force.




                                               11
                                              Chapter 4
                                 COMPENSATING EMPLOYEES

4.1. Approval Authority for CIPMS Compensation Incentives. This approval authority is delegated
to the intelligence commander at MAJCOM, or comparable level, and the U&S Commands SIO.

4.2. Management Requests for Implementation of Additional or Alternative Compensation Pro-
grams. Submit requests with supporting justification through the appropriate chain-of-command to HQ
USAF/DPC and HQ USAF/IN for approval by ASD(P&R).

4.3. Rates of Basic Pay. Correspond to existing rates for General Schedule (GS) and Federal Wage Sys-
tem (FWS) positions and will not exceed the highest basic pay allowable under the appropriate GS sched-
ule or FWS prevailing rates, unless ASD(P&R) approves.

4.4. Setting of Pay. The chief or commander of the intelligence organization must use AFI 36-802 and
this instruction to determine local policies and coordinate them with the servicing CPF.

4.5. Within-Grade Increases (WGI). Grant WGIs according to OPM and DoD guidelines except where
relocation increases of one or two steps are authorized by paragraph 4.10.

4.6. CIPMS Special Salary Rates:
   4.6.1. Servicing CPFs use OPM or DoD salary schedules to determine the pay of CIPMSemployees
   unless these schedules are superseded by CIPMS schedules or pay tables.
   4.6.2. Servicing CPFs must use DoD Manual 1400.34-M and OPM guidelines when preparing and
   submitting special salary rate requests.

4.7. Annual Premium Pay for Administratively Uncontrollable Overtime W o r k ( A U O W ) . I s
authorized for employees on an annual basis instead of premium pay when their positions require substan-
tial or irregular overtime.
   4.7.1. Servicing CPFs administer AUOW using 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR. Approval authority for AUOW
   cannot be delegated below MAJCOM SIO or comparable level.

4.8. Special Compensation Authorities:
   4.8.1. Functional managers or U&S Commands SIO, working with servicing CPFs can use these to
   assist in recruiting and retaining high quality employees.
   4.8.2. Limit use to grades GS-5 and above in occupa-
   tional series and groups: 080, 132, 334, 800, 1300, and 1500.
   4.8.3. Other series may be approved for coverage by HQ USAF/DPC and HQ USAF/IN.
   4.8.4. Employees receiving special compensation are covered by repayment provisions in paragraph
   4.12.



                                               12
   4.8.5. MAJCOM, or equivalent, SIOs are delegated authority to pay employees in covered occupa-
   tional series. They may redelegate this authority to lower levels of management consistent with del-
   egation of fiscal responsibilities.

4.9. Recruitment Incentives. Are paid only to new CIPMS employees--those not having served in only
CIPMS position for 90 calendar continuous days.
    • They cannot be paid to an employee upon initial conversion to CIPMS.
    • Types and criteria are listed in Attachment 2.

4.10. Relocation Incentives. May be used at the discretion of the gaining intelligence organization IM to
encourage the geographic movement of current Federal Civil Service employees (including CIPMS).
   4.10.1. Types of incentives appear at Attachment 2.

4.11. Service Agreement. Employee must sign a Service Agreement before being assigned to a CIPMS
position and before a recruitment or retention incentive is paid.
   4.11.1. The Agreement must state that an employee has to serve in the position for a specified period,
   normally not less than 24 months.
   4.11.2. Include a statement informing the employee that repayment is required if he/she:
       • Voluntarily accepts any change of position to a non-CIPMS position, to a CIPMS position
           outside the Air Force, resigns, or is separated from Federal service (except by RIF or declina-
           tion of transfer of function), or otherwise violates the provisions of the service agreement.
       • Allows performance to fall below fully successful or commits an act of misconduct covered
           by AFI 36-704.

4.12. Repayment. If an employee fails to voluntarily repay any amount due, the Federal Government
recovers by offsets against the individual, or the individual's estate, accrued pay, compensation, amount
of retirement credit, etc. HQ USAF/IN can waive whole or part of amounts due.

4.13. Rank-in-Person (RIP) Promotion. Is a noncompetitive promotion that recognizes an extraordi-
nary employee whose knowledge, skills, or abilities make outstanding contributions to the intelligence
community. It is not the same as the rank-in-position promotion.
   4.13.1. Instructions for processing RIPs appear at Attachment 3.




                                               13
                                                Chapter 5
               MANAGING PERFORMANCE AND RECOGNIZING EMPLOYEES

5.1. What Covers Whom. AFI 36-1001 applies to CIPMS management and employees except as noted
in this instruction.

5.2. Performance Plans and Appraisals. Grant normal and accelerated WGIs based on performance
plans and appraisals.
   5.2.1. Also use when considering training, rewarding, reassigning, promoting, reducing in grade,
   retaining, and removing employees.
   5.2.2. CIPMS supervisor and manager performance plans contain critical elements that address affir-
   mative employment, safety, security, and civilian human resource management responsibilities.

5.3. Trial Period. All new employees serve a 1 year trial period.
    • Previous successfully completed trail or probationary periods can be counted.
    • Apply OPM and Air Force guidelines on documenting completion or noncompletion.

5.4. Recognizing Employee Performance. May be used in conjunction with basic pay and recruitment
or retention incentives to build compensation packages.
   5.4.1. Monetary recognition must be consistent with fiscal guidelines.
   5.4.2.   When determining the type of performance recognition or monetary amount, management
   uses:
       •    The most recent performance appraisal, prior rating, and recognition history.
       •    Position to which employee is assigned.
       •    Promotion history and eligibility for advancement.
       •    Present compensation being received.
       •    Any additional levels of responsibility.
       •    Organizational accomplishments.

5.5. Types of Performance Recognition:
   5.5.1. Most types are listed in AFI 36-1001.
   5.5.2. Special Intelligence Awards are listed in AFI 36-2847.
   5.5.3. CIPMS employees may be given an Exemplary Performance Award (EPA) by management for
   documented service that far exceeds performance standards.
       • The employee must have been at the same permanent grade for the last three years.
       • The current and last two annual performance ratings are at the highest level.
       • Salary increase must be at a rate equivalent to two step increases and cannot exceed "Step 12."




                                                14
5.6. Award Funding and Cost Management. Award funding and cost management are delegated to
MAJCOM, staff, and line management consistent with fiscal guidelines.
    • The recommended amount to be set aside for monetary performance recognition is one and
      one-half percent of the aggregate salaries of the assigned CIPMS employees.
    • Funding for a monetary award is the responsibility of the organization to which the employee was
      assigned when nominated.
    • An organization to which an employee is temporarily assigned (such as detail) may nominate the
      employee for a monetary performance award. Funding for the award should be at the expense of
      the nominating organization.




                                              15
                                              Chapter 6
                     GRIEVING PERSONNEL ACTIONS OR PROCESSES

6.1. Procedures. The procedures that can be used vary depending on length of service, preference eligi-
bility, bargaining unit status, type of appointment, etc.
   6.1.1. Servicing CPFs provide the appropriate procedures to management and employees.

6.2. Matters Not Grievable. Matters that cannot be grieved by a CIPMS employee are:
    • Those excluded by Air Force or DoD procedures.
    • Those excluded by the negotiated grievance procedure, if appropriate.
    • The content of approved classification, qualification standards, or both.
    • Failure to receive a RIP promotion, exceptional performance award, or a retention incentive.
    • Termination of a temporary RIP promotion.




                                              16
                                               Chapter 7
                     TERMINATING AUTHORITY USING 10 U.S.C. 1590(E)

7.1. When to Use:
    • The action is in the best interest of the United States.
    • Other termination provisions cannot be invoked consistent with National Security.

7.2. Terminating Procedures:
   7.2.1. Employees are given a written proposal with the charges or other causes of action, stated as
   specifically as security and the Privacy Act allow.
   7.2.2. The employee has 30 calendar days from the receipt of the proposed termination to respond to
   the charges.
       •   Response must be in writing, can include affidavits, be addressed to the Secretary of the Air
           Force, and submitted to the servicing CPF.
       •   The servicing CPF forwards the appeal package through the appropriate chain of command to
           HQ USAF/DPC for forwarding to the Secretary of Air Force (SECAF).
   7.2.3. A written decision is issued by SECAF.
   7.2.4. The employee can appeal the SECAF decision to the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) within
   20 calendar days of receipt of the SECAF decision.
       • CPFs and management must use DoD Manual 1400.34-M, Chapter 8, procedures for appeals
          to SECDEF.

7.3. Employee Representation:
   7.3.1. The employee can be represented by a person of
   his/her choosing and makes the designation in writing.
   7.3.2. Restrict the representative from access to pertinent classified information unless he/she has, or
   is able to obtain, the required security clearance and access within a reasonable period.
   7.3.3. The intelligence commander at MAJCOM or comparable level and U&S Commands SIO can
   disallow an employee representative if determined that:
       • The individual's activities as a representative causes a conflict of interest or position.
       • The individual cannot be released from official duties because of priority needs of the govern-
          ment.
       • Unreasonable costs would be incurred by the government.

7.4. Employees Awaiting Termination Decisions. Retain an employee waiting for a termination deci-
sion in a duty status (to include detail) through the final decision stage of the action. The employee can
be placed in a nonduty status with pay if considered to be in the best interest of the Air Force.

7.5. Withdrawal of Employee Security Access or Clearance. Withdrawing an employee's security
clearance or access does not have to be a prerequisite for exercising this special termination authority.

                                               17
Action to withdraw an employee's security clearance or access does not have to be fully completed prior
to proposing termination under this provision.




                                        BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                        DCS/Personnel




                                              18
                                              Attachment 1
           STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING--INITIAL CIPMS APPOINTMENT
1. I (employee's name) have been selected for the following position:
Title, Series and Grade
____________________________________
Organization _______________________________________________


2. I understand this position is covered by the Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System
(CIPMS), an excepted service personnel system for civilian intelligence employees of the military depart-
ments. I further understand:
2.1. My appointment to this position does not confer competitive status.
2.2. According to an agreement between the OPM and the DoD, I may be considered for positions in the
competitive service after serving continuously for at least one year in a CIPMS position. Otherwise, I
may be considered for a position in the competitive service only if I have personal competitive status or if
I pass an open OPM competitive examination.
2.3. I am entitled to the same retirement, health and life insurance, leave, and injury compensation bene-
fits as other Federal employees in similar positions.


3. I have received information on the specific features of CIPMS and have been given an opportunity to
discuss issues relating to my employment under this system. I accept this offer of employment under
CIPMS.


  ___________________________________________
  EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE                          DATE


  ___________________________________________
  CPF REPRESENTATIVE SIGNATURE                        DATE




                                                 19
                                              Attachment 2
                        RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION INCENTIVES

A2.1.Premium recruitment bonus is a one-time payment to a new CIPMS employee which is over and
abovescheduled salary and benefits.
   •  The amount must be at least $500 and not more than $10,000.
   •  The amount is determined by using market conditions, competing offers, the applicant's current
      salary and benefits, the scarcity of the skills sought, and available funds.
   • Payment is made by either a lump sum (which must be prior to the end of the service agreement)
      or periodic installments.
   • It cannot be used if an advanced starting salary is authorized.

A2.2. Advanced starting salary may be used to set pay above step one of the salary schedule for grade.
   • It cannot exceed by more than 20 percent of the candidate's current salary or genuine offer or cur-
      rent compensation (comparing basic pay and benefit package offered by any other employer) with
      the total compensation possible for the CIPMS position.
   • A genuine offer by another employer includes basic pay, bonus, and benefits.
   • An employee's salary cannot be set above the top step of the grade and cannot be used with a pre-
      mium recruitment bonus.

A2.3. Advance payment to basic pay is a cash advance to a new CIPMS employee.
   • It is made in an amount that does not exceed 20 workdays and must be paid back in equal install-
      ments over the next 13 pay periods.
   • MAJCOM and comparable level SIOs can delegate approval authority to IMs.

A2.4. Payment of travel and transportation expenses covers expenses for an interview or to the first duty
station for eligible CIPMS employees. It must be made according to provisions of the Joint Travel Regu-
lation (JTR), Volume 2.

A2.5. Relocation incentives are for optional use to encourage the geographic movement of current Fed-
eral Civil Service employees to hard-to-fill positions or to attract candidates with high quality or unique
skills.
   A2.5.1. Relocation increase is a permanent pay increase of one or two steps of the employee's current
   grade in the appropriate GS salary schedule.
   A2.5.2. Relocation bonus is a lump sum bonus equal to two steps of the employee's current grade in
   the appropriate GS salary schedule. An employee may also receive a lump sum bonus equal to one
   step of the current grade the following year.




                                                20
                                             Attachment 3
                 ADMINISTERING RANK-IN-PERSON (RIP) PROMOTIONS

A3.1. When It Is Used. The RIP may be given when the relative worth of the employee is highly signif-
icant and he/she cannot be adequately compensated through the normal classification process.

A3.2. Requirements and Procedures:
   A3.2.1. DoD Manual 1400.34-M states that an employee with a permanent or temporary RIP may not
   occupy or otherwise be reassigned to a position classified at more than one grade below that rank,
   unless:
       • Performance based or adverse action procedures are followed, or
       • The employee voluntarily accepts a change-to-lower grade.
   A3.2.2. A temporary RIP may be awarded without competition to a CIPMS employee but must be
   consistent with fiscal guidelines.
   A3.2.3. These promotions are similar to temporary promotions, may be for periods up to 1 year, (with
   renewals possible in one year increments), and cannot exceed a total of 4 years.
   A3.2.4. To be eligible for RIP, an employee must have:
      • Served in the intelligence community for at least 3 years and in the current position for at least
          1 year immediately preceding the promotion recommendation.
      • A history of performance ratings above the fully successful level and the current rating of
          record must be at the highest level.
      • Demonstrated extraordinary knowledge, skill, or ability that are widely recognized.
   A3.2.5. The supervisor must forward the nomination for temporary RIP, along with certification of
   funds availability, to the commander of the intelligence activity for approval.
   A3.2.6. If an employee occupies an Air Force career program position, the servicing CPF must coor-
   dinate a temporary rank promotion above GS-12 with the applicable career program policy chair
   before the action may be effected.
      • The policy chair has 30 calendar days to coordinate.
      • When the policy chair does not concur with the action, submit it through the owning MAJ-
           COM/SIO and MAJCOM/DPC, or equivalent, to HQ USAF/DPC and HQ USAF/IN for reso-
           lution.
   A3.2.7. Before receiving a temporary RIP, an employee must sign a statement of understanding
   acknowledging that upon expiration of the promotion or reassignment out of CIPMS, he/she returns to
   his/her previous grade and pay. Grade and salary retention provisions do not apply.
   A3.2.8. Do not use salary earned on a RIP when determining the highest previous rate for pay setting.
   A3.2.9. Permanent RIP may be awarded to a limited number of employees in grades five and above
   in two-grade interval position in the occupational series and groups: 080, 132, 334, 800, 1300 and
   1500. Based on special need, other occupational series may be covered as approved by HQ USAF/
   DPC and HQ USAF/IN.


                                               21
A3.2.10. To be eligible for permanent RIP, an employee must have:
   • Held equivalent temporary RIP for at least 1 year immediately prior to the recommendation
       for permanent promotion.
   • A current performance rating of record at the highest level.
A3.2.11. IMs may nominate employees for permanent noncompetitive promotion using criteria
established by HQ USAF/IN and HQ USAF/DPC. Nominations must include certification of funds
availability.
A3.2.12. Intelligence commanders at MAJCOM, or comparable level, can convene a Permanent RIP
Review Board to consider nominees. The MAJCOM DPC, or equivalent (in case of U&S Commands,
their servicing CPF), will be on the Board.
A3.2.13. MAJCOM or FOA SIO forward the names of employees recommended for permanent RIP
to HQ USAF/IN for approval subject to HQ USAF/DPC coordination. If the employee occupies an
Air Force career program positions, the promotion is permanent unless he/she is competitively pro-
moted to grades above his/her permanent RIP.
A3.2.14. Use salary earned during RIP to determine highest previous rate for pay setting.
A3.2.15. Air Force civilian personnel policies regarding mobility apply to employees receiving per-
manent RIP to grade 14 or above.
A3.2.16. The grade attained under temporary or permanent RIP promotion credits qualifying experi-
ence at the higher grade.




                                           22
