BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-401
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                            HURLBURTFIELD
(1 SOW)                                                                      Supplement

                                                                           21 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                                                 Certified Current 2 October 2014
                                                                                         Security

                                                                   INFORMATION SECURITY
                                                                   PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               ttp://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 1 SOW/IP                                                             Certified by: 1 SOW/IP
Supersedes: AFI31-401_                                                    (Mr. Patrick T. Cooper)
             HURLBURTFIELD                                                               Pages: 42
             SUP1, 1 July 2006


AFI31-401, 1 November 2005 is supplemented as follows:

This supplement establishes procedures for protecting classified national security and sensitive
unclassified information (regardless of its classification, sensitivity, physical form, media or
characteristics) at Hurlburt Field. It assigns responsibility for implementing and managing the
Information Security Program in accordance with Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-4,
Information Security and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-401, Information Security Program
Management. It applies to all activities assigned at Hurlburt Field unless stated otherwise in the
installation support agreement. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement reflects new and revised requirements for management of the Information
Security Program. Changes include those necessary to conform/realign with changes to DoD,
Air Force, and MAJCOM policy changes for program management. Other administrative and
operational in nature changes include; the contents of the Security Manager’s Handbook,
 2                                AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


clarification for the release of information to foreign nationals, access to classified by historical
researchers, non-punitive Information Security Program Review procedures, change from semi-
annual self inspection to annual, coordination of classification challenges, coordination
requirements for security classification guides, marking, accountability, sanitizing and
destruction of removable media (flash, jump and thumb-drives), construction standards for
Secure Conference Facilities, required contents of Top Secret Control Account Log, Foreign
participation in classified and unclassified meetings, the requirement to secure single drawer
GSA containers, and reporting requirements for of Classified Message Incidents (CMI). This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS), and Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located on the Air Force Portal at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm/.
1.3.4. The 1st Special Operations Wing Information Protection Chief (1 SOW/IP) is designated
as the Hurlburt Field, Information Security Program Manager (ISPM). The ISPM has oversight
and management control of the Information Security Program on Hurlburt Field, including all
associate and tenant organizations. The 1 SOW/IPI Branch, implements the Information
Security Program on behalf of the ISPM. Route all material requiring ISPM coordination or
signature through 1 SOW/IPI to the 1 SOW/IP.
1.3.4.5. The ISPM conducts security manager meetings quarterly or as needed.
1.3.4.5.1. All 1 SOW organizations, associates and tenants are required to have representation at
all security managers meetings.
1.3.5.1. (Added) Unit Commanders or Equivalents appoint a primary and at least one alternate
security manager. To ensure program success and continuity, it is recommended that personnel
appointed have two years retainability and are not assigned to a highly deployable Unit Type
Code. Forward a copy of appointment letters to the 1 SOW/IP, Information Security Branch (1
SOW/IPI). The following information is required on the security manager appointment letter:
full name, SSN, grade, organization, office symbol, duty phone, complete mailing address, fax
number, e-mail address Attachment 8. On the appointment letter, indicate previous (formal)
security manager training and where the training was completed if applicable. The appointment
letter template is available on the 1 SOW Information Protection share-point page at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
1.3.5.4. (Added) Commanders grant SMs the authority and access at all unit levels to resolve or
work security-related issues, as necessary.
1.3.5.5. (Added) The appointment of additional Office/Section Security Managers (OSM/SSMs)
is encouraged to assist the security manager based on unit’s size, number of security containers,
open storage areas and organization’s physical layout.
1.3.6.1. Attachment 9 , Security Managers Duties and Responsibilities, list duties beyond those
listed in AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                        3


1.3.6.2. Internal Operating Instructions (OI) will at a minimum address the following areas; SMs
duties and responsibilities, in processing, security education and training (initial, annul/refresher,
foreign travel and termination briefings), safe custodian duties, derivative classification process,
marking, safeguarding classified in the office, transmission and transportation of classified,
classified container(s) location(s), end of day checks and security incident procedures. A sample
unit OI is available on the 1 SOW Information Protection share-point page at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
1.3.6.4. Security managers or alternates must attend mandatory Quarterly Security Manager
Meetings. DoD contractors are encouraged to attend as well, but shall not represent an Air Force
organization.
1.3.6.4.1. (Added) The SM will maintain a list of all unit classified networked and stand alone
accredited automated information system AIS equipment (to include the serial numbers of each
item) in the security manager’s handbook.
1.3.6.10.1. Cleared contractor personnel working in the unit will be in and out-processed, and
establish a servicing relationship in JPAS.
1.3.8. Forward requests for release of information to foreign nationals or their representatives to
the servicing Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO).
1.3.9. The 1 SOW History Office will coordinate and forward requests for researcher access.
1.4.2. ISPM will forward Information Security Program Review reports to Commanders and
Equivalents. Commanders and Equivalents ensure corrective actions are provided to 1 SOW/IPI
by the report corrective actions suspense date.
1.4.2.1. (Added) 1 SOW/IPI will conduct out of cycle non-punitive Information Security
Program Reviews (ISPR) of units, staff agencies and directorates on Hurlburt Field when two or
more incidents occur in 30 days. The ISPR will examine only the areas affected/involved by the
incident(s) and provide viable solutions and training to preclude future like incidents.
1.4.2.2. (Added) 1 SOW/IPI will conduct non-punitive ISPR of units, staff agencies and
directorates on Hurlburt Field at commanders’ and equivalents request. Request will be based on
the recurrence of security incidents (two or more) involving an official classified approved
process within 60 days. The ISPR will examine only the areas affected/involved by the
incident(s) and provide viable solutions and training to preclude future like incidents.
1.4.3. Unit Information Security Self-inspections are conducted in January of each year. The
ISPM will allow the annual program review to replace one of the semiannual self-inspections.
A responsible person, other than SMs, performs these inspections (military member or
government civilian assigned to the unit). Use the applicable Hurlburt Field Checklists, e.g.
information, industrial or personnel security checklists. Unit commander must endorse self-
inspection reports and ensure Hurlburt Field Form 191, Discrepancy Reports, are prepared for
each discrepancy. Discrepancies must also be provided to the unit SI monitor for tracking.
Submit a copy of the completed self-inspection report and HF Form 191s to 1 SOW/IPI by 5
February of each year. Discrepancies must be corrected and documented on HF Form 191s.
Submit closed HF Form 191s to 1 SOW/IPI within 45 days of the inspection.
 4                              AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


1.4.3.1. The applicable self-inspection checklist and Self-Inspection Guide are available on the
1         SOW            Information       Protection         share-point        page         at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
1.5.1.2.1. At Hurlburt the CNWDI approving officials for briefings and access are listed in
Table 1.5.

Table 1.5. (Added) CNWDI Approving/Briefing Officials.
              HQ AFSOC                                              1 SOW
AFSOC/IP - Director of Information Protection       1 SOW/IP - Chief of Information
                                                    Protection
AFSOC/A7XD - Command Explosive                      1 SOCES/CC – Commander
Ordinance Disposal Manager

1.5.2.3. (Added) The ISPM provides policy, guidance and oversees the installation North
Atlantic Organization (NATO) safeguarding program. AFSOC/A6OK maintains and has
management oversight of the local subregistry.
1.5.3. 1 SOW/IPI is responsible for FOUO training materials available on the 1 SOW
Information Protection share-point page at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
1.5.6. (Added) 1 SOW/XP is responsible for in-brief access to FOCAL POINT.
1.6.1. Coordinate request for waivers through 1 SOW/IPI to ISPM. Use AF Form 1768, Staff
Summary Sheet, with supporting documentation to document all deviations. Consolidate
multiple deviations caused by a single deficiency on one AF Form 1768.
1.6.1.1. (Added) The responsible activity must implement supplemental controls/compensatory
measures for all temporary and permanent deviations. Activities may not use blanket waivers for
several different deficiencies.
1.6.1.2. (Added) The responsible/owning activity commander or two letter staff agency chief
signs the AF Form 1768 and submits the request to the servicing ISPM. The ISPM forwards
request through ISPM command IP channels to SAF/AAP for approval/disapproval.
1.7.1. 1 SOW units, associates and tenants as instructed by their MAJCOM or DRU submit
quarterly Standard Form 311, Agency Information Security Program Data, to 1 SOW/IPI by 5
Dec, 5 Mar, 5 Jun and 5 Sep of each fiscal year. Those tenant units not reporting to the 1
SOW/IP will send their SF 311 directly to their respective MAJCOMs by their suspense date.
Standard Form 311, tally sheets and instructions are available on 1 SOW Information Protection
share-point page at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
1.7.1.2. (Added) If tenant units respective MAJCOMs have supplemented AFI 31-401,
paragraph 1.7.1., to have the Host ISPM receive the SF 311, then coordinate with 1 SOW/IPI and
forward the SF 311.
2.5.1. Send classification challenges through the ISPM. SM records challenges, preserves
anonymity of challenger when requested, processes challenge within 72 hours of receipt.
Challenges will be documented in writing via the ―Notification of Improperly Marked
Document‖ MFR template Attachment 10 and forwarded to 1 SOW/IPI. The ISPM ensures
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                   5


follow-up and review with OCA is accomplished within 60 days. Send 1 SOW/IPI all damage
assessment results.
2.5.2. Coordinate challenges of Non-Air Force classified material through the ISPM. The ISPM
forwards challenges through ISPM command IP channels to SAF/AAP for action.
2.6. Security Classification/Declassification Guides.   Coordinate publishing of Security
Classification Guides (SCG) through 1 SOW/IPI. Submit an original hard copy and two copies
of DD Form 2024, Security Classification Guide Date Elements, DOD, and a copy of the SCG to
1 SOW/IPI. Units must obtain and maintain applicable SCGs for their programs and systems.
Units are also responsible for providing applicable SCG to contractor personnel. See
Attachment 11 for particulars on development and coordination of SCGs. Sample guides are
available     on     the    1    SOW     Information  Protection   share-point    page   at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
2.6.2.1. SCGs may be issued only by the OCA that originally classified the information and who
has jurisdiction and control of the classified information.
3.6.1. (Added) During Command Clean Out all units will use the ―Hurlburt Classified Review‖
checklist and submit a report of findings/results to the 1 SOW/IPI. Checklist and report template
are available on the 1 SOW Information Protection share-point page at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
4.2.10. (Added) Single Page Documents. Single page documents shall be page marked on the
front and back for easy identification. Holders must notify originator of improperly marked
documents in writing, or record with a memo any telephonic notification. Notification must be
kept with the document.
4.2.11. (Added) Use a classified addendum whenever classified information constitutes a small
portion of an otherwise unclassified document. Separate and store the classified.
4.2.12. (Added) Bound documents, including binders (1/2 inch or greater) will also be marked
on the spines with highest level of classification.
4.5.4. (Added) File US collateral, Focal Point, NATO and Critical Nuclear Weapons Design
Information (CNWDI) classified material separated by guide cards for each record group, or in
separate container drawers. Unclassified material should be stored separately from classified
whenever possible.
4.8. Removable Information Systems Storage Media. Annotate on Standard Form 711, Data
Descriptor (Label), or locally devised label, the following: Classified By or Derived From,
Reason for Classification and Declassify On. See Executive Order (EO) 12958, Classified
National Security Information, DoD 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents.
4.8.1. Procedures for the permanent marking of thumb drives and any other removable storage
media will be addressed in unit’s security operating instructions. When such devices are no
longer needed or malfunction, they will be destroyed in accordance with AFSSI 8580
Remanence Security, Table 6-2, Destroying Media. Presently these types of devices are not
allowed for classified use.
4.8.4. (Added) Flash, Thumb or Jump Drives; when used/maintained an accountability log will
be kept in the security container that houses these removable media devices when and if they are
to be used for storing classified material. All classified removable media will be marked with
 6                               AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


the highest classification stored to include unclassified items within a security container or
Secure Room/Open Storage Area.
4.8.4.1. (Added) For use in classified information systems (IS).
4.8.4.1.1. (Added) These devices must be clearly marked with decals, tags or labels, indicating
the highest level of classification on the device. Classified labels, SF 707, Secret (Label); SF
708, Confidential (Label); SF 710, Unclassified (Label), may be too large for most devices, if
this is the case use a colored permanent ink, which is the same color as the label, for marking.
Ensure accountability procedures are outline in the unit OI; due to the size of these devices they
can be easily overlooked in a physical security check of classified areas.
4.8.4.2. (Added) Sanitizing these devices in accordance with AFSSI 8580, Table 4-1, Sanitizing
Media. These devices will be mark and controlled at its original classification level until
destroyed.
4.8.4.2.1. (Added) Store the devices in an approved security container until a certified sanitizing
program is available to allow recycling of the devices or process them for destruction.
4.12. (Added) Special Types of Materials. All electronic media (for example, slides,
transparencies, photographs, maps, and charts) will be marked consistent with DoD 5200.1-R,
Section 4. All information contained within will be portion marked. If slides are not portion
marked, their classifications will be recorded in the ―Notes Pages‖ of the power point slide
presentation, along with the overall markings present on each briefing slide.
5.3. Nondisclosure Agreement (NdA). Provide a copy of the completed SF 312, Classified
Information Nondisclosure Agreement, to the individual upon request. Once the Nondisclosure is
recorded in JPAS and mailed to the respective agency there is no requirement to maintain a local
file copy of the SF 312.
5.3.1.4. 1 SOFSS/DPCO, Hurlburt Field, FL 32544.
5.3.1.5. 1 SOW/IPI will maintain the SF 312, IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
5.4.1.4. 1 SOW/IPI will maintain the AF Form 2587, Security Termination Statement, within the
approval package file.
5.5.1. Security managers prepare visit request for duration of visit, for the minimum amount of
time necessary not to exceed one year via JPAS.
5.8. Administrative Controls. Controls for Top Secret Control Account establishment and
maintenance are listed in Hurlburt Field Handbook for Top Secret Control Officer, available on
the       1        SOW          Information    Protection     share-point        page        at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
5.8.1.1. Provide a copy of the Top Secret Control Officer (TSCO) appointment memorandum to
the servicing ISPM. ISPMs provide training to newly appointed TSCOs on request. Send
written notice of TSCA establishments and closures to 1 SOW/IPI. Upon receipt, 1 SOW/IPI
will schedule TSCO training and use the information to annually publish and distribute a roster
of TSCAs that lists primary and alternate TSCOs. TSCOs will keep a copy of the current roster
and use it to verify information concerning the local TSCAs and TSCOs. Contractor employees
cannot be a TSCO for government units.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                        7


5.8.1.2.3. (Added) Remove the AF Form 144, Top Secret Access Record and Cover Sheet when
Top Secret (TS) material is destroyed, downgraded or declassified and retain it with the inactive
records IAW the AFRIMS. If the TS material is transferred to another TSCA, send the AF Form
144 with the material.
5.8.1.3.1. Conduct annual inventory by 31 December each year. Do not inventory material
received or with disposition entries after 31 December. The incoming TSCO may conduct the
inventory prior to assuming responsibility for the TSCA. Only contractor employees who work
with the TSCA are authorized to conduct the inventory for a government organization. Provide a
copy of the annual inventory report to the servicing ISPM by 15 January.
5.8.1.7. (Added) TSCA Records Maintenance. The TSCO will maintain a TS Control Log
consisting of the following records:
5.8.1.7.1. Letter establishing the TSCA.
5.8.1.7.2. Appointment record for primary and each alternate TSCO.
5.8.1.7.3. Copy of the TSCO Roster (listing of TSCAs/TSCOs on base)
5.8.1.7.4. Active records. AF Form 143, Top Secret Register Page, to document receipt of TS
documents or material and to show change actions performed.
5.8.1.7.5. Inactive records. AF Form 143 to document final action taken to dispose of the TS
documents or material by transfer or destruction. - The last annual inventory report.
5.8.1.8. (Added) Recontrolling. When register pages contain active and inactive entries, the
TSCO uses recontrolling procedures to close the inactive entries and transfer the active entries to
a new register page in the next calendar year. Recontrolling actions are completed by the end of
December. To close a register page that contains active and inactive entries, transfer active
entries to a new form/year in the current year register and enter a recontrolling remark (to and
from) in item 12f of the previous register page and item 15 on the new register page. No further
action or documentation is required on inactive register page.
5.8.6. (Added) Develop plans for the protection, removal, or destruction of classified material in
case of natural disaster, fire, civil disturbance, terrorist activities, or enemy action. (DoD 5200.1-
R, Information Security Program, paragraph 6-303). Include in your unit operating instruction.
5.9.1. To provide security-in-depth and reduce or prevent inadvertent access to classified
information, Classified Work in Progress, signs will be posted in a conspicuous manner when
processing such information in normal office settings. Additionally, precautions must be taken
when working with classified information such as securing office doors and notifying or
announcing classified work is in progress to fellow office workers to heighten their awareness.
5.10. End–of-Day Security Checks. End of day checks will be annotated on the SF 702,
Security Container Checksheet, as well as the SF 701, Activity Security Checklist, in the
―Checked By‖ column for all classified storage containers and open storage areas/secure rooms.
Unit Commanders and equivalents shall establish procedures for end of the day security checks,
and document them in their unit OI. Procedures will address properly securing all areas which
process classified information. Additionally, an SF 702, Security Container Check Sheet, shall be
utilized to record that classified vaults, secure rooms (strong rooms), and containers have been
properly secured at the end of the day. The SF 701 and 702 shall be annotated to reflect after
hours, weekend, and holiday activities in secure areas.
 8                               AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


5.10.1. (Added) Include on the SF 701 (if applicable): Check all classified computers to ensure
that the hard drive has been removed and locked in a GSA approved container. Check all Global
Command and Control System (GCCS)/SIPRNET connections to ensure they have been
disconnected and properly secured.
5.12.1. The 1st Special Operation Wing Installation Control Center, building 90208, is
designated as ―classified transit storage‖ up to and including Top Secret material. The 1st
Special Operations Logistics Readiness Squadron, Material Storage and Distribution Flight, is
designated as ―transit storage‖ for bulk-storage material up to and including Secret. For HQ
AFSOC personnel, the HQ AFSOC/COD is designated as ―transit storage‖ for up to and
including Top Secret in Bldg 90069.
5.13. Classified Meetings and Conferences. This section does not apply to local, routine
meetings where classified briefings and discussions take place, such as wing or unit level staff
meetings. However, the host of such meetings is responsible for ensuring appropriate security
measures are in place to properly control access and protect national security information. Use
classified briefing checklist (AFI 31-401, 20 June 2008, AFSOC Sup 1, Attachment 8 and
classified briefing lead in slide Attachment 12.
5.13.1. For classified meetings, conferences and symposiums the OPR will complete and submit
a security plan to the 1 SOW/IPI 10 days prior (see Hurlburt Field Classified Conference
Handbook at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx. The OPR and briefer
responsible for approving the use of telephones, radios, tape recorders or any device that can
transmit or record within rooms/areas used for classified meetings, during such meetings. The
facility used must afford adequate security against unauthorized access, from both physical
intruders and sound emissions. Entry control and perimeter surveillance will be established by
posting personnel from the sponsoring activity in and around the room or facility, as necessary.
Note: The ISPM is not responsible for this function, but will assist in the review/approval of
unit security plans.
5.13.2. The ISPM approves secure conference facilities. Appoint a Government Security
Manager for meetings, conferences, seminars, and other meeting activities and for physical
security of actual site of each classified function. Contractors may be appointed to assist security
managers, but they cannot act as security managers for government sponsored meetings.
5.13.2.1. (Added) Facility Approval Authority. Secure conference facilities are not required
when conducting classified meetings or conferences on government installations.
5.13.2.2. (Added) Organizations will notify the 1 SOW/IP, in writing, of all secure conference
facility requirements (new/upgrade construction). 1 SOW/IPI and 1 SOCES personnel will
inspect all new and modified secure conference facilities to ensure security requirements and
construction standards are met IAW Attachment 13. Results of the inspection will be
documented in writing and maintained in the official records repository. The 1 SOW/IP certifies
secure conference facilities in writing. The requesting organization maintains the original
certification package, 1 SOW/IPI will maintain a copy as well.
5.13.2.3. (Added) Proposed structural modifications to secure conference facilities must be
coordinated with the 1 SOW/IP and 1 SOCES. The 1 SOW/IP and 1 SOCES must recertify, in
writing, the structural integrity of secure conference facilities that have been modified.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                   9


5.13.3. Foreign participation in classified or unclassified meetings and conferences will take
place only after approval from the servicing FDO.
5.13.4. (Added) Cellular phones, two-way radios, two-way beepers, and other electronic
equipment that can receive and transmit a signal are prohibited in all offices and areas where
classified and sensitive information may be discussed or processed. Staff directors and
commanders will determine which work areas are affected and implement this requirement
accordingly. Owners of designated areas should make every effort to inform personnel of the
prohibited use of electronic equipment, to include but not limited to posting signs and visual
aids, and including the information in briefings and training, etc. For further guidance refer to
AFSOCI 33-202, Portable Electronic Device (PED0 Security.
5.14.2.4. (Added) If the facility does not meet the requirements of an open storage area/room
then U.S. cleared personnel must provide continuous surveillance over all classified material
when present.
5.15.1. Each individual unit Information Assurance Officer (IAO) approves equipment used to
reproduce classified material. IAOs use checklist at Attachment 15 for reproduction approval.
For analog copiers, run at least two blank sheets through the copier to remove latent images.
Digital copiers with hard drives are not authorized for reproduction of classified, FOUO and
Privacy Act information at Hurlburt. Post reproduction rules or locally produced visual aid.
Prohibit classified reproduction by posting computer generated sign, STOP Do Not Use This
Machine For Classified Reproduction STOP. Ensure signs or visual aids are conspicuously
placed on machine. Examples of reproduction equipment include copiers, fax machine, multi-
function printer, copier, fax and scanner, etc. Post the completed Hurlburt Field Form 2,
Classified Copying Equipment Approval, on or near the approved reproduction device and
submit a copy to the ISPM. Unit or staff agency certification procedures for classified
information processing equipment (for example, copiers, and fax machines) will be incorporated
into unit security OIs.
5.17.2. The 1 SOW/IPI provides initial and periodic inspections of security containers and
training to unit security container custodians on a limited basis. Units are highly encouraged to
contact the 1 SOW/IPI office prior to contracting a GSA technician to service or naturalize a
container.
5.18.2. The ISPM acts as Approving Authority on behalf of the installation commander for
secure storage areas. Open storage and secure areas (OSSA’s) are synonymous. 1 SOW/IPI is
the installation focal point for all non-SCI classified OSSA requests. When the potential need
for open storage is initially identified, contact 1 SOW/IPI. Do not start construction of these
areas without prior consultation. 1 SOW/IPI ensures coordination with the 1 SOCES. 1
SOW/IPI will coordinate on all work order request for OSSA alarms, X-0 series locks, and for
construction or modification of a secure room. Panels controlling fire alarms, mass-notification
and fire suppression are not to be placed within secure rooms/classified portion of the facility.
5.18.2.1. (Added) Commanders submit a written request with justification to the 1 SOW/IPI
prior to construction of vaults and OSSA. OSSA’s are reserved for operational necessity and the
storage of items that cannot be easily stored in GSA containers. Operational convenience is not
justification.
 10                             AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


5.18.2.2. (Added) After reviewing the justification, an initial survey is conducted using DoD
5200.1-R, Appendix ―G‖. Results of the survey are sent to the commander identifying
construction, modification, and other security requirements.
5.18.2.2.1. (Added) Before final approval for open storage is granted, commanders submit
written OI detailing security procedures for positive entry control, emergency protection plan,
training plan and classified protection in the open storage area. 1 SOW/IPI endorses the OI and
forwards the open storage package to the ISPM for approval/certification. Once approved, post
approval letter on the inside entrance door of secure room or vault. OSSA approval is
revalidated annually as part of the annual Information Security Program Review. Sample OI is
available     on     the    1    SOW       Information    Protection   share-point   page     at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
5.18.2.3. (Added) Any structural or procedural modification to certified vault or OSSAs requires
recertification. Modified OSSAs or vaults approved prior to 1 October 1995 will be required to
upgrade to DoD 5200.1-R, Appendix ―G ― standards prior to recertification.
5.18.2.4. (Added) Units must develop emergency protection plans (EPP) to protect classified
material in safes, OSSAs and vaults. Post plan near safe or OSSA entrance door. Emergency
plans incorporate procedures to protect classified in the event of impending natural disasters,
civil disturbance, terrorist threats, bomb threats, and Force Protection Conditions. Coordinate
EPP's with 1 SOW/IPI for approval. Ensure the plan identifies a priority of destruction and
personnel with access are trained on the order of destruction: The priorities for emergency
destruction are: Priority One - Top Secret Information, Priority Two - Secret Information,
Priority Three - Confidential Information. Deployed units outside CONUS must also have plans,
which address protection, removal and destruction while deployed overseas as outlined in DoD
5200.1-R.
5.18.2.5. (Added) Authorization to approve Vaults and OSSAs for the storage of collateral
classified material is delegated to the ISPM by the installation commander. If there is a
disagreement between the requestor and the ISPM over the need to establish Open Storage, the
installation commander will make the final decision.
5.18.2.6. (Added) Post the storage facility approval notices/letters inside the approved area on
the pedestrian entry way door.
5.18.3. (Added) GSA–approved field safes and special purpose, one and two drawer, light–
weight, security containers, approved by the GSA, are used primarily for storage of classified
information in the field and in military platforms, are to be used only for those or similar
purposes. Such containers will be securely fastened to the structure or under sufficient
surveillance to prevent their theft or compromise.
5.21.2. All personnel possessing the combination to a security container, vault, or secure room,
will be listed on SF 700. A continuation sheet may be used, but it must contain all the
information required on SF 700. List safe custodian’s name first on the SF 700. Safe custodian
is responsible for container(s) serviceability, preventive maintenance and contents.
5.21.4. (Added) Commanders must ensure a unique permanent number and/or office symbol to
upper left or right corner on front of container’s frame.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                    11


5.21.5. (Added) Security managers must maintain a current listing of all unit security containers
and secure rooms, to include all contractor security containers furnished by the government,
using Attachment 14. Provide a current copy of the inventory report to 1 SOW/IPI. SMs must
also ensure safe custodians are adequately trained.
5.21.6. (Added) Before transferring security containers to another unit, setting them aside for
later use or turning them in, the SM will inspect them to verify all classified material is removed
and standard combination is set (50-25-50). The SM will record written verification of the
inspection on a ―3x5‖ card, print name, office symbol, sign and date the card and affix it to the
outside of the container. Example statements recorded on the card: " The lock is set on standard
combination (50-25-50). The container/vault has been inspected and does not contain classified
material.‖
5.22.4. Commanders must ensure safe custodians are adequately trained on their responsibilities.
Contact 1 SOW/IPI for training and certification of custodians. Trained custodians conduct
inspections in accordance with Technical Order (TO) 00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventive
Maintenance Procedures for Classified Open Storage vaults, and secure rooms. They record
inspection results on AFTO Form 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment. Post
the form inside the locking drawers or doors, as applicable.
5.22.5. (Added) Security Container Custodians or SMs will pull out/remove all drawers,
examine interior for classified material, and remove exterior security container ID markings
before transferring to another unit or turned in to Defense Reutilization Marketing Office
(DRMO). Annotate transfer using Attachment 14. Do not remove AFTO Form 36. Set empty
security containers on manufacture shipping combination (25-50-25). Ensure personnel
coordinate and report all safe transfers to the Base Locksmith at 884-6192.
5.24.3.1. Hurlburt Field Form 2, Classified Copying Equipment Approval, will be posted above
or on all copiers, faxes, etc. approved for reproduction of classified material. Hurlburt Field
Visual Aid (HFVA) 31-6, Stop Classified Reproduction Not Authorized Unclassified
Reproduction Only, will be posted above or on all copiers, fax machines, and scanners not
approved for reproduction of classified material. See classified copier checklist, Attachment 15.
Hulburt Field Form 2 and the classified copier checklist are available on the 1 SOW Information
Protection share-point page at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
5.28.1. All shredders and disintegrators procured by units to destroy classified material will be
inspected by the SM to ensure the shredder is an authorized model (using the NSA approved
shredders or disintegrators listing). All procured shredders must meet or exceed requirements for
Top Secret and Classified materials (1/32‖ x 7/16‖) and the NSA/CSS 02-01 = 1 x 5 mm as
required for all US Government classified documents as of October/2008. Respective
commanders will certify unit shredders and disintegrators by signing an MFR indicating the date
of inspection, make model, serial number and location of the shredder. The MFR templates for
cross cut shredders and optical grinders are available on the 1 SOW Information Protection
share-point page at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx. A copy of the MFR
will be posted on the shredder, in the SM’s Handbook and a copy sent to the 1 SOW/IPI.
Additionally after inspection, conspicuously post a computer generated sign/decal, HFVA 9, Not
Authorized for Destruction of Classified Information, or HFVA 8, Authorized for Destruction of
Classified Information Visual Aid, on destruction equipment. Recertification is required for
major repair, replacement of blades and cutting devices or decertification by drafting a new
 12                               AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


letter. In the event of problems, recommend two cleared personnel be present during destruction
of classified information. Use the base central destruction facility, (1 SOCS/SCDPR) 884-
6279/3832, for large shredding task or material other than paper. The ISPM will verify all
authorized shredders and disintegrators during program reviews.
6.1.7. (Added) After delivery to organizations by the Hurlburt Official Mail Center (OMC) or
other courier means, protect all First Class marked “Return Service Requested”, Registered and
Certified mail, Emory Air Freight, and FEDEX packages addressed to DoD organizations on
base as classified until determined otherwise.
6.3.2. Procedures for receipting and safeguarding registered, certified, and first class mail and
overnight delivery packages (FedEx, UPS etc..) will be included in unit and staff agency local
OIs.
6.7.1.1. Commanders authorize couriers to hand carry classified material within CONUS on all
modes of transportation.
6.7.1.1.1. (Added) Hand carrying or Escorting Classified Material Aboard Commercial
Passenger Aircraft. Approval authority for escorting or hand carrying classified material outside
the US, its territories, and Canada are listed in Table 6.7.1.

Table 6.7.1. (Added) Approval Authorities.
          HQ AFSOC                                1 SOW
        Director of Staff                 Installation Commander
          Directorates                      Group Commanders

6.8. Documentation. A Courier Authorization Letter (CAL) is required to hand carry classified
in the local area (Escambia, Okaloosa, Walton, and Santa Rosa counties). A DD Form 2501,
Courier Authorization, may be used in lieu of a CAL if a person hand carries classified regularly
in the local area and must be returned to the security manager after each trip. A CAL is required
to hand carry classified material beyond local limits, but within CONUS. Use of an Exemption
Letter is required when traveling in areas which may require inspections. Authorization for
contractors to hand carry classified material must be approved by the sponsoring unit
commander. Classified material may be carried between offices on Hurlburt Field with
supervisor’s permission. See Attachment 16 and Attachment 17 for CCL and Search
Exemption Notice samples.
8.2. Methodology. At Hurlburt, the security manager is responsible for ensuring security
training is conducted with all assigned personnel and documented. Accomplish initial security
training prior to granting access to classified material (Indoctrination via JPAS is required for all
unit personnel as well as contractors prior to access). Classified contractors must be provided the
same level of training as well.
8.3.3.1. Security Managers must attend Security Manager Training Course within 90 days of
appointment.
8.3.6.6. (Added) Organizations develop an annual training plan tailored to their unit needs. See
Attachment 17, Attachment 18, Attachment 19, and Attachment 20 for sample training plan,
required initial training subjects, refresher training and specialized training. Commanders or
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                       13


staff agency chiefs approve the plan by January each year. Security training aids and sample
lesson plans are available on the 1 SOW Information Protection share-point page at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx as well as the web based training
presentations. Security training topics/areas should be broken down quarterly to provide
continuous security awareness for personnel who create, process, or handle classified
information as well as those who do not routinely handling classified but have access. All
cleared and uncleared personnel receive annual security refresher training on the basics of
protection of classified material and other topics, as applicable, depending on the organizational
mission. This applies to classified contractors as well. The training goal is to train 100% of
those personnel who routinely handle and process classified.
8.4.1.1. Ensure a servicing relationship is established with all cleared classified contractors in
JPAS during indoctrination.
8.4.1.2. Ensure the training requirements for both cleared and uncleared personnel outlined in
this chapter and the AF Information Security Training Standard (available on 1 SOW
Information                 Protection               share-point                page                at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx) are included in the organization’s training
plan as required. As a minimum, training documentation must include the trainee’s name and
grade, type of training (initial, refresher, or specialized), date of training, and a specific list of
completed training subjects and tasks.
8.4.2. (Added) Unit and staff agency OIs will outline training responsibilities for supervisors
and security managers.
8.6. Original Classification Authorities (OCAs). 1 SOW/IPI will provide training to Original
Classification Authorities (OCAs) on request.
8.7. Derivative Classifiers, Security Personnel, and Others. 1 SOW/IPI will assist Security
Managers in providing Derivative Classification and Classified Marking training on request. To
maximize the training efforts a classroom setting with at least 10 students is required.
9.3.1. (Added) Classified Message Incidents (CMI) will be reported and processed within the
following timelines:
9.3.1.1. (Added) The 1 SOW/IP will notify the base-level Network Control Center immediately
by the end of the day of discovery of any CMIs.
9.3.1.2. (Added) Appointing Official will appoint an Inquiry Official within 2 days of
notification.
9.3.1.3. (Added) Inquiry Official will complete the inquiry within 10 duty days of being briefed
by 1 SOW/IPI.
9.3.1.4. (Added) On securing approval from the appointing authority the Inquiry Official will
forward the Inquiry Report to 1 SOW/IP. 1 SOW/IPI will complete the technical review within
5 duty days of inquiry close out.
9.3.1.5. (Added) 1 SOW/JA will complete a legal review, if required, within 5 duty days.
9.3.1.6. (Added) The Appointing Official will close the inquiry and forward closing actions to 1
SOW/IPI within 5 duty days of receipt of the technical review.
 14                              AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


9.3.1.6.1. (Added) The commander of the subject(s) of all CMI-related security incidents must
acknowledge in writing on the Appointing Official's closing action report that a.) the commander
has discussed with the subject(s) the findings of the investigation, and b.) appropriate corrective
actions have been taken, for example, training and/or disciplinary action. All CMIs resulting in a
compromise or possible compromise shall be forwarded to AFSOC/IP via fax or e-mail. Use
secure means for classified reports.
9.3.2. (Added) The 1 SOW/IP will forward on going/open CMI security incident and inquiry
updates to AFSOC/IP every Monday.
9.8.1. (Added) Non-CMI related security incidents will be processed under the same timelines
as paragraph(s) 9.3.1.2, 9.3.1.3, 9.3.1.4, 9.3.1.5 and 9.3.1.6
9.8.1. 1 (Added) Unit security OIs will outline procedures to follow on discovery of a security
incident. Procedures covered will include; securing the classified information, reporting the
incident to the 1 SOW/IPI NLT the end of the discovery day, secure reporting procedures when
classified information is unsecured and accessible to uncleared personnel, and appointment of
inquiry/investigating officials.
9.8.4. (Added) The 1 SOW/IP must submit the Security Incident Data Report to AFSOC/IP NLT
15 Jan and 15 Jul each year as outlined in AFPD 31-4, Information Security, para. A2.1.
9.9.1. Contact 1 SOW/IPI for the case number (i.e., Case 09-H-01). 1 SOW/IPI will provide the
inquiry official with a briefing, inquiry handbook and security incident tracking sheet. Stamp or
mark reports ―For Official Use Only.‖ The appointing authorities for a formal investigation are:
1 SOW/CC, 1 SOW/CV or AFSOC/CC and AFSOC/CV. Inquiry officials must be, as a
minimum, an impartial Commissioned or Senior Noncommissioned Officer equal to or senior to
the person involved. The inquiry or investigation official may not be in the chain of command of
any of the persons involved in the incident. The inquiry or investigation official may be
appointed from another organization or AFSOC Directorate. Formal investigating officials must
complete the investigation and submit a final report as soon as possible but no later than 30 duty
days from appointment.
9.9.2. The inquiry official will also determine and document in the inquiry report if the
―subject(s) of the inquiry or investigation‖ has completed all initial and recurring training
requirements outlined in Chapter 8. Verification must include the date of initial training and all
dates of recurring training.
9.10.1.1. (Added) The OCA, upon learning that a compromise or possible compromise of
specific classified information has occurred and is reasonably expected to cause damage to
national security, shall prepare a written damage assessment. While there are no time limits for
completion of the damage assessment, initiate the assessment upon notification and complete
without undue delay. The OCA must determine whether the damage assessment itself is
classified and mark and process accordingly.
9.10.1.2. (Added) As a minimum, damage assessments contain the identification of the source,
date and circumstances of the compromise; classification of the specific information lost or
compromised; a description of the specific information lost or compromised; an analysis and
statement of the known or probable damage to the national security; an assessment of the
possible advantages to foreign powers; an assessment of the original classification decision
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                             15


regarding the information involved; and an assessment of whether countermeasures are
appropriate and feasible to negate or minimize the effect of the compromise.
9.10.2.4. (Added) OCAs must maintain records of damage assessments they prepare in a manner
that facilitates their retrieval and use. Dispose of the records IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule. OCAs provide a copy of damage assessments to the 1 SOW/IP for filing
with the security incident.
9.12.5. (Added) The 1 SOW/IPI and unit security managers will maintain all security incident
reports for two years IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
9.16. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
9.16.1. Prescribed Forms. HURLBURTFIELD Form 2, Classified Copying Equipment
Approval
9.16.2. Adopted Forms. DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification,
Department of Defense
DD Form 2024, Security Classification Guide Data Element, DOD
DD Form 2501, Courier Authorization
AF Form 143, Top Secret Register Page
AF Form 144, Top Secret Access Record and Cover Sheet
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
AF Form 2587, Security Termination Statement
AFTO Form 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment
SF 311, Agency Information Security Program Data
SF 312, Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement
SF 700, Security Container Information
SF 701, Activity Security Checklist
SF 702, Security Container Checksheet
SF 707, Secret (Label)
SF 708, Confidential (Label)
 16                               AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010




SF 710, Unclassified (Label)
SF 711, Data Descriptor (Label)
Hurlburt Field Form 191, Discrepancy Report




                                          GREGORY J. LENGYEL, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                              17


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
EO 12958, Classified National Security Information, April 17, 1995
DoD 5200.1-H, Department of Defense Handbook for Writing Security Classification Guidance,
November 1999
DoD 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents, April 1997
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January 14, 1997
AFPD 31-4, Information Security, 1 September 1998
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 30 March 2009
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 18 October 2007
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 31-401, AFSOC Sup 1, Information Security Program Management, 20 June 2008
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 June 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFSSI 8580, Remanence Security, 17 Nov 2008
TO 00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventive Maintenance Procedures for Classified Open Storage,
1 December 2006
AFI 31-401_AFSOCSUP, Information Security Program Management, 20 June 2008
AFSOCI 33-202, Portable Electronic Device (PED) Security, 31 March 2004
HFVA 31-6, Stop Classified Reproduction Not Authorized, 31 August 2007
HFVA 8, Authorized for Destruction of Classified Information Visual Aid, 31 August 2007
HFVA 9, Not Authorized for Destruction of Classified Information, 31 August 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CAL—Courier Authorization Letter
CMI—Classified Message Incidents
CNWDI—Critical Nuclear Weapons Design Information
 18                            AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


DRMO—Defense Reutilization Marketing Office
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
EPP—Emergency Protection Plan
GCCS—Command and Control System
IDS—Intrusion Detection Alarm System
ISPM—Information Security Program Manager
ISPR—Information Security Program Reviews
IS—Information Systems
IAO—Information Assurance Officer
NdA—Nondisclosure Agreement
NATO—North Atlantic Organization
NIC—Noise Isolation Class
OCAs—Original Classification Authorities
OMC—Official Mail Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSMs—Office Security Managers
OSSAs—Open Storage and Secure Areas
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RF—Radio Frequency
SCG—Security Classification Guides
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
STC—Sound Transmission Class
STINFO—Scientific and Technical Data
TL—transmission loss
TSCO—Top Secret Control Officer
TS—Top Secret
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria

Terms
Radio broadcast—your radio is best tuned into.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                      19


                                    Attachment 8 (Added)
                            SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER

DATE:
MEMORANDUM FOR PERSON(S) BEING TASKED
TO: 1 SOW/IPI
FROM: Unit CC or AFSOC Directorates
SUBJECT: Appointment of Security Manager/Safe Custodian/Reproduction Official/Top Secret
Control Officer/Self-Inspection Monitors/TS Annual Inventory Monitors (ONLY ONE
APPOINTMENT PER LETTER)
1. In accordance with AFI 31-401, paragraph 1.3.5.1., the following personnel are appointed as
(USE ABOVE TITLE) for the (USE SQUADRON NAME):
a. Primary:
b. Rank/Name/SSN: Duty Location: Duty Phone: E-Mail Address:
c. TSgt Jon Smith, Bldg 90210, Room 160, 884-2345, smithj@hurlburt.af.mil.
d. Alternate:
e. Rank/Name/SSN: Duty Location: Duty Phone: E-Mail Address:
f. SSgt Mary Jones, Bldg 90509, Room 123, 884-3456, jonesm@hurlburt.af.mil. Note:
(PLACE ADDITIONAL ALTERNATES STARTING HERE IF APPOINTED).
2. This supersedes all previous letters of the same subject. For additional information contact
TSgt Smith at extension number:
a. Sample Letter. Where to locate appropriate guidance for appointments.
b. Security Managers: AFI 31-401, paragraph 1.3.5.1./CC Appointment.
c. Safe Custodian coming out in new AFI 31-401_AFSOCSUP, Information Security Program
Management, to /CC Appointment.
d. Reproduction Official: AFI 31-401, paragraph 5.25./CC Appointment.
e. Self Inspection Monitors coming out in new AFI 31-401_AFSOCSUP to /CC Appointment.
f. Top Secret Control Officer: AFI 31-401, paragraph 5.8.1.1/CC Appointment.
g. Top Secret Annual Inventory Monitors: AFI 31-401, paragraph 5.8.1.3.1./CC Appointment.
CC SIGNATURE BLOCK
 20                            AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                   Attachment 9 (Added)
           SECURITY MANAGER (SM) DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

A9.1. (Added) Unit focal point for security program with primary focus being
in: Information, industrial, and personnel security. Includes ensuring through aggressive,
oversight, training and hands-on assistance; classified material is protected according to
Department of Defense, Air Force, MAJCOM and local directives and guidelines.
A9.2. (Added) Function as security container and lock combination changing focal point
when: Container custodians are not appointed. This includes maintaining a list of all security
containers within the organization. Report all changes affecting integrity of containers, to
include secure rooms and vaults.
A9.3. (Added) Conduct and manage initial security and education training. Ensure
refresher training is conducted and documented. Develop an internal system to ensure all unit
personnel (including contractors) receive required training on a recurring basis.
A9.4. (Added) Conduct or provide supervisors with: Material for initial security education
indoctrinations.
A9.5. (Added) Provide office security managers (OSMs) with: Material for recurring
security and education training.
A9.6. (Added) During program reviews organizations will: Provide reports indicating the
number of assigned personnel and specific training accomplished to 1 SOW/IPI.
A9.7. (Added) Review and track challenges to classification decisions.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                     21


                                    Attachment 10 (Added)
SAMPLE LETTER FOR NOTIFICATION OF IMPROPERLY MARKED CLASSIFIED
                          DOCUMENT




                 MEMORANDUM FOR (Originator of Classified Document).
TO: Office of Responsibility (as listed in applicable classification guide).
FROM: (Classified Custodian).
SUBJECT: Notification of Improperly Marked Classified.
Document (Unclassified Title).
1. The following discrepancies exist on the subject document:
a. ____ Overall classification is not shown on the front cover, top and bottom.
b. ____ Overall classification is not the same as the highest classification of information
contained in the document.
c. ____ Internal pages are not marked on the top and bottom with the overall classification of
the page or marked unclassified.
d. ____ Date originated is not marked on the document.
e. ____Agency, office of origin or office of primary responsibility is not identified on the face
of the document.
f. ____ Classification authority, ―Classified By‖ line, is missing.
g. ____ Declassification instructions, ―Declassify On‖ lines missing.
h. ____ Subject or title is not marked with appropriate classification symbol (e.g., TS, S, C, or
U).
i. ____ Paragraphs or subparagraphs do not contain appropriate classification symbols (e.g., TS,
S, C, U).
j. ____ Other discrepancies: ____________________________________________________
2. Please notify our office and other holders of this document of the corrective actions to be
taken. A copy of this notification will be filed with our copy of the affected document until
corrective actions are complete.


SIGNATURE BLOCK
 22                             AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                   Attachment 11 (Added)
                    SECURITY CLASSIFICATION GUIDANCE (SCG)

A11.1. (Added) Program managers having primary management responsibility for: A
classified weapon system, plan, project, program (including a special access program), operation,
equipment, or item (herein referred to as a system) must publish a formal SCG for each system
they manage, if not peculiar to and previously published in another SCG. When issuing changes
for a SCG, you must review the entire guide. At a minimum, disseminate a change letter to all
parties on the SCG distribution list. Coordinate administrative change letters with the necessary
system wing authorities. The signature authority for administrative change letters may not be
delegated lower than the system senior security functional. Identify the next review date no
longer than 5 years from the date of the change. Submit DD Form 2024, Security Classification
Guide Data Element, DoD RCS: DD-C3I(B&AR)1418, IAW DoD 5200.1-R, Section C2.5.3.5.
A11.2. (Added) 1SOW/IPI will monitor the review of: 1SOW/IPI will send a suspense
notice to the OPR 90 days before the review date. The OPR then issues changes as necessary.
When major revisions to guides SCGs issued by activities on Hurlburt Field occur, the OPR
must review for any change of performance and cost involved for the contractor in relationship
to the current DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification, Department of
Defense. Issue a revised DD Form 254 after publication of a new/revised SCG or letter change to
a SCG. When changes to the basic SCG occur, the country-unique document OPR must evaluate
them in order to update the existing document.
A11.3. (Added) For SCGs sent to organizations or activities of other Air Force
commands : Provide an electronic copy to the 1 SOW/IPI and AFSOC/IPI office and to
SAF/AA.
A11.4. (Added) Country-unique security classification documents (guides) developed in
support of foreign governments or foreign contractor work performance and approved for
release under National Disclosure Policy must contain a statement prohibiting release or
disclosure of contents to third countries and their nationals. They must be maintained IAW
applicable Executive Orders governing the classification of information.
A11.5. (Added) SCGs are not releasable to foreign nationals or governments except as
stated in paragraph A11.4. Use a DD Form 254 to convey contractual security classification
guidance to foreign contractors. For procurement actions with complex security classification
considerations, attach only those extracted portions of an approved SCG applicable to the foreign
contractual performance to the DD Form 254, provided they are releasable to the foreign
government under National Disclosure Policy.
A11.6. (Added) Contractor participation in preparation of SCGs is encouraged. However,
if more than one contractor is involved in performance of a contract, ensure all have the
opportunity to comment and make recommendations for SCG changes.
A11.7. (Added) Coordinate all SCGs, changes or revisions with the 1 SOW/IPI before
publication, except for guides containing SCI. Also, as appropriate, coordinate guides with
the senior intelligence officer (SIO), Public Affairs, Foreign Disclosure, OPSEC and COMSEC
officers.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                23


A11.8. (Added) Use one classification designation, e.g., U, C, S, or TS under the
classification column. Do not use U-TS, C-S etc. This forces the reader to make an original
classification decision. Explain any differences in classification in the remarks column. The
remarks column clarifies classification guidance when required.
A11.9. (Added) The servicing 1 SOW/IPI keeps on file:
   A11.9.1. (Added) A current DoD 5200.1-R and DoD 5200.1-H, Department of Defense
   Handbook for Writing Security Classification Guidance.
   A11.9.2. (Added) One copy of classification guides (and changes/revisions) issued by
   activities they service.
   A11.9.3. (Added) Related DD Form 2024.
   A11.9.4. (Added) Other SCGs necessary to support activities serviced.
A11.10. (Added) Review distribution list upon revisions to SCGs to ensure only activities
requiring SCGs are identified. To the extent possible, distribute the SCG electronically or via
computer media.
A11.11. (Added) Revised SCGs and changes must contain a summary of changes, to
include the topic or item changed. An OCA must approve and sign changes to guides
involving classification decisions.
 24                           AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                Attachment 12 (Added)
                      CLASSIFIED MEETING/BRIEFING SLIDE

A12.1. (Added) THIS BRIEFING CONTAINS CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
A12.2. (Added) This briefing is classified: (LEVEL).
A12.3. (Added) PEDs/PDAs are not permitted IAW, AFSOCI 33-202, Portable Electronic
Device (PED) Security, para. 7.6.4.
A12.4. (Added) Turn off LMRs.
A12.5. (Added) No recording devices permitted.
A12.6. (Added) Secure all entrances.
A12.7. (Added) If you do not possess a (LEVEL) security clearance identify yourself at
this time.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                     25


                                     Attachment 13 (Added)
     CONSTRUCTION GUIDELINES FOR SECURE CONFERENCE FACILITIES

A13.1.
A13.2. (Added) Secure Conference Facility. For the purpose of this instruction, a secure
conference facility is defined as an area provided special acoustical, technical, and physical
security protection, and designated for the discussion and handling of classified defense
information on a continuous basis. Due to the high costs of building a secure conference facility,
the number of secure conference facilities will be kept to the absolute minimum consistent with
mission accomplishment.
A13.3. (Added) General Approach. The achievement of adequate security for conference
facilities so as to protect all classified information therein requires a blend of acoustical,
technical, and physical security measures. This blend is obtained through the coordination of
acoustical, electronics, 1 SOCES and security personnel from the initial planning stage through
construction and inspection phases. The installation 1 SOCES or Construction Agent is
responsible for the design and construction of secure conference facilities. Qualified persons
should be consulted for solutions to acoustical problems. The 1 SOCES, Installation
Construction Agent, or a qualified consultant should be able to help in the solution of acoustical
problems. All elements comprising the physical boundaries of the facility must have a uniformly
low transmission of sound through the exterior envelope (walls, ceiling, floor, and doors) of the
secure space. No utilities should serve as a fortuitous probe to electronic or audio signals
emanating from the secure facility. Physical access to the area must be controlled. Secure
conference facilities will not be constructed adjacent to facilities not under U.S. control. After
architectural plans are complete and before a contract is let, physical and technical security
specialists will review the plans for potential security weaknesses. If uncleared personnel
accomplish the construction, it is recommended that appropriately cleared owner/user personnel
periodically check the facility, with particular emphasis on monitoring the installation of security
items and to preclude the installation of clandestine surveillance devices.
A13.4. (Added) Acoustical Security. Acoustical security deals with all measures necessary to
minimize the loss of intelligible information acoustically radiated within an area through proper
construction techniques.
   A13.4.1. (Added) Acoustical security treatment. The following facets of acoustical
   treatment are provided as a general guide to achieve adequate acoustical security:
         A13.4.1.1. (Added) Doors & Frames. Commercially available doors acoustically rated
         with a proper Sound Transmission Class (STC) Laboratory rating shall be used. This
         rating should be 5 - 7 STC Points higher than the Noise Isolation Class (NIC) objective.
         One concept employs the use of a double door system. In this system two doors are
         mounted back-to-back with wider doorjambs used. This gives the added advantage of a
         relatively dead air space between the inner and outer area and overcomes the direct link
         from the outside to interior via the door hardware assemblies, such as locks. Fire rated
         doors will not be used, as they cannot be made to meet the required STC rating. Lead
         sheets on the inner surface of both doors, helps to increase the sound transmission loss.
         Any items of hardware installed on such doors should not in themselves create a sound
         leakage path. The weakest link of a secure room is the doors because they have moving
26                            AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


     parts, they must be maintained on a scheduled basis. Doors must be acoustically tested
     biennially to ensure continuing compliance with required NIC standards.
     A13.4.1.2. (Added) Doorjambs. Only factory supplied, acoustically rated STC doors
     that are delivered in factory-supplied doorframes and that have been STC rated, as a
     functional unit, shall be used. The doorframe shall be installed per manufacturer’s
     instruction.
     A13.4.1.3. (Added) Door thresholds. Wooden thresholds are preferred over metal
     because of their lower sound conductivity rating. All thresholds will be sealed at all
     points of contact with the floor and doorframe.
     A13.4.1.4. (Added) Expansion joints. Conference facilities should not be located where
     building expansion joints will form a part of or be immediately against any portion of the
     facility perimeters. Such joints cannot be effectively soundproofed on a continuing basis,
     since the joints are always subject to gap changes resulting from ambient temperature
     variations or building movements.
     A13.4.1.5. (Added) Holes or crevices. Holes or crevices in all exterior boundaries
     should be completely sealed with elastomeric caulking cement or equivalent mortar of
     such sufficiency as to prevent sound leakage and maintain the overall uniformity of
     sound transmission loss.
     A13.4.1.6. (Added) Pipes, ducts, and conduits. Holes or crevices around pipes, ducts,
     and conduit passing into any part of the facility should be well sealed as discussed above.
     All pipes, ducts, or conduits, must contain a dielectric break (nonmetallic coupling)
     where passing through the perimeter wall, or be treated with structural masking. Those
     pipes remaining inside the facility, which are surface mounted, should be covered with an
     effective insulating material to attenuate the coupling of sound vibrations to the pipe (a
     possible transmission link from the facility). However, clean metal-to-metal contact is
     required where ducts or pipes pass through electrical shielding. Likewise, all service
     boxes connected to pipes and conduits should be covered. When necessary, a short
     length of pipe leaving a service box should be filled with fiberglass to attenuate airborne
     sound transmitted within the pipe.
     A13.4.1.7. (Added) Metal beams or posts. The presence of metal beams and posts
     within the conference facility should be avoided wherever possible, since they both
     minimize the utility of a facility and require acoustical treatment in essentially the same
     manner as pipes and conduits mentioned above.
     A13.4.1.8. (Added) Radiators. Hot water or steam radiators will not be installed, as they
     are difficult to make acoustically secure. The best heating system for security is an
     electrical heater within each room, since the electrical power circuits can be more easily
     made secure.
     A13.4.1.9. (Added) Air conditioners. If possible, secure conference facilities should be
     equipped with an air conditioning system independent of the master building system.
     Master building systems, with all their air supply and return ducts, are more difficult to
     make secure. A dedicated air conditioning system should be installed in TOP SECRET
     areas. The background noise contribution of the heating, ventilation and air conditioning
     systems should not exceed 42 dB as measured inside the secure area.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                  27


     A13.4.1.10. (Added) Air ducts and ventilation grills. Air ducts and ventilation grills
     create severe security problems in that they provide a ready path for the transmission of
     both airborne and structure-borne sound energy. All duct penetrations shall be fitted with
     commercially available duct silencers having a Dynamic Insertion Loss equal to the
     specified STC rating of the secure perimeter itself. The sides of the duct silencer shall
     have the same STC rating as the perimeter. A steel screen with ½ inch square mesh will
     be installed to preclude the introduction of a clandestine listening device. An approved
     duct silencer manufactured of non-sound conductive materials will be used to decouple
     duct sections where any part of air duct passes through an exterior boundary of the
     facility. As an alternative, the ducts may be treated with structural sound masking at the
     inside point of penetration.
     A13.4.1.11. (Added) Sound system speakers. Speakers should be located as far as
     practicable from all air return inlets and, under no circumstances, mounted on perimeter
     surfaces. They should be mounted at a point where the sound transmission loss is the
     greatest (i.e., on a pillar) and likewise, the greatest levels of sound energy must be
     directed inward, away from any exterior walls. A sound level or volume-unit (VU) meter
     should be installed as part of the sound system to assure sound levels of 75 dB or below
     are maintained to avoid nullifying the acoustical security treatment provided the area.
     Once the 75 dB is achieved, the volume control should be set/secured. Amplified sound
     shall utilize a well-distributed speaker system (such as speakers suspended from the
     ceiling) so that the sound pressure level does not exceed more than 75 dB at any place
     within the room (certain work areas may require a higher speaker dB).
     A13.4.1.12. (Added) Communications devices. Telephones, intercoms, or any other
     communications devices that transmit clear text audio from an area should be kept to an
     absolute minimum, consistent with essential operational requirements. Each such device
     and its planned location should be considered carefully, for when in use they transmit
     from the area all conversations conducted within proximity of the device. No cell
     phones, camera cell phones, cordless telephones, or wireless microphones, keyboards, or
     mice, wireless or Infrared Local Area Networks (LANs), or devices are allowed in areas
     where classified information is discussed, briefed, or processed. “Area” refers to a room
     and/or to a space the size of a 3-meter radius sphere, centering on the classified source.
     In areas where classified information is discussed, briefed, or processed, wireless pointer/
     mice devices are allowed for presentations only. All other wireless portable/personal
     electronic devices (PEDs) not specifically addressed above, that are used for storing,
     processing, and/or transmitting information shall not be operated in areas where classified
     information is electronically stored, processed, or transmitted. Classified information
     could unintentionally be transmitted from an area over unsecured communications
     systems because of poor planning. Care as to the quantity and location of
     communications devices, along with acoustical shells or booths about various work
     centers, can greatly reduce undesired sound transmissions via unsecured communication
     links. During planning stages, the use of secure communication devices must be
     considered, i.e. STU III, push to talk, etc.
     A13.4.1.13. (Added) Alcoves or sound locks. A small room of suitable size can be
     provided at the main entrance door for both access control and the prevention of
     inadvertent overhearing whenever the outer door is opened. As an alternative measure, to
28                             AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


     identify visitors before opening a single door, either a closed circuit television system or
     a miniature, wide-angle optical lens (with a suitable hinged, lockable cover over the
     inside portion) may be installed in the entrance door.
     A13.4.1.14. (Added) Windows. Windows will not be installed in new secure facilities.
     When present in existing construction, windows will be removed or sealed and covered to
     provide an NIC rating equal to the encompassing wall area. Where windows must exist,
     venetian blinds and masking sound are required in the window area. Installation of man
     bars outside the windows should be considered. Completely eliminating the windows
     and replacing them with similar construction, as the surrounding wall is preferable.
     Where windows must exist, venetian blinds and flameproof heavy drapes (11 oz/sq yd or
     better) are encouraged to cover such windows inside the area.
     A13.4.1.15. (Added) Ceilings, Walls, and Floors. True walls (structural floor to
     ceiling) will be installed in all new construction. For existing structures that do not meet
     the above requirement, a cap must be installed providing an NIC rating equal to the walls
     of the room. The presence of false ceilings, walls, and floors in new or old construction
     must be carefully compared against the total transmission loss afforded.
     A13.4.1.16. (Added) Floor trenches. Service or utility trenches of any type under the
     floor should be filled, if possible, with concrete. If this cannot be done, masking sound is
     required.
  A13.4.2. (Added) Sound Transmission Class: STC is a numerical rating system for
  laboratory determined transmission loss. In this rating system, acoustical security is
  determined solely by the attenuation (transmission loss) of airborne speech between the
  source and a potential listener outside the perimeter of the facility. The sound transmission
  loss (TL) of a partition is measured in 16 third-octave bands between 125 Hertz and 4000
  Hertz, with each specific TL figure plotted in decibels on a graph. The resulting curve
  should be normalized against a standard curve, with the overall sound transmission loss
  expressed as a single figure value called STC (reference: ASTME E90, E-336, and E-413).
  The NICs provided in Table 1.5. are recommended minimums for secure conference
  facilities, depending on the level of classification discussed therein, the sound power level of
  speech within the area, and the ambient noise level in outside adjacent areas. Noise
  reduction tests in accordance with the ASTM E-413 in-to-out test procedures shall be
  performed after construction is completed and when modifications are made to the perimeter
  surface. The test data should be plotted per ASTM E-413 and expressed in a single number
  NIC. NIC is the same as STC except that an STC test is performed on partitions in an
  acoustical laboratory, and a NIC test is of a completed structure such as a finished secure
  facility. Thus, STC ratings are used to select the wall construction, doors, etc., and NIC is
  what you get when the facility is fully assembled. AN ASTM E-336 test procedure shall be
  conducted on each wall, floor, ceiling, and perimeter door within the facility. The lowest
  NIC among the test points shall be that of the entire facility. Because ambient noise outside
  an area is a variable, i.e., day vs. night, duty hours vs. non-duty hours, etc; it may be
  necessary to employ sound masking techniques. Such units consist of electronically
  controlled noise systems or vibration transmitters installed within the perimeter. The
  employment of such noise generators in wall voids, doors, windows, and overhead ducts is a
  more economical technique to achieve acceptable transmission losses.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                     29


A13.5. (Added) Technical Security. Technical security encompasses those measures
necessary to deny the use of existing technical equipment that may have compromising
emanations or the installation of clandestine technical surveillance devices to collect intelligence
from within an area. The servicing communications activity and Office of Special Investigations
should be contacted for guidance regarding technical security issues during the initial planning
stages of the secure facility. Some guidelines for technical security treatment are as follows:
   A13.5.1. (Added) Electrical services. All electrical wiring should, if at all possible, be run
   from a common distribution panel located within the secure discussion area. A single feeder
   circuit entering the area should service the panel. Radio frequency filters should be included
   if any equipment is located within the secure conference facility that may have possible
   compromising emanations. Final determinations of the requirement (or lack thereof) for
   filters will be made by the Air Force Communications Agency Certified Technical
   TEMPEST Authority (AFCA/CTTA).
   A13.5.2. (Added) Communications services. All wires or cables that transmit information
   to or from a secure conference facility should be routed to a common distribution frame from
   which a single multi-pair cable leaves the area. All obsolete wires should be removed.
   Unused wires required for future expansion should be electrically grounded at the
   distribution frame within the secure area. All communications systems installed should be
   the minimum necessary consistent with essential and efficient operations. All voice systems,
   incoming or outgoing, secure or unsecured, should be designed such that when not in use
   (turned "on") they do not transmit clear text conversation from the area. Line disconnect
   jacks on outgoing circuits and isolation amplifiers on incoming circuits are an effective
   means to render such systems secure when not in use. Radio frequency filters should be
   included if any equipment is located within the secure conference facility that may have
   possible compromising emanations.
   A13.5.3. (Added) Telephones. All telephones should be equipped with an automatic
   disconnect device or a manual plug-type disconnect to disconnect the telephone from the
   outgoing line. When disconnects are employed nonresonant external ringers are required.
   See paragraph A13.4.1.12. for further guidance.
   A13.5.4. (Added) Shielding.        If equipment that unintentionally radiates clear text
   intelligence is used in a secure conference facility to process classified information,
   consideration must be given to Radio Frequency (RF) shielding the equipment or the facility
   to contain the compromising emanations. Although technical security surveys do provide a
   determination if any clandestine technical surveillance devices were or currently are in place,
   they do not provide protection against future installations or unwitting carriers unless very
   stringent physical security and access controls are in effect. One countermeasure, which
   commanders may consider to combat clandestine RF transmitters, is the utilization of RF
   shielding about sensitive conference sites.
A13.6. (Added) Physical Security. Physical security encompasses those measures necessary
to deny the physical access of unauthorized personnel to a designated area. Physical security can
be achieved through the employment of physical barriers, locking devices, and IDS, or
combinations thereof. Since secure conference facilities are located on Air Force installations
and are not used to store classified information, secure construction requirements IAW DoD
5200.1-R, Appendix 7, are not mandated. However, if 1 SOW/IP determines the local threat and
 30                              AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


security environment dictates more stringent construction requirements, they may use DoD
5200.1-R, Appendix 7, as a guide for constructing the secure conference facility. Some physical
security guidelines that can be followed for normal threat environments are as follows:
   A13.6.1. (Added) Facility Structure. The floor, walls, and roof must be of permanent
   construction materials offering resistance to, and evidence of unauthorized entry into the
   area. Walls shall be extended to the true ceiling and attached with permanent construction
   materials. Windows should not be installed in new secure conference facility construction.
   Follow the guidance in paragraph A13.4.1.14. for windows in existing construction. Clean,
   straightforward construction techniques should be employed. Whenever possible, all utility
   pipes, conduits, and related components should be run exposed on interior wall or ceiling
   surfaces to minimize exploitation, while facilitating their periodic examination. Likewise,
   access ports or doors should be provided to permit the periodic examination within concealed
   areas, i.e., above false ceilings, under stages, etc. In general, the secure conference facility
   should be kept orderly, with only furniture necessary to minimize concealment locations.
   A13.6.2. (Added) Locking Devices. Entrances to the secure conference facility should be
   kept to an absolute minimum commensurate with local fire and safety codes. Doors will be
   substantially constructed of wood or metal. Doors will be equipped with a locking
   mechanism to prevent unauthorized entry into the facility when not in use. Built-in,
   manipulation-proof, three position combination locks with an interior safety release turn
   knob that conforms to GSA Federal Specifications, FF-L-2740, will be used on entry doors to
   provide maximum security. Panic hardware will be installed on the inner side of all
   emergency doors. Emergency doors will not have any hardware on the outside of the doors.
   A13.6.3. (Added) Door hinges. Door hinges should be installed to deny access to the pivot
   pin, as its removal often makes an otherwise very secure door highly susceptible to being
   opened. If the hinge pin must be exposed, then it should be fixed to preclude its removal or
   the door additionally secured on the hinge side from within.
   A13.6.4. (Added) Openings. All openings large enough to permit a person to gain
   unauthorized access into an area, 96 square inches or greater, should be appropriately sealed.
   Either physical security bars or complete and permanent blockage of the opening is desirable.
   Special care is necessary to ensure all utility areas such as steam tunnels, air ducts, air shafts,
   utility shafts, are secure, as is the area above a false ceiling. All windows and other openings
   which exist in boundary surfaces of a secure conference facility and which adjoin areas of
   lesser security must be covered or sealed to deny optical and audio surveillance of classified
   information therein. Optical surveillance techniques include the unaided and aided human
   eye (binoculars, etc,), photographic and TV cameras, infrared scanners, etc. Audio
   surveillance techniques include lip reading, infrared pick-off devices, etc. Protective
   coverings over all openings should include glass opaque to infrared or ultraviolet band
   energy, venetian blinds, and flameproof heavy drapes (11 oz/sq yd or heavier).
   A13.6.5. (Added) Intrusion Detection Alarm System (IDS). Since classified information is
   not stored in secure conference room facilities, Intrusion Detection Alarm Systems are not
   required. The inclusion of IDS is only recommended when the local threat and security
   environment dictates more stringent security requirements to prevent the installation of
   clandestine technical surveillance devices. The system should include volume, perimeter,
   and point sensors. Proximity and motion detectors provide protection for unique problems.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                     31


   All intrusion alarm systems should include electrical line supervision between the protected
   area and monitoring location. Further, all systems should be capable of sustaining normal
   operation for 24 hours after a commercial power loss. All sensors employed must detect an
   intrusion and be immune to normal bypass techniques. When used, all intrusion detection
   alarm systems should be of the type, and so installed, that they do not transmit intelligence
   from an area.
A13.7. (Added) Masking Sound Applied to Speech Security. In order to make it impossible
to understand speech outside the secure area, the system design goal must be to reduce speech
intelligibility in all situations, whether it is the result of human listening or listening with
detection devices. Technically, the purpose of masking sound is to reduce the signal-to-noise
ratio of a sound to zero at all pertinent frequencies. In this context, the signal is the speech and
the noise is the masking sound. When the speech intelligibility is zero, the privacy is total and
the signal to noise ratio is zero. This is adequate for direct human listening, but when detection
devices are used and signal-processing techniques are used on the derived signal, it is possible to
improve the signal-to-noise ratio and recover meaning. To keep speech intelligibility at zero, the
masking should be amenable to signal processing techniques that could reduce its effectiveness.
This can be achieved with a masking signal that is the result of a stationary random process. The
masking signal becomes not only unknowable but cannot be processed with statistical
techniques. Standard masking generators are digital using components in which the signal
repeats itself after one minute. They are called pseudo random controlled noise generators. The
sound created by them may appear random to the listener, but is in fact a deterministic process.
Sophisticated techniques can make use of this deterministic property to increase the speech
intelligibility and thus recover speech. Analog masking generators are somewhat better in that
they create a truly random signal, but suffer from the fact that the signal is Gaussian and
stationary, statistical properties that make signal processing easier. This aspect of the problem is
handled in the equipment generating the masking sound. The most effective method for
structural masking is when random signal vibrations are introduced directly to the perimeter
barrier surface to control background sound levels at potential listening points. The sound
masking system and all wires and transducers shall be located within the perimeter of the facility.
Speakers can be located outside the facility and directed outward as close as practicable to the
facility’s perimeter where the sound transmission loss is the greatest (i.e. doors, windows,
HVAC ducts, electrical and plumbing conduit, etc.) to achieve the required/desired STC rating.
The sound masking system should only be utilized when the required/desired STC rating is not
achievable through physical security means. See Unified Facilities Criteria (UFCs) 3-450-01,
Noise and Vibration, 4-021-02NF, Security Engineering and 4-610-01, Administrative Facilities
for planning, design, construction, restoration and modernization applicable specifics.

Table A13.1. (Added) Noise Isolation Class (NIC).
        RULE               Area Approved for                       If Area Has:
                             Discussion of:
                                                    Normal Speech          Amplified Speech
          1                      Secret                    45                      50
          2                    Top Secret                  50                      55
32                 AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


                     Attachment 14 (Added)
 CLASSIFIED STORAGE CONTAINERS/VAULTS/OPEN STORAGE LOCATION
                           REPORT
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010     33


                        Attachment 15 (Added)
                   CLASSIFIED COPIER CHECKLIST
 34                              AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 16 (Added)
                                SAMPLE COURIER LETTER

DATE:
MEMORANDUM FOR WHOM IT MAY CONCERN
FROM: 1 XXX/CC
SUBJECT: Designation of Official Courier
1. Master Sergeant John A. Doe, FR000-11-2222, 1st Special Operations Flight Support
Squadron, (Unit), Hurlburt Field, Florida, is designated an official courier for the United States
Government. Upon request, he will present his official identification card bearing the number X-
XXXXXXX (or other appropriate identification media).
2. Master Sergeant Doe is hand-carrying three sealed packages, size 9" x 8" x 24 " addressed
from "1 SOXX/XX, Hurlburt Field, FL 32544-5716," and addressed to "HQ USAF/IG, Wash
DC 20330-5001." Each package is identified on the outside of the package by the marking
"OFFICIAL BUSINESS--MATERIAL EXEMPTED FROM EXAMINATION" bearing the
signature of the undersigned.
3. Master Sergeant Doe is departing Ft. Walton Beach Regional Airport with a final destination
to Washington National Airport, District of Columbia. He has a transfer point at Atlanta
International Airport.
4. This courier designation can be confirmed by contacting the undersigned at 1 SOXXX, Area
Code 904, 884-XXXX, or DSN 579-XXXX. This letter expires 1 July 20XX.
CC SIGNATURE BLOCK
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010    35


                        Attachment 17 (Added)
                    SAMPLE EXEMPTION NOTICE
 36                             AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                   Attachment 18 (Added)
            MODEL (ORGANIZATION NAME) ANNUAL TRAINING PLAN

A18.1. (Added) References: DoD 5200.1-R and AFI 31-401.
   A18.1.1. (Added) AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
   A18.1.2. (Added) AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management.
   A18.1.3. (Added) AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT),
   A18.1.4. (Added) AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC).
   A18.1.5. (Added) DoD 5200.1-PH.
   A18.1.6. (Added) Executive Order 12958, Classified National Security Information as
   Amended.
   A18.1.7. (Added) General. Commanders and staff agency chiefs must ensure personnel
   understand the compelling need to protect classified and sensitive resources. To accomplish
   this, supervisors or unit security managers provides an initial security briefing during
   indoctrination to all personnel on basic security policies, principles and practices. Cleared
   personnel must have this training prior to being granted access to classified information as
   soon as possible (normally within two weeks) of a person’s assignment using ―Initial
   Briefing Training Standards‖ Attachment 19. Do this in a one-to-one setting or as group
   discussion using training aids. Thereafter, security managers provide at least quarterly
   refresher training to all cleared personnel who create process or handle classified
   information. Refresher training must be accomplished at least annually to reinforce the
   policies, principles and procedures covered in initial and specialized training using
   ―Refresher Security Education and Training Standards‖ at Attachment 20. More detailed
   specialized security education and training should be given to original classifiers, authorized
   declassification authorities, individuals specifically designated as responsible for derivative
   classification, classification management officers, security managers, security specialists, and
   all other personnel whose duties significantly involve the creation or handling of classified
   information. This training should be provided before or concurrent with the date the person
   assumes any of the positions listed herein, using ―Specialized Security Education and
   Training Standards‖ on Attachment 21. The 1 SOW Information Protection share-point
   page at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx provides training aides,
   presentations and training documentation. Note: All security training requirements vary
   depending on activity, size, mission, location, type/amount of classified holdings, etc. Tailor
   depth of subject coverage to the organizational/personnel missions.
A18.2. (Added) Method. Conduct individual, group training by verbal briefing, films,
videotapes, slides, handouts, publications, and other media means: First session (Jan-Mar).
   A18.2.1. (Added) Executive Order 12958, as amended responsibilities.
       A18.2.1.1. (Added) Classification, identification and markings, self-inspections,
       declassification, transmitting, destruction, reproduction, storage, mailing (U.S. Postal or
       FEDEX).
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                              37


      A18.2.1.2. (Added) HUMINT/local threat. Note: AFOSI may do it, but if they cannot
      support, security manager should do.
      A18.2.1.3. (Added) Base security OPLAN.
      A18.2.1.4. (Added) Unescorted entry procedures.
      A18.2.1.5. (Added) Local security operating instructions and practices.
      A18.2.1.6. (Added) Security violation reporting and requirements (through unit and 1
      SOW/IPI).
      A18.2.1.7. (Added) Results of local inspections/reviews, IG evaluations, and recent
      security violations, as applicable.
      A18.2.1.8. (Added) Selected topics from security managers’ meeting (QSMM).
      A18.2.1.9. (Added) Updates to the Personnel Security Program.
      A18.2.1.10. (Added) NATO briefing.
A18.3. (Added) Method. Film, handouts, computer presentations, video, and guest speaker:
Second session (Apr-Jun).
   A18.3.1. (Added) Classification challenges and procedures.
   A18.3.2. (Added) Security classification guides.
   A18.3.3. (Added) Security violations and their adverse impact on national security,
   espionage and penalties.
   A18.3.4. (Added) Protection of classified and end-of-day security checks.
   A18.3.5. (Added) Protecting unclassified technical data including Scientific and Technical
   Data (STINFO).
   A18.3.6. (Added) Physical security of AIS assets.
   A18.3.7. (Added) Results of local inspections/reviews, IG evaluations, and recent security
   violations, as applicable.
   A18.3.8. (Added) Selected topics from Quarterly Security Managers Meetings (OSMM).
   A18.3.9. (Added) Protecting controlled unclassified information (FOUO etc.).
A18.4. (Added) Method. Film, handouts, computer presentations, videos and guest speaker:
Third session (Jul-Sep).
   A18.4.1. (Added) OPSEC.
   A18.4.2. (Added) Protection of government/personal property.
   A18.4.3. (Added) Foreign travel.
   A18.4.4. (Added) The threat, techniques employed by foreign intelligence activities
   attempting to obtain classified information, and8penalties for engaging in espionage
   activities.
   A18.4.5. (Added) Results of local inspections and reviews, IG evaluations, and recent
   security violations, as applicable.
 38                           AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


   A18.4.6. (Added) Select QSMM topics.
A18.5. (Added) Method. Film/handouts, computer presentations, videos and guest speaker.
Fourth session (Oct-Dec).
   A18.5.1. (Added) Personnel security clearance/need-to-know, Special Information File,
   initial investigations and periodic reinvestigations.
   A18.5.2. (Added) Bomb threats.
   A18.5.3. (Added) Special access programs Critical Nuclear Weapons Design Information
   (CNWDI) requirements.
   A18.5.4. (Added) Industrial Security-National Industrial Security Program Operations
   Manual (NISPOM), DD Fm 254 and Visitor Group Security Agreements (VGSA).
   A18.5.5. (Added) JPAS Visit request procedures.
   A18.5.6. (Added) Security violation reporting and requirements (through unit and 1
   SOW/IPI).
   A18.5.7. (Added) Results of local inspections and reviews, Inspector General evaluations,
   and recent security violations.
   A18.5.8. (Added) Select QSMM topics.
APPROVED:
COMMANDER OR DIRECTOR, (DATE)
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                  39


                                   Attachment 19 (Added)
                      INITIAL TRAINING BRIEFING STANDARDS

A19.1. (Added) This initial briefing training standard should be used to: Brief all newly
assigned personnel as soon as possible (normally within 2 weeks). Cleared personnel must have
this training prior to being granted access to classified information.
   A19.1.1. Added) These standards are not intended to be all-inclusive. Security managers
   should expand or modify the depth of briefing according to applicability and the
   organization’s mission, program and policy needs.
   A19.1.2. (Added) Consider the following areas, as applicable.
   A19.1.3. (Added) Roles and responsibility.
   A19.1.4. (Added) What are the responsibilities of the senior unit/agency official,
   classification management officers, and the security manager/specialist?
   A19.1.5. (Added) What are the responsibilities of agency/unit members who create or
   handle classified information?
   A19.1.6. (Added) Who should be contacted in case of questions or concerns about
   classification matters?
   A19.1.7. (Added) Elements of classifying and declassifying information.
   A19.1.8. (Added) What is classified information and why it is important to protect?
   A19.1.9. (Added) What are the levels of classified information and the damage criteria
   associated with each level?
   A19.1.10. (Added) What are the prescribed classification markings and why is it important
   to have classified information fully and properly marked?
   A19.1.11. (Added) What are the general requirements for declassifying information?
   A19.1.12. (Added) What are the procedures for challenging the classification status of
   information?
   A19.1.13. (Added) Elements of Safeguarding.
   A19.1.14. (Added) What are the proper procedures for safeguarding classified information?
   A19.1.15. (Added) What constitutes an unauthorized disclosure and what are the penalties
   associated with these disclosures?
   A19.1.16. (Added) What should an individual do when he or she believes safeguarding
   standards may have been violated?
A19.2. (Added) The following areas are the mandatory subject areas : From the AIR
FORCE INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM TRAINING STANDARD available on
the              1      SOW         Information      Protection       share-point       page   at
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx (see the training standard for breakdown
by subject area and technical references). These areas are mandatory for all cleared personnel
during initial, indoctrination/orientation and annual refresher information security training.
 40                              AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 20 (Added)
        REFRESHER SECURITY EDUCATION AND TRAINING STANDARDS

A20.1. (Added) This refresher security education and training standard will be used to
provide: Refresher training to those personnel who create, process or handle classified
information. Refresher training should reinforce the applicable policies, principles and
procedures covered in initial and specialized training. As a minimum, personnel shall receive
annual refresher training that reinforces the policies, principles and procedures covered in initial
and specialized training. Refresher training should also address the threat and the techniques
employed by foreign intelligence activities attempting to obtain classified information, and
advise personnel of penalties for engaging in espionage activities. Refresher training should also
address issues or concerns identified during unit self-inspections.
A20.2. (Added) Refresher training should: Address issues or concerns identified during
agency self-inspections and ISPRs. When other methods are impractical, units or agencies may
satisfy the requirement for refresher training by means of audiovisual products or written
materials.
A20.3. (Added) Refresher training may also be required when: Personnel violate
established security procedures or are identified as the subject of a security incident.
AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                  41


                                   Attachment 21 (Added)
               SPECIALIZED SECURITY EDUCATION AND TRAINING

A21.1. (Added) This detailed specialized security education and training should : Be
given to original classifiers, authorized declassification authorities, individuals specifically
designated as responsible for derivative classification, classification management officers,
security managers and all personnel whose duties significantly involve the creation or handling
of classified information. This training is to be provided before or concurrent with the date the
person assumes any positions above, but in any event no later than 6 months from that date.
Training materials for OCAs and Derivative classifiers are available on the 1 SOW Information
Protection share-point page at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
A21.2. (Added)) Coverage considerations should include:
   A21.2.1. (Added) Original Classifiers.
   A21.2.2. (Added) What is the difference between original and derivative classification?
   A21.2.3. (Added) Who can classify information originally?
   A21.2.4. (Added) What are the standards that a designated classifier must meet to classify
   information?
   A21.2.5. (Added) What is the process for determining duration of classification?
   A21.2.6. (Added) What are the prohibitions and limitations on classifying information?
   A21.2.7. (Added) What are the basic markings that must appear on classified information?
   A21.2.8. (Added) What are the general standards and procedures for declassification?
A21.3. (Added) Declassification authorities other than original classifiers:
   A21.3.1. (Added) What are the standards, methods and procedures for declassifying
   information under E.O.12958 as amended?
   A21.3.2. (Added) What is contained in the unit/agency’s automatic declassification plan?
   A21.3.3. (Added) What are the unit/agency responsibilities for the establishment and
   maintenance of a declassification database?
A21.4. (Added) Individuals specifically designated as responsible for derivative
classification : Security managers, classification management officers, security specialists or
any other personnel whose duties significantly involve the management and oversight of
classified information.
   A21.4.1. (Added) What are the original and derivative classification processes and the
   standards applicable to each?
   A21.4.2. (Added) What are the proper and complete classification markings, as described in
   Identification and Marking Section of the Executive Order 12958 as amended?
   A21.4.3. (Added) What are the authorities, methods and processes for downgrading and
   declassifying information?
42                            AFI31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 21 SEPTEMBER 2010


  A21.4.4. (Added) What are the methods for the proper use, storage, reproduction,
  transmission, dissemination and destruction of classified information?
  A21.4.5. (Added) What are the requirements for creating and updating classification and
  declassification guides? What are the requirements for controlling access to classified
  information?
  A21.4.6. (Added) What are the procedures for investigating and reporting instances of
  security violations, and the penalties associated with such violations?
  A21.4.7. (Added) What are the requirements for creating, maintaining, and terminating
  special access programs, and the mechanisms for monitoring such programs?
  A21.4.8. (Added) What are the procedures for secure use, certification and accreditation of
  automated information systems and networks which use, process, store, reproduce or transmit
  classified information?
  A21.4.9. (Added) What are the requirements for oversight of the security classification
  program, including unit/agency self-inspections?
