BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 38-202
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               1 MARCH 1995

                                                                            Manpower and Organization

                                                     AIR FORCE MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS
                                                     AND HEADQUARTERS SUPPORT ACTIVITIES


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/PER (Ms Dottie Steyer)                  Certified by: HQ USAF/PER (Col Daniel DeDona)
Supersedes AFI 38-202, 5 August 1994.                                                     Pages: 18
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 38-2, Manpower, and Department of Defense (DoD) Directive
5100.73, November 25, 1988, DoD Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Activities. It
guides Air Force personnel in identifying and controlling the size and composition of US Air Force Man-
agement Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision emphasizes no overall growth policy in Air Force management headquarters and headquar-
ters support end strength; and provides factors to apply to mission transfers between major commands. A
| indicates revisions from the previous edition.



1. General Information:
   1.1. Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Functions. Air Force Management
   Headquarters and Headquarters Support includes those functions and the direct support integral to
   their performance that are required to manage the programs and operations of the DoD and its major
   military organizations. (See Attachment 1 for definitions of Management Headquarters and Head-
   quarters Support functions.)
       1.1.1.   Management. Management functions provide oversight, direction, and control through:
           •    Developing and issuing policies and providing policy guidance.
           •    Reviewing and evaluating program performance.
           •    Allocating and distributing resources.
           •    Conducting mid- and long-range planning, programming, and budgeting.
       1.1.2. Direct Support. Essential professional, technical, administrative, or logistical support per-
       formed in, or provided directly to, a Management Headquarters and is essential to its operation.
2                                                                         AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

           1.1.2.1. Management Headquarters Support includes:
               • Staff support (such as providing policy or program analysis or formulating policies,
                   plans, and programs) for Management Headquarters.
               • Operating support (such as providing secretarial, typing, editorial, or automated data
                   processing services to Management Headquarters).
           1.1.2.2. Management Headquarters Support does not include providing:
               • Specific products or technical and operating-type services on a DoD- or compo-
                   nent-wide basis (such as payroll services, personnel records and assignment, or man-
                   agement engineering functions that centralized units provide).
               • Base operating support functions provided by a host operational unit to all tenant orga-
                   nizations.

2. Setting Up Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Activi ties:
    2.1. Each Air Force Management Headquarters or Headquarters Support activity organizes and staffs
    itself to perform effectively with a minimum number of personnel. To help with this goal, the Direc-
    torate of Programs and Evaluation (HQ USAF/PE) maintains:
        • The definition of Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support functions.
        • The approved list of Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities.
        • A common method of accounting for Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support
             authorizations.
    2.2. Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support functions may not transfer responsibilities
    to operational units in order to avoid personnel accounting and reporting requirements.
    2.3. Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities may not misrepresent them-
    selves by using:
        • Multiple authorization documents.
        • "Dual-hatting."
        • Other special personnel accounting devices.
    2.4. Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities must:
        • Represent their responsibility and mission accurately.
        • Not "hide" functions in lower-level operating units to better meet their needs. (See attachment
          1 for authorized functions.)

3. Identifying Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Activ ities. The Air Force
identifies organizations that perform a significant amount (25 percent or more) of Management Head-
quarters or Headquarters Support functions as Management Headquarters or Headquarters Support activ-
ities. (See Attachment 2 for a list of Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities.)

4. Accounting for Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Personnel. The Air
Force accounts for personnel serving in its Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activi-
ties according to the following guidelines.
AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995                                                                                 3

   4.1. Organizations with Primary Management Headquarters and Headquar ters Support Mis-
   sions. If an organization performs Management Headquarters or Headquarters Support functions as
   its primary mission, all of its military and civilian personnel count as Management Headquarters and
   Headquarters Support personnel.
       4.1.1. This category consists of military departmental headquarters, including:
           • The headquarters of all major commands (MAJCOM).
           • Air Force departmental headquarters (Office of the Secretary of the Air Force (OSAF), the
              Air Staff, and the Air Staff Directorate of the National Guard Bureau [NGB]).
       4.1.2. This category also consists of headquarters of major US operating forces, including:
           • The headquarters of unified and specified commands. EXCEPTION: Headquarters in
              the US Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) (which the Commander-in-Chief,
              USSOCOM, reports separately).
           • Military service component command headquarters within the unified commands.
              EXCEPTION: The Air Force Special Operations Command (which the Com-
              mander-in-Chief, USSOCOM, reports).
           • The headquarters of international military organizations in which US forces take part.
           • Other organizations that devote more than 50 percent of their effort to Management Head-
              quarters functions or direct support for the DoD, a DoD component, or a higher headquar-
              ters in their chain of command.
   4.2. Organizations with Substantial Management Headquarters and Head quarters Support
   Missions. If an organization does not meet the criteria in paragraph 4.1 but performs Management
   Headquarters or Headquarters Support functions as a substantial portion of its mission, then only the
   military and civilian personnel assigned to those constituent elements of the organization that devote
   more than 50 percent of their effort to accomplishing these functions count as Management Headquar-
   ters and Headquarters Support personnel.
       4.2.1. This category includes:
           • The headquarters of the product centers involved in acquisition management functions
              within the Air Force Materiel Command.
           • Any other organization that devotes 26 to 50 percent of its effort to Management Head-
              quarters functions for the DoD, a DoD component, or for a higher headquarters in its chain
              of command or direct suport to one or more Management Headquarters.

5. Responsibilities:
   5.1. Air Staff. The Directorate of Programs and Evaluation (HQ USAF/PE) sets up and implements
   a system to identify and control the number and size of Management Headquarters and Headquarters
   Support activities. Specifically, HQ USAF/PE:
       5.1.1. Ensures proper accounting of Air Force Management Headquarters and Headquarters Sup-
       port activities.
       5.1.2. Receives and staffs requests to revise the list of Air Force Management Headquarters and
       Headquarters Support activities. (See Attachment 2.)
4                                                                          AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

       5.1.3. Maintains a management information system identifying the number and size of Manage-
       ment Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities, in coordination with:
           • The Assistant Secretary of Defense, Force Management and Personnel (ASD/FM&P).
           • The Office of the Secretary of Defense, Directorate of Administration and Management
              (OSD (DA&M)).
       5.1.4. Reviews requests to realign non-Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support
       functions and authorizations in Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities to
       nonmanagement organizations.
       5.1.5. Monitors Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support ceilings for the Air Force
       activities in attachment 2 to ensure that end strength does not exceed OSD or congressional limits.
       5.1.6. Prepares budget justification materials in the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) for
       program element codes (PEC) ending in "98." NOTE: Activities not fitting this instruction's
       description of Management Headquarters or Headquarters Support activities do not use such pro-
       gram element codes.
       5.1.7. Coordinates with the National Guard Bureau (NGB) before programming FYDP adjust-
       ments affecting the Air Staff Directorate of the NGB to ensure compliance with the 60/40
       active-to-Air National Guard (ANG) mix by grade that the Congress has directed.
       5.1.8. Prepares an Air Force Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities bud-
       get exhibit for the OSD and the Congress.
       5.1.9. Oversees adjustments to Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities
       within approved Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support ceilings. HQ USAF/PEP
       coordinates with HQ USAF/PER to adjust PECs ending in "98."
       5.1.10. Requests OSD (DA&M) approval to revise the list of Air Force Management Headquar-
       ters and Headquarters Support activities.
       5.1.11. Air Staff activities must not accept or direct additional Management Headquarters or
       Headquarters Support workload without identifying offsets from within existing Management
       Headquarters and Headquarters Support end strengths.
    5.2. Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support Activities:
       5.2.1. Monitor their respective organizations to ensure they follow this instruction.
       5.2.2. Use the absolute minimum manpower to carry out their mission.
       5.2.3. Stay within their authorized end strength and ceiling constraints.
       5.2.4. Use only PECs ending in "98." NOTE: Non-Management Headquarters and Headquar-
       ters Support activities don't use PECs ending in "98."
       5.2.5. Request HQ USAF/PEP to adjust the FYDP within authorized Management Headquarters
       and Headquarters Support end strength and ceilings constraints. Adjustments are normally
       approved and programmed provided they do not increase or alter the category mix (officer/air-
       man/civilian) of a command's total authorized end strength.
       5.2.6. No overall growth. Accommodate new or increased workloads within existing end
       strength and ceiling constraints by:
AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995                                                                          5

          •   Reducing, consolidating, or eliminating lower-priority programs.
          •   Transferring non-Management Headquarters or non-Headquarters Support functions to
              lower level, non-management headquarters organizations.
      5.2.7. The following factors will be applied to mission/functional transfers between MAJCOMs
      to determine the associated realignment of management headquarters and headquarters support
      end strength and ceiling headroom
          • .004 x (command population)
          • 2.8 x (squadrons)
      MAJCOMs may deviate from these factors by mutual agreement. MAJCOMs should include
      management headquarters and headquarters support end strength transfers agreed to in program
      action directives (PAD). The losing MAJCOM will forward a memorandum along with agree-
      ment from the gaining MAJCOM to HQ USAF/PEP with copy to HQ USAF/PER requesting
      FYDP end strength adjustments in accordance with PADs.

6. Using the Summary of Guidelines. Management Headquarters and Headquarters Support activities
follow the identification and accounting guidelines in Attachment 3.



                                     CHARLES R. HEFLEBOWER, Maj General, USAF
                                     Director of Programs and Evaluation
6                                                                          AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

                                             Attachment 1
    MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS AND HEADQUARTERS SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

A1.1. Purpose. Because organization, management, and command relationships differ greatly among
Air Force activities, a strict Air Force-wide Management Headquarters comparison can prove inadequate.
As a result, those attempting to identify and account for Management Headquarters and Headquarters
Support activities according to this attachment may need to exclude organizational elements of the vari-
ous Air Force headquarters from Management Headquarters accountability after analyzing their respec-
tive functions. Use this attachment with the definition and identification criteria in paragraphs 1 and 3.

A1.2. Acquisition. The Defense Acquisition Executive, Service Acquisition Executives, and Service
Program Executive Officers, among others, manage programs throughout the DoD and Management
Headquarters activities in which personnel plan, design, develop, acquire, maintain, and dispose of equip-
ment, facilities, and services.

A1.3. Administration. Administrative personnel:
   • Manage administrative communications, records, publications, and reproduction programs.
   • Provide correspondence, publications, and reproduction services directly to a Management Head-
      quarters activity.
    A1.3.1. Administrative communications involves coordinating, processing, and distributing corre-
    spondence and general service messages.
    A1.3.2. Records management involves creating, maintaining, and disposing of records and record
    storage and retrieval systems and equipment.
    A1.3.3. Publications administration involves:
       • Preparing manuscripts.
       • Implementing writer-editor services, such as designing, coordinating, indexing, distributing,
           and reviewing forms and publications.
       • Authenticating and distributing administrative orders.
       • Setting up and maintaining technical libraries for a Management Headquarters activity.
    A1.3.4. Reproduction administration involves printing and copying services.

A1.4. Audiovisual. Audiovisual personnel:
   • Manage photographic, television, audiovisual, and graphic arts programs.
   • Provide audiovisual services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.5. Audit. Audit personnel manage audit programs. As part of that job, they develop audit objectives,
policies, plans, and standards.

A1.6. Command. The head of a Management Headquarters activity performs command functions with
help from immediate staff members, such as:
    • The deputy head.
AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995                                                                                  7

   •    Executive and special assistants.
   •    Advisors.
   •    Aides.
   •    Stewards.
   •    Secretaries.
   •    Protocol personnel.

A1.7. Cost Analysis. Cost analysis personnel:
   • Prepare estimates of the development, investment, and operating costs of programs, equipment,
      and systems.
   • Collect, validate, and analyze related cost data for a Management Headquarters activity when
      these functions do not apply under one of the other headings in this attachment.

A1.8.   Data Automation. Data automation personnel:
   •    Manage data standardization, equipment selection, and utilization programs.
   •    Develop policy for systems and satellite data processing units.
   •    Provide ADP support directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.9.   Engineering and Construction. Engineering and construction personnel:
   •    Manage engineering programs.
   •    Develop and review criteria and designs.
   •    Conduct functional and technical reviews of construction and major repair projects.
   •    Provide engineering and construction services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.10. Environmental Sciences. Environmental sciences personnel:
   • Manage environmental sciences programs, including oceanographic and meteorological pro-
       grams.
   • Provide weather services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.11. Facilities. Facilities personnel:
   • Manage real estate, facilities, and civil engineering or public works programs.
   • Provide facility services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.12. Financial Management. Financial management personnel:
   • Manage budget, accounting and finance, internal review, and related financial management pro-
       grams.
   • Provide these financial management services directly to a Management Headquarters activity:
   • Developing and directing accounting and finance systems and services.
   • Developing, presenting, and implementing budgets.
8                                                                         AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

    •   Controlling and evaluating funding.
    •   Analyzing budgets.
    •   Providing budgetary advice and guidance.
    •   Reviewing command systems, procedures, and internal control.

A1.13. Historical Affairs. Historical affairs personnel provide historical affairs services directly to a
Management Headquarters activity. Historical affairs includes:
   • Historical writing.
   • Research.
   • Studies.
   • Analysis.
   • Heraldry services.

A1.14. Information and Public Affairs. Information and public affairs personnel:
   • Manage internal and public information and community relations programs.
   • Provide information and public affairs services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.15. Inspection and Evaluation. Inspection and evaluation of subordinate organizational echelons to
ensure their readiness, effectiveness, and adequacy of operations for the performance of assigned mis-
sions; as well as permanent members of inspection teams supporting a Management Headquarters activ-
ity.

A1.16. Intelligence. Intelligence personnel:
   • Manage intelligence collection, analysis, production, and evaluation programs.
   • Provide intelligence services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.17. Legal Affairs. Legal affairs personnel:
   • Manage legal and legislative programs.
   • Provide legal services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.18. Logistics. Logistics personnel:
   • Manage supply, maintenance, transportation, procurement, production, and materiel programs.
   • Provide supply, maintenance, and transportation services directly to a Management Headquarters
       activity.
    A1.18.1. Supplies and services that logistics personnel provide include:
        •   Clothing sales.
        •   Mortuary services.
        •   Laundry.
        •   Dry cleaning.
        •   Food services.
AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995                                                                                 9

   A1.18.2. Maintenance functions that logistics personnel provide include: Equipment maintenance
   programs; as well as permanent members of standardization and evaluation teams supporting a Man-
   agement Headquarters activity.
   A1.18.3. Transportation functions that logistics personnel provide include:
      • Military and commercial air, sea, and surface transportation programs.
      • Motor vehicle management.
      • Logistics transportation planning and control.
   A1.18.4. Procurement and production functions that logistics personnel provide include managing
   the acquisition of:
       • Weapon systems.
       • Equipment.
       • Materiel.
       •   Services.
   A1.18.5. Materiel management functions that logistics personnel provide include logistics support of
   specified weapons and nonweapons systems, equipment, and commodities from delivery through dis-
   posal.

A1.19. Management Analysis. Management analysis personnel develop and present integrated analyses
and control information to help organizations fulfill their missions and objectives (when these functions
do not apply under one of the other headings in this attachment).

A1.20. Management Engineering. When such functions do not apply under one of the other headings in
this attachment, management engineering personnel:
    • Analyze systems, procedures, organizations, methods, and techniques for managing and control-
         ling an organization's programs and activities.
    • Develop or maintain work measurement systems.

A1.21. Manpower and Organization. Manpower and organization personnel:
   • Allocate and control an organization's manpower resources and grade authorizations.
   • Evaluate manpower use.
   • Provide manpower and organization survey teams to Management Headquarters activities.

A1.22. Medical Services. Medical services personnel:
   • Manage medical and health care programs.
   • Provide medical services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.23. Operations. Operations personnel:
   • Develop and analyze strategic, defensive, and tactical operations, including:
   • Operational readiness.
   • Planning and requirements.
10                                                                       AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

     •   Standardization.
     •   Evaluation.
     •   Training.
     •   Command and control.
     •   Provide command and control services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.24. Operations Analysis. Operations analysis personnel:
   • Develop mathematical and scientific studies of operational programs.
   • Analyze the operational mix of weapons, equipment, tactics, and strategy for a Management
       Headquarters activity.

A1.25. Personnel. Air Force members with personnel duties:
   • Manage civilian and military personnel programs (such as career development, position classifi-
       cation, pay management, employee and labor-management relations, incentive awards, and bene-
       fits).
   • Manage special services programs (such as welfare and recreation).
   • Manage social action programs (such as human relations, equal opportunity and treatment, and
       substance abuse control).
   • Provide personnel services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.26. Policies, Plans, and Programming. Policies, plans, and programming personnel develop and
coordinate plans, policies, and programming (when these functions do not apply under one of the other
headings in this attachment).

A1.27. Religious Affairs. Religious affairs personnel manage:
   • Religious affairs.
   • Counseling.
   • Related moral welfare activities.

A1.28. Research and Development. Research and development personnel manage these programs:
   • Basic and developmental research.
   • Test.
   • Engineering.

A1.29. Reserve Affairs. Reserve affairs personnel manage Reserve forces programs. (Air National
Guard and US Air Force Reserve personnel serving on active duty under the provisions of 10 U.S.C.
175(a)(9), 265, 678(a), 304(b), 8038(b), 8021(h), 8496, and 32 U.S.C. 708 are included, but will be
accounted for separately from other active duty military personnel.)

A1.30. Safety. Safety personnel:
   • Manage safety programs, such as:
AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995                                                                               11

   •   Flight.
   •   Industrial missile.
   •   Nuclear.
   •   Explosive driver.
   •   Systems.
   •   Surface and subsurface safety.
   •   Provide safety services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.31. Security. Security personnel:
   • Manage physical, personnel, information, and communications security programs.
   • Provide security and police or guard services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.32. Telecommunications. Telecommunications personnel:
   • Manage communications programs.
   • Provide electronic communications services directly to a Management Headquarters activity.

A1.33. Training and Education. Training and education personnel manage training and educational
programs and related matters, such as:
   • Educational research.
   • Evaluation.
   • Curriculum development and review.

A1.34. Unit Administration. Unit administration personnel direct the support functions of the units of a
Management Headquarters activity, such as:
   • Administering punishment.
   • Preparing supplies.
   • Maintaining duty rosters and records.
12                                                                      AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

                                               Attachment 2
     MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS AND HEADQUARTERS SUPPORT ACTIVITIES

A2.1. International Military Organizations:
     A2.1.1. North American Air Defense Command (NORAD): HQ NORAD
     A2.1.2. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO): NATO Military Committee International
     Military Staff
     Allied Command, Atlantic (ACLANT), including:
     HQ Supreme Allied Commander, Atlantic (SACLANT)
     HQ Eastern Atlantic Command (EASTLANT)
     HQ Western Atlantic Command (WESTLANT)
     HQ Iberian Atlantic Command (IBERLANT)
     HQ Submarines Allied Command, Atlantic (SUBLANT)
     HQ Striking Fleet, Atlantic Command (STRIKELANT)
     Allied Command, Europe (ACE), including:
     Supreme HQ, Allied Powers, Europe (SHAPE)
     HQ Allied Forces, Northwest Europe (AFNORTHWEST)
     HQ Allied Forces, Central Europe (AFCENT)
     HQ Allied Forces, Southern Europe (AFSOUTH)
     A2.1.3. United Nations Command, Korea (UNC) and Combined Forces Com mand, Korea
     (CFCK)
     HQ UNC/CFCK

A2.2. Defense-Wide and Joint Headquarters:
     A2.2.1. Departmental Activities: Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), including:
     OSD Staff
     Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), including:
     JCS
     Joint Staff
     A2.2.2. Departmental Support Activities 7th Communications Group USAF, including:
     OSD Support Staff*
     Washington Headquarters Services (WHS), including:
     WHS Staff*
     A2.2.3. Functional Activities: Defense Agencies:
AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995                                                          13

  Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA), including:
  ARPA Staff
  Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA), including:
  HQ DeCA
  Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), including:
  HQ DCAA
  Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS), including:
  HQ DFAS
  Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), including:
  HQ DISA
  Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), including:
  HQ DIA
  Defense Investigative Service (DIS), including:
  HQ DIS
  Defense Legal Services Agency (DLSA), including:
  DLSA Staff*
  Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), including:
  HQ DLA
  Defense Mapping Agency (DMA), including:
  HQ DMA
  Headquarters Support Activity
  Defense Nuclear Agency (DNA), including:
  HQ DNA
  Defense Security Assistance Agency (DSAA), including:
  DSAA Staff
  National Security Agency and Central Security Service (NSA/CSS), including:
  HQ NSA/CSS
  On-site Inspection Agency (OSIA), including:
  HQ OSIA
  Ballistic Missile Defense Organization (BMDO), including:
  BMDO Staff
  Other Functional Activities
14                                                                  AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

     American Forces Information Service (AFIS), including:
     HQ AFIS*
     Defense Medical Programs Activity (DMPA), including:
     DMPA Staff*
     Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS), including:
     HQ DoDDS
     Inspector General (IG), including:
     IG Staff*

A2.3. Combat Activities:
     A2.3.1. Unified Command Headquarters: US Atlantic Command (ACOM), including:
     HQ US ACOM:
     HQ US Forces, Caribbean
     HQ Iceland Defense Force
     HQ US Forces, Azores
     US Central Command (CENTCOM), including:
     HQ CENTCOM
     US European Command (EUCOM), including:
     HQ EUCOM
     US Pacific Command (PACOM), including:
     HQ PACOM:
     HQ US Forces, Japan (USFJ)
     HQ US Forces, Korea (USFK)
     US Southern Command (SOUTHCOM), including:
     HQ SOUTHCOM
     US Space Command (SPACECOM), including:
     HQ SPACECOM
     US Special Operations Command (SOCOM), including:
     HQ SOCOM
     US Strategic Command (STRATCOM), including:
     HQ STRATCOM
     US Transportation Command (TRANSCOM), including:
     HQ TRANSCOM
AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995                                                                      15

A2.4. Military Department Headquarters Department of The Air Force:
   A2.4.1. Departmental Activities: Air Force Secretariat (OSAF)
   Air Staff
   National Guard Bureau (NGB), including Air Directorate
   A2.4.2. Departmental Support Activities 7th Communications Group*
   (Air Force Headquarters Support)
   A2.4.3. Functional and Functional Support Activities: Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC),
   including:
   HQ AFMC:
   HQ Aeronautical Systems Center (ASC) *
   HQ Space Systems Center (SSC) *
   HQ Electronic Systems Center (ESC)*
   HQ Human Systems Center (HSC) *
   Air Force Reserve (AFRES), including:
   HQ AFRES
   Air Education and Training Command (AETC), including:
   HQ AETC
   Air Intelligence Agency (AIA), including:
   HQ AIA
   Air Force District of Washington (AFDW), including:
   HQ AFDW
   1100th Resource Management Group*
   Air Force Program Executive Office
   A2.4.4. Combat and Combatant Support Activities: US Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), including:
   HQ PACAF
   US Air Forces in Europe (USAFE), including:
   HQ USAFE
   Air Combat Command (ACC), including:
   HQ ACC
   Air Mobility Command (AMC), including:
   HQ AMC
   Air Force Space Command (AFSPACECOM), including:
   HQ AFSPACECOM
16                                                                     AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

     *NOTE: Appropriate organizational elements only, in accordance with paragraph 4.2.
AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995                                                                                 17

                                             Attachment 3
SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING GUIDELINES FOR MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS AND
                      HEADQUARTERS SUPPORT

A3.1. Methodology:
   A3.1.1. Examine each headquarters and its support activities.
   A3.1.2. If the organization spends 0 to 25 percent of its effort on Management Headquarters or direct
   support as paragraph 1 defines:
      • The organization is an operating activity.
      • The organization's personnel are exempt from accountability under this instruction.
   A3.1.3. If the organization spends more than 25 percent, but not more than 50 percent, of its effort on
   Management Headquarters or direct support, as paragraph 1 defines:
      • The organization is a Management Headquarters or Headquarters Support activity.
      • Air Force personnel must examine each element of the organization (that is, each component
          and its internal components).
      A3.1.3.1. All personnel in those elements devoting more than 50 percent of their effort to Man-
      agement Headquarters or direct support count in the Air Force's FYDP and PB 22 budget exhibit.
   A3.1.4. If the organization devotes more than 50 percent of its effort to Management Headquarters or
   direct support, as paragraph 1 defines:
       • The organization is a Management Headquarters or Headquarters Support activity.
       • The organization's personnel count in the Air Force's FYDP and PB 22 budget exhibit.

A3.2. Matrix:
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATION


 MANAGEMENT-            MANAGEMENT-            OPERATING           MANPOWER ACCOUNTABILITY
 HEADQUAR-              HEADQUAR-
 TERS AND               TERS ACTIVITY
 DIRECT SUP-
 PORT WORK-
 LOAD
 0%-25%                                                X           EXEMPT--No personnel identified as
                                                                   Management Headquarters
18                                               AFI38-202 1 MARCH 1995

MANAGEMENT-   MANAGEMENT-     OPERATING   MANPOWER ACCOUNTABILITY
HEADQUAR-     HEADQUAR-
TERS AND      TERS ACTIVITY
DIRECT SUP-
PORT WORK-
LOAD
26%-50%       X                           STRATIFIED ACCOUNTABILI-
                                          TY--All personnel assigned to those
                                          constituent elements of an organization
                                          (subelements such as a staff office, di-
                                          rectorate, division, section, or detach-
                                          ment) that spend more than 50% of their
                                          effort on Management Headquarters or
                                          Headquarters Support functions identi-
                                          fied as Management Headquarters.
51%-100%      X                           FULL ACCOUNTABILITY--All au-
                                          thorizations identified as Management
                                          Headquarters.
