BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2848
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                  1 APRIL 2000

                                                                   AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                    Supplement 1
                                                                                   28 SEPTEMBER 2001

                                                                                                 Personnel

                                                          AIR FORCE SECURITY FORCES AWARDS
                                                                                  PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFSFC/SFM (CMSgt Armstrong)                                         Certified by: HQ USAF/XOF
                                                                             (Brig Gen Richard Coleman)
Supersedes AFI 36-2848, 1 October 1998.                                                         Pages: 16
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction establishes the annual Air Force Security Forces (SF) Awards Program for individuals
and units, and implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program.
It explains eligibility rules and nomination procedures for each category. It applies to all security forces
units and military and civilian personnel who perform security force duties. This publication also applies
to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) upon mobilization and when
published in the ANG index 2. Records Management: Maintain and dispose of all records created as a
result of prescribed process in this instruction in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition
Schedule”.

(AFRC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2848,
1 April 2000. The OPR for this supplement is HQ AFRC/SFE (SMSgt Richard M. Trull). The AFI is pub-
lished word-for-word without editorial review. Air Force Reserve supplementary material is indicated by
“(AFRC)” in boldface type. This supplement describes Air Force Reserve procedures to be used in con-
junction with the basic instruction. Upon receipt of this integrated supplement discard the Air Force basic.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This edition removes field grade officers from competition at both the unit and MAJCOM level (para-
graph 7.3.1. and 7.3.2.); reduces the MAJCOM -level individual awards to three categories (paragraph
7.3.2.); separates the Julie Y. Cross and Doris R. McCrosson awards from the Security Forces category
and placing them in Other Awards (paragraph 18.); limits MAJCOM-level individual awards to officer,
enlisted, and civilian (paragraph 7.3.2.); combines the Individual Mobilization Augmentee nominees with
the AFRC individual awards category (paragraph 7.4.); limits individual package endorsements to the
unit commander with installation commander concurrence (Attachment 2); allows MAJCOM SFs to for-
2                                              AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001


ward individual packages electronically or with transmittal letter (Attachment 2); eliminates the require-
ment for photo negatives and personnel RIPs (Attachment 2); limits unit package endorsements to
installation commanders (Attachment 3); allows MAJCOM CCs or CVs to forward unit packages elec-
tronically or with transmittal letter (Attachment 4).

Section A—Program Review

1. Command Responsibilities. Major commands (MAJCOM), including the Air National Guard
(ANG), the Air Force Reserve (AFRC), field operating agencies (FOAs), and direct reporting units
(DRUs), must ensure all eligible security forces units and individuals, both military and civilian, have the
opportunity to compete in their respective categories. Future references to MAJCOMs pertain to above
categories.

2. Evaluation Period. Calendar year (1 January through 31 December) is the evaluation period for indi-
vidual awards; fiscal year (1 October through 30 September) for unit awards.

3. How to Submit Awards. Use formats in Attachment 2, Attachment 3, and Attachment 4. Send
only the original copy to HQ AFSFC/SFM, 1720 Patrick Street, Lackland AFB, TX 78236-5226. Nomi-
nation packages for individual awards must arrive not later than 15 February following the nomination
year. Nomination packages for unit awards must arrive not later than 1 December of the nomination year.

4. Command-Level Selection Boards. Command-level selection boards will consist of senior security
force officers, noncommissioned officers, and civilians.

5. Air Force Selection Boards. Per AFPD 36-28, a general officer or civilian equivalent will chair. The
Air Force Director of Security Forces appoints senior security force officers, noncommissioned officers,
and civilians to the board.

Section B—Individual Awards Program

6. Purpose . Acknowledge and encourage outstanding individual achievements and performance.

7. Award Categories and Eligibility:
    7.1. Individual awards program submissions: nominees will be submitted in the category which is
    equal to the rank they held the majority of the calendar year. Individuals promoted on or before 1 July
    will be submitted in the category of their previous rank.
    7.2. Colonel Billy Jack Carter Award. Each MAJCOM may nominate one individual military mem-
    ber, civilian employee, contract employee, or host-nation member in any grade. The award goes to the
    individual judged to have made the most significant contribution to protecting Air Force personnel or
    resources during the calendar year. The award is for a specific act, contribution, or event. Colonel
    Billy Jack Carter commanded the 377th Security Police Squadron, which distinguished itself at Tan
    Son Nhut Air Base, South Vietnam, during the Tet Offensive. Colonel Carter was the first career
    security police officer to be named the Air Force Director of Security Police.
AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001                                                             3


  7.3. MAJCOM Nominations. Each MAJCOM commander may nominate one individual in each of
  the following categories:
     7.3.1. Unit Level Awards
        7.3.1.1. Outstanding Security Forces Company Grade Officer Award (Captain, 1st or 2nd
        Lieutenant).
        7.3.1.2. Outstanding Security Forces Flight Level Award(s) – Must work on flight performing
        security and/or police services duties. Military working dog handlers are included in this cat-
        egory.
            7.3.1.2.1. Outstanding Security Forces Flight Level Senior Noncommissioned Officer
            Award (Master Sergeant and Senior Master Sergeant).
            7.3.1.2.2. Outstanding Security Forces Flight Level Noncommissioned Officer Award
            (Sergeant through Technical Sergeant).
            7.3.1.2.3. Outstanding Security Forces Flight Level Airman Award (Airman through
            Senior Airman).
        7.3.1.3. Outstanding Security Forces Support Staff Award(s) – This includes any support
        function and any AFSC assigned to a Security Forces Unit (administration, information secu-
        rity, operations, combat arms, armory, vehicle support, supply, mobility, etc.).
            7.3.1.3.1. Outstanding Security Forces Support Staff Senior Noncommissioned Officer
            Award (Master Sergeant and Senior Master Sergeant).
            7.3.1.3.2. Outstanding Security Forces Support Staff Noncommissioned Officer Award
            (Sergeant through Technical Sergeant).
            7.3.1.3.3. Outstanding Security Forces Support Staff Airman Award (Airman through
            Senior Airman).
            7.3.1.3.4. Outstanding Security Forces Civilian Employee Award – Must be assigned to
            and working in a security forces unit.
     7.3.2. Higher Headquarters Staff Awards. This category includes MAJCOMs, numbered Air
     Force organizations and other staff, this does not include air staff. Nominations will be forwarded
     to the applicable MAJCOM for competition in their board.
        7.3.2.1. Outstanding Security Forces Higher Headquarters Company Grade Officer Award.
        7.3.2.2. Outstanding Security Forces Higher Headquarters Noncommissioned Officer Award
        (Sergeant through Senior Master Sergeant).
        7.3.2.3. Outstanding Security Forces Civilian Employee Award – Must be assigned to and
        working on a higher headquarters security forces staff).
  7.4. ANG and AFRC Nomination Awards. ANG and AFRC may nominate one individual in each of
  the following categories (other MAJCOMs may submit one Individual mobilization augmentee
  [IMA] per category):
     7.4.1. Outstanding Security Forces Air Reserve Component Company Grade Officer Award (Cap-
     tain, 1st, or 2nd Lieutenant).
4                                              AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001


       7.4.1. (AFRC) Outstanding Fulltime Security Forces Air Reserve Component Company Grade
       Officer Award (Captain, 1st, or 2nd Lieutenant).
       7.4.2. Outstanding Security Forces Air Reserve Component Senior Noncommissioned Officer
       Award (Master Sergeant and Senior Master Sergeant).
       7.4.2. (AFRC) Outstanding Fulltime Security Forces Air Reserve Component Senior Noncom-
       missioned Officer Award (Master Sergeant and Senior Master Sergeant).
       7.4.3. Outstanding Security Forces Air Reserve Component Noncommissioned Officer Award
       (Sergeant through Technical Sergeant).
       7.4.3. (AFRC) Outstanding Fulltime Security Forces Air Reserve Component Noncommissioned
       Officer Award (Sergeant through Technical Sergeant).
       7.4.4. Outstanding Security Forces Air Reserve Component Airman Award (Airman through
       Senior Airman).
       7.4.4. (AFRC) Outstanding Fulltime Security Forces Air Reserve Component Airman Award
       (Airman through Senior Airman).
       7.4.5. Outstanding Security Forces Air Reserve Component Civilian Employee Award - Must be
       assigned to and working in a security forces unit.
       7.4.5. (AFRC) Outstanding Traditional Reserve (TR) Security Forces Air Reserve Component
       Company Grade Officer Award (Captain, 1st, or 2nd Lieutenant).
       7.4.6. (Added-AFRC) Outstanding TR Security Forces Air Reserve Component Senior Noncom-
       missioned Officer Award (Master Sergeant and Senior Master Sergeant).
       7.4.7. (Added-AFRC) Outstanding TR Security Forces Air Reserve Component Noncommis-
       sioned Officer Award (Sergeant through Technical Sergeant).
       7.4.8. (Added-AFRC) Outstanding TR Security Forces Air Reserve Component Airman Award
       (Airman through Senior Airman).
    7.5. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFRC/SF will accept one TR and one fulltime (AGR or ART) nominee as
    stated above from each submitting unit. These unit nominees will then compete in their respective cat-
    egories. Once complete, those selected (TR and Fulltime) will then compete against each other to
    determine who will go forward as the single AFRC nominee in each AF Air Reserve Component
    (ARC) category.

8. Nominating Procedures.
    8.1. Use the format in Attachment 2. Send a full-length color photograph (5” by 7”) without head-
    gear. Put the individual’s rank or grade and full name on a self-adhesive label and place it on the back
    of the photograph.
    8.2. The Colonel Billy Jack Carter Award. Limit the narrative to one single-spaced page of the AF
    Form 1206. Address only the specific acts, contribution, or events in narrative-style writing. Text
    will be narrative format and AF Form 1206 built-in font.
    8.3. Active Duty Units. Send nominations to your MAJCOM. Limit the bullet narrative to one sin-
    gle-spaced page of the AF Form 1206. Text will be AF Form 1206 built-in font. The MAJCOM
AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001                                                             5


   selection boards will select one person in each category and send the nominations to HQ AFSFC/
   SFM.
   8.4. Reserve component units. Follow these guidelines and, after final determinations have been
   made, forward as indicated in paragraphs 8.4.1. or 8.4.2. Limit the narrative to one single-spaced
   page of the AF Form 1206. Text will be AF Form 1206 built-in font.
       8.4.1. ANG units will send nominations through their State Adjutant General to ANG/DOF, 1411
       Jefferson Davis Highway, Suite 4300, Arlington VA 22202-3231.
       8.4.2. AFRC units will send nominations to HQ AFRC/SF, 155 2nd St., Robins AFB GA
       31098-1635.
       8.4.3. ANG/DOF and HQ AFRC/SF will select and send one nomination for each category to HQ
       AFSFC/SFM.
   8.5. Commanders will ensure all nominees meet the standards of appearance, bearing, and behavior.

9. Selection Criteria (other than the Colonel Billy Jack Carter Award):
   9.1. Specific duty achievements - 60 percent.
   9.2. Self-improvement efforts (career oriented) - 20 percent.
   9.3. Meeting established standards of appearance and bearing -10 percent
   9.4. Participation in military and civilian activities - 10 percent.

Section C—Unit Awards Program

10. Purpose. Complements the individual awards program by acknowledging and encouraging a sense
of pride in the unit's performance of duty.

11. Award Categories and Eligibility:
   11.1. Active Duty Large Security Forces Unit. An active duty security forces unit with 200 or more
   authorized people (including administrative and civilian personnel) as of 30 September of the nomina-
   tion year.
   11.2. Active Duty Medium Security Forces Unit. An active duty security forces unit with 115 to 199
   authorized people (including administrative and civilian personnel) as of 30 September of the nomina-
   tion year.
   11.3. Active Duty Small Security Forces Unit. An active duty security forces unit with 114 or fewer
   authorized people (including administrative and civilian personnel) as of 30 September of the nomina-
   tion year.
   11.4. ANG Security Forces Unit. An ANG security forces unit of any size.
   11.5. AFRC Security Forces Unit. An AFRC Category A security forces unit of any size.

12. Nominating Procedures. Each MAJCOM may nominate one active duty large, medium, and small
security forces unit. The ANG and AFRC may nominate two security forces units each. The period of
evaluation is the fiscal year. MAJCOMS may use existing available reports of previously accomplished
6                                               AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001


visits to assist in the evaluation and nomination process. MAJCOMs may not conduct inspections, eval-
uations or assessments of the nominated units for the purpose of enhancing the nominated unit. Limit the
narrative to two single-spaced pages of the AF Form 1206 using the following format:
    12.1. PART I. Identifying data.
    12.2. PART II. Mission description (limit to 10 lines).
    12.3. PART III. Unit accomplishments (give a description of accomplishments and their impact on
    the Air Force, base, military and civilian community in bullet format.)
    12.4. PART IV. Unit members’ accomplishments in bullet format.
    12.5. PART V. Results of higher headquarters inspections, tests, and evaluations (DRUs may enter
    N/A in this section)
    12.6. PART VI. Installation commander endorsement.
    12.7. Text will be built-in AF Form 1206 font.

13. Selection Criteria:
    13.1. Mission performance reflecting a high degree of credit to the Air Force.
    13.2. Unit involvement in base/community service.
    13.3. Individual performance of the unit members who enhanced unit integrity and contributed to the
    overall outstanding work of the unit.
    13.4. Overall rating of satisfactory or better during formal inspections, tests, or any other evaluations
    conducted during the evaluation period.

14. Evaluating Finalists. A HQ USAF/XOF evaluation team will visit the finalists in each category to
evaluate mission performance; appearance, morale, and discipline of unit members; availability and con-
dition of equipment; appearance of facilities; perception of unit by base agencies and commander; and
leadership. The team evaluates, rather than inspects, then reports its findings to the Air Force Director of
Security Forces. Evaluation visits below HQ USAF/XOF level are not authorized.
    14.1. Length of Evaluation Visits. The HQ USAF/XOF evaluation team chief for each category of
    visited units will standardize the amount of time spent with each unit to ensure equal exposure. Nor-
    mally, large unit visits last approximately 3 days; medium unit visits last approximately 2 1/2 days;
    and small unit visits last approximately 2 days. Units will not conduct any social activities with the
    evaluation team prior to the official start of the evaluation or after the official termination.

Section D—Recognizing Award Winners

15. Purpose. Allows the Air Force Director of Security Forces, with the MAJCOM commanders and
chiefs of security forces, to recognize individuals and units for their outstanding accomplishments.

16. Command Recognition. Chiefs of security forces at all command levels must ensure winning units
and individuals receive full recognition. To do this, use base newspapers, commander’s calls, and other
media.
AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001                                                                7


17. Awards Presentations. The MAJCOM and/or individual unit must provide funding for any travel.
   17.1. Individual Awards
      17.1.1. The Air Force Director of Security Forces presents individual awards at the US Air Force
      Security Forces Symposium or similar gathering.
      17.1.2. Individual winners receive an engraved award and are authorized the award of the Air
      Force Recognition Ribbon (lapel pin for civilian) per Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2805, Special
      Trophies and Awards. HQ AFSFC will notify the award winner’s military personnel flight on their
      eligibility via message.
      17.1.3. Spouses of individual winners are authorized to accompany the award winners. Invita-
      tional orders will be prepared in accordance with AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders (PA). These
      orders will be funded using MAJCOM and/or unit funds.
   17.2. Unit Awards:
      17.2.1. The Air Force Director of Security Forces or his representative will present the first-place
      unit awards at appropriate ceremonies.
      17.2.2. Each first-place unit in the five categories will receive a trophy for permanent retention
      and display by the unit.
      17.2.3. The runner-up in each unit category receives an engraved plaque for permanent retention.
      MAJCOM directors of security forces receive the plaques for presentation to the units at appropri-
      ate ceremonies.

18. Other Awards. Julie Y. Cross Memorial Award and Doris R. McCrosson Manager Award.
   18.1. Julie Y. Cross Memorial Award (Federal Women in Law Enforcement). Each MAJCOM may
   nominate one individual female military member, civilian employee, contract employee, or
   host-nation member in any grade. This award honors an outstanding woman in federal law enforce-
   ment. The award is named in memory of U.S. Secret Service Agent Julie Y. Cross, who gave her life
   in the line of duty. The committee's objective is to recognize a woman who has displayed exceptional
   performance and serves as a model for women in the law enforcement profession. Competition for
   the award is open to all full-time women federal law enforcement agents or officers in the federal gov-
   ernment.
   18.2. Doris R. McCrosson Manager Award (Federal Women in Law Enforcement). Each MAJCOM
   may nominate one individual military member, civilian employee, contract employee, or host-nation
   member in any grade. This award recognizes the contributions of a federal manager of either gender
   toward the enhancement and promotion of career opportunities for women in federal law enforce-
   ment. The award is named in memory of Doris R. McCrosson, who served in many roles throughout
   her career, often described as a "scholar, teacher, poet, friend, beloved family member, advocate, advi-
   sor, and leader," in the continued support of women. She was instrumental in the establishment of the
   Interagency Committee on Women in Federal Law Enforcement (ICWIFLE). The competition is
   open to all federal government managers and supervisors having law enforcement responsibilities.
   18.3. Each MAJCOM may submit a nomination for the Julie Y. Cross Memorial Award and the Doris
   R. McCrosson Manager Award to HQ AFSFC/SFM. Specific criteria for the two awards are included
8                                          AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001


    in Attachment 4. One nomination for each award will be selected and forwarded to the Women in
    Federal Law Enforcement Conference for consideration.
    18.4. The Julie Y. Cross Memorial Award and Doris R. McCrosson Manager Award are presented at
    the annual Women in Federal Law Enforcement Conference. Air Force nominees will be recognized
    with the security forces individual winners.

19. Feedback. A feedback worksheet is provided (Attachment 5) for your comments.



                                                RICHARD A. COLEMAN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                Director of Security Forces
AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001                             9


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards
AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSFC—Air Force Security Forces Center
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGRC—ANG Readiness Center
ANGRC/SF—ANGRC, Chief of Security Forces
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRC/SF—AFRC, Chief of Security Forces
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HQ—Headquarters
HQ USAF/XOF—HQ United States Air Force, Director of Security Forces
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
MAJCOM—Major Command
10                                              AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001


                                               Attachment 2

                       NOMINATION FORMAT FOR INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
                                   (USE AF FORM 1206)
                                 (ONE PAGE MAXIMUM)
Use page one of the AF Form 1206 with the following headers.
     a. Duty accomplishments. List specific achievements and when they were accomplished.
     b. Any work in military and civilian community activities.
     c. Meeting standards of appearance and bearing.
     d. Self-improvement efforts (career oriented).
Supplemental Information and Chief Security Forces or Security Forces Unit Commander Nomi-
nation. (Separate page). Include the following data:
     a. Civilian education.
     b. Complete unit address and phone.
     c. Projected assignment--unit address and reporting date.
     d. Unit commander verification (limited to package content verification and quality factor review).
     e. Installation commander concurrence (limited to concur/nonconcur and signature).
MAJCOM/SF, ANG State Adjutant General, and HQ AFRC/SF will forward packages either elec-
tronically or with a single transmittal letter for all packages.
Attachments:
1. Photographs. See paragraph 8.1. Civilians wear the uniform as in AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian
Employees, or clothing appropriate to their duties. If individuals are not available for photographs due to
deployed duty assignment, the package should have an explanation attached.
2. Nomination Packages. Send nomination packages in a portfolio double-pocket folder. You may use
plastic page protectors.
AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001                                                                11


                                               Attachment 3

                         NOMINATION FORMAT FOR UNIT AWARDS
                    (USE UNIT/GROUP LETTERHEAD AND AF FORM 1206)
MEMORANDUM FOR Command Channels
                            HQ AFSFC/SFM
                            IN TURN
FROM:
SUBJECT: US Air Force Security Forces Unit Awards Program for Fiscal Year Ending 30 September
XXXX (identify category of nomination)
Part I. Identifying Data:
  a. Unit Commander.
  b. Complete unit address.
Part II. Unit Mission Description: (limit to 10 lines).
Part III. Unit Accomplishments: Use AF Form 1206 and limit the narrative, which will include Parts
III, IV, and V, to two single-spaced typewritten pages of the AF Form 1206.
  a. Description and impact of mission accomplishments:
     (1) Give a description and list duration of activities.
     (2) Indicate specific highlights.
  b. Description of base/community accomplishments.
Part IV. Unit Members’ Accomplishments:
Part V. Results of Higher Headquarters Inspections, Tests, and Evaluations:
Part VI. Installation Commander Endorsement:
  a. Active Duty Units. Electronic transfer or transmittal letter from MAJCOM commander or vice com-
mander.
  b. Reserve Component Units:
     (1) Electronic transfer or transmittal letter from the ANG State Adjutant General and Director or
Assistant Director, Air National Guard.
     (2) Electronic transfer or transmittal letter from the Commander or Vice Commander, HQ AFRC.
NOTE: Send nomination packages in portfolio double-pocket folders. Use plastic page protectors, if
desired.
12                                            AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001


                                             Attachment 4

                                        AWARDS CRITERIA
                          WOMEN IN FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
                              JULIE Y. CROSS MEMORIAL AWARD
Eligibility: All full - time female law enforcement agents or officers in the Federal government. Each
MAJCOM may submit a nomination for this award, pursuant to the instructions previously described.
Award criteria: Describe exceptional accomplishments in one of the following categories:
1. Displayed an unusual degree of courage, stamina, and a willingness to go above and beyond the call of
duty, resulting in an exceptional heroic achievement in the field of law enforcement. Cite at least one
example within the last 12 months.
2. Sustained a superior level of performance throughout her career. Cite three examples within the last 3
years.
3. Exhibits outstanding leadership qualities, enhances communication, and actively encourages interac-
tion among women in law enforcement. Cite three examples within the last 3 years.
Deadline: Nominations must be received no later than 14 March of each year. Text will be 12- pitch, nar-
rative or bullet format, and Times New Roman font. Mail nominations to:
     HQ AFSFC/SFM
     1720 Patrick St.
     Lackland AFB TX 78236-5516
AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001                                                           13


     FORMAT FOR NOMINATION FOR WOMEN IN FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
                                JULIE Y. CROSS MEMORIAL AWARD
Name of Nominee:
Agency:
Title and Rank:
Business Address:
Business Phone:
Career History:
Accomplishments: Respond to awards criteria #1, #2, or #3 on separate paper. The response should be no
longer than 3 pages and attached to this page.
Signature of Nominating Official:
Title of Nominating Official:
Name of agency official to be notified of final award selection: HQ USAF/XOF
Address: HQ AFSFC/SFM
          1720 Patrick St
          Lackland AFB TX 78236-5516
Telephone: Commercial (210) 671-0881; DSN 473-0881
14                                            AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001


                                    AWARDS CRITERIA
                          WOMEN IN FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
                          DORIS R. McCROSSON MANAGER AWARD
Eligibility: The competition is open to all Federal government managers of both genders and supervisors
having law enforcement responsibilities. Each MAJCOM may submit a nomination for this award, pur-
suant to the instructions previously described.
Award criteria: Describe exceptional accomplishments in one or more of the following categories (cite
specific examples to demonstrate accomplishments):
1. Actively responsive to the problems of breaking system barriers in traditionally restrictive law
enforcement assignments.
2. Consistently enhances promotional opportunities for women in Federal law enforcement.
3. Fosters recruitment efforts directed at increasing the number of women in law enforcement careers.
4. Instrumental in and supportive of developing career aspirations and goals of women in the field of law
enforcement.
Deadline: Nominations must be received no later than 14 March of each year. Text will be 12- pitch, nar-
rative or bullet format, and Times New Roman font. Mail nominations to:
     HQ AFSFC/SFM
     1720 Patrick St
     Lackland AFB TX 78236-5516
AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001                                                         15


          NOMINATION FORMAT FOR WOMEN IN FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
                             DORIS R. McCROSSON MANAGER AWARD
Name of Nominee:
Agency:
Title and Rank:
Business Address:
Business Phone:
Career History:
Accomplishments: Respond to awards criteria on separate paper. The response should be no longer than
three pages and attached to this page.
Signature of Nominating Official:
Title of Nominating Official:
Name of agency official to be notified of final award selection: HQ USAF/XOF
Address: HQ AFSFC/SFO
          1720 Patrick St.
          Lackland AFB TX 78236-5516
Telephone: Commercial (210) 671-0881; DSN 473-0881
16                                               AFI36-2848_AFRCSUP1_INT 28 SEPTEMBER 2001


                                                Attachment 5

                                   FORMAT FOR USERS FEEDBACK
1. Users in the field are highly encouraged to submit comments on this document by removing this page
and sending it to HQ AFSFC. Please fill out the following:
User:______________________________________ Unit: _______________________________

Address: ___________________________________DSN:______________________________
2. Content.
     a. Does the document provide a conceptual framework for the topic?
     b. Is the information provided accurate? What needs to be updated?
     c. Is this instruction consistent with other AF documents?
     d. Can this instruction be better organized for the best understanding of the material presented?
     e. Is the information provided useful? If not, how can it be improved?
3. Writing and appearance. Where does the instruction need revision to make the writing clear and con-
cise? What words would you use?
4. Recommended urgent change(s) (if any)?
5. Other comments:
6. Please mail to HQ AFSFC/SFM, 1720 Patrick St. Lackland AFB TX 78236-5516.
