BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-401
35TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                       35TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                        25 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                       Security

                                                                 INFORMATION SECURITY
                                                                 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.milfor downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 35 FW/IP                                                         Certified by: 35 FW/CV
                                                                 (Colonel Van A. Wimmer, Jr.)
Supersedes:   AFI 31-401_35FWSUP,                                                    Pages: 32
              11 July 2011


This supplement implements AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, and AFI
31-401 PACAF SUP, Information Security Program Management and applies to all assigned,
attached, and staff agencies of the 35th Fighter Wing (35 FW) and all associate and tenant units
serviced by the 35 FW Information Protection Office (35 FW/IP). It is to be used in conjunction
with AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management and AFI 31-601, Industrial Security
Program Management. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/.        Additionally, if the publication generates a
report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports Control Numbers in
accordance with AFI 33-324. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updates Unit Security Manager (USM) appointment memo format (Attachment 10) to include
Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) Manager and deletes requirement for annual January
 2                                              AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


or new commander update for USMs and classified custodians. Clarifies USM clearance and
training requirements. Changes requirement to recommendation for USM to conduct self-
inspection within 30 days of appointment. Deletes local foreign disclosure office designation.
Deletes redundant Chief, Information Protection (CIP) responsibilities. Updates DoD
Information Security Program references to DoDM 5200.01, Volumes 1-4. Allows annual
program review to count toward semi-annual self-inspection requirements and deletes redundant
information. Incorporates wing overdue periodic review policy by authorizing the CIP to
suspend NIPRNET access for overdue security reinvestigations; sets timelines for submitting
questionnaires and outlines waiver process. Deletes redundant information on completing SF-
701, Activity Security Checklist and SF 702, Security Container Checksheet. Incorporates wing
copier/multi-function device policy. Clarifies local procedure and deletes redundant information
on completing SF 700, Security Container Information. Designates reproduction authority to
cleared and trained wing personnel. Provides local link to security education and training
materials. Deletes redundant information on USM training timeline and Security Termination
Statements process. Incorporates HQ PACAF/CV Classified Message Incidents (CMI) and
Security Incidents (SI) Policy. Provides additional references (Attachment 1), classified meeting
checklist (Attachment 14), Classified Equipment Listing format (Attachment 15) and Courier
Authorization template (Attachment 16).
1.3.4.2.4. (Added) . Unit Security Managers (USM) will notify 35 FW/IP when classified
defense contractors are assigned to work within their unit.
1.3.5.1. (Added) . Unit commanders or staff agency chiefs will notify the 35 FW/IP in writing,
using the format in Attachment 10, upon appointment of a new security manager. The primary
unit security manager (USM) must be in the grade of E-5/civilian equivalent or above and
assistant USMs must be in the grade of E-4/civilian equivalent or above, both with at least one-
year retainability. Any organizations unable to meet these appointment requirements must
obtain a waiver from the Chief, Information Protection (CIP). Post a unit-generated visual aid
throughout the unit to identify USM.
1.3.5.1.2. (Added) . Security Managers must possess a clearance equivalent to the highest
level of information held by the unit.
1.3.5.2.1. (Added) . 35 FW/IP will provide training to all security managers.
1.3.5.4. (Added) . Appoint a classified custodian (CS) and at least one alternate to maintain
oversight for each vault, secure room, security container or any section that develops, maintains,
handles or stores classified materials. CS must have current security clearance eligibility at the
same level or higher of the material he/she is appointed over. These individuals should be the
same individuals listed on the SF Form 700, Security Container Information, or have regular
contact with classified information. Use the Appointment Letter in Attachment 10. Note: Unit
commanders should consider Air Expeditionary Force rotation cycles, TDY, training
requirements and other assigned duties when appointing classified custodians. Continuity should
receive serious consideration in selection of classified custodians.
1.3.5.4.1. (Added) . CS training will only be scheduled/conducted upon verification of
appropriate background investigation/clearance level, completion of the DSS courses listed in
Attachment 9 and receipt of new appointment letter.
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                              3


1.3.6.1. (Added) . Set up the Information Security Program within their unit by keeping a
continuity book with the following information: Table of contents, security manager letter of
appointment, training certificates, internal security operating instruction(s), last two semiannual
security self-inspection reports, last four security manager meeting minutes, informational
letters, self-inspection/program review checklist, last two program review reports, current Joint
Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) roster, annual training plan (broken into calendar
quarters), and miscellaneous items.
1.3.6.1.1. (Added) . It is recommended the Primary USM conduct a self-inspection within 30
days of appointment. This self-inspection will be utilized to provide an overview of the unit’s
Information Security program. This self-inspection will not count towards the self-inspection
requirements in AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, sections 1.4.3.1, and
1.4.3.2
1.3.6.2. (Added) . Develop and update a unit security operating instruction (OI). The OI must
be reviewed, at a minimum, every two years. All unit OIs will be routed through 35 FW/IP prior
to unit commander’s signature. Provide signed copies of unit security OIs to the 35 FW/IP.
Review unit securities operating instructions based on implementation date and complete the
memorandum in Attachment 11. Ensure the operating instruction contains, as a minimum, the
following information as it applies to meet your unit’s needs.
1.3.6.2.1. (Added) . Common duties and responsibilities of Primary/Alternate USM
1.3.6.2.2. (Added) . Reporting potential or actual compromise of classified information
1.3.6.2.3. (Added) . Procedures for granting access to classified material
1.3.6.2.4. (Added) . Courier procedures
1.3.6.2.5. (Added) . Safeguarding procedures for classified information
1.3.6.2.6. (Added) . Storage requirements/safes
1.3.6.2.7. (Added) . Care during working hours
1.3.6.2.8. (Added) . End-of-day security checks
1.3.6.2.9. (Added) . Procedures for the destruction of classified material
1.3.6.2.10. (Added) . Reproduction/transmitting of classified material
1.3.6.2.11. (Added) . Marking requirements
1.3.6.2.12. (Added) . Special Access Programs (if applicable)
1.3.6.2.13. (Added) . Classified meeting and conferences
1.3.6.2.14. (Added) . TOP SECRET control account (TSCA) procedures (if applicable)
1.3.6.2.15. (Added) . Procedures for processing security clearances at the unit level
1.3.6.2.16. (Added) . Quarterly listing of the squadron-training program
1.3.6.4. (Added) . Security manager meetings will be held once each quarter. All security
managers from units or staff agencies serviced by the 35 FW/IP and partner units must attend the
quarterly Security Managers’ meeting. If the primary or alternate cannot attend, a suitable unit
representative must attend.
 4                                             AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


1.3.6.10.1. (Added) . When a unit member departs (separates, retires, PCS, PCA, etc.) the
security manager will disown the individual in JPAS. The security manager must also notify the
JPAS account manager, 35 FW/IP, so the base JPAS roster can be updated
1.3.11. (Added) . CS are responsible for ensuring all documentation and automated data
processing (ADP) media under their control, to include courtesy stored material, is properly
marked, stored and safeguarded IAW Executive Order (EO) 12958, as amended, Classified
National Security Information, 25 March 2003; Office of Management and Budget (OMB),
Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO) Directive Number 1, Classified National Security
Information; DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program; AFI 31-401, Information Security
Program Management.
1.4.2. (Added) . Information Security Program Reviews (ISPR) will be conducted on an annual
basis for units that process or store classified on Misawa AB. As a minimum, ISPR consist of
training programs, all security related paperwork and forms, Personnel Security requirements,
reproduction and destruction procedures, and Classification Management procedures. The ISPR
may cover other areas at the discretion of the ISPM. An inspection report will be provided to the
USM via the unit commander detailing the areas inspected and the findings. Unit commanders
or staff agency chiefs must review and coordinate on all inspection reports. Reports will be
maintained in the Security Manager’s continuity book. ISPR will be conducted every 2 years on
activities or units that do not store classified information.
1.4.2.1. (Added) . Inspection reports with findings will require a written reply from the unit
commander addressing all program findings. Units will have 30 calendar days from the date of
the Self Inspection Review Letter to provide a follow-up report. The report must indicate if the
discrepancy has been corrected or a projected date of completion for items that cannot be
sufficiently corrected within 30 days. Turn in follow-up reports to 35 FW/IP and address letters
to the CIP.
1.4.2.2. (Added) . A follow-up ISPR will be conducted within 90 days of the annual
information security program review to ensure corrective actions/measures are taken on noted
discrepancies. If discrepancies are noted during the follow-up ISPR, a formal report from the
ISPM will be sent to the appropriate group commander and the squadron commander. If no
discrepancies are noted during the follow-up ISPR, an informal report from the ISPM will be
forwarded to the squadron commander closing the matter.
1.4.2.3. (Added) . A second follow-up ISPR will be conducted within 30 days of the initial
follow-up ISPR to address corrective measures/actions on noted discrepancies identified during
the initial follow-up ISPR. If discrepancies have not been addressed during this review, a formal
report from the ISPM will be sent to the 35 FW/CV, appropriate group commander and squadron
commander. If no discrepancies are noted during the follow-up review, a formal report from the
ISPM will be forwarded to the group and unit commander closing the matter.
1.4.3. (Added) . Units with classified information will ensure a semi-annual self-inspection is
conducted NLT 6 months after the unit’s annual program review. Include industrial security
contractors in security self-inspections.
1.4.3.1. (Added) . Security managers may not perform self-inspections on their own programs.
The inspecting official will render a written self-inspection report in the format prescribed in
Attachment 12 to the unit commander. Self-inspection reports must be coordinated in writing
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                           5


by the unit commander or staff agency chief. Unit security managers are required to maintain
copies of the last two self-inspection reports. A copy of both the letter appointing the self-
inspection official and the self-inspection report will be forwarded to 35 FW/IP within 10
working days of completion of the inspection.
1.4.3.2. (Added) . Annual ISPRs satisfy the requirement for one of the semiannual security
self-inspections.
1.4.3.3. (Added) . Unit commanders and staff agency chiefs will using the format as prescribed
in Attachment 13 when appointing a self-inspection official. Cross inspections, which permit
one unit security manager to inspect another, are encouraged.
1.7.1. (Added) . SC must track and document, during a consecutive 2-week period each quarter
(Oct-Dec, Jan-Mar, Apr-Jun, and Jul-Sep), the number of new documents derived from classified
material within their unit. USM collect quarterly data and maintain it in the Security Manager
book. Final numbers will be reported to 35 FW/IP NLT 20 Sep of each year.
2.2.3. (Added) . Misawa AB does not have original classification authority.
2.5.1. (Added) . Coordinate all challenges to classification with the Original Classification
Authority (OCA) and 35 FW/IP.
2.5.4. (Added) . If the challenge involves reasonable doubt about level of classification,
safeguard the information at the higher level of classification pending a determination by OCA.
4.1. (Added) . Classified publications to include regulations, guides, plans, and other similar
documents must be coordinated through 35 FW/IP prior to publication. 35 FW/IP coordination
must be reflected in section II of AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request, as
applicable.
4.1.1. (Added) . All classified information or materials, including working papers, will be
marked as specified in DoDM 5200.1, Volume 2, DoD Information Security Program: Marking
of Classified Information
4.1.2. (Added) . Number all classified sets of slides and transparencies sequentially.
4.1.3. (Added) . Mark binders similar to file folders, but with an additional marking on the
spine of the binder. Use classified cover sheets in lieu of marking file folders; ensure a cover
sheet is attached to both the front and back cover of the file folder.
4.8.1. (Added) . SF Forms 706/707/708 will only be utilized to mark ADPE which physically
store information. Any ADPE peripherals which do not store classified information (monitors,
printers (without internal memory), scanners, etc.) will not be marked. Questions concerning the
storage capability of peripherals will be coordinated through 35 CS/IA.
5.2. (Added) . The Chief, Information Protection will suspend access to SIPRNET, NIPRNET
as well as all other classified access for all individuals who fail to submit a reinvestigation
questionnaire prior to the anniversary date. This suspension will be reflected within JPAS and
remain in effect until the investigation is submitted. Waivers must be submitted within 10 duty
days of suspension notification. Once a suspension is placed in effect a waiver request will not
be accepted. Waiver authority for classified access is 35 FW/CV. Waiver authority for
NIPRNET access is delegated to 35 CS/CC. Waiver requests must be routed through 35 FW/IP
and include a statement of reasonable risk. This policy applies to 35 FW and tenant units with
 6                                               AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


access to classified information to include, but not limited to the Misawa NIPERNET and
SIPRNET domains.
5.2.3. (Added) . Misawa personnel will submit their required investigation questionnaire, via
e-QIP, before their applicable anniversary date, up to 60 days in advance. Anniversary dates can
be obtained from unit security managers.
5.2.4. (Added) . Inbound personnel without a valid investigation may be granted NIPRNET
access not to exceed 60 days. This allows for submission of investigation paperwork. Wing
temporary access procedures apply. At no time will SIPRNET access be given until an open
investigation is reflected in JPAS.
5.3.2.1.1. (Added) . Immediately notify 35 FW/IP when a person refuses to sign a SF 312,
Nondisclosure Agreement (NdA); 35 FW/IP will initiate the necessary security incident report
5.5.1.1.1. (Added) . Verify clearance level is equal to or higher than the access level being
granted and the completion of an NdA prescribed by AFI 31-401. Complete by checking JPAS
for all unit members prior to commanders granting access to classified information.
5.5.2.3. (Added) . USMs will be notified of all visits involving access to classified information
within their units. JPAS will be used as the primary source for confirming access eligibility for
DoD civilian and DoD contractor visitors to Misawa AB. When possible, JPAS visit requests
will be sent in advance of a proposed visit. In cases where JPAS cannot be used to confirm
access eligibility, Visit Authorization letters will be used. The visit host remains responsible for
confirming a visitor’s “need-to-know.” All visits by foreign nationals involving classified or
controlled unclassified information are subject to foreign disclosure requirements.
5.8.1.1. (Added) . The unit commander or staff agency chief formally establishes the TSCA by
letter. Maintain this letter with the account, and provide a copy to 35 FW/IP. 35 FW/IP will
provide training for all Top Secret Control Officers (TSCO) NLT 45 days after appointment.
Recurring TSCO training will be conducted by request from the TSCO. TSCO are responsible
for training all personnel within their unit that work directly with Top Secret materials. All
training will be documented with the type of training and date conducted.
5.9. (Added) . Internal controls for safeguarding classified information will cover areas such as
who is authorized access, how to protect classified information when it is outside of the storage
container, and procedures for foreign nationals working within the work area. List all personnel
authorized to access a security container, secure room or vault on an access letter signed by the
unit commander/staff agency chief. Note: The unit commander/staff agency chief is responsible
for the classified in the unit and does not need to be on the access letter.
5.9.1. (Added) . Post signs stating “Please Knock” when classified work is being accomplished
in an area, unless it is a secure storage room or vault. Do not use signs stating, “Classified Work
in Progress Knock before Entering.” This may bring unwanted attention.
5.10.1. (Added) . Ensure there is enough room on all sides of the classified security container
to conduct a visual inspection during the end-of-day security check. Do not store items on top of
the classified security container. The only item to be posted on the side of the classified security
container is the SF 702, Security Container Checksheet.
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                               7


5.10.2. (Added) . On weekends, wing down-days or holidays, the SF 701 will be annotated
with N/A and initialed on the following duty day. The column may be highlighted in lieu of
using N/A.
5.11. (Added) . Only the SECAF and SAF/AA may authorize the removal of Top Secret
information from designated work areas for residential use. All requests for removal of Top
Secret material from designated work areas for this purpose must be routed through 35 FW/IP.
All requests for removing Secret and Confidential material from designated work areas during
non-duty hours for work at home will be submitted through 35 FW/IP. HQ PACAF/IP has final
approval authority. Any approved request must be maintained in the USM’s handbook and
procedures addressing safekeeping, storage, and arrangements to pick up the classified in case of
emergency must be added to the unit OI.
5.12.1. (Added) . The repository for transient classified material (Top Secret, Secret and
Confidential) is the 35th Fighter Wing Command Post (35 FW/CP), building 928.
5.12.1.1. (Added) . If personnel are TDY on an official visit, they may use the above storage
locations or they may store their classified with the agency being visited, provided the agency is
capable of storing classified material to the appropriate level. In the event an individual arrives
with SCI, contact 35 FW/SSR personnel immediately. At no time will SCI material be stored in a
non-SCI approved facility.
5.12.2. (Added) . Secret material stored in a GSA-approved security container placed on a
pallet and in a controlled in-transit area on the flight line during in processing for deployment is
authorized. Owner/user maintains full responsibility until the classified is loaded on the aircraft
or custody is transferred via DD Form 1907, Signature and Tally Record.
5.13.1. (Added) . The official who arranges or convenes a classified meeting or conference
will select facilities that provide adequate security against unauthorized access. The official
must establish entry control and outside perimeter area surveillance by posting personnel from
the sponsoring agency at all exits and windows. Security Forces personnel will not be used for
this function. The sponsoring official explains to each person presenting classified information
the imposed security limitations, level of classified authorized for presentation, clearance, need-
to-know requirements of those in attendance, and the physical security conditions of the facility.
Clearance and need-to-know of those in attendance must be verified prior to admittance using
one of the approved methods in AFI 31-401, paragraph 5.2. The sponsoring official must also
ensure all radios, pagers, phones, personal digital assistants and recording devices are turned off
and removed from the room prior to the start of the briefing.
5.13.2.1. (Added) . The 35 FW Classified Conference/Meeting Checklist Attachment 14 must
be followed when hosting a classified briefing in a room other than one previously cleared for
such meetings. If there becomes a need to utilize a room for these purposes on a regular basis
call 35 FW/IP to properly certify the requested room.
5.14.1. (Added) . In the event an aircraft carrying classified lands unplanned at Misawa AB, 35
FW/IP will be contacted for storage guidance. If the aircraft is transporting Sensitive
Compartmented Information (SCI) or material that cannot be removed from the aircraft, the
Chief, Security Forces (CSF) will provide the level of security requested by the aircraft
commander or senior Defense Courier Service (DCS) representative.
 8                                              AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


5.15. (Added) . An Automated Information System (AIS) used to process classified
information must have a completed accreditation package and operating instruction. Mark the
AIS with the highest classification level of the information processed. Standard Forms 706 –
712 are used for the purpose of marking AIS. Contact 35 CS/SCXI for information on certifying
and accrediting computers.
5.15.1. (Added) . Unit information managers approve equipment and issue procedures for
clearing copier equipment of latent images. Security managers are responsible for approval,
control, and development of copying procedures for each copier within their unit. Post
appropriate visual aids on all copiers and fax machines. All reproduction of classified must be
kept to a minimum and is only authorized to meet mission requirements. Copiers must be kept in
a secure location. At times some copiers may be connected to the base LAN (NIPRNET). This
excludes these copiers from at any time being used to reproduce classified material. All
personnel must be aware that sending classified material over a secure fax constitutes
reproduction. Most facsimile machines possess a copy function and can act as a copier.
5.15.1.1. (Added) . All machines used for classified reproduction must be purchased by the
requesting unit absent any type of information storage device (e.g. hard drive). At no time will a
leased copier be used for classified reproduction.
5.15.1.2. (Added) . Preference should be given to leasing/purchasing copiers without a
memory device for unclassified copying. Regardless of acquisition method, units are responsible
to ensure any memory devices do not leave government custody. Memory devices may be
submitted to the 35 FW/IP Office for destruction.
5.15.2. (Added) . All Media (i.e., diskettes, compact discs, and removable hard disk drives)
used in an accredited classified AIS must be marked with the highest classification stored on the
media. Standard Forms 706 – 712 are used for the purpose of marking media.
5.15.2.1. (Added) . Unit commander or staff agency chief will establish procedures for use and
storage of classified network equipment. The Tactical Local Area Network Encrypt (TACLANE)
or cabinet must stay in the original location as reported in Emissions Security assessment
(EMSEC). Procedures must be reviewed and a physical security survey must be accomplished
by the ISPM. This is normally accomplished along with the EMSEC inspection.
5.17. (Added) . Security Managers will maintain a list of all containers/vaults/SIPR lock boxes
used for classified storage assigned to their unit and forward a copy to 35 FW/IP. Annual
reviews of unit security containers/vaults will be conducted each July. Use the 35 FW Classified
Equipment Listing Format in Attachment 15.
5.17.1. (Added) . Notify 35 CES Locksmith via 35 CES Work Order Desk to inspect and verify
the integrity of security containers missing GSA labels.
5.17.5. (Added) . The AFTO Form 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment,
prescribed by AFI 31-401, will be affixed on the inside of the locking drawer or in the top
drawer of a multiple lock container.
5.18.2. (Added) . The 35 FW/CC has delegated authority to certify/decertify vaults, secure
storage rooms, and bulk storage areas of classified information to the ISPM. NOTE: This does
not include the authority to certify/decertify Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities
(SCIF).
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                               9


5.18.2.1. (Added) . Organizations will notify the 35 FW/IP, in writing of all vault, secure room
and bulk storage area requirements. The written request must contain the need for the vault,
secure room or bulk storage area, building number and room number. A layout of the facility
will be submitted along with the request package. Vaults and secure rooms will not be approved
for convenience. 35 FW/IP and 35 Civil Engineer Squadron (35 CES) personnel will inspect all
new and modified vault/secure room to ensure security requirements and construction standards
are met IAW DoDM 5200.1 Volume 3. Results of the inspection will be documented in writing.
The ISPM approves, in writing, the use of secure room and vaults to store classified information.
The requesting organization maintains the original approved package and displays the certificate
on the inside back of vault/secure room door.
5.18.2.2. (Added) . Determination of approval for vaults and secure storage rooms will be
based upon a physical construction evaluation conducted by 35 CES and an evaluation of the
supplemental protection methods conducted by 35 FW/IP. The ISPM and 35 CES must recertify
the structural integrity of vaults and secure rooms, even if they were previously built to standards
prior to utilization. Proposed structural modifications made to vaults/secure rooms must be
coordinated with the ISPM and Civil Engineer. The ISPM and 35 CES must recertify in writing
the structural integrity of vaults and secure rooms that have been modified. The ISPM must re-
approve in writing the use of these rooms and vaults to store classified information.
5.18.2.3. (Added) . The requesting organization must develop and maintain a written plan or
operating instruction outlining procedures for providing protection and positive entry control to
the vault or secure room.
5.18.2.4. (Added) . Organizations must notify the ISPM in writing when a vault or secure room
is no longer needed.
5.18.3. (Added) . During periods of Intrusion Detection System (IDS) malfunction, owner/user
must relocate classified materials to a suitable temporary storage area (safe, vault, or secure
room) or provide continuous physical surveillance of the unprotected area until the alarm system
is repaired.
5.21.2. (Added) . List unit personnel possessing the combination to a security container, vault,
or secure room, on SF 700, Security Container Information. A continuation sheet may be used,
but it must contain all the information required on SF 700. A master list of all unit safes needs to
be kept in the unit continuity book and a copy will be forwarded to 35 FW/IP. Units are highly
encouraged to permanently mark each security container, using an engraving tool, with the unit
and security container number. Place the marking on either the top-front or left/right side-front of
the security container. The purpose of this marking is to be able to positively identify security
containers in the event of a disaster (e.g. fire, or other natural disasters, etc.).
5.22.1. (Added) . Notify 35 CES Locksmith via 35 CES Work Order Desk for security
container lockouts and repairs. Although a locksmith may have a security clearance, they will
not be allowed access to classified materials while performing repair or maintenance on security
containers. Whenever a locksmith is performing any type of repair or maintenance on a classified
container, the locksmith will be under constant surveillance by the container custodian or other
authorized representative. Whenever possible, remove all classified from the security container
before a locksmith performs repair or maintenance. Japanese National locksmiths may be used
to perform repair or maintenance. In this case, remove all classified material from the container
 10                                             AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


before the work is performed. At no time will a local Japanese National locksmith be allowed
access to classified information.
5.23. (Added) . The custodian responsible for the security container, vault, or secure storage
room will be listed first on the SF 700. Serviceability, preventive maintenance inspections, and
contents of the security container vault, or secure storage room are the responsibility of the
custodian. Preventive maintenance inspections (PMI) may be requested through 35 CES Work
Order Desk. PMI are good for 5 years for security containers and for 2 years on vaults or secure
storage areas.     Record PMI on AFTO IMT 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type
Equipment. The custodian must maintain an inventory of all classified documents, equipment,
and material in the security container, vault, or secure storage room. The inventory listing will
be unclassified and maintained within the security container, vault, or secure room. Reset the
combinations on all classified security containers to 50-25-50 before turn-in. Classified
combinations need to be changed whenever an individual knowing the password no longer needs
access, when the combination has been subject to compromise, when taken out of service or
when placed in service. Combinations will be changed at a minimum of bi-annually.
5.24.3.2.1. (Added) . Post a letter of designated reproduction authorities near reproduction
equipment. Supply 35 FW/IP with a copy of the letter designating personnel authorized to
reproduce classified information.
5.24.4. (Added) . Two appropriately cleared individuals will be present when reproducing
classified material. The reproduction area should be secured at all times. Only designated
reproduction equipment will be used.
5.24.5. (Added) . Rules for reproduction must be posted on or near the equipment. Any
equipment not cleared for reproducing classified material must have a notice prohibiting
reproduction. All copies of classified material must be marked and controlled in the same
manner as the original.
5.25. (Added) Reproduction authority may be exercised by any cleared individual assigned to
the 35th Fighter Wing who has received initial indoctrination training and is current for annual
Information Security refresher training. Reproduction will be limited to the minimum required
for operational needs.
5.25.1. (Added) . Reproduction equipment will be inspected at the close of each workday to
ensure no classified material remains in or near it. Facilities, which operate on a 24-hour basis,
will make a check of the equipment once every 24 hours. Annotate these checks on the SF 701.
5.25.2. (Added) . Unit commanders/staff agency chiefs will designate, in writing, the specific
locations and limitations of all classified reproductive equipment assigned. Signs and/or letters
must be placed in a conspicuous location near the equipment for personnel reference.
5.28. (Added) . During the annual clean-out day, each piece of classified material will be
reviewed and the determination to retain or destroy will be made. All classified messages that
are to be retained will be marked with date and initials in the top right corner. Check with the 35
FW History Office before destroying information which may be of historical value. Directorates,
units and staff agencies are encouraged to continuously audit classified holdings throughout the
year and destroy as necessary. Results of the classified records clean out day will be provided to
35 FW/IP annually no later than 5 February of the current year.
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                               11


5.28.1. (Added) . All shredders/disintegrators used to destroy classified material must be
certified by the ISPM. Send all memorandums requesting certification to 35 FW/IP.
Conspicuously post the destruction equipment certification memorandum and a unit-generated
visual aid annotating that the equipment is approved for classified destruction. Re-certification is
required upon relocation of the equipment, major repair or replacement of blades/cutting devices.
Always use a “secure volume” when shredding classified. This is accomplished by shredding
unclassified material having the same characteristics as the classified (i.e., color, texture, etc.)
along with classified materials.
5.28.2.4. (Added) . Removable computer media such as floppy disks or classified hard drives
must be santized using appropriate computer software. This software must meet the criteria of
AFSSI 5020, Remanence Security, Chapters 4 through 8. For authorized software, contact your
Unit Information Assurance Officer (IAO). Should physical destruction of computer media be
appropriate, refer to AFI 31-401 and AFI 31-401/PACAFSUP1
5.28.3. (Added) . The 35 CS Operations manages the central emergency destruction facility for
the base, located in building 1760, which houses a disintegrator (mechanical pulverizer). For
routine use and training, contact 35 CS at 226-9757.
5.29. (Added) . Each unit/staff agency maintaining classified materials is responsible for
developing emergency protection, removal, and destruction procedures in the event of an
emergency. Develop procedures by addressing what actions the unit/staff agency will initiate in
the case of fire, natural disaster, civil disturbance, terrorist activity, and enemy action. Use
Attachment 8 as a guide. The plan should be directive in nature and leave no doubt as to what
actions should be performed. The plan should be exercised routinely to test procedures, and
materials should be on-hand to complete the destruction/removal process (boxes, brown nylon
filament tape, permanent markers, shredders, sledge hammers, barbeque grills, trash cans, lighter
fluid, etc.). Post a copy of the plan at each security container (safe, vault, and secure room) for
which the unit/staff are responsible.
6.3.2.6. (Added) . Only individuals with US security clearances are authorized to receipt for US
Registered Mail. All registered mail must be protected as “classified” information until opened.
6.4.1. (Added) . Establish written procedures detailing the handling procedures of registered,
certified, and first class mail. Protect all registered, certified, and first class (marked “Return
Service Requested”) mail addressed to DoD organizations and approved cleared contractor
facilities on base as classified until determined unclassified.
6.6.4. (Added) . Misawa AB personnel will not enter classified materials into the Base
Information Transfer Center (BITC) mobile service. Hand-carry the classified material to the 35
CS Official Mail Section, Bldg 519, DSN 226-9328, for further processing.
6.6.5. (Added) . When classified material is hand-carried on base (outside an activity), a
briefcase or comparable item may serve as the outer wrapper. The inner envelope will be
marked with the classification of the information, to include the unit address.
6.7.1. (Added) . All personnel going TDY that are required to carry classified material must
have the following statement included in block 16, remarks section of DD Form 1610, Request
and Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel, “Travelers are authorized to carry
classified material”. All personnel must receive a unit briefing if they are required to transport or
disclose classified material. The briefing must include emergency procedures and security
 12                                              AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


practices while in possession of the classified material. Also, USMs will coordinate and sign all
TDY orders for those individuals requesting authorization to transport classified off the
installation.
6.7.3.1.1. (Added) . Classified material being hand carried by a courier must be inventoried; the
courier’s security manager shall retain a copy of the inventory and the courier shall carry a copy.
Do not open, display or otherwise use in public places.
6.7.3.2.1. (Added) . Upon return, the courier must return all classified material or produce a
receipt signed by the security officer for any material not returned.
6.7.3.2.2. (Added) . The classified material must be prepared in such a manner as to not arouse
suspicion.
6.8. (Added) . Supervisor verbal authorization is required prior to individual hand-carrying
classified information to activities on the installation. Use a local courier authorization
designation letter (for on-base use only)-Attachment 16, signed by the unit commander, staff
agency chief, or security manager when hand-carrying classified materials and entering entry
control points on the installation where the materials are subject to search (e.g., controlled areas,
restricted areas, facility entry points during increased Force Protection Conditions, etc.). The
courier authorization designation letter replaces the DD Form 2501, Courier Authorization, and
is valid for one year or when authorizing officials and couriers change (e.g., PCS, PCA, change
positions, etc.). The letter exempts classified materials being hand-carried from examination.
All personnel transporting classified material off the installation must have a completed DD
Form 2501, Courier Authorization (Accountable) and courier authorization letter signed by the
unit commander/staff agency chief.           When hand carrying classified information over
international borders, the courier must have identification and an authorization letter meeting the
requirements of DODM 5200.1, Volume 3, The authorization letter will be written in English
and if possible, in the language of the countries through which the courier is traveling. Verify
courier requirements prior to departure with the DOD 4500.54-G, Department of Defense
Foreign Clearance Guide.
6.8.1. (Added) . Security managers must keep a record of all issued and non-issued DD Forms
2501.
6.8.1.1. (Added) . When emergency situations occur during local operational readiness
exercises, real world contingencies, or increased Force Protection Conditions (e.g., relocation of
wing, group, or unit control centers, etc.), individuals do not need to be in possession of a local
courier authorization designation letter when transporting or relocating classified information.
6.8.2. (Added) . Individuals will be briefed on procedures for hand carrying classified material
upon initial issue of a DD Form 2501. The USM will maintain a record of initial briefings and
recurring training. Refresher training will be conducted each time the user hand-carries
classified (refresher training does not need to be documented).
8.1. (Added) . Unit commanders/staff agency chiefs must have active security education
programs. As a minimum, this will include developing a local annual training plan to ensure all
assigned personnel are effectively trained. The use of a “read-and-initial” method of training to
satisfy the security education and training requirement is not recognized as an effective
procedure. The use of the AF Cleared/Uncleared Standardized Lesson Plans are highly
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                             13


recommended. Training materials are available on the 35 FW/IP Sharepoint site at:
https://misawa.eim.pacaf.af.mil/35FW/35FW-IP/default.aspx
8.3.6.6. (Added) . Security managers must maintain Continuing Security Education/Refresher
Training documentation in their Security Manager book.
8.9.1. (Added) . Unit commanders/staff agency chiefs must have active indoctrination and
recurring training programs outlining responsibilities for security managers and supervisors. This
may be accomplished through inclusion in the unit OI but checklists may be used. The plan is
designed to discourage use of the “read and initial” method as the only way to conduct security
education and training. It is also designed to meet security education requirements that equal the
needs of unit members as well as the unit/staff agency. Consider Communication Security,
Physical Security, Personnel Security, Computer Security, Operations Security, Classification
Management, Information Security, etc. Establish a local annual training plan (by calendar
quarters) to ensure effective training of all assigned personnel. Develop training goals which are
commensurate with the needs of the personnel and unit mission.
9.1.2 (Added) Commanders/staff agency chiefs will appoint inquiry officials within 1 duty
day of notification of a security incident. The inquiry official can be any commissioned officer
or senior non-commissioned officer, but must be higher in grade than the person(s) involved in
the incident. The inquiry official must not be within the chain of command of any individual
involved or any individual that would give the perception of bias (e.g. friend of an individual
involved). USM must contact 35 FW/IP for assigned incident number.
9.1.2.1. (Added) Inquiry officials must complete the preliminary inquiry and forward results to
35 FW/IP, within 14 duty days of the reported incident. Requests for extensions must be in
writing from the unit commander/staff agency chief and forwarded for approval to the CIP.
9.8.1. (Added) . The 35 FW/IP must be notified within 24 hours of discovery, DSN: 226-2243.
All inquiry officials will contact 35 FW/IP to set up a briefing within 24 hours after appointment.
35 FW/IP will assign a case number for each security incident. Commander-directed
investigations and inquiries do not take the place of preliminary inquiries for security incidents
and classified message incidents.
9.8.1.1. (Added) . After duty hours between 1631 to 0659 hours contact the Misawa Base
Defense Operations Center (BDOC) at DSN extension 226-4600 or 4358.
9.8.1.2. (Added) . Immediately secure unsecured/unattended classified material by maintaining
personal control, cover the material to avoid potential compromise and make contact with the
unit commander, security manager, safe custodian or 35 FW/IP or proceed to Bldg 648, BDOC
and contact the on-duty SF Controller.
9.8.1.3. (Added) . Take the following immediate action if a suspected security incident
involving AIS has taken place:
9.8.1.3.1. (Added) . Disconnect LAN access to the component.
9.8.1.3.2. (Added) . Lock the computer system down under current user login


(Note: Do not shut down or unplug the power to the computer.)
 14                                             AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


9.8.1.3.3. (Added) . Contact anyone listed in paragraph 9.8.1. or 9.8.1.1. as applicable.
9.8.1.4. (Added) . At any time the 35 CS receives notification of a suspected security incident
involving AIS, they will immediately notify FW/IP of the incident prior to sanitizing any AIS
hardware or software to safeguard against the loss of potential evidence.
9.9.1.3. (Added) . The inquiry/investigative official must receive a briefing from 35 FW/IP and
35 FW/JA prior to initiating the inquiry/investigation.
9.9.2.1. (Added) . Contact the USM to verify, through JPAS, all personnel related/involved in
the inquiry have the appropriate security clearance eligibility.
9.12.1. (Added) . 35 FW/IP will route completed preliminary and formal security incident
reports to the 35th Wing Staff Judge Advocate for legal review before forwarding to the
appointing authority for corrective action and closure.
9.12.1.2. (Added) . The inquiry/investigative official coordinates draft reports with 35 FW/IP
for a technical review, before finalizing the report.
9.12.1.3. (Added) .    Classified Messaging Incidents (CMI)/Security Incidents (SI) are
designated Commander Interest Items. Recommend CMI/SI avoidance and security procedures
are emphasized periodically at Commander’s Calls, staff meetings, etc.
9.12.1.4. (Added) . Units will incorporate completion of the CMI Checklist with biannual
security inspections. Results will be submitted to the 35 FW/IP Office via official memorandum
for consolidation and submission to PACAF/IP. The Checklist is located on the 35 FW/IP
Sharepoint page. https://misawa.eim.pacaf.af.mil/35FW/35FW-IP/default.aspx
9.12.1.5. (Added) . Commanders will include the Final Report for Security Incident
Memorandum in place of the Incident Closure Letter when closing an incident. A template is
located on the 35 FW/IP Sharepoint page. https://misawa.eim.pacaf.af.mil/35FW/35FW-
IP/default.aspx
9.12.4.1. (Added) . A written request for inquiry completion date extension must be endorsed
by the Appointment Official and will only be approved by the 35 FW/CV or ISPM.


Note: The extension date will not exceed ten calendar days from the original inquiry completion
date.




                                       MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                       Commander
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                   15


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 Nov 2005
AFI 31-401_PACAFSUP, Information Security Program Management, 18 Feb 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 33-324. The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information collections, 1 Jun 2000
Prescribed Forms
No forms Prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
 16                                              AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                     Attachment 8 (Added)
  EMERGENCY PROTECTION, REMOVAL, AND DESTRUCTION OF CLASSIFIED
                         MATERIAL PLAN

A8.1. Reference. DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, paragraph 6.3.4
A8.2. General
A8.2.1. Situation. All classified material will be assigned a priority by its level of potential
damage to national security should it fall into unauthorized hands. The following guidelines will
be used when assigning emergency priorities:
A8.2.1.1. Priority One. Information or material where unauthorized disclosure could
reasonably be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to national security (this includes
top secret material and all classification levels of Critical Nuclear Weapon Design Information
(CNWDI).
A8.2.1.2. Priority Two. Information or material where unauthorized disclosure could
reasonably be expected to cause serious damage to national security (this is all secret information
with the exception of CNWDI).
A8.2.1.3. Priority Three. Information or material where the unauthorized disclosure could
reasonably be expected to cause damage to national security (this includes all confidential
material).
A8.3. Mission. A checklist detailing actions to be taken under this plan will be devised and
posted in each vault, secure storage room, office, or other structure where classified material is
routinely stored. SCIFs and material/equipment related to COMSEC are not to be included
under this plan. These materials are covered under separate guidelines.
A8.4. Limiting Factors
A8.4.1. There are insufficient designated classified material destruction devices to accomplish
complete destruction of all classified material in situations where immediate destruction is
necessary. In such situations, burning, mutilation and/or using any available means will be used
to accomplish timely destruction of material.
A8.4.2. Aircraft may not be available to support emergency evacuation of classified holdings.
A8.4.3. The 35 FW Central Destruction Facility is not equipped with back-up power.
A8.4.4. The 35 FW/CP will implement this attachment or portions thereof by order of the
Installation Commander or higher authority as advised by the CIP and the Senior Intelligence
Officer (SIO). Upon issuance of such orders, all units/wing staff agencies and applicable tenant
units will be notified from the Wing Operations Center (WOC). The particular operation, which
is to be employed, will depend upon the amount of notification received or the gravity of the
local situation. Notification will be through unit/agencies Survival Recovery Center (SRC)
representative (if formed) or base public address system. Appropriate guidelines will be issued
from the WOC or SRC at the time of implementation. Should the senior individual in an
assigned space containing classified material determine a sufficient threat exists to initiate any of
the emergency procedures outlined in this plan, he or she may do so without additional authority
and may deviate from the provisions of this plan and unit operation instructions or checklists.
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                              17


A8.5. Concept of Operations
A8.5.1. Phase I, Emergency Protection Procedures. Situations such as fire, bomb threats, or
terrorist attacks will normally occur without warning. Because of this, Phase I procedures may
be initiated by the senior individual present in any area that maintains/stores classified material.
A8.5.1.2. All classified material will be secured in approved security containers, if time and
personnel safety permits. If there is doubt regarding personnel safety, classified material will be
left unsecured in the work area to effect evacuation of the facility.
A8.5.1.3. As soon as possible before or after the evacuation, facility personnel will notify all
appropriate agencies (fire department, security forces, etc.). Security forces will not be used to
guard classified material of agencies other than the security forces squadron.
A8.5.1.4. In instances where classified material was left unsecured or there is doubt about the
security of the classified material within a facility, custodians will ensure immediate placement
of authorized personnel around the affected area.
A8.5.1.5. Once the affected area has been declared safe to enter, classified material custodians
will conduct a search of the area to recover all classified material left outside of containers and
confirm all classified material against their inventory. Entry to the affected area will be
controlled until all unsecured classified material has been recovered and all damaged security
containers have been inspected to ensure the integrity of the locking mechanism has been
maintained. This inspection is to be conducted by the custodian of the container.
A8.5.2. Incidents of civil disorder. Prepare to initiate Phase II procedures should the situation
warrant. Threats (more than 72 hours notice) of serious incidents of civil disturbance or upon
threat of enemy action. The following will apply:
A8.5.2.1. All classified material not absolutely essential for mission accomplishment will be
destroyed or evacuated to a safer location. Each activity with classified holdings will separate
classified material from unclassified material, then separate the classified material by priority
and identify that material which will be evacuated or retained. Agency emergency action team
members will accomplish the following:
A8.5.2.2. Place materials to be evacuated in the appropriate evacuation containers. Each
container will be pre-marked with the organization and office symbol. Include a listing of the
contents in each container, seal, and annotate with the highest priority of material contained
within the container. A copy of the contents listing must be retained by the unit and one
available for person(s) designated as an escort.
A8.5.2.3. Each organization will move the sealed container(s) to the staging area at Traffic
Management Office (TMO), Cargo Movements section, building 1334. Each organization will
load their classified material containers in tri-wall shipping containers as directed by TMO
personnel.
A8.5.2.4. Classified material will be sent out on the first available aircraft.
A8.5.3. Prepare for implementation of Phase III.
A8.5.3.1. Phase III, Emergency Destruction of Classified Holdings. This plan will be executed
upon determination that the installation has been overrun or when potential loss to an attacking
enemy is imminent. There are two options under this phase. Option 1 is designed to deal with
 18                                              AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


emergency destruction of the entire wing’s classified holdings with less than 72 hours’ notice.
Option 2 is designed to deal with emergency destruction of the wing’s entire classified holdings
with more than 72 hours’ notification. The following will apply for each option:
A8.5.3.1.1. Option 1:
A8.5.3.1.1.1. Time permitting, all material will be separated by priority. Classified material will
then be destroyed by priority. Priority I material will be destroyed first, then priority II, and
priority III last. Activities sharing destruction facilities with other agencies will relinquish the
destruction facility should an activity with higher priority material arrive.
A8.5.3.1.1.2. If enough time is given (24 hours or more), each unit holding classified material
will start a phased reduction of their classified holdings. Classified material needed to perform
wartime operations may be destroyed last.
A8.5.3.1.1.3. All units storing classified material will maintain their own capability to destroy
classified material under this option (i.e., shredders, pulverizers, trashcans, etc.). Equipment
requiring electricity to operate will need a back-up method in case of a power failure. Safety
equipment such as goggles, fire extinguishers, pokers, etc., will be prepositioned and available
for immediate use for those units that will be burning their holdings.
A8.5.3.1.1.4. Under this option, destruction records for Priority I material will be completed if
time permits.
A8.5.3.1.1.5. If immediate destruction of classified material is required to be completed to
prevent the material from being captured (compromised), use any container, security container,
file drawer, or bathroom facility to destroy material. If necessary, the material will be burned on
the floor or otherwise mutilated and pieces scattered to prevent easy recognition of its contents.
A8.5.3.1.2. Option 2:
A8.5.3.1.2.1. Upon implementation, 35 CS opens the central emergency destruction facility,
building 1078W. Units should immediately contact the CS Unit Control Center (UCC) to
schedule destruction times. This precludes overtaxing the facility and maintains continuous use.
Units are scheduled by the priority of their material as defined in this supplement. Units will
escort the material, provide destruction official (and witness), and will complete and maintain
destruction records (if necessary). Units may not leave material at the facility without an escort.
The wing’s central destruction facility is not equipped with backup power.
A8.5.3.1.2.2. All units will start a phased reduction of classified holdings. They will start with
classified waste, then by priority, starting with Priority I, II, and III.
A8.5.3.1.2.3. Classified material that is essential for wartime operations may be used for
completion of mission-essential taskings. This material will be kept to an absolute minimum and
an immediate destruction capability will be required for this material. As the threat increases, or
upon determination that less than 72 hours exists from the time of expected hostilities, the
provisions of Option 1 will apply. Notification of this increased threat will be through the same
channels as notification of other portions of this plan. Units maintaining mission-essential
classified material under this provision must notify their SRC representative or the Command
Post.
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                            19


A8.6. Taskings
A8.6.1. 35 FW/IP will maintain this plan in accordance with applicable directives.
A8.6.2. 35 CS provides general facility management of the central emergency destruction
facility.
A8.6.3. 35 FW/CP will ensure procedures are established to contact key personnel and required
agencies as outlined in this supplement.
A8.6.4. 35 LRS will coordinate all airlift requests for implementation of Phase II procedures. 35
LRS will be the primary agency responsible for submitting airlift request for implementation of
Phase II procedures (if aircraft are not already available).
A8.6.5. 35 LRS will be responsible for transporting all classified material from building 1334 to
building 944, Air Freight Terminal.
A8.6.6. AMC Contractors will provide personnel to palletize classified material evacuation
containers (during high threat, low activity periods) during Phase II of this plan. The base
manpower pool will augment AMC personnel, if required, to palletize classified material.
A8.6.7. 35 CES will provide facility maintenance for the central emergency destruction facility,
including routine and emergency maintenance of the SEM destruction facility.
A8.6.8. Each unit will designate a sufficient number of appropriately cleared personnel to act as
escorts for classified material selected for evacuation.
A8.6.9. All units storing classified material will procure sufficient quantities of destruction
devices (shredders, 55-gallon drums, etc.) to ensure destruction of all classified material during
short-notice emergency destruction situations.
A8.7. Coordinating Instructions. Each unit/staff agency storing classified material will
comply with the following requirements:
A8.7.1. Assign classified material a priority as outlined in paragraph A1.2.1 of this supplement.
Such assignment will be reflected by placing the appropriate priority symbol on the inside of
each container drawer (vault or secure storage room door) where it’s immediately visible upon
opening the storage container, vault, or secure storage room. AFVA 14-305 – 307 is available
for this purpose.
A8.7.2. Develop in-depth checklists for implementing the requirements of this supplement as
they apply to the unit. These checklists will include as a minimum:
A8.7.2.1. Encourage a continuing effort to reduce classified holdings to the minimum for
efficient operation and effective mission accomplishment. When possible, units should consider
maintaining some classified holdings in a more secure environment and/or transcribe material to
microfilm.
A8.7.2.2. Methods of transporting classified material to the evacuation staging area and
destruction area(s)/facilities, if appropriate.
A8.7.2.3. Placement of predesignated containers to be used in transporting classified material to
the destruction site(s) or for use in emergency evacuation.
 20                                             AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


A8.7.2.4. Identify the primary destruction facility/area for emergency destruction under each
option of this plan. Also specify what method of destruction will be used should the primary
device not be available. Include a backup method of destruction for devices that may become
non-operational due to power failures.
A8.7.2.5. Designate emergency action team members by position to accomplish the
requirements of the plan. Team members are the individuals designated to carry out tasks under
this supplement and the unit’s operating instructions. USMs will train team members on the
following:
A8.7.2.5.1. Protection procedures required under Phase I.
A8.7.2.5.2. Designated facilities and methods of destruction under options 1 & 2.
A8.7.2.5.3. Preparation of material for destruction or evacuation, as specified in this supplement.
A8.7.2.5.4. Procedures for evacuation of classified material, if necessary.
A8.6.7.5.5. Operation of specialized destruction devices, if any are to be used.
A8.7.6. Ensure procedures are formulated for mutilating or otherwise rendering classified
equipment, munitions, or components unrecognizable when required. Additionally, ensure the
necessary equipment to effect this mutilation is on hand.
A8.7.7. Maintain sufficient containers, packages, etc. to execute Phase II of this plan.
Containers will be premarked with the organization and office symbol and of sufficient strength
to withstand handling required during air evacuation.
A8.7.8. Ensure all assigned personnel who have access to or routinely handle classified material
have a basic working knowledge of this supplement and the unit’s operation instructions or
checklists.
A8.7.9. Test these procedures and unit/staff agency operating instructions or checklists annually
and record the exercise results. Attach the results to the next SSI report.
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                  21


                                   Attachment 9 (Added)
  UNIT SECURITY MANAGER/CLASSIFIED CUSTODIAN REQUIRED TRAINING

A9.1. (Added) Instructions for Receiving Certification
A9.1.1. (Added)     Log onto: http://www.dss.mil/seta/enrol/stepp.html
A9.1.2. (Added) Create a STEPP Account
A9.1.3. (Added) On the Welcome Page: click on Search Catalog
A9.2. (Added) Required Unit Security Manager Training
A9.2.1. (Added) Complete the following mandatory courses:
A9.2.1.1. (Added)    Introduction to Personnel Security Management
A9.2.1.2. (Added) JCAVS/JPAS Training for Security Professionals
A9.2.1.3. (Added) Basic Information Security Independent Study
A9.3. (Added) Required Classified Custodian Training
A9.3.1. (Added) Complete the following mandatory courses:
A9.3.1.1. (Added) Marking Classified Material
A9.3.1.2. (Added) Basic Information Security Independent Study
A9.3.2. (Added) Highly Suggested Coursework:
A9.3.3. (Added) Protecting Secret and Confidential Documents (Independent Study) (pg 2 –
2nd Distributed Learning Correspondence Courses Folder)
 22                                            AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                   Attachment 10 (Added)
            SECURITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT LETTER TEMPLATE

Figure A10.1. Security Manager Appointment Letter Template

                              APPROPRIATE LETTERHEAD


MEMORANDUM FOR 35 FW/IP                                                                 DATE

FROM: (APPOINTING AUTHORITY ORGN/OFFICE SYMBOL)

SUBJECT: Security Manager Appointment Letter

1. The following individuals are appointed Unit Security Managers for the (enter your unit
designation, i.e., 35 SFS):
POSITION            NAME/RANK            ORGN/OFF SYM          PHONE            DEROS
PRIMARY
ALTERNATE
2. The following individuals are authorized to receipt for and review Air Force Central
Adjudication Facility (AFCAF) generated suitability determinations and/or unit commander
generated Security Information Files (SIF).
POSITION          NAME/RANK               ORGN/OFF SYM    PHONE         DEROS
(Enter only Commander, Commander’s Deputy, Commander’s Executive Officer, Unit’s First
Sergeant and the primary and alternate security managers)


3. The following individuals are required to use the JCAVS system in the performance of their
official duties. All personnel meet security requirements necessary for access to the system.
POSITION          NAME/RANK              ORGN/OFF SYM             PHONE         DEROS

4. The following individuals are appointed to manage and oversee all Controlled Unclassified
Information (CUI) for the unit.
POSITION          NAME/RANK              ORGN/OFF SYM             PHONE         DEROS

5. This letter supersedes letter dated XX XXX XX, same subject.



                                                   COMMANDER’S SIGNATURE BLOCK
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                             23


                                   Attachment 11 (Added)
          OPERATING INSTRUCTION REVIEW MEMORANDUM FORMAT

Figure A11.1. Operating Instruction Review Memorandum Format

                              APPROPRIATE LETTERHEAD


                                                                                         Date

MEMORANDUM FOR 35 FW/IP

FROM: (Unit conducting review)

SUBJECT: Annual Review of Unit Operating Instruction

A review of the unit Operating Instruction was conducted on (date). No updates or corrections
were needed.

Or

1. A review of the unit Operating Instruction was conducted on (date). The following areas
require a rewrite: (List each item needing changed/updated)

2. The estimated completion date for the rewrite and implementation is (date)




USM Signature Block
 24                                             AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                    attachment 12 (Added)
                       UNIT SELF-INSPECTION REPORT FORMAT

Figure A12.1. Unit Self-Inspection Report Format

                               APPROPRIATE LETTERHEAD

MEMORANDUM FOR (Appointing Official)

FROM: (Inspecting Official)

SUBJECT: (Unit) Semiannual Security Self Inspection

1. AUTHORITY AND DATES OF INSPECTION: This inspection was conducted (date) by
authority of DoDM 5200.1, Volumes 1-4, AFI 31-401 and your letters, dated (date).

2. INSPECTION OFFICIAL(S): Peter James and Carol Jones

3. PERSONS CONTACTED: Capt Pete Smith and Mr. John Peters

4. SUMMARY: The (name of unit) Information Security Program is sound and is providing the
necessary support to the organizational mission. All personnel contacted displayed an interest in
the security program. Some administrative infractions and oversights were found, however, this
does not prevent the security program from being effective.

5. FINDINGS:

   a. Security education: Security briefings and training are being conducted. Training is
   provided one-on-one and in groups to meet training requirements and goals. Several sections
   have not documented this training in personnel’s records. (AFI 31-401, para 10.2.1)

Recommended Corrective Action: All training should be documented in 971 (Civilians) and a
roster maintained for military personnel

   b. Classified Document Handling: No discrepancies were observed.

   c. Marking: Several Working Papers were found in Safe LP 1 dated over 180 days. (DoDM
   5200.1, Volume 2)

Recommended Corrective Action: OPR needs to review and determine if destruction is
warranted and if not, permanent classification markings must be applied.

      d. Safekeeping and Storage: All safes were in good working order and technical inspections
      were current. Approved GSA safes are in use. SF 700, Security Container Information, was
      properly completed. Safe LP 6 did not have a SF 702, Security Container Check Sheet.
      (DoDM 5200.1, Volume 3)
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                            25



Recommended Corrective Action: Safe Custodian needs to obtain SF 702 and have them posted
and completed.

   e. End of Day Security Checks: Personnel are scheduled, in writing, to perform end of day
   checks. In several sections, the SF 701, Activity Security Checklist, could not be located.
   Throughout the organization, no policy was in effect if the person appointed to do the end-of-
   day check was absent or left early. (DoDM 5200.1, Volume 3)

Recommended Corrective Action: The Security Manager needs to remind personnel of the
importance of end-of-day checks. Supervisors should remind personnel if the end of day checker
is absent, then another member should perform the check and annotate the checklist at the end of
the duty day.

   f. Personnel Security: Two Security Information Files were over 180 days old with no unit
   follow-up actions being accomplished. (AFI 31-501, para 8.7)

Recommended Corrective Action: Provide follow-up action on all SIFs within the 180 day limit.

6. OTHER COMMENTS: Mr/Mrs Smith, (Section) is to be thanked and commended for his/her
cooperation during this inspection. Safes LP 4 and 5 were in excellent order thanks to Mr/Mrs
Smith. All personnel contacted in this section were well aware of their security responsibilities
and do an excellent job of maintaining their classified holdings.

7. If you have any questions or comments, please contact me at (phone number)


                                             NAME
                                             Inspection Official
Attachment:
Self Inspection Checklist
 26                                            AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                   Attachment 13 (Added)
SEMIANNUAL SECURITY SELF-INSPECTION OFFICIAL APPOINTMENT LETTER
                           TEMPLATE

Figure A13.1. Semiannual Security Self-Inspection Official Appointment Letter Template

                              APPROPRIATE LETTERHEAD


MEMORANDUM FOR (APPOINTEE)                                                             DATE


FROM: (APPOINTING AUTHORITY ORGN/OFFICE SYMBOL)


SUBJECT: Semiannual Security Self-Inspection Official Appointment


1. (Rank/Name/Orgn/Office Symbol) is appointed to conduct a semiannual self-inspection of the
(UNIT) Information/Personnel/Industrial (if applicable) Security Programs.


2. Authority/Reference: DoDM 5200.1, Volumes 1-4, DoD Information Security Program, AFI
31-401, Managing the Information Security Program; DoD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security
Program, AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Management; DoD 5220.22-R, Industrial Security
Regulation, AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, AFH 31-602, Industrial
Security Program.


3. Coordinate with the unit security manager to establish a date/time to conduct the unit self-
inspection. The semiannual self-inspection will be conducted not later than (enter
Day/Month/Year). Use the proper checklists and report format specified in the 35th Wing
Supplement to AFI 31-401. Provide your observations and recommendations to me immediately
following the unit self-inspection for my review and approval.




                                            APPOINTING AUTHORITY SIGNATURE BLOCK
        AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                            27


                                                  Attachment 14
                      35 FW CLASSIFIED CONFERENCE/MEETING CHECKLIST

        Figure A14.1. 35 FW Classified Conference/Meeting Checklist

            35 FW CLASSIFIED CONFERENCE/MEETING CHECKLIST                                        YES   NO   N/A
ESTABLISHING THE MEETING PARIMETERS
1.  Determine the subject of meeting and highest level of classification.
2. Determine if entire meeting will be classified or limited to classified sessions. Segregate
classified discussions from unclassified sessions whenever possible.
3. Determine where classified material will be stored before, during, and after the meeting.
(Must be GSA approved container for use of classified storage)
4. If possible, select a meeting location which provides good physical control, has storage
containers (if required), and provides protection from unauthorized audio/visual access.
( i.e. control access, post door guards and ensure adjoining rooms have been cleared or
post guards within adjoining rooms)
5. Identify any special communication requirements, (i.e., STU-III, STE, or BILT (if
required)).
ESTABLISHING ATTENDEE LIST
1. Establish a master listing of those individuals who will be attending the classified
meeting.
2. Identify foreign attendees or representatives, if any. NOTE: Get approval for release of
any information (unclassified and classified) from the Foreign Disclosure Officer.
Any U.S. citizen representing a foreign interest is a foreign representative.
3. The attendee’s commander/security manager/supervisor must forward a visit request
letter to the host’s security manager and in-turn to the conference/meeting point of contact.
The following information must be forwarded from attendee’s commander/security
manager/supervisor:
- Name:
- Rank:
- Organization:
- SSAN:
- Type of Security Clearance:
- Date of Security Clearance:
- Type of Security Clearance Investigation:
- Date of Security Clearance Investigation:
- Date(s) of Visit:
- Purpose of Visit:
- Point of Contact (host name, rank, organization, duty phone):
4. Announce the meeting on a need-to-know basis (mail, phone, direct contact).
5. Ensure the attendee’s clearance level is equal to the information to be discussed.
6. Ensure the attendee has an official “Need to Know” of the information being presented at
the conference/meeting.
         28                                              AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


PREPARING THE CONFERENCE ROOM
1. Prior to the start of the meeting, thoroughly inspect the conference room to ensure it has
been checked for possible recording/eavesdropping devices.
2. If not familiar with area, request presence of building manager to assist with inspection.
3. Check walls, ceilings, and floors for suspicious objects, e.g., holes, openings, exposed
wires or recording devices.
4. If there are air vents in the room, which can carry sound throughout the building, either
cover the openings or turn on the unit during the meeting. The noise will drown out any
discussions in the room.
5. Secure all doors, windows, and drapes during classified presentations. Ensure someone
standing outside the room cannot see or hear the classified material being presented inside
the room. First floor windows should be covered to prevent visual access.
6. Check all physically accessible areas.
7. Check, touch, and lift, if possible, the following items/areas for things out of the
ordinary:
- Trash containers
- Fire extinguishers
- Tables, desks, and chairs
- Curtains, pictures, or like accessible items on walls and windows
- Circuit breaker boxes; use safety precautions
8. Once the room has been cleared, place a sign on the door(s) indicating this is a “sealed
room” and lock the door until the meeting begins. Assign one person to monitor the room
until the meeting starts.
ENTRY CONTROL PROCEDURES/SECURITY CONCERNS
1. Ensure someone is assigned duties as entry controller. They will need to screen all entry
at the start of the meeting and again during the breaks. If there is more than one entrance to
the room, pick one entrance for allowing access and secure all others.
2. Allow entry to conference room by checking all names on your attendee list via a valid
ID with photo. If a special conference badge has been developed, issue it at this time.
3. Ensure electronic devices should not be allowed in the classified processing room.
Examples of equipment normally permitted include:
- electronic calculators
- electronic spell checkers
- wristwatches
4. Check briefcases for unusual or suspicious items, if allowed beyond entry control point.
5. If allowed inside the classified processing room, ensure telephones, cellular phones,
blackberries, radios, tape recorders, or devices that can transmit or record are turned off
within rooms/areas during meeting(s). (NOT RECOMMENDED)
6. Ensure someone is tasked with periodically walking around the outside of the conference
room making sure no one is eavesdropping on the other side of the walls to include
adjoining rooms.
DURING THE MEETING
1. Ensure all doors are clearly marked “KEEP OUT: Meeting in Progress.”
2. Remind attendees of the highest level of classified material to be discussed.
        AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                     29


3. Advise attendees of any restrictions being placed on note taking or use of recording
devices (i.e., micro cassette recorders, laptop computers, etc.). NOTE: Any notes taken
during these meetings become classified themselves and special measures must be taken to
protect them.
4. Periodically remind individuals during the course of the briefing the information being
presented is classified and not to discuss classified information outside room during breaks.
5. Ensure all handouts, slides, etc., are properly marked with appropriate classification and
instructions.
6. Protect classified materials during any breaks, such as lunch periods, etc. (store as
necessary in a GSA approved container)
AFTER THE MEETING
1. Collect all classified materials (materials should be numbered sequentially for ease of
control). No one will be allowed to depart the room until all classified material is
accounted for.
1. Ensure a final sweep of the room is conducted, checking for classified materials or waste
products prior to ending the meeting and departing.
2. Secure classified in a security container immediately after the meeting.
3. In case of security violations, notify your Unit Security Manager or 35 FW/IP.
 30                                         AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


                               Attachment 15 (Added)
                  35 FW CLASSIFIED EQUIPMENT LISTING FORMAT

Figure A15.1. 35 FW Classified Equipment Listing Format

                  35 FW CLASSIFIED EQUIPMENT LISTING FORMAT


Security Containers
                            Manufa                                           Safe
           Safe #            cture      Type     Location      Type    Custodian/Phone #
                                                              Combo
                            Name                               Lock
                            Hamilto       4      Bldg 555,             Pri: Jeff Beck - 634-
           SFS #1             n        Drawer     Room 1       X-07    1657
                                                                       Alt: Mike Toon -
                                                                       634-1167
                                          2       Bldg 545,            Pri: Jeff Beck - 634-
           SFS #2           Mosler     Drawer    SFAI Room     X-08    1657
                                                                       Alt: Mike Toon -
                                                                       634-1167

Vaults/Classified Open
Storage Areas
                            Manufa                                       Vault/Secure
           Vault #           cture     Type      Location      Type     Room Custodian
                                       Class.                 Combo
                             Name      Level                   Lock
                                                 Bldg 556,             Pri: Jeff Beck - 634-
           SFS #1           Mosler      Vault     Room 1       X-07    1657
                                                                       Alt: Mike Toon -
                                       Secret                          634-1167
                                       Secure     Bldg 556,            Pri: Jeff Beck - 634-
           SFS #2             N/A      Room      SFAI Room     X-08    1657
                                                                       Alt: Mike Toon -
                                       Secret                          634-1167

Classified
Reproduction/Destruction
Equipment
                                                                          Responsible
        Manufacture         Serial #   Model     Location      Type       Custodians
                                                              Equipm
           Name                        Model #                  ent
                            123456               Bldg 556,             Pri: Jeff Beck - 634-
           Brother           789       Fax-560    Room 1       Fax     1657
                                       1234567                         Alt: Mike Toon -
                                          89                           634-1167
                            123456                Bldg 556,            Pri: Jeff Beck - 634-
           XEROX             789       450-CP    SFAI Room    Copier   1657
                                       1234567                         Alt: Mike Toon -
                                          89                           634-1167
AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                31


                       123456     SEM      Bldg 556,   Shredde   Pri: Jeff Beck - 634-
         SEM            789      244-2    SFAI Room       r      1657
                                1234567                          Alt: Mike Toon -
                                   89                            634-1167
 32                                            AFI31-401_35FWSUP 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                   Attachment 16 (Added)
COURIER AUTHORIZATION DESIGNATION LETTER (FOR ON-BASE USE ONLY)

Figure A16.1. Courier Authorization Designation Letter (For on-Base Use Only)

                                APPROPRIATE LETTERHEAD

                                                                                        (DATE)

MEMORANDUM FOR WHOM IT MAY CONCERN

FROM: (UNIT)/CC or (UNIT) SECURITY MANAGER

SUBJECT: Designation of Official Courier

1. The below individual(s) is/are designated as official courier(s) for the (UNIT). This
authorization designation letter is for hand-carrying classified information/materials on Misawa
Air Base only. The courier will only hand-carry classified information up to and equivalent with
their security clearance.
NAME                  RANK           SSAN                  D/P           CLEARANCE
John Doe              Colonel        012-34-5678           634-1212       SCI-DCID 6/4
John Smith            SSgt           123-45-6789           634-1234       Top Secret
Jane Doe              SrA            987-65-4321           632-9876       Secret


2. This letter exempts all classified packages being hand-carried from examination.


3. This courier designation can be confirmed by contacting the undersigned at (UNIT/Office
Symbol of Authorization Official and Duty Phone). This letter is valid for one year (complete
new letter when designation officials and/or couriers are replaced).




                                     DESIGNATION OFFICIAL SIGNATURE BLOCK
