BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2226
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                         AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                               11 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                   Security Forces

                                                                    COMBAT ARMS PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available digitally on the e-publishing website
               at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFDW/A7S                                                           Certified by: AFDW/A4/7
                                                                           (Colonel Peter Sartori)
                                                                                        Pages: 12


(AFDW) This publications supplements AFI 36-2226, 24 February 2009. This supplement
applies to all Air Force Dis4trict of Washington installations, to active duty Air Force personnel;
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) reservists and Air National Guard (ANG) personnel
performing active duty training and inactive duty training or when on active duty pursuant to
Title 10, United States Code. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; through HQ
AFDW/A7SX. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at

https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See attachment 1 for glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is new and must be completely reviewed. The additions update the Combat Arms
and Weapons Maintenance Programs and changes arming groups and frequencies of live-fire
qualification training. It also implements unit level live-fire sustainment training, pre-deployment
training, and mandatory wear of combat equipment by individuals completing live-fire
qualification for deployment to a combat zone in time of war or a designated hostile fire area.
Additionally, it changes inspection frequency for all active in-use (operational use) weapons to
six-months.        It standardizes and clarifies Arming Groups, training frequency,
accidental/negligent weapons discharge reporting procedures, and carrying concealed weapons.
 2                                             AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012


1.2.18.1.(Added) Combat Arms sections needing assistance or guidance will first address their
issues to AFDW Security Forces (HQ AFDW/A7S). If the issue is beyond AFDW’s capability it
will be officially sent to the Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC) for assistance.
1.8.10. (Added) Conducts Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) and Combat Arms Range Assessment
every two years for all AFDW owned and operated firing ranges and all host nation and sister
service ranges regularly utilized for Air Force Combat Arms qualification training. These SAVs
and range assessments will ensure regulatory compliance for Combat Arms administration and
Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) compliance for small arms ranges and will avert serious
mission degradation due to range closures or lack of range availability.
1.11.1.4.1. (Added) The Civil Engineering Squadron will send all major small arms range
rehabilitation, renovation, and new construction plans to Programs Division (HQ AFDW/A7CP)
for review and coordination. HQ AFDW/A7CP will coordinate the plans with HQ AFDW/A7S,
Command Surgeon (HQ AFDW/SG), and Directorate of Safety (HQ AFDW/SE) prior to
submitting the plans to Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center- Combat Arms Branch
(HQ AFSFC/SFXW).
1.12.1.1. (Added) Coordinates all major range projects with the Security Forces Division (HQ
AFDW/A7S), Combat Arms Program Manager (HQ AFDW/A7S). Coordination will include
preliminary range construction design, funding status, and verification that construction is in
accordance with the current published Engineering Technical Letter.
1.12.13.3.1. (Added) Combat Arms Noncommissioned officers in charge (NCOIC) will ensure
non-Combat Arms Group A personnel who perform block officer duties possesses an AF IMT
483, Certificate of Competency.
1.13.1.1. (Added) NCOIC must ensure continuity folders are developed and maintained for all
programs managed by Combat Arms personnel (i.e. ammunition accountability, Precision
Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL), parts bench stock, scheduling, technical orders,
lesson plans, Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TDME), etc.).
1.13.4.1. (Added) Combat Arms NCOIC’s will ensure, at a minimum, that one Assistant
Instructor (AI) is armed at all times while classroom instruction is taking place. The AI
weapons/magazines will not be used at anytime for classroom instruction or demonstration.
1.13.13.1. (Added) The Combat Arms NCOIC will ensure that the munitions forecasts are
forwarded to AFDW/A7S for review, NLT 1 December.
1.13.20.1. (Added) Reports results of test-fires and trial operations to Combat Arms Program
Manager (HQ AFDW/A7S). Detailed test-fire and trial operation instructions can be found in the
most recent Engineering Technical Letter posted on the Air Force Civil Engineering Support
Agency’s website at http://www.afcesa.af.mil.
1.13.24.1. (Added) The Combat Arms NCOIC will ensure all weapons training, maintenance,
inspections and repairs are correctly loaded into Security Forces Information Management
System (SFMIS) weekly. AFI 31-203, Security Forces Management Information System
mandates the use of SFMIS program for all active duty, reserve and guard security forces units.
This program will be used by Combat Arms sections to track all applicable information within
the Combat Arms and the Armory modules.
AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012                                                              3


1.13.26.1. (Added) The process for TMDE gauge accountability process is located in [NO
LABEL MAPPING for "Attachment"! 2 (Added) of this supplement.
1.13.34.2.1. (Added) The operational risk management (ORM) checklist located in the most
current approved Small Arms Range Design, Engineering Technical Letter and the Range ORM
Checklist posted on the Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC) secure website will be used
to conduct range safety assessments of all non-United States Air Force (USAF) firing ranges.
Report any findings to the Combat Arms Program Manager (HQ AFDW/A7S).
2.2.2.1. (Added) Combat Arms NCOIC must ensure SFMIS is used to document the information
required for the Combat Arms Program Measurement. This information will be downloaded by
HQ AFDW and HQ AFSFC Combat Arms Program Managers.
2.2.3.1. (Added) The Combat Arms NCOIC will ensure reference libraries are verified as
current annually. The senior ranking person on Combat Arms unit type codes (UTC) will ensure
deployable electronic reference libraries are verified current within 45 days of deployment. This
will be accomplished in conjunction with the Lesson Plan review.
2.2.5.5.1. (Added) All lasers must be approved by HQ AFDW/A7S through the HQ AFSFC
Non-Lethal and Small Arms associated laser review board. All associated technical manuals and
operators manuals must be adhered to when using approved lasers.
2.2.5.7.1. (Added) The Combat Arms NCOIC will appoint an instructor(s) to conduct range and
classroom opening and closing inspections daily. The instructor(s) will verify that no live
ammunition, except for guard ammunitions, is brought into the classroom and conduct a sweep
of the classroom to ensure no live ammunition is present from previous training prior to starting
instruction for the day. The instructor(s) will verify no unsafe conditions are present on the
range. Training will not be conducted until the unsafe condition is corrected or an ORM
assessment has been conducted and mitigating factors are in place.
2.2.5.14.1. (Added) The Combat Arms NCOIC and the base safety office will inspect all non-
USAF ranges annually prior to use. A memorandum of the inspection will be maintained within
the Combat Arms Section.
2.2.5.16.1. (Added) SFS commanders will ensure the annual weapons’ parts inventory is
conducted in quarterly increments. Each SFS commander will appoint a disinterested person in
the grade of E5 or above to conduct a 25% inventory of all weapons parts. Inventory results will
identify which parts, by weapons model and item nomenclature, and quantity found to ensure
parts previously inventoried are not re-inventoried during the same year. This will ensure 100%
of all weapons parts are inventoried by the end of the year. The results will be documented and
maintained within the Combat Arms section.
2.2.5.21.1. (Added) All certifications will be valid for one year. The Combat Arms NCOIC will
develop the criteria via AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS
and annotate recertification on the AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring
Training.
2.2.7.1. (Added) Combat Arms unfunded requirements (Example: spare parts, Bullet Trap,
baffle repair, etc.) should be submitted to the unit Resource Advisor to the Wing commander for
inclusion on Wing and MAJCOM funding programs. Continuous follow-up may be necessary to
ensure requirements receive priority placement in the unit's financial plan. This information must
 4                                                AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012


be inserted in SFMIS for higher headquarter review. Major range repair projects that will exceed
fifty percent of the replacement cost of the range must not be submitted for funding; instead,
Combat Arms NCOIC’s must pursue complete range replacement according to current
Engineering Technical Letter guidance.
2.2.8.1. (Added) The Combat Arms NCOIC of Security Forces/organizational armory will
maintain weapons training and maintenance certifications. This will allow the NCOIC to perform
armory weapons inspections/repairs and to work range operations when Combat Arms manning
is limited.
2.3.1.1. (Added) When AFDW firing ranges are used by other military services or agencies,
NCOIC’s must develop range pre-inspection and post-inspection checklists, using AF Form
2519, All Purpose Checklist. The checklists will include, at a minimum, time in and out, weapon
type, ammunition type, rounds used, name of Chief Range Official, names of Range Block
Officials, communications check (Telephone, Public Address (PA) system, etc.), equipment
check, backstop and bullet trap, ventilation system operation, range damage, cleanliness, etc.
Maintain range inspection checklists in files at the Combat Arms section. When determined by
NCOIC, Combat Arms personnel may be used to supervise non-USAF agencies during live-fire
weapons training.
2.3.2.5.1. (Added) All certifications will be valid for one year.
2.3.3.1.1. (Added) Due to the high OPSTEMPO and tenant use of the range on weekends,
Combat Arms is unable to support the use of the range for recreational use by Non-Military
personnel.
2.4.1.1. (Added) An initial range ORM assessment will be completed on all ranges used by
AFDW Combat Arms personnel. This ORM assessment will be conducted according to the most
recent ETL produced by HQ AFCESA and the range ORM checklist posted on the AFSFC
website. Document results in an official memorandum and maintain on record in the Combat
Arms section. Note: If new or previously unidentified hazards are identified during the ORM or
other safety inspections, report them to base safety or other applicable agencies according to AFI
91-202, The U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, Chapter 4, Hazard Reporting Program.
2.4.6.1. (Added) Warning Signs. Place signs along the normal boundaries of the range. Signs
will be white background with red letters. Wording on the signs should read either “DANGER,
FIRING RANGES, DO NOT ENTER” or “DANGER, WEAPONS FIRING IN PROGRESS,
KEEP OUT.” Post the signs no further than 150 meters apart, or as terrain dictates, along range
boundaries, parallel to roads or paths. Place signs close enough to give reasonable and proper
warning along other areas of the SDZ. Local conditions govern the placing of these signs.
2.5.1.1. (Added) Combat Arms NCOIC will develop standardized pre-fire briefings for all
weapons and courses of fire conducted. The pre-fire briefings will be presented to students prior
to live-fire qualification. Combat Arms NCOIC must ensure full accountability of all magazines
and ammunition. Brief that only magazines and ammunition issued by Combat Arms personnel
may be used. Magazines and ammunition not issued by Combat Arms personnel is forbidden on
all USAF approved firing ranges. A copy of this briefing will be maintained on all ranges
maintained by Combat Arms. This also applies to Non-USAF-approved firing ranges. (Maintain
in range continuity folder.).
AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012                                                             5


2.6.3.1.1. (Added) Document annual inspections and maintain in the Combat Arms history
continuity folder.
2.7.1.1. (Added) Combat Arms NCOICs will conduct maintenance of firing range and support
facilities at least one day per month. Do not combine this day with the scheduled Combat Arms
Instructor training day. Document range maintenance accomplishments and maintain in section
files.
2.7.3.1. (Added) The Mission Support Group Commander will ensure funds are available for
backstop/bullet trap clean up.
2.9.1. (Added) When planning, constructing, or rehabilitating any type of range, Combat Arms
NCOIC will provide continuous updates on range design and funding status to the Combat Arms
Program Manager (HQ AFDW/A7S).
3.2.2. (Added) 3P031B personnel must perform duties within their specialty of Combat Arms, at
a minimum, until successful award of the 5 skill level. Defense Force Commander (DFC) must
ensure only those 3P051B and Special Experience Identifier (SEI) 312s that represent an overage
above unit Combat Arms manpower authorizations are utilized outside of traditional Combat
Arms duty areas.
3.6.1. (Added) Combat Arms NCOICs will develop written policy providing specific guidance
on Combat Arms proficiency training. Ensure all assigned Combat Arms B shred and SEI 312
personnel are familiar with and follow the established policy.
3.6.2. (Added) The Combat Arms NCOIC must ensure at least one day per month is scheduled
for weapon proficiency, instructor on-the-job training (OJT), weapons maintenance training, and
other required in-house training. Document results of the training day and keep in section files.
4.5. Weapons Safety All AFDW Combat Arms classrooms will have an appropriate number of
clearing barrels in the classroom to teach proper weapons clearing procedures for all weapons
except the M203 grenade launcher, MK19 grenade machine gun, and M2 machine gun. During
the weapons clearing and loading portion of instruction, all students will be required to
demonstrate proper procedures using the classroom clearing barrels. These clearing barrels must
be capable of containing a negligent discharge. The Combat Arms NCOIC will determine the
number of clearing barrels needed for the classroom.
4.5.4.1. (Added) All lasers used in conjunction with weapons training must be on the most
current HQ AFSFC Non-Lethal Small Arms Associated Laser List and approved by HQ A7S.
4.6.1. (Added) Combat Arms sections will only use current Air Force approved lesson plans.
HQ AFDW/A7S must approve all locally developed lesson plans for weapons or courses of fire
prior to use.
4.6.1.1. (Added) The Combat Arms NCOIC will forward a copy of the annual lesson plan
review to AFDW/A7S NLT 30 January.
4.9.1. (Added) Combat Arms NCOICs should develop standardized student evaluation
checklists, using AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist, for weapons that do not have USAF-
approved GO/NO-GO checklists. Use the checklists during the academic portion of training.
4.10.1. (Added) Critiques should, at a minimum, include measurable evaluation criteria of the
course content, instructor presentation, classroom environment, and range environment. Combat
 6                                               AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012


Arms NCOIC’s should track this data via a locally devised program to enhance/improve the
training environment.
4.11.2.1. (Added) AF Form 522’s, USAF Ground Weapons Training Data printed from the
Security Forces Information Management System (SFMIS) do not require instructor signature.
These documents are considered SFMIS signed and constitute an official AF Form 522 based on
the controlled access to database input. Only Combat Arms instructors can input qualification
data into SFMIS and therefore, any AF Form 522s generated from SFMIS are Combat Arms
instructor certified.
5.2.2.1. (Added) Nonessential qualification training is prohibited in AFDW. AFDW training
ammunition is used for completion of USAF weapon qualification courses of fire. Weapons
training requested to support Inspector General (IG) Inspections are considered nonessential
qualification training. Ammunition must be forecasted, maintained, and provided by IG
Inspection teams to satisfy this requirement. Weapons training to comply with higher
headquarters inspections (AFDW and, or USAF only) may require evaluation of Combat Arms
instructors to ensure compliance with intermediate training objectives. Only personnel whose
weapon qualification expiration dates have been validated will receive training. Combat Arms
personnel will not use qualification training ammunition for IG Inspections unless approved and
directed by HQ AFDW/A7S.
5.2.2.2. (Added) Conduct unit and squadron scheduler meetings at least semi-annually. As a
minimum, brief responsibilities, weapon qualification polices and standards as addressed in AFI
36-2226, Chapter 4, Chapter 5, and local operating instructions and policies. Document
attendance and keep in section files. A locally developed Combat Arms scheduler’s continuity
handout should be developed and implemented for unit scheduler’s managing weapons training
requirements.
5.2.7.1. (Added) Unit schedulers will verify compliance prior to scheduling Airmen for weapons
training.
5.2.8.1. (Added) Unit commanders must ensure weapons qualification and additional use of
force training has been successfully completed prior to authorizing an individual to bear firearms
and the individual is fit to bear arms in accordance with AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force
by Air Force Personnel.
5.2.10. (Added) Airmen/units classified as enablers, those who routinely deploy multiple times
each year, have a Mission Capability Statement (MISCAP) or Designed Operational Capability
(DOC) statement requiring short notice deployments (1 week or less) are considered arming
Group B. Using historical deployment data, Wing commanders may require 10% of these
Airmen to maintain annual weapons qualifications and Use of Force (UoF)/Rules of Engagement
(ROE) training. Sustainment/proficiency training is not required. This qualification will be valid
for one year and pre-deployment weapons’ training is not required; however pre-embarkation
inspections must be completed, AFTO 105, Inspection Maintenance Firing Data for Ground
Weapons annotated, and updated in SFMIS. The training requirement is also amended to allow
personnel to deploy on short-notice taskings without re-qualifying as long as their last
qualification doesn’t exceeded 12 months. If historical data reflects a need for a higher
percentage, Wing commanders will request approval through the units Functional Area Manager
(HQ AFDW/FAM) and Directorate of Installations and Mission Support (HQ AFDW/A4/7).
AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012                                                                7


5.3.2.1. (Added) AFDW Security Forces primary duty holster is the SO4, Safariland® Tactical
6004/5 attached to the Air Force law enforcement ensemble. Security Forces investigators will
qualify with the SO4 as their primary holster and the model 6281 concealed carry holster as their
alternate holster.
5.3.2.1.1. (Added) All RAVEN certified personnel are authorized to live-fire using the
concealed holster. Coordination was approved to allow this deviation through AFDW/A7S and
the Security Forces Center. The RAVEN NCOIC will provide Combat Arms a concealed holster
for the Combat Arms Instructor to use during the training.
5.5.1.6.6.1. (Added) When arming groups change for AFDW personnel, Combat Arms sections
may authorize supported units to accomplish changes on unit AF Form 522s, USAF Ground
Weapons Training Data. Follow guidance listed in AFI 36-2226, paragraph 5.5.
5.5.1.8.1. (Added) Combat Arms must be present when zeroing weapons that had major repairs
performed. Newly assigned Group A personnel may zero their weapons with any range certified
person present.
5.5.1.9.1. (Added) All Group A aircrew firearms qualification training linked to an aircrew
ground training cycle program with a training frequency not to exceed 24 months must specify in
writing from their commander the exact length of time they want their weapons training cycle or
the training cycle will remain 12 months. (example; 15 months 18, months, 20 months).
5.5.2.1. (Added) Individuals deploying to an area that is not a designated hostile fire area are not
required to meet pre-deployment qualification requirements or timelines. However, if they have
an arming requirement at the deployed location, they must have a current live-fire qualification
on the weapon(s) they will be armed with. Their weapon qualification(s) must remain valid (not
expire), without waiver or extension, for the entire length of the planned deployment. If the
deployment is extended, leadership may use the qualification extension options as stated in AFI
31-207.
5.5.3.1. (Added) The AFDW Security Forces Division (HQ AFDW/A7S) staff personnel are
Group B.
5.5.3.2. (Added) Personnel participating in competitions, such as AFDW Defender Challenge,
must be qualified with the weapons they intend to live fire during the competition. Firing the M-
203 using smokes, flares or practice rounds is considered “live fire”. Exceptions to this rule are
USAF sponsored Excellence-In-Competition (EIC) rifle and pistol matches. Personnel
competing in EIC matches must be given a briefing to include, at a minimum, weapons safety,
loading, clearing, reloading, and course of fire.
5.6.3.1. (Added) Group A and Group B students may be trained together to ease scheduling
issues. Security Forces and Battlefield Airman weapons qualification training (M4 and M9) can
be conducted in the same classroom. Do not mix M4 (Battlefield Airman [BA]/SF) weapons
training classes with M16A2 weapons training classes. Individuals qualified on the M16A2 may
not arm with the GAU, GUU, or M4 carbine without live-fire qualification. Pre-Deployment
Firearms Qualification Training using the M16A2 can be included in the training of Group A
(non SF or BA), shooters (non SF/BA) can qualify on the M4 weapon system provided they
receive additional training on the M68 optic prior to live-fire.
 8                                               AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012


5.9.1.1. (Added) The SF Squadron Commander will submit a memorandum for record for initial
10-meter qualification course with the M240 machine-gun and M249 automatic rifle to the HQ
AFDW/A7SX Combat Arms Program Manager. Provide justification on why full-distance live-
fire qualification cannot be accomplished, impact on force protection or contingency mission,
and requested duration of the 10-meter course.
5.13.2.1. (Added) All AFDW deployable Security Forces will qualify wearing Individual
Combat Equipment (ICE) and utilize weapons and sights (optics) they will take on the
deployment to ensure they meet the deployment live-fire qualification training criteria.
5.14.3.1.1. (Added) The SF Squadron Commander will submit firearms simulator approval
requests to the Combat Arms Program Manager (HQ AFDW/A7S) prior to commercial
purchase. Include justification, specifications desired (i.e. laser, cordless, capable of advanced
marksmanship training objectives, etc.), manufacturer, quantity, how the firearms simulator will
be utilized (i.e. Augmentation Duty, force-on-force, judgmental training, etc.). Include the
impact on force protection or contingency mission and ensure compliance with requirements
listed in AFI 36-2226, paragraph 5.14.3. At a minimum, submit requests through the e-mail
system.
5.18.3.1. (Added) Target Procurement and Repair. Procure targets of the correct type and
quantity for weapons training through normal supply channels. Range personnel are responsible
for daily maintenance, such as replacing target frames and resurfacing frames or target backers.
Units with an approved proficiency-training program are responsible for providing their own
target material and repairing/replacing damaged target frames.
5.18.5.1. (Added) Before conducting any live fire proficiency training, Combat Arms must
approve courses/types of fire for each weapon used on their range to ensure range safety
limitations are met.
5.18.6.1. (Added) Due to their unique mission requirements, RAVEN certified personnel will
fire the TRQC/AFQC annually with a non-cross draw concealed holster. This training will be
conducted by a Combat Arms Instructor. The training will include a combination of classroom
and range dry-fire training on the proper techniques for drawing the weapon from this type of
holster (all personnel will be performance tested on their ability to safely and correctly draw
from a non cross draw concealed holster prior to the live fire course). Individuals authorized to
use an approved non cross draw concealed holsters will not be authorized to fire with students
using other open fire forms of training.
5.18.6.2. (Added) The installation Emergency Services Team (EST) will conduct proficiency
training on an as needed basis at the discretion of the EST Team Leader or SF Commander.
5.18.7.1. (Added) Personnel conducting training with simulated marking cartridges, where the
upper receiver or barrel of the issued weapon has been changed, (e.g., Dye Marking Cartridge)
must be qualified on the weapon.
5.27.2.1. (Added) SF commanders submit night fire familiarization and qualification waivers to
HQ AFDW/A7S for approval. Include justification for non-compliance (range limitations,
mandatory quiet hours, etc.).
6.1. Purpose and Program Overview. Combat Arms Instructors will not inspect or repair
privately owned weapons.
AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012                                                           9


6.1.1.1. (Added) Prior to procurement, submit requests for non-standard commercially
purchased items (weapon parts, gauges, services, grips, slings, lights, etc.) to HQ AFDW/A7S,
Combat Arms Program Manager. (Normally, these items are not specifically identified for use in
applicable USAF Technical Orders.) HQ AFDW/A7S will review, approve, and forward the
request to Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center, Combat Arms Branch (HQ
AFSFC/SFW). Combat Arms Instructors are authorized to wear all types of holsters that are
required for training of students on their range (i.e. concealed, shoulder, hip extender) while
working Combat Arms duties. If Combat Arms Instructor works SF duties (Non-Combat Arms
Duties) they will utilize unit approved duty gear.
6.1.3.6. Non-Combat Arms units will not purchase/acquire weapons parts or accessories unless
approved by the Air Force Weapons Configuration Board utilizing the Acquisition process
outlined in paragraph 6.1.3.6.1.
6.3.2. Weapons systems are considered unique when they are not normally used by other units
on the installation. An example would be when only one unit has M107 long range sniper rifles
assigned. Units possessing unique weapons systems are responsible for providing funding to
procure three sets of required gauges, one set of required tools and all required parts, per
technical order (TO), through supply or depot channels for inspection/repair/replacement by
Combat Arms.
6.3.4.1.1. (Added) To ensure weapons are mission ready, weapons cleaning, to include
frequency, must be performed in accordance with USAF Technical Orders and Operators
Manuals on all assigned in-use weapons. Units may increase cleaning frequency if local
conditions warrant more frequent cleaning.
6.3.4.1.2. (Added) Combat Arms NCOICs should develop a weapon custodian continuity
handout to assist custodians with program management. Conduct weapon custodian meetings at
least annually. At a minimum, brief responsibilities, weapon inspection criteria and standards
covered in AFI 36-2226, Chapter 6. Document attendance and keep in the section files.
6.4.1.1. (Added) Combat Arms NCOICs ensure at least one day per month is scheduled to
perform repairs and maintenance on installation weapons supported. This day may be combined
with the scheduled monthly range maintenance day.
6.6.1.1.1. (Added) USAF Technical Orders for weapons being inspected must be physically on-
hand and must be used when performing all weapon inspections. Standardized weapon
inspection checklists are an excellent means to augment USAF Technical Orders.
6.6.1.2.1. (Added) Technical Order 11W-1-10, Historical Data, Recording of Inspection,
Maintenance and Firing Data for Ground Weapons, Chapter 1, Para 3.a. and 3.b., requires units
possessing weapons to initiate and maintain AFTO Forms 105. To meet TO 11W-1-10
requirements, units possessing ground weapons will load all their weapons information (i.e.
serial numbers, caliber, type, manufacture, storage location…) into SFMIS. Combat Arms will
ensure accuracy of the information loaded into SFMIS during weapons inspections. Owning
units will correct all discrepancies.
6.6.2.1. (Added) Combat Arms will maintain all previously accomplished paper copies of the
AFTO 105 for historical purposes and annotate all new inspections in SFMIS only.
 10                                             AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012


6.6.3.1. (Added) Due to sustained high operations tempo for Combat Arms sections in AFDW,
Combat Arms will ensure 25 percent of all In-Use weapons receive a complete serviceability
inspection to include gauging. 100 percent of all In-Use weapons will be inspected for
cleanliness, lubrication, authorized parts/accessories, and function check. If operations tempo
allows, Combat Arms sections may inspect to the standards identified in AFI 36-2226, paragraph
6.5.3. Weapons not available for the weapons inspection must still be inspected within 15 days of
return from temporary duty (TDY). Combat Arms may annotate the AFTO Form 105, Inspection
Maintenance Firing Data for Ground Weapons with the Acronym “AI” for annual inspection
and ”AIG” for annual inspection with gauging. Combat Arms will gauge 25% of all Security
Forces active in-use weapons during semi-annual inspections. This will ensure 100% of SF
weapons are inspected and gauged annually.
6.6.4.1. (Added) All active in-use training weapons assigned to the Combat Arms section will be
inspected and gauged semi-annually. All inactive in-use weapons will be inspected and gauged
annually.




                                            DARREN W. MCDEW, Major General, USAF,
                                            Commander
AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012                                                       11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
TO 00-35D-54-WA-1, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and Resolution, 1 May 2007
TO 11W-1-10, Historical Data Recording of Inspection, Maintenance and Firing Data for
Ground Weapons, 26 December 2006
Title 10, United States Code

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AI—Assistant Instructor or Annual Inspection
ATR—Annual Training Request
BA—Battlefield Airman
HQ AFDW—Headquarters Air Force District of Washington
PA—Public Address
QDR—Quality Deficiency Report
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
 12                                             AFI36-2226_AFDWSUP 11 JANUARY 2012


                                   Attachment 2 (Added)
            AFDW PMEL ACCOUNTING AND TRACKING PROCEDURE

A2.1. (Added) Details.
   A2.1.1. (Added) Order PMEL Gauge through Squadron Supply.
   A2.1.2. (Added) Once Gauge arrives, request to be put on PMEL account and initiate initial
   calibration; annotate new gauge via memo as "Cradle" portion of process. If Gauge fails
   initial calibration, take appropriate steps as outlined in AFI 36-2226, Para 1.13.10. "Submits
   SF Form 368, Product Quality Deficiency Report, according to T.O. 00-35D-54-WA-1,
   USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and Resolution. As a minimum, Quality
   Deficiency Reports (QDR) will be submitted (within 30 days upon failure notification) on
   new inspection gauges failing initial calibration. Electronic (e-mail) copies of the QDR will
   be forwarded to the MAJCOM Combat Arms Program Manager for review and retention."
   A2.1.3. (Added) Once gauge passes initial calibration, the information (i.e. Label Number,
   Part Number, Serial Number, Nomenclature, Date Due Calibration, and Date Last
   Calibrated) will be put in a locally produced PMEL Excel Spread Sheet located in your
   appropriate share drive in a folder labeled ―PMEL program.
   A2.1.4. (Added) Once the Gauge either fails calibration (initiate QDR) or is lost, a
   relief/lost item report must be initiated in the form of a memo. (Generated/Signed by the
   Combat Arms Training & Maintenance (CATM) NCOIC and PMEL custodian).
   A2.1.5. (Added) Once the Gauge is off your account, a memo will be kept on file as the
   relief process; this would be the "Grave" portion. (Electronic or Hard copy).
   A2.1.6. (Added) The PMEL monitor will ensure that the Gauge is removed from the Excel
   Spread Sheet.
