BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-816
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          13 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                          CIVILIAN TELEWORK PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1PC                                              Certified by: AF/A1P (Mr. John Park)
                                                                                     Pages: 23



This publication implements the provisions of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8,
Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, Air Force Instruction (AFI)
36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, and complies with
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1035.01, Telework Policy. This Instruction
establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for implementing the Air
Force Telework Program. This Instruction applies to appropriated fund civilian employees,
administered under Title 5, including Air Force Reserve personnel, United States citizens
assigned to foreign overseas areas, and civilian employees at joint service organizations where
Air Force is the executive agent. It does not apply to Air National Guard Technicians
administered under Title 32.

This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed above for coordination prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR listed
above using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847
from the field through the appropriate chain of command. Requests for waivers must be
submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
2                                                                                 AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


     1.   PROGRAM OVERVIEW .....................................................................................                   3
     2.   ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES .....................................................................                         3
     3.   TYPES OF TELEWORK ......................................................................................                 7
     4.   POSITION AND EMPLOYEE ELIGIBILITY .....................................................                                  8
     5.   TELEWORK REQUIREMENTS ..........................................................................                        10
     6.   SECURITY ............................................................................................................   15
     7.   EQUIPMENT AND OFFICE SUPPLIES .............................................................                             15
     8.   EMERGENCY SITUATIONS ..............................................................................                     16

ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
         INFORMATION                                                                                                              19

ATTACHMENT 2—GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT AGREEMENT                                                                             23
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     3


1. PROGRAM OVERVIEW
  1.1. Air Force (AF) Policy. Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8 establishes policies to
  ensure Air Force enhances the morale of its civilian employees by identifying employment
  requirements and pursuing appropriate work/life flexibilities. Telework shall be promoted
  and implemented throughout AF) in support of the Department of Defense (DoD)
  commitment to workforce efficiency, emergency preparedness, and quality of life. The Air
  Force will ensure that telework program are administered without unlawful discrimination
  because of race, color national origin, age (40 or older), religion, sex (including pregnancy),
  physical or mental disability, EEO activity, genetic information, equal compensation or
  sexual harassment.
     1.1.1. Telework is authorized for the maximum number of positions to the extent that
     mission readiness is not jeopardized.
     1.1.2. Telework will be accomplished on a regular and recurring or a situational basis at
     an approved alternative worksite.
     1.1.3. Telework will be periodically exercised to ensure its effectiveness in continuing
     operations in the event of a crisis or national emergency (e.g. pandemic influenza).
     1.1.4. Telework is a discretionary workplace flexibility. Telework is not an entitlement
     and not all employees are eligible to telework.
     1.1.5. Telework eligibility criteria shall be applied impartially and consistently.
     1.1.6. Employees cannot be ordered to telework unless their duties are designated as
     mission-critical or employee’s telework agreement addresses this requirement.
     1.1.7. Telework may not be used as a substitute for dependent care or elder care.
     1.1.8. Telework training and written telework agreements are required.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
  2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR).
     2.1.1. Serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and oversight
     for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, and
     budgets addressing Telework.
  2.2. Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1).
     2.2.1. Develops, coordinates, and executes personnel policy and essential procedural
     guidance for the management of the Telework program.
     2.2.2. Delegate authority for telework implementation to installation commanders, tenant
     commanders, and heads of serviced activities.
     2.2.3. Actively promote telework consistent with accomplishing assigned mission while
     making every effort to overcome artificial barriers to program implementation.
     2.2.4. Promote education and training for leadership and supervisors on benefits of
     telework, expected job performance in a telework environment, and value of integrating
     telework into continuity of operations (COOP) activities.
4                                                           AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


       2.2.5. Require eligible and telework approved civilian employees and their supervisors to
       be fully trained on telework procedures including information technology, data security,
       and safety requirements consistent with DoDI 1035.01 and this Instruction.
       2.2.6. Require all employees who are authorized to telework to complete DD Form 2946,
       Department of Defense Telework Agreement.
       2.2.7. Establish annual AF telework participation goal of 1% increase from previous
       year’s participation rate.
    2.3. Director, Force Management Policy (AF/A1P). Under the authority, direction, and
    control of the AF/A1:
       2.3.1. Direct development, implementation, and operation of AF Telework Program to
       ensure compliance with the law, DoDI 1035.01 and this Instruction.
       2.3.2. Monitor and assess telework implementation to ensure compliance with the law,
       DoDI 1035.01 and this Instruction.
       2.3.3. Designate AF/A1PC as AF Telework Program Manager to implement and
       evaluate AF Telework Program for compliance with DoDI 1035.01 to serve as an advisor
       for AF leadership, and serve as a resource for supervisors and employees.
    2.4. Civilian Force Policy Division (AF/A1PC).
       2.4.1. Serve as the AF Telework Program Manager for civilian employees to ensure
       consistency in implementing the law, DoDI 1035.01, and this Instruction.
       2.4.2. Establish policies and responsibilities that actively promote the telework program
       within AF.
       2.4.3. Oversee the implementation and administration of the telework program through
       subordinate telework coordinators across AF.
       2.4.4. Track employee participation, monitor goal progress, and provide employee
       telework eligibility and participation data to Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Service
       (DCPAS) at the end of each calendar year for submission to Office of Personnel
       Management (OPM) Annual Telework Report.
       2.4.5. Monitor and assess AF telework implementation to ensure compliance with DoDI
       1035.01 and this Instruction.
    2.5. Director, Cyberspace Operations (A3C/A6C).
       2.5.1. Develop strategies and provide guidance for AF-wide information technology
       capabilities and data security required to remove barriers and support telework.
       2.5.2. Establish criteria and guidelines for using both Government Furnished Equipment
       (GFE) and non-GFE (i.e., personally-owned equipment), to access AF information
       systems and networks to perform telework. Under Federal Register FMR Bulletin 2006-
       B#, underutilized or excess equipment may be used to furnish GFE in order to implement
       telework. Ensure criteria and guidelines are consistent with AF policy and are made
       available to all users.
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                       5


     2.5.3. Oversee evaluation of new and emerging technologies that facilitate telework and
     approve them for AF-wide use, as appropriate.
  2.6. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).
     2.6.1. Establish procedures to ensure civilian position data is identified and coded in
     Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS) to reflect telework eligibility.
     2.6.2. Provide MAJCOM/A1s and Civilian Personnel Sections (CPS) implementation
     procedures for telework, consistent with DoDI 1035.01 and this Instruction, through
     appropriate Human Resource (HR) Advisories or other types of communication as
     needed.
     2.6.3. Provide AF/A1PC with telework participation rates, types of telework conducted
     within AF, and other telework-related data as requested.
  2.7. Installation Commanders, Tenant Commanders, and Heads of Activities.
     2.7.1. Approve telework programs for applicable units.
     2.7.2. Designate positions eligible for telework.
     2.7.3. Require supervisors to document employee eligibility to telework in the
     employee’s record in My Workplace.
     2.7.4. Require employees who are eligible to telework and their supervisors to be fully
     trained on telework procedures including information technology, data security, and
     safety requirements consistent with DoDI 1035.01 and this Instruction.
     2.7.5. Designate in writing a Telework Program Coordinator for applicable units.
     2.7.6. Delegate authority for 2.7.1., 2.7.2., and 2.7.5 in writing to subordinate authorities
     as deemed appropriate.
  2.8. Civilian Personnel Sections (CPSs).
     2.8.1. Include DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement, in new employee orientation
     materials for those employees occupying telework eligible positions to ensure they are
     aware of their telework responsibilities should telework be offered or requested.
     2.8.2. Publicize information on telework responsibilities throughout the workplace and
     include in periodic training events.
     2.8.3. Provide information and guidance to employees and supervisors concerning
     telework.
     2.8.4. Coordinate with supervisors to provide advisory services on the denial of requests
     to telework or the termination of telework agreements.
     2.8.5. Ensure local bargaining obligations are fulfilled at the appropriate level.
  2.9. Supervisor Responsibilities.
     2.9.1. Participate in OPM telework training for employees and                        managers
     (www.telework.gov) prior to approving employees’ telework agreements.
     2.9.2. Determine employees’ eligibility for telework, notify employees of their eligibility
     to telework, and update employees’ status in My Workplace.
6                                                            AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


       2.9.3. Approve or deny requests for telework based upon mission requirements,
       employee performance, and needs of work group.
           2.9.3.1. When approving an employee’s request to telework, sign and date DD Form
           2946, DoD Telework Agreement, and maintain in Supervisor’s Employee Work
           Folder. Denials must be based on mission requirements, performance, conduct or
           needs of the work group (e.g., adequate office coverage).
           2.9.3.2. Justify in writing, the basis for denial or termination of telework on the DD
           Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement. Include information about when employees
           may reapply or actions employees should take to improve his/her chance of approval,
           when practicable. If the denial is due to misconduct resulting in disciplinary action,
           ensure that it is documented in the supervisor’s employee folder. An instance of
           severe misconduct or a pattern of misconduct is adequate to sustain a supervisor’s
           denial of telework.
           2.9.3.3. Contact local CPS for guidance before denying or terminating a telework
           agreement.
       2.9.4. Require employees to successfully complete OPM’s telework training
       (www.telework.gov) prior to approving employees’ telework agreements. File training
       certificate in Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder.
       2.9.5. Ensure worksite coverage during business hours so that mission operations
       continue to be carried out efficiently and effectively, and teleworkers and onsite
       employees are treated equitably.
       2.9.6. Ensure employees know procedures for requesting unscheduled telework, and
       requirement that request must be approved in advance.
       2.9.7. Ensure teleworkers are held accountable for GFE and adhere to applicable
       maintenance requirements (e.g. scheduled software updates). Ensure GFE is returned to
       the unit when telework agreement ends.
       2.9.8. Promptly report any work-related accident or injury occurring at an employee’s
       alternative worksite and provide this information to AFPC. Ensure documentation
       reflects incident occurred at alternative worksite.
       2.9.9. Terminate telework arrangements if an employee’s performance and or conduct do
       not comply with terms of telework agreement; or if employee’s telework arrangement
       fails to meet organizational needs; or employee requests termination of agreement.
    2.10. Employee Responsibilities.
       2.10.1. Complete OPM’s telework training (www.telework.gov) prior to entering into a
       written telework agreement.
       2.10.2. Complete DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement, detailing location of
       alternative worksite. If employee’s home is the telework location, it is the employee’s
       responsibility to make certain that a safe work environment is maintained while
       teleworking.
       2.10.3. Employees shall designate one section of the home as the telework work station
       for purposes of the telework agreement. Employee must complete and sign a self-
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   7


     certification safety checklist as part of the initial submittal of the DD Form 2946, DoD
     Telework Agreement, prior to beginning telework arrangement. Sign and date form and
     submit to supervisor for review and action.
     2.10.4. Report any work-related accident or injury occurring at the alternative worksite
     and provide the supervisor with medical documentation related to the accident or injury
     when requested. Employee and supervisor must contact AFPC for guidance concerning
     work-related accident or injury.
     2.10.5. Protect all official, sensitive, and for official use only (FOUO) data and comply
     with all criteria and guidelines for information and electronic security consistent with
     DoDI 1035.01 and this Instruction.
     2.10.6. Safeguard and ensure appropriate use of GFE consistent with Chapter 5 of this
     Instruction.
     2.10.7. Work at the traditional worksite on scheduled telework days if called for by
     mission requirements. Consideration shall be made for those employees that are
     participating in the situational telework program due to a medical situation or condition
     (such as a disability) that prevents them from reporting to the traditional work site.
     2.10.8. Contact supervisor and obtain advanced approval when requesting unscheduled
     telework to accommodate unanticipated personal circumstances (e.g., emergency home
     maintenance or repairs) and when Government employees are provided the option of
     unscheduled telework.
     2.10.9. Request appropriate leave in accordance with applicable procedures if unable to
     telework or report to traditional worksite.
     2.10.10. Meet required performance elements and standards at fully successful level (or
     equivalent) or higher, and meet any additional duty requirements as documented on
     telework agreement.
     2.10.11. Code and report approved telework time in local time and attendance system.
3. TYPES OF TELEWORK
  3.1. Telework is a workplace flexibility that enables AF to maintain continuity of operations
  and reduce management costs while also improving employees’ ability to balance their work
  and life commitments. Telework is primarily an arrangement to facilitate accomplishment of
  work at a location other than the traditional worksite. Telework can be used:
     3.1.1. On a regular and recurring basis.
     3.1.2. On a situational, non-routine, or ad hoc basis such as to perform large projects,
     tasks that require concentration and uninterrupted blocks of time for successful
     completion, or to accomplish routine job tasks when practicable.
         3.1.2.1. For supervisor- or commander-directed Web-based distance and continuous
         learning, including educational requirements required by law or regulation. Training
         requested by an employee is subject to supervisor’s or commander’s approval, as
         applicable, and must conform to the provisions of applicable regulations.
8                                                              AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


           3.1.2.2. When traditional worksite is closed during adverse or inclement weather
           conditions (e.g., snow emergencies, floods, hurricanes) or when OPM or other official
           agencies such as Federal Executive Board (FEB) announces that Government offices
           are open with option for unscheduled telework when severe weather conditions or
           other circumstances disrupt commuting and compromise employee safety.
               3.1.2.2.1. For employees who are not designated as mission-critical employees or
               not required to telework, the day is considered a non-workday when the
               employee’s office is closed to the public. Such employees are placed on
               Administrative Leave since the employee is prevented from working. Exceptions
               to the rule include when the employee is on (1) pre-approved paid or unpaid
               leave, (2) official travel, or (3) a flexible or compressed work schedule day off.
               3.1.2.2.2. Employees who telework when traditional worksite is closed are not
               entitled to additional pay or time off.
           3.1.2.3. When the installation commander closes all or part of an activity with the
           option for unscheduled telework when emergency conditions exist; when normal
           operations are interrupted by events beyond the control of management or employees;
           and when it is in the public interest to relieve employees from duty. Sections
           3.1.2.2.1 and 3.1.2.2.2 apply.
           3.1.2.4. As a regular, or situational arrangement for employees with disabilities, as
           appropriate. The DoD Computer/Electronic Accommodations Program may provide
           services and accommodations (e.g., assistive devices and technology) for employees
           with disabilities teleworking under an approved telework arrangement. In the case of
           covered employees, telework arrangements may be a form of reasonable
           accommodation pursuant to sections 791 and 794a of title 29 U.S.C., also known as
           “The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.” Before approving a telework
           arrangement under this provision, supervisors must contact their servicing CPS for
           guidance before approving.
           3.1.2.5. Periodically (as practice) to prepare for COOP and an efficient transition to
           telework in the event of an emergency situation.
           3.1.2.6. As a permanent arrangement where worksite is changed from official or
           traditional worksite to alternative telework location. See paragraph 5.3. , Official
           Worksite.
    3.2. The Air Force will administer the telework program without unlawful discrimination
    because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age (40 or older),
    disability, genetic information, or prior EEO activity.
4. POSITION AND EMPLOYEE ELIGIBILITY
    4.1. General. To the extent that mission requirements are not jeopardized, employees who
    exhibit suitable work performance and conduct and occupy eligible positions (i.e., those
    positions that involve portable work and are not dependent on the employee’s presence at the
    traditional worksite) are permitted to telework to the maximum extent possible.
       4.1.1. Supervisors or commanders shall allow maximum flexibility for employees to the
       extent that mission readiness or accomplishment is not compromised. Regular, routine
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                      9


     use of telework programs will allow supervisors and employees to identify and resolve
     technology, equipment, communications, workflow, and associated issues that could
     impact efficiency of mission accomplishment and inhibit transparency of remote work.
     4.1.2. Telework is a discretionary workplace flexibility. Telework is not an entitlement
     and not all employees are eligible to telework. Although use of telework is encouraged,
     employees cannot be ordered to telework, unless employee’s duties are designated as
     mission-critical or employee’s telework agreement addresses this requirement.
     4.1.2.1. Employee participation in the telework program is voluntary. An agency may
     not compel an employee to participate in telework, even if the duties of the position make
     that employee “telework eligible.” Therefore, an agency will never force an employee
     (who either does not wish to telework or is not eligible to telework) to sign a telework
     agreement to avoid providing excused absence to that employee on a day when Federal
     offices are closed to the public. Both employee participation and the signing of a
     telework agreement must be voluntary.
  4.2. Positions Typically Not Eligible for Telework. Telework is not an entitlement and not
  all employees are eligible to telework. Although there may be circumstances when
  employees in these positions may be considered for telework on a situational basis, the
  following types of positions/employees are typically not eligible for telework.
     4.2.1. Positions that require, on a daily basis, direct handling of classified materials.
     Classified work at an approved alternative secure location may be allowed contingent on
     local requirements regarding such work, when situations warrant.
     4.2.2. Positions that require, on a daily basis, an on-site activity or face-to-face personal
     contacts that cannot be handled remotely or at an alternative worksite (e.g., hands-on
     contact with machinery, equipment, or vehicles; direct patient care).
     4.2.3. Employees recently assigned or newly appointed to trainee or entry level
     positions. The length of time for which the employee is deemed ineligible for telework is
     at the supervisor’s discretion, but will normally fall within the first 6 months of
     assignment to the position or once the employee’s performance is at an acceptable level.
     4.2.4. Employees whose performance or conduct warrants closer supervisory direction or
     whose rating of record is below fully successful (or equivalent).
     4.2.5. Employees whose conduct resulted in an officially documented disciplinary action
     in accordance with AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, and/or applicable labor
     agreement, within the past 12 months.
         4.2.5.1. Officially documented disciplinary action means a disciplinary action that
         resulted in the placement of a document in an employee’s official personnel folder
         (OPF) or the AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief. This can be in the form of
         a letter of reprimand, suspension, termination or removal actions. Should an
         employee receive another disciplinary action, the date of receipt may restart the 12
         month period if it is a severe infraction or recurrent misconduct.
     4.2.6. Employees who have unresolved security issues such as Security Information File,
     clearance revoked, or awaiting security clearance.
 10                                                        AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


      4.2.7. Employees in positions listed above and determined not normally suitable for
      telework may become eligible if their positions are designated as mission-critical.
      Supervisors shall contact the CPS for guidance before approving.
4.3. Employees Not Eligible for Telework. In accordance with the Telework Enhancement Act
of 2010, the following employees shall not be authorized to telework:
      4.3.1. Employees who have been officially disciplined for being absent without
      permission for more than 5 days in any calendar year.
      4.3.2. Employees who have been officially disciplined for violations of subpart G of the
      Standards of Ethical Conduct of Employees of the Executive Branch for viewing,
      downloading, or exchanging pornography, including child pornography, on a Federal
      government computer or while performing Federal Government duties.
      4.3.3. Employees performing representational duties on Official Time.
5. TELEWORK REQUIREMENTS
   5.1. Telework Agreements. All employees who are authorized to telework are required to
   complete a DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement. The agreement must be signed and
   dated by employee and supervisor, and maintained by the supervisor in Supervisor’s
   Employee Work Folder. Organizational telework agreements may be used as an addendum
   to DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement.
      5.1.1. All employees who are authorized to telework must have an approved work
      schedule on file, signed by the supervisor, which indicates approved days, hours and
      location for work. Locally developed work schedule forms may be used.
      5.1.2. Employees with mission-critical duties and those who may be required to telework
      in the case of a COOP event, office closure due to adverse or inclement weather, or
      pandemic health crisis shall have a completed and approved DD Form 2946, DoD
      Telework Agreement, on file in the Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder.
      5.1.3. Completed DD Forms 2946, DoD Telework Agreement, shall outline specific work
      arrangement agreed upon and address logistics of alternative workplace arrangements.
      For example, employee’s work schedule, security requirements for DoD/AF information,
      safety requirements for alternative worksite, supplies and equipment issued, protection of
      GFE, supervisor’s expectation of a teleworker’s performance, and employee’s emergency
      response telework responsibilities.
      5.1.4. All telework agreements, regardless of employee’s emergency response status,
      shall at a minimum address:
          5.1.4.1. Employee’s telework location (e.g., employee’s home or other approved
          alternative worksite such as a telework center, when appropriate).
          5.1.4.2. Telework requirements when traditional worksite is closed because of
          emergency dismissal due to adverse weather conditions such as snow emergencies,
          floods, hurricanes, or any other type of emergency situation; or when OPM, or other
          official agencies such as Federal Executive Board (FEB), announces that Government
          offices are open with option for unscheduled telework when severe weather
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    11


        conditions or other circumstances disrupt commuting and compromise employee
        safety. See Sections 3.1.2.2.1 and 3.1.2.2.2.
        5.1.4.3. Telework requirements when installation commander closes all or part of an
        activity with option for unscheduled telework when emergency conditions exist; or
        when normal operations are interrupted by events beyond the control of management
        or employees; or when it is in the public interest to relieve employees from duty. See
        Sections 3.1.2.2.1 and 3.1.2.2.2.
        5.1.4.4. Instructions on whether sensitive unclassified or competition sensitive source
        selection data is authorized for use at the telework location. If so, the DD Form 2946,
        DoD Telework Agreement, shall include a description of the proper encryption,
        storage, safeguarding, and return of such information and data.
     5.1.5. The employee may not be authorized to telework if employee’s performance does
     not comply with the terms of the telework agreement.
     5.1.6. Safety. If the employee’s home is the telework location, it is the responsibility of
     the employee to make certain that a safe work environment is maintained while
     teleworking. Employees shall designate one section of the home as the telework station
     for purposes of the telework agreement and complete and sign a self-certification safety
     checklist as part of the initial submittal of the DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement,
     prior to beginning the telework agreement.
        5.1.6.1. Employees are covered by Chapter 81 of title 33, U.S.C. (also known as
        “The Federal Employees’ Compensation Act”), when injured or suffering from work-
        related illnesses while conducting official Government business at the telework
        location. AF’s potential exposure to liability is restricted to the designated official
        alternative worksite. Employees must notify their supervisors if injured while
        teleworking and provide medical documentation related to the injury if requested.
        The employee’s supervisor will contact the servicing AFPC immediately upon
        notification of an on-the-job injury.
     5.1.7. Telework agreements are to be reviewed by the supervisor and teleworker,
     revalidated at least every 2 years, and revised when appropriate. A new DD Form 2946,
     DoD Telework Agreement, will be completed when a new supervisor is responsible for
     the employee. Agreements are maintained in the Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder.
     5.1.8. Teleworkers may be required to return to the traditional worksite on scheduled
     telework days based on operational requirements (e.g., to attend a specific meeting). A
     recall to the office for operational reasons is not a termination of the telework agreement.
     Consideration shall be made for those employees that are participating in the telework
     program due to a medical situation or condition (such as a disability) that prevents them
     from reporting to the traditional work site.
     5.1.9. Requests by teleworkers to change their scheduled telework day(s) in a particular
     week or biweekly pay period may be approved by the supervisor where practicable,
     consistent with mission requirements. A permanent change of the telework agreement
     must be reflected by approval of a new DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement.
12                                                        AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


  5.2. Telework Training. Employees authorized to telework and their supervisors are
  required to complete telework training prior to signing the telework agreement.
  Comprehensive OPM telework courses for supervisors and employees are available at the
  joint OPM and General Services Administration (GSA) telework website at
  www.telework.gov. OPM also offers telework training for managers through OPM’s
  Eastern and Western Management Development Centers. Details on the Development
  Centers and course schedules can be found at www.leadership.opm.gov.
     5.2.1. Employees and supervisors are permitted to complete telework training during
     duty time.
     5.2.2. All employees who telework are required to be trained on accessing unclassified
     DoD information technology network remotely consistent with guidance in DoDI
     1035.01 and this Instruction.
     5.2.3. Training certificates are maintained by the supervisor in Supervisor’s Employee
     Work Folder.
  5.3. Official Worksite. Designation of the official worksite shall be established for an
  employee on an approved regular telework schedule on a case-by-case basis consistent with
  guidance in DoDI 1035.01.
     5.3.1. The official worksite for an employee covered by a telework agreement is the
     location of the traditional worksite for employee’s position, the place where employee
     would normally work absent a telework agreement, as long as employee is scheduled to
     report physically at least twice each biweekly pay period on a regular and recurring basis
     to traditional worksite.
     5.3.2. Full-time Telework (for long-distance or virtual employees). When an employee’s
     worksite is changed from the official worksite to the telework location in a permanent
     arrangement, such as a full-time telework arrangement where the employee is not
     required to report to the traditional worksite, the employee’s organization is responsible
     for submitting a Request for Personnel Action to the CPS to initiate a Standard Form 50,
     Notification of Personnel Action. Supervisors and employees must be aware of the
     implications of this arrangement.
         5.3.2.1. Full-time telework arrangements must be approved by the installation
         commander, tenant commander, or head of an activity, in writing, before
         implementing.
     5.3.3. Locality Pay. Employees are compensated based on the location of their official
     worksite; for example, when telework location is employee’s official worksite, locality
     pay would be based on location of telework site, not traditional worksite.
     5.3.4. Official Business Travel. Employees are entitled to reimbursement for official
     business travel to traditional worksite when employee teleworks full-time from a location
     outside of local commuting area, and his or her alternative worksite has been determined
     as his or her official duty station.
     5.3.5. A change in duty location of employee from official worksite to telework site may
     have implications for reduction in force, as telework site may be a different competitive
     area than traditional worksite.
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                  13


     5.3.6. The local commander or senior management official at the two-letter or equivalent
     may make an exception to reassignment of official worksite to telework site in certain
     temporary situations, such as when an employee is recovering from an injury or medical
     condition or employee is affected by an emergency situation, such as pandemic
     influenza, that prevents employee from commuting to traditional worksite.
  5.4. Work Schedules and Compensation. Employees who telework must be at their
  alternative worksite during their scheduled tours of duty. Deviations must be approved in
  advance by the supervisor in accordance with local policies, procedures, and bargaining
  agreements.
     5.4.1. Supervisors must take great care when setting telework schedules. The telework
     schedule must meet the needs of the organization and its mission. When determining
     how often an employee may telework or whether to adjust employee’s telework duty
     hours, supervisors must, at a minimum, consider impact on mission requirements,
     customer satisfaction, any applicable premium pay (night/shift differential, Sunday
     premium pay, etc.), office morale, and productivity.
     5.4.2. Employees may not use telework as a substitute for dependent care, e.g. child or
     elder care.
     5.4.3. Employees who telework may also have alternative work schedules at discretion
     of supervisor.
     5.4.4. Employees may work part of the day at their approved alternative worksite and
     part of the day at traditional worksite to accommodate work schedules and personal
     commitments (e.g., to attend a training course or a medical appointment located near the
     employee’s alternative worksite prior to reporting to the traditional worksite) with
     supervisor approval. Travel from alternative worksite to traditional worksite is not
     considered hours of work and mileage is not reimbursable.
     5.4.5. Premium pay provisions that apply to work at the traditional worksite also apply to
     employees who telework. Employees may work overtime only when specifically ordered
     and approved in advance by the supervisor and documented on AF Form 428, Request
     for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time. Instances in which
     employees perform overtime work without prior supervisory approval may be cause for
     administrative or disciplinary action, including termination of telework eligibility.
  5.5. Time and Attendance. Time spent in a telework status must be accounted for and
  reported in the same manner as if employee reported for work at traditional worksite.
     5.5.1. Organizations using the Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS) are required to
     document telework hours in the time and attendance system. Supervisors shall establish
     appropriate procedures for documenting hours of work and approved leave for
     teleworkers to ensure telework hours are appropriately coded as regular and recurring,
     situational, or medical.
     5.5.2. Employees must record dates of telework accomplished so AF telework usage can
     be tracked.
  5.6. Telework and Travel. The provisions in sections 5 CFR 550.112, Computation of
  Overtime Work, and 5 CFR 551.422, Time Spent Traveling, concerning time spent in a travel
14                                                       AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


  status are applicable to employees who are directed to travel away from the alternative
  worksite during a period that is scheduled for telework.
  5.7. Performance Management. Teleworkers and non-teleworkers are to be treated the same
  for the purpose of work requirements, periodic appraisals of job performance, training,
  rewarding, reassigning, promoting, reducing in grade, retaining and removal, and other acts
  requiring management discretion.
     5.7.1. Performance standards for employees who telework must be commensurate with
     performance standards for on-site employees.
     5.7.2. As with any supervisory relationship, work assignments to be performed or
     training to be accomplished while on telework will be agreed to, and understood, in
     advance of telework event.
     5.7.3. Supervisor expectations of an employee’s performance shall be clearly addressed
     in the DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement. As with on-site personnel, employees
     must be held accountable for the results they produce while teleworking.
     5.7.4. Supervisors are required to communicate expectations of telework arrangements,
     including work assignments, office coverage, and staff communication to teleworking
     and non-teleworking employees in the work group.
     5.7.5. Supervisors are required to put procedures in place to maintain communication
     across all members of the work group.
     5.7.6. Supervisors are responsible for the effective functioning of the work group.
     However, employees are responsible for their availability and information sharing with
     the work group. Supervisors and employees are responsible for ensuring the success of
     telework arrangement.
  5.8. Telework Denial and Termination. A telework request may be denied by the supervisor.
  A telework agreement may be terminated at discretion of supervisor or at employee’s
  request. Supervisors may approve or deny requests for certain days, times, or frequency of
  telework. Employees may not dispute disapproval of telework schedules
     5.8.1. When an employee’s request to telework is denied or an agreement is terminated
     by the supervisor, reasons for denial or termination are documented in writing and given
     to employee. Denial or termination of telework agreements are based on business
     reasons (e.g., telework agreement fails to meet organization’s needs or employee’s
     performance does not meet prescribed standard). The effective date of termination is at
     supervisor’s discretion.
     5.8.2. Employees may dispute denial of telework, reasons given for a denial, and
     termination of an existing telework agreement through procedures in AFI 36-1203,
     Administrative Grievance System. Bargaining unit employees may file a grievance
     through appropriate negotiated grievance procedures.
  5.9. Telework Centers. Installation commanders, tenant commanders, and heads of activities
  are authorized, consistent with section 630 of Public Law 105-277, to fund costs associated
  with renting space, including equipment and utilities, at telework centers as practicable.
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                      15


     5.9.1. Organizations may provide employees with a cell phone or calling card to cover
     long distance telephone charges while working at a telework center.
     5.9.2. Security requirements prescribed in this Instruction apply to all employees who
     telework, including those who telework from telework centers.
6. SECURITY
  6.1. Security Considerations.      Employees are responsible for safeguarding all AF
  information, protecting GFE and Government property, and performing assigned duties while
  teleworking in support of mission requirements.
     6.1.1. Classified Documents. Employees in telework arrangements must not take
     classified documents (hard copy or electronic) to their homes or alternative worksites. If
     classified telework is authorized at an approved alternative secure location, teleworkers
     shall comply with procedures established by AF regarding such work. Refer to AFI 31-
     401, Information Security Program Management, for guidance on Information
     Protection.
     6.1.2. Privacy Act/For Official Use Only (FOUO). Employees must protect sensitive
     unclassified data, including Privacy Act or FOUO data, consistent with guidance in DoD
     5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, and AF policy.
     6.1.3. Employees must protect sensitive information, or contractor proprietary data
     restricted by section 423 of title 41, U.S.C. (also known as Section 27 of Office of
     Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended) or data otherwise restricted by the Federal
     Acquisition Regulation or the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation or other
     acquisition policies.
     6.1.4. Employees must comply with criteria and guidelines established by DoD CIO,
     SAF/CIO A6, and local communications squadrons for using both GFE and non-GFE and
     for access to DoD/AF information systems and networks to perform telework. Refer to
     AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems.” and add
     this to list of references. Rationale: This is the best starting point for users regarding GFE
     and non-GFE Information Systems policy.
     6.1.5. Employees who telework from home must comply with AF criteria and guidelines
     established for keeping Government property and information safe and secure.
7. EQUIPMENT AND OFFICE SUPPLIES
  7.1. Equipment and Office Supplies. The employee’s organization shall provide the
  necessary equipment and office supplies (e.g. paper, toner, and printer ink) for use with GFE
  for employees who telework on a regular and recurring basis, within budgetary constraints as
  determined by the commander (or equivalent), based on nature and type of work performed.
  Equipment and supplies may be furnished for employees who telework on a situational basis
  when practicable. Employees must comply with equipment usage requirements set forth in
  the telework agreement.
     7.1.1. GFE shall be approved for employees who telework on a regular and recurring
     basis and for situational teleworkers, when practicable and available. The commander (or
     equivalent) shall determine the propriety of furnishing and installing GFE and software.
     The employee’s organization is responsible for the service and maintenance of GFE. It is
16                                                         AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


     the employee’s responsibility to ensure GFE is available at designated location for
     service and maintenance when required.
     7.1.2. DoD/AF remote access software must be installed onto GFE and personally-
     owned computers to enable access to unclassified DoD systems and networks consistent
     with criteria and guidelines established by the DoD CIO and SAF/CIO A6. Personally-
     owned computers must be adapted to accept a common access card (CAC) reader. CAC
     readers may be provided by the organization when practicable and available.
     7.1.3. GFE shall be used for official use and authorized purposes only. Family members
     and friends of employees are not authorized to use GFE and materials. GFE must be
     returned to the supervisor at the conclusion of teleworking arrangements or at the
     commander’s (or equivalent) request. Supervisors are responsible for implementing
     appropriate procedures to ensure GFE is returned at the conclusion of the teleworking
     arrangement. Refer to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security, Chapter 6, for guidance on
     telework end point security.
     7.1.4. Use of personally owned computers to access unclassified AF systems or networks
     remotely are required to comply with the criteria and guidelines for using personal
     equipment established by DoD CIO and SAF/CIO A6 in accordance with Air Force
     Manual 33-282, Computer Security, Para 6.8., Privately-Owned hardware and software.
  7.2. Employee Responsibility. The employee is responsible for installation, repair, and
  maintenance of all personally-owned equipment and other incremental costs associated with
  the residential worksite. Operating costs associated with the teleworker using his or her
  personal residence as the alternative worksite including home maintenance, insurance, or
  utilities (e.g, heat, electricity) will not be assumed by AF.
  7.3. Employee’s Organization’s Responsibility. The employee’s organization or unit may
  use appropriated funds, when practicable and available, to install telephone lines, broadband,
  or other necessary telecommunications equipment in a private residence and fund appropriate
  monthly expenses for employees that telework on a regular and recurring basis, when the
  purpose is for official Government business consistent with guidance set forth in Public Law
  104.52, section 620. The employee’s organization or unit may also issue a calling card,
  provide a cell phone, or reimburse for long-distance (domestic and international) telephone
  expenses if incurred as a result of official business.
  7.4. AF is not liable for damages to the employee’s personal or real property while the
  employee is working at home, except to the extent the Government is liable under sections
  1346(b), 1402(b), 2401(b), and 2761-1680 of title 28, U.S.C. (also known as “The Federal
  Tort Claims Act”) (Reference (s)) or section 3721 of title 31, U.S.C. (also known as “The
  Military Personnel and Civilian Employees Claims Act”) (Reference (s)).
8. EMERGENCY SITUATIONS
  8.1. Mission Critical Duties. Employees who perform mission-critical duties may be
  required to work from home or an alternative worksite such as a telework center during an
  emergency situation. Employees who are designated as mission-critical must complete a DD
  Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement, for the supervisor to maintain in the Supervisor’s
  Employee Work Folder. The telework agreement will address the telework location and
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     17


  work expectations. To the extent practicable, supervisors will include a description of
  emergency duties with the telework agreement.
     8.1.1. Employees designated as mission-critical may be required to work on a day when
     Federal Offices are closed to the public (or when OPM has authorized a delayed arrival
     or an early or immediate departure), and for such an employee, the day is a workday and
     normal time and attendance rules apply.
     8.1.2. Employees designated as mission-critical shall telework on a regular basis to
     ensure their proficiency and telework’s effectiveness in continuing operations in the
     event of an emergency or pandemic. Mission-critical employees in positions not
     typically eligible for telework should telework on a situational basis, when feasible. Such
     employees shall have a signed and approved DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement,
     in place.
     8.1.3. Designated mission-critical employees who are unable to work due to personal
     situations (e.g., injury or illness or dependent care responsibilities) will request leave
     appropriate for those circumstances. Employees are required to contact supervisor and
     request appropriate leave in accordance with applicable procedures if unable to telework
     or report to the traditional worksite.
     8.1.4. An employee who is required to work and fails to report for work without
     adequate reason for his or her absence, the supervisor may place employee on absence
     without leave (AWOL), and employee may potentially be disciplined for AWOL.
  8.2. Pandemic Health Crisis. In the event of a pandemic health crisis, employees with
  COOP responsibilities and employees who do not have COOP responsibilities, but are
  trained and equipped to telework, may be asked to telework to prevent spread of germs.
  These employes should telework on a regular basis to ensure their proficiency and telework’s
  effectiveness in continuing operations. Employees in positions not typically eligible for
  telework should telework on a situational basis when feasible. Employees who may be
  required to telework in the event of a pandemic must have a signed DD Form 2946, DoD
  Telework Agreement, in place.
  8.3. Office Closure or Dismissal. Employees approved for regular and situational telework
  who are not able to report to their assigned office location due to office closure or dismissal
  from a natural or man-made emergency event (e.g., hurricane, earthquake, wild fire, snow
  storm, flooding, act of terrorism) or when OPM (or other official agencies such as FEB)
  announces that Government offices are open with the option for unscheduled telework when
  weather conditions or other circumstances disrupt commuting and compromise employee
  safety, are required to telework each regularly scheduled work day during the emergency
  situation, when the capability to telework is available at the alternative worksite.
  8.4. No Additional Pay or Paid Time Off for Employees Who Must Work. Employees who
  are required to work on site (e.g., at the office) or telework during their regular tour of duty
  on a day when Federal offices are closed to the public (or when other employees are
  authorized a delayed arrival or an early departure) are not entitled to receive overtime pay,
  credit hours, or compensatory time off for performing work during their regularly scheduled
  non-overtime hours.
18                                                         AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


  8.5. Designated mission-critical employees who are unable to work due to personal
  situations (e.g., injury or illness or dependent care responsibilities) will request leave in
  accordance with established leave policies and procedures.
     8.5.1. While under this Instruction telework may not be used as a substitute for
     dependent care, when such an employee required to telework lacks dependent care due to
     the same emergency situation that produced the office closure, the employee may, in lieu
     of taking leave, contact the supervisor and request the ability to telework if the employee
     believes that he or she is able to accomplish work duties (for at least part of the day).
  8.6. If circumstances permitting Administrative Leave for other non-teleworking employees
  also prevent the teleworker from working at the telework location (e.g., loss of electrical
  power; evacuation by local authorities; or the employee cannot access materials necessary to
  continue work during the emergency), the employee is required to attempt to contact a
  supervisor to be excused from duty. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring teleworkers
  and non-teleworkers are informed of the appropriate procedures for contacting the supervisor
  to be excused from duty.
  8.7. Supervisors may administratively excuse the designated teleworker from teleworking on
  a case-by-case basis. Supervisors will contact the CPS for guidance before using the
  administrative leave provision.
  8.8. If the worksite office is open and other circumstances prevent the employee from
  teleworking, the employee may report to the worksite or request leave as practicable and
  approved by the supervisor.
  8.9. If the teleworker is unable to communicate with his or her supervisor to be excused
  from duty and cannot maintain his or her remote working status, the teleworker shall follow
  the installation’s emergency guidance, orders, and procedures (e.g., outlined in
  organization’s COOP and other applicable emergency management plans). Supervisors are
  responsible for ensuring employees are aware of the organization’s COOP and other
  applicable emergency management plans.
  8.10. Any requirement that a teleworker continue to work during an office closure or early
  dismissal must be included in the employee’s DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement.
  8.11. When an employee’s residence or other approved worksite has been designated as a
  safe haven during an emergency, such as a pandemic health crisis evacuation, the supervisor
  may assign any work necessary, as long as the employee has the skills to perform the
  assigned work, without regard to the employee’s grade or pay band level. In cases where a
  safe haven is designated, a DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement, does not need to be in
  place consistent with the guidelines in 5 CFR 550.409, Evacuation Payments During a
  Pandemic Health Crisis.




                                          ROBERT E. CORSI, JR. SES
                                          Assistant DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                  19


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Federal Register FMR Bulletin 2006-B3, Guidelines for Alternative Workplace Arrangements,
17 March 2006
HAF Mission Directive 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Reserve
Affairs, 15 December 2008
HAF Mission Directive 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and
Services, 1 July 2009
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, 10 Feb 2009
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 22 Jun 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
DoDI 1035.01, Telework Policy, 4 Apr 2012
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
DD Form 2946, Department of Defense Telework Agreement
AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A1— Personnel
AF— Air Force
AFPC— Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
CIO—Chief Information Officer
COOP— Continuity of Operations
CPF/S— Civilian Personnel Flight/Section
DCPA— Defense Civilian Personnel Advisory Service
DCPD— Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DCS— Deputy Chief of Staff
DoDD— Department of Defense Directive
 20                                                         AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


DoDI— Department of Defense Instruction
DRU— Direct Reporting Unit
FEB— Federal Executive Board
FOA— Field Operating Agency
GFE— Government Furnished Equipment
GSA— General Services Agency
HAF— Headquarters Air Force
HR— Human Resource
MAJCOM— Major Command
MR— Manpower, Reserve Affairs
OCONUS— Outside the Continental United States
OPM— Office of Personnel Management
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS— Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
SAF— Secretary of the Air Force
SIF— Security Information File

Terms
Alternate worksite—A place away from the traditional worksite that has been approved for the
performance of assigned official duties. It may be an employee’s home, a telework center, or
other approved worksite.
COOP planning—An effort to ensure that the capability exists to continue agency essential
functions across a wide range of natural disasters or local or national declared emergencies.
Defense Civilian Pay SystemA pay processing system used to pay DoD civilian employees.
EligibilityCharacteristics of the job position and the employee that identify suitability for
teleworking as determined by the supervisor or other appropriate management official in the
employee’s chain of command.
Emergency situation teleworkTelework performed in an employee’s home or alternative
worksite during a crisis situation or emergency event by those employees who perform duties in
support of mission requirements during crisis situations or contingencies.
EmployeeA DoD civilian employee paid from appropriated funds.
Federal Executive BoardA group composed of the heads of all Federal departmental and
agency field offices, civilian and military, which is the primary means for distributing
information, interagency training, and promoting discussion of Federal policies, activities, and
management issues for Federal Executives in the field (e.g., agencies located in major
metropolitan areas in the United States).
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     21


Full—time TeleworkWhen an employee spends 100% of time at the telework site, usually used
for virtual or long-distance employees or employees with medical conditions or disabilities (See
also 1.2.10.7.) which prevent work attendance at the traditional worksite. Full-time telework
requires the preparation and submission of a request for personnel action in order to complete a
Standard Form 50, Notification of Personnel Action.
Head of ActivityThe leader of a tenant or geographically separated organization who is not
termed a commander IAW AFI 38—101, Air Force Organization, and whose chain of
command does not report through the installation or tenant commander. Examples include the
superintendent of the U.S. Air Force Academy, a civilian leader of a tenant organization on a
host installation, and a civilian or military leader of a detachment or operating location.
Installation CommanderMilitary commander of an installation/host unit.
Mission—critical dutiesJob position functions that are identified as critical to performance of
the mission. This is not the same as mission-essential positions.
Official worksite—Approved location where the employee regularly performs his or her duties.
Officially disciplinedA disciplinary action taken in accordance with AFI 36—704,
Discipline and Adverse Actions and results in the placement of a document in the employee’s
official personnel file.
On—boardingProcess that takes place when an employee enters a new position. The on-
boarding process involves integrating and acculturating new employees into the organization and
providing them with tools, recourse, and knowledge to become engaged, successful, and
productive early in the employment cycle.
Regular and recurring telework—An approved work schedule where eligible employees work
at an alternative worksite on a regular, recurring, and ongoing basis at least twice each biweekly
pay period.
Remote Access—The ability for an organization’s users to access its nonpublic computing
resources from locations other than the organization’s facilities.
Safe haven—Agency designated location such as an employee’s residence or an alternative
location mutually agreeable to the agency and the employee when employees are evacuated from
their worksites.
Situational teleworkTelework that occurs on an occasional non—routine or ad hoc basis.
Telework that occurs to complete short-term special assignments or to accommodate special
circumstances is also considered situational even though the telework may occur continuously
for a specific period.
Supervisor—Civilian management official or commander who has responsibility for directing
and managing employee work and for approving and denying employee telework agreements.
Telework—A voluntary work arrangement where an employee performs assigned official duties
and other authorized activities during any part of regular, paid hours at an approved alternative
worksite (e.g., home, telework center) on a regular and recurring or a situational basis. Telework
includes remote work where an employee resides and works at a location beyond the local
commuting area of the employing organization’s worksite. Telework does not include any part
of work done while on official travel or mobile work, that is, work characterized by routine and
 22                                                            AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013


regular travel to customer or other worksites instead of a single agency worksite (e.g., site audits,
inspections, investigations, and property management).
Telework agreement—A written agreement, completed and signed by an employee and the
authorized management official(s) via the DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement, that
outlines the terms and conditions of the telework arrangement.
Telework Center—A facility that provides a geographically convenient office setting with work
stations and other office facilities and services that are used by civilian employees from more
than one organization.
Telework site—Alternative worksite location where an employee performs assigned official
duties.
Tenant Commander—Military commander of an activity/unit tenanted/located on a host
installation who does not report through the installation/host unit commander. For example,
Major Commands, Numbered Air Forces, Direct Reporting Units, and Field Operating Agencies
may be located on installations but their commanders are not subordinate to the installation
commander.
Traditional worksite—The place where an employee would normally work absent a telework
agreement.
Unscheduled telework—A specific form of situational telework where an employee on an
approved telework agreement performs assigned official duties at home or other approved
worksite when Government offices are closed to an emergency event or open, but severe weather
conditions or other circumstances disrupt commuting and compromise employee safety.
AFI36-816 13 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                                        23


                                              ATTACHMENT 2
                  GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT AGREEMENT

Figure A2.1. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED EQUIPMENT AGREEMENT

(to be added to DD Form 2946, DoD Telework Agreement, when applicable)

1.  I understand the government retains ownership and control of all hardware, software, and data associated with
    government-owned systems.
2. I understand GFE is FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO). Installation, repair and maintenance are at the
    sole discretion and direction of the issuing organization.
3. I will bring GFE to the primary work office for maintenance or security updates, as requested. This is
    imperative to ensure the latest virus protection and updates are loaded.
4. I agree to protect all GFE, to prevent use from unauthorized users, and to use the equipment only for official
    purposes.
5. I understand GFE must be officially assigned to me before operating GFE for telework.
6. I agree to install, service and maintain any privately-owned equipment at my sole risk and responsibility.
7. I understand the government does not incur any cost or liability resulting from the use, misuse, loss, theft, or
    destruction of privately-owned computer equipment or resources (e.g., PEDs, WiFi’s or laptops).
8. I understand I must comply with DoD and Air Force security procedures and ensure security measures are in
    place to protect government equipment from damage, theft, or access by unauthorized individuals.
9. I understand access to sensitive (e.g., Privacy Act, FOUO) documents, data, records, etc.; on government
    equipment must be consistent with all DoD and Air Force directives and instructions.
10. I understand I am not authorized to work on classified information or documents away from official duty
    location.
11. I understand I am responsible for complying with computer security and information assurance policies to
    protect against malicious logic, viruses, and physical loss, theft, or damage of information systems. Anti-virus
    software is available for both government and privately owned computers.
12. I understand, if telecommuting privileges terminate, I must immediately return government-owned hardware,
    software, and data, and cancel all telecommunications services the government provided.


Print Name:____________________________________________


Organization:____________________________________________


Employee Signature :____________________________________________Date:____________


Supervisor Signature:____________________________________________Date:____________
