BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-114
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 13 MAY 2004
                                                 Incorporating Through Change 2, 23 OCTOBER
                                                                                        2008
                                                                            30TH SPACE WING
                                                                                   Supplement
                                                                                  9 MARCH 2011

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                                  SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFCA/ITXD (MSgt Robert C.                        Certified by: USAF/ILC (Col Ronnie D.
Lowry)                                                                            Hawkins, Jr.)
Supersedes: AFI33-114, 1 July 2000.                                                  Pages: 21
                                             (30SW)
OPR: 30 SCS/SCX                                            Certified by: 30 OG/CC (Col Todd W.
                                                                                       Gossett)
                                                                                        Pages:5


This Air Force instruction (AFI) implements Executive Order (E.O.) 13103, Computer Software
Piracy, September 30, 1998; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3405.1, Computer
Programming Language Policy, April 2, 1987; and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1,
Information Resource Management. It identifies responsibilities for management of commercial
off-the-shelf (COTS) and Air Force-unique software acquired by the Air Force (other than
software internal to a weapon system; see AFPD 63-1, Acquisition System). Send recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications, using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ AFCA/EASD, with an information copy
to the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Warfighter Systems Integration and Deployment
Directorate, Ground Networks, (SAF/XCDIG), 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC
20330-1800. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Reference path on AF portal:
 2                                                  AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. Refer to Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

(Added-30SW) This publication supplements AFI 33-114, 13 May 2004. It identifies the
primary office within the 30th Space Communications Squadron responsible for managing
commercial off the shelf software and licenses and ensuring they are in compliance with the U.S.
Copyright Act and Executive Order 13103. It does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or
Air Force Reserve personnel (AFRC). It clarifies base Communications and Information
Systems Officer (CSO) involvement in the AFSPC computer Software License Management
Program and also establishes a Base Software License Manager and a Unit Software License
Manager and describes their responsibilities. This supplement provides the basic framework of
the overall process along with procedures for individual task accomplishment. It applies to
commercial-off-the-shelf software and program office provided applications associated with
mission systems. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; and route AF Form 847 through the wing publishing office. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records             Disposition           Schedule            (RDS)           located          at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change incorporates interim change (IC) 2 and is the result of an Air Force audit requesting
additional wording be inserted to clarify the guidance on actions to take when purchasing COTS
software; updates Section B, Responsibilities, and Section C, Installation-Level Software
Management, and updates office symbols.

Section A—Introduction

1. Purpose. This instruction provides the guidance and procedures that personnel must use to
plan, develop, use, maintain, or support Air Force software to effectively and efficiently
complete their assigned missions. It applies to Air Force-procured COTS software and software
developed for unique Air Force purposes (other than software internal to a weapon system; see
AFPD 63-1).
2. Objectives.
     2.1. Gives commanders and users of software at all levels guidance for managing licensed
     and other software used by Air Force personnel.
     2.2. References requirements for standardizing documentation and implementation
     processes.

Section B—Responsibilities

3. Secretary of the Air Force, Warfighter Systems Integration and Deployment Directorate
(SAF/XCD).
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                           3


   3.1. Establishes and oversees computer software management regulatory and policy
   guidelines.
   3.2. Implements Federal Chief Information Officers Council's recommendations for Air
   Force acquisition and use of computer software, and monitoring and combating the use of
   unauthorized computer software.
   3.3. Ensures compliance with DoDD 8320.1, DoD Data Administration, September 26,
   1991.
   3.4. Establishes criteria for formal licensed software management courses identified by
   SAF/XCDI in coordination with Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (HQ
   AETC/SCX).
4. Major Command (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Unit (DRU), Field Operating Agency
(FOA), and Organizational Commanders.
   4.1. All MAJCOM/DRU/FOA communications and information systems officers (CSO),
   where assigned, or commanders representatives where not assigned, will:
      4.1.1. Conduct and document an annual inventory of licenses as required by E.O. 13103.
      4.1.2. Establish a process to track licenses (see paragraph 9).
      4.1.3. Develop performance measurements and metrics for software license requirements
      as required by E.O. 13103.
      4.1.4. Identify enterprise software license requirements and management training
      requirements not covered in existing courses to SAF/XCDI.
   4.2. Air Force personnel are to contact the responsible functional or program management
   office before purchasing software licenses to determine if COTS software licenses are
   available, or if there is a standard product to buy. Reference path on AF portal: Air
   Force\Enterprise IT Initiatives\Enterprise COTS Software Agreements.
   4.3. Air Force personnel are to coordinate with the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)
   designated product center to obtain volume pricing for products available through the DoD
   Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI). The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation (DFAR)
   Supplement, Part 208, Required Sources of Supplies and Service, Subpart 208.74, Enterprise
   Software Agreements (ESA), requires purchasers to first consider DoD Enterprise Software
   Agreements found at https://www.esi.mil.
   4.4. Coordinate with the host communications unit or servicing Network Control Center
   before implementing any software.
5. Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency.
   5.1. Surveys and consolidates MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU requirements for potential Air
   Force enterprise software licenses for COTS computer and network management software.
   5.2. Recommends candidate software products for potential Air Force-wide licensing to the
   Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) product center designated with the responsibility for
   enterprise license management.
 4                                                  AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


     5.3. Consolidates new MAJCOM training for managing software licenses (including
     computer-based initiatives) and sends them to Headquarters Air Education and Training
     Command (HQ AETC/SCX, 61 Main Circle Suite 2, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4545) for
     incorporating formal courses or in long-distance learning approaches.
     5.4. AFCA Combat Information Transport System (CITS) will implement the Information
     Technology (IT) Asset & Systems Management (ITASM) which will provide for a USAF-
     Enterprise Configuration Management Database (CMDB) that will hold information for all
     USAF COTS entitlements and software implementation metrics. This will be the
     authoritative source of information for software entitlement and implementation metrics.
        5.4.1. AFCA CITS ITASM USAF-Enterprise CMDB will enable Air Force adoption of
        the International Standardization Bodies/International Electrotechnical Commission
        (ISO/IEC) 20000, Information Technology - Service Management, also known as
        Information Technology Infrastructure Library practices for Software Asset
        Management. This will complement ISO/IEC 19770, Software Asset Management
        (SAM).
        5.4.2. AFCA CITS ITASM will provide mechanism for USAF-Enterprise Evaluated
        Approved Products List that will publish to the USAF-Portal the COTS Software
        Products that have been certified for use on USAF networks.
        5.4.3. AFCA CITS ITASM CMDB will publish to DoD ITAM (DoD IT Asset
        Management) metrics for both software entitlements and implemented software.
        5.4.4. CITS ITASM CMDB Initial Operating Capability (IOC) for Network
        Management Software Entitlements is targeted for December 2009. IOC for Server
        Software Entitlements is targeted for December 2010, and IOC for Desktop Software
        Entitlements is targeted for December 2011.
6. Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command.
     6.1. Designates a product center as the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for managing
     the Air Force Enterprise Software License Program and, when designated, acts as executive
     agent for establishing DoD-wide enterprise software licenses.
     6.2. Designates a product center as purchasing agent for software licenses to support
     consolidated and programmatic Air Force requirements.
     6.3. Manages Air Force Enterprise Software Licenses for COTS computer and network
     management software.
7. Headquarters Air Education and Training Command.
     7.1. Develops training plans and materials for comprehensive training that addresses all
     aspects of managing the operation of installation-level licensed software.
     7.2. Establishes curricula for formal licensed software management courses identified by
     SAF/XCDI.
     7.3. Provides training through centrally managed computer based training courses or other
     distance learning approaches.
8. Individual Commercial Off-The-Shelf Software Users.
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                              5


   8.1. Do not install and use copies of government-owned software on a home computer
   unless the software license explicitly allows users to do so and the base CSO has authorized
   such use. When authorized for installation on a home computer, only use the software for
   official Air Force business. Personal use may be a violation of The Copyright Act, rendering
   the individual user accountable and liable.
   8.2. Do not install freeware, shareware, or personally owned software on government
   systems without approval of the system administrator or network manager servicing your
   organization, according to AFI 33-115V1, Network Management; and AFI 33-202, Computer
   Security.
   8.3. Do not make any illegal copies of copyrighted software.

Section C—Installation-Level Software Management

9. Managing Licensed Commercial Off-The-Shelf Software. The communications squadron
commander or CSO at each installation who implements licensed COTS or other software shall:
   9.1. Develop and implement a documented process to ensure that all software (including
   freeware, shareware, licensed COTS products, and pre-production versions) is free of viruses
   and malicious logic.
   9.2. Annually instruct personnel on licensed software usage; The Privacy Act and The
   Copyright Act considerations; and Air Force, DoD and E.O. provisions.
   9.3. Register organization ownership of licensed COTS software and ensure an annual
   inventory is conducted of all licensed COTS software in the organization.
   9.4. Use a metering mechanism if licensed for server-hosted, concurrent-user application
   software to prevent exceeding the authorized number of copies and users. Record network
   manager or system administrator inventory of licensed client and network software as part of
   the annual installation licensed software inventory.
   9.5. Maintain a record of the COTS software controlled by the organization.
   9.6. Store evidence (e.g., user manual, purchase documentation, compact disk, etc.) of
   licenses in a secure location (e.g., a locked file cabinet).
   9.7. Dispose of old versions of COTS software according to licensing agreements. Upgrades
   from the original software source are normally considered a continuation of the original
   license, not an additional or new license.
   9.8. Redistribute excess or superseded COTS software if it:
      9.8.1. Is allowed under the license agreement or upgrade policy for that software.
      9.8.2. Is not classified.
      9.8.3. Did not provide direct security protection to automated data processing equipment
      in systems that processed classified information.
      9.8.4. Is not directly related to or associated with a weapon system, intelligence system,
      command and control system, communications system, or tactical system.
      9.8.5. Still operates as intended.
 6                                                    AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


     9.9. Dispose of excess or superseded COTS software not redistributed by one of the
     following methods:
        9.9.1. Return the software package (distribution media, manuals, etc.) to the company
        that developed the software.
        9.9.2. Destroy the software according to the provisions of the licensing agreement.
        (NOTE: Document the method of destruction to establish an audit trail.) This may
        include:
            9.9.2.1. Destroying the documentation and distribution media.
            9.9.2.2. Formatting or erasing the master floppy disks.
            9.9.2.3. Using the master floppy disks as scratch disks.
        9.9.3. Audit all computer and server software annually to ensure there are no illegal or
        unauthorized copies of COTS or other software installed. Sampling procedures may be
        used if active inventorying is available.
     9.10. Installations that deploy and manage COTS software shall utilize ITASM to track
     software entitlements and implementation information.
        9.10.1. Installations are to utilize AutoDiscovery Tools to acquire implemented software
        information that is to be reported by the ITASM system. Installations are to utilize CITS
        ITASM standard tools where applicable. AutoDiscovery Tools will suffice for audit on
        implemented software on network attached computers and servers.
        9.10.2. Installations utilization of ITASM will complement the AFCA CITS ITASM
        deployment schedule.
10. Software Developed Using Commercial Off-The-Shelf Office SoftwareTools. Air Force
computer users are encouraged and expected to use their licensed COTS office software to
increase their individual professional productivity and overall unit effectiveness. Users must
coordinate networked or “group” computer applications that are user built with these tools with
the installation CSO. This precludes later impact on network and server capacity, avoids
duplication of effort on similar application software within the installation or MAJCOM, and
ensures continued software support after departure of one or more of the original user-
developers. Air Force user-developers shall:
     10.1. Ensure the Air Force retains property rights to the computer software developed in the
     course of their duties.
     10.2. Not by-pass computer/network server operating systems, security systems, or access
     controls provided by higher authority.
     10.3. Provide the CSO a software documentation package in appropriate digital format. The
     software package must include:
        10.3.1. The author or point of contact, organization, and telephone number.
        10.3.2. A descriptive unclassified title with version number as the first delivery (use
        Version 1.0).
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                                   7


       10.3.3. A brief (one paragraph) unclassified description of the software’s functionality
       for use in publishing software reuse catalogs; and a classified description, if necessary, to
       more fully explain the software’s capabilities.
       10.3.4. A brief description of all testing (such as Year 2000) performed on the mission
       application software and its databases.
       10.3.5. A brief user’s guide. The user’s guide should include:
          10.3.5.1. The hardware configuration required.
          10.3.5.2. The supporting software required to include the operating system and (if
          any) supporting COTS software with version release number.
          10.3.5.3. Compiling and linking instructions, if applicable.
          10.3.5.4. Descriptions of the software installation process, required hardware setup,
          menus, and software capabilities and functions.
          10.3.5.5. Samples of terminal output screens and print products produced (if any).
          10.3.5.6. Other information useful for continued effective use and maintenance of the
          mission application software.
11. Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence (C4I) Software
Development; Reuse; and Release. Adhere to DoDD 3405.1; DoDD 4630.5, Compatibility,
Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (C3I)
Systems, November 12, 1992; DoD Instruction (DoDI) 4630.8, Procedures for Compatibility,
Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (C3I)
Systems, November 18, 1992; and Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6212.01A,
Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications,
Computers, and Intelligence Systems, 30 June 1995; when developing mission or application
software for C4I systems.
   11.1. Organic Development. Do not develop software organically unless quality, cost,
   performance, schedule, or interoperability requirements cannot be met with COTS or non-
   developmental item software.
       11.1.1. Acquire an approved mission needs statement before developing organic
       software requiring over 6 man-months of effort or costing in excess of $50,000, and
       follow guidance for software acquired under DoD 5000-series acquisitions.
       11.1.2. All units that develop or maintain software will have a software process
       improvement (SPI) program and a documented SPI plan, including at least:
          11.1.2.1. A baseline of their current capabilities.
          11.1.2.2. Goals and milestones they intend to reach.
          11.1.2.3. Metrics to measure their progress toward their goals and milestones.
          11.1.2.4. Timeline for SPI appraisals. The Software Technology Support Center
          (STSC) at Hill Air Force Base UT is available on a fee-recovery basis for SPI
          appraisals, but any qualified SPI appraiser may be used.
          11.1.2.5. Identify life-cycle support requirements for the life of developed software.
 8                                                      AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


     11.2. Releasing COTS Office Software Tools. It is Air Force policy to release, upon
     consideration of a valid written request, specific software developed exclusively with
     government funds or otherwise owned by the Air Force. The OPR for the software decides to
     release or disclose that software. The approval authority may be at a higher level depending
     upon the recipient (e.g., approval authority for all foreign release requests is Secretary of the
     Air Force [SAF/IADD]). When not for foreign release and the OPR is in doubt regarding the
     release of software, send the request to HQ USAF/SCX, 1250 Air Force Pentagon,
     Washington DC 20330-1250, for resolution. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests
     must be sent to the local FOIA manager to control and respond using guidelines in the Air
     Force supplement to DoD 5400.7-R (DoD 5400.7-R/AFSUP), DoD Freedom Of Information
     Act Program, 22 July 1999. Before releasing the software, the OPR shall require the
     requester to sign a memorandum of agreement (see Attachment 2). Releases of Air Force-
     owned or developed software from software reuse libraries, or software under Air Force-
     industry Cooperative Research and Development Agreements (CRADA), are exceptions to
     this policy.
     11.3. When developing mission or application software for information systems, it is
     desirable to utilize that Software Engineering Institute’s Software Capability Maturity Model
     Integrated (CMMI) as advocated by the Software Technology Support Center (STSC) at Hill
     AFB UT (www.stsc.hill.af.mil), or the 754th Electronic Systems Group’s Systems
     Engineering Process (www.gunter.af.mil/sw).
12. Software Configuration, Change, and Release Management. Use ISO/IEC 20000, or
ITIL (Information Technology Infrastructure Library), Configuration Management, Change
Management, and Release Management processes to plan, identify, control, monitor, verify, and
manage software configuration items. Typically, software configuration items would include
information such as purchase order number, purchase date, software manufacturer, software title,
and version implemented.
13. Information Assurance. Program managers and software developers must integrate
information assurance into their systems using guidance contained in AFPD 33-2, Information
Protection (converting to Information Assurance), and the Air Force 33-200 series publications.
These publications give policy guidelines for developing and using the computer,
communications, and emissions security programs needed for all Air Force communications and
information systems.
14. Open Systems Guidelines. The Air Force is committed to meeting the DoD objective of
developing interoperable and maintainable systems based on open standards. To that end, system
developers, contract administrators, and maintainers must adhere to the guidance given in the
DoD Joint Technical Architecture (JTA) and JTA-Air Force (JTA-AF). These documents
identify a common set of mandatory information technology standards and guidelines used in all
new systems and system upgrades in the DoD. Each unit ensures that upgrades to systems under
maintenance comply to the maximum extent possible with the JTA and JTA-AF.
15. Software Reuse. Software reuse is the practice of using existing software components to
develop new software applications. Software reuse benefits the Air Force through increased
developer productivity, improved quality and reliability of software-intensive systems, enhanced
system interoperability, lowered program technical risk, and shortened software development
and maintenance time.
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                                   9


   15.1. Reusable software components may include executable software binaries, source code
   segments, program documentation, project plans, requirement descriptions, design and
   architecture documents, database schemas, test data and test plans, user’s manuals, software
   tools, and object classes. These assets can be most efficiently used when designed and
   packaged to fit into a product-line architecture at each software development location for a
   specific mission area or functional domain, using interface standards and common
   communications protocols. The domain product-line components can then be used to create
   families of related systems designed to share common software architecture for the domain.
   15.2. Each Air Force software development location should:
       15.2.1. Establish a software reuse library or repository for internal sharing of the
       reusable software components developed at the location.
       15.2.2. Report each reusable software component to the Air Force Reuse Center,
       Standard Systems Group, Maxwell AFB-Gunter Annex AL, for storage in the Air Force
       Defense Software Repository System.
       15.2.3. Upon valid written request, release software component using the software
       release memorandum of agreement at Attachment 2.
16. Deleted.
17. Bandwidth. The Air Force is faced with restrictions on the amount of information that can
be provided to our forces, particularly in remote areas of the world. Therefore, software systems
designers and developers must discipline themselves in the quantity and content of non-mission
essential information sent over supporting network infrastructures (that is, ensure sending only
operationally necessary data). In addition to DoD direction, follow all policy and procedures in
AFIs 33-101, Communications and Information Management Guidance and Responsibilities; 33-
115V1; 33-119, Electronic Mail (E-Mail) Management and Use; and 33-129, Transmission of
Information Via the Internet; on downloading from the Internet, transmission of e-mail
attachments, video teleconferencing, Web browsing, and conservation measures during periods
of surge or network degradation. Air Force-developed software (including that developed
specifically for the Air Force) will accommodate network infrastructure considerations into its
systems design and internal code, such that it does not overtax the infrastructure that it relies and
operates.
18. Checklists. Use AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist (available electronically), to
develop a checklist on software and software license management using paragraphs 3 through 8
19. (Added-30SW) 30th Space Wing Software License Management Program. Specific
responsibilities under this program are contained in paragraphs 19.1. through 19.7.7. of this
supplement.
   19.1. (Added-30SW) Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO). The 30
   SCS/CC (CSO) will designate a primary and alternate Base Software License Manager
   (BSLM) to manage the 30th Space Wing’s software license program.
   19.2. (Added-30SW) Unit Commander Responsibilities.
       19.2.1. (Added-30SW) Appoint a primary and alternate Unit Software License Manager
       (USLM) in writing to administer the unit software license program, and forward the
       appointment memo to the BSLM. Individuals appointed to USLM duties may also
10                                                AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


     perform the duties of the unit Information Assurance Officer (IAO), Equipment
     Custodian (EC), and/or the Computer Support Technician (CST).
     19.2.2. (Added-30SW) Ensure outgoing and incoming software license managers
     conduct a joint inventory of all licensed software and endorse all inventories. Ensure a
     copy is provided to the BSLM.
     19.2.3. (Added-30SW) Ensure the BSLM receives annual certification and
     documentation that an inventory of all unit-funded and SPO-provided software was
     accomplished. Certification is accomplished by signing the annual inventory list or by
     submitting a memorandum indicating the unit’s annual software license inventory has
     been accomplished. Complete this certification each year no later than the day the
     USLM was officially appointed.
     19.2.4. (Added-30SW) Ensure USLM is notified of all deliveries of new software
     licenses and copies of licensing materials are provided to the USLM. Ensure software is
     added to the unit’s software inventory.
  19.3. (Added-30SW) BSLM Responsibilities.
     19.3.1. (Added-30SW) Provide initial software license training for newly appointed
     BSLMs, USLMs.
     19.3.2. (Added-30SW) Ensure each unit maintains a software inventory of all unit-
     procured and SPO-provided software in the unit.
     19.3.3. (Added-30SW) Ensure each unit commander endorses the software inventory
     and forwards a copy to the BSLM.
     19.3.4. (Added-30SW) Maintain a current list of all USLMs and perform semi-annual
     compliance visits to each wing and tenant organization. Also, certify and document that
     an annual base wide-software inventory was accomplished and the provisions of this
     instruction have been met.
  19.3.5. (30SW) (Added) BSLM will randomly audit a minimum of 10% of USLM accounts
  semi-annually. Results will be reported to the unit commander and USLM for review.
  19.4. (Added-30SW) USLM Responsibilities.
     19.4.1. (Added-30SW) Know the software license agreements used for their
     organization. Monitor deliveries of all new software, update software inventory list, and
     inform the BSLM in a timely manner.
     19.4.2. (Added-30SW) Perform an annual inventory of all unit-procured and SPO-
     provided software licenses and ensure the unit commander endorses the inventory report.
     Provide a copy of the inventory to the BSLM.
     19.4.3. (Added-30SW) Perform a joint inventory of all software licenses before
     transferring responsibility to another software license manager. Ensure the unit
     commander or director endorses the annual consolidated unit software inventory report.
     19.4.4. (Added-30SW) Maintain a hard or soft copy of the software license inventory
     and “proof-of-license ownership” of all software in use within their unit. Proof may
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                            11


       consist of hardcopy or softcopy documentation from the supplier such as purchase
       documentation, email, or distribution media.
       19.4.5. (Added-30SW) Store evidence of license agreements or licenses in a three ring
       binder. The binder will be kept in a secure location, such as a locked drawer or locked
       file cabinet. Each binder will use the following tabs:
Tab 1: USLM Source Documents: Appointment memo, training certificate, and most recent
inventory.
Tab 2: Software Documentation. Using plastic zip-lock or paper inserts to capture purchase data
(vendor name, purchase order/delivery order number, description, version, cost, quantity
purchased, license ID number(s), funding data, date purchased, expiration/renew by dates), CD-
ROMs, DVDs, and/or user manuals. One plastic insert for each separate software purchase.
Tab 3: Disposition Documents. Transferred, destroyed, upgraded, etc.
   19.5. (Added-30SW) Computer User Responsibilities. Do not install or remove any
   software application without specific authorization from the Network Control Center (NCC)
   or Communications Focal Point (CFP) on unit computers.
   19.6. (Added-30SW) Unit Resource Advisors (RA) and Contracting Officers (CO)
   responsibilities.
       19.6.1. (Added-30SW) Unit resource advisors shall not authorize expenditure of funds
       to purchase software without a fully approved Vandenberg Requirements Document
       (VRD). This includes the use of a Government Purchase Card (GPC) to procure software
       and software purchases by contractors through contracts for eventual delivery to the
       Government.
       19.6.2. (Added-30SW) Contracting officers/personnel shall not obligate or authorize
       funds for software purchases without a fully approved VRD. Military Interdepartmental
       Purchase Requests (MIPRs) and Request for Purchase (AF Form 9s) must also comply
       with this policy prior to purchase approvals.
   19.7. (Added-30SW) Software Licensing Program Process.
       19.7.1. (Added-30SW) The VRD process is required for all software procurement
       approval. Unit personnel authorized and trained to submit VRDs include client support
       technicians (CST), telephone control officers (TCO) and personal wireless
       communications systems (PWCS) monitors. Mandatory information to be included on
       the VRD includes:
Machine Name(s) Software Is To Be Loaded:
Software Description:
Number of Licenses Required:
       19.7.2. (Added-30SW) Requesting Software.
          19.7.2.1. (Added-30SW) Individual requestors will work with their designated
          USLM or IAO to determine the specific software and/or equipment requirements.
          USLMs should review the Approved Products List (APL) maintained by Air Force
          Network Integration Center (AFNIC) to determine if a product fulfilling their
          requirements has previously been certified. The APL can be accessed via the WIAO
12                                                AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


        SharePoint            Site          at         the          following             link:
        https://eis.afspc.af.mil/unit/30sw/30scs/scx1/wiao/certacc/default.aspx
        19.7.2.2. (Added-30SW) If the software is on the APL, WIAO will approve the
        VRD and return it to the Requirements Processing Section for continued processing.
        19.7.2.3. (Added-30SW) If the software is not listed on the APL, the VRD will be
        returned to the USLM with instructions to fill out a software request worksheet
        located               at               the               following                link:
        https://eis.afspc.af.mil/unit/30sw/30scs/scx1/wiao/certacc/default.aspx.           The
        completed worksheet will be attached to the VRD and returned to the Requirements
        Processing Section for further action. If the software request worksheet is not
        received within 30 days from the date it was returned, the VRD will be cancelled.
     19.7.3. (Added-30SW) Receipt of Software.
        19.7.3.1. (Added-30SW) USLMs must match receipts to a fully approved VRD,
        record the software in their inventory, and store software media/licenses in the three
        ring binder as noted in paragraph 19.4.5.
        19.7.3.2. (Added-30SW) The USLM shall receive all physical media and shall
        download, or coordinate with a CST to download, all electronically delivered
        software from approved websites. Documentation, licenses, etc. will be placed in the
        three ring binder per paragraph 19.4.5.
     19.7.4. (Added-30SW) COTS Software Transfer.
        19.7.4.1. (Added-30SW) Software licenses may be transferred between USLM
        accounts and computers with an approved VRD.
        19.7.4.2. (Added-30SW) Software must be uninstalled from the losing computer(s)
        and properly accounted for on the new account and documented on the software
        inventory.
     19.7.5. (Added-30SW) COTS Software Inventory.
        19.7.5.1. (Added-30SW) Each USLM shall conduct a software inventory annually.
        USLMs shall ensure inventory accuracy.
        19.7.5.2. (Added-30SW) Unresolved inventory discrepancies shall be reported by
        the USLM to the BSLM along with a statement of findings. BSLM has the
        responsibility to resolve all discrepancies.
        19.7.5.3. (Added-30SW) A report of survey must be accomplished for unaccounted
        for software.
        19.7.5.4. (Added-30SW) USLM account(s) with no software inventory will submit
        a no inventory letter to the BSLM.
     19.7.6. (Added-30SW) COTS Software Reuse/Reallocation.
        19.7.6.1. (Added-30SW) USLMs must exhaust existing software licenses before
        additional purchases of like software. USLMs shall first check existing software
        licenses prior to submitting a new VRD.
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                    13


     19.7.6.2. (30SW) (Added) Software license renewals/maintenance agreements shall
     follow the same process as explained in paragraph 19.7.2.
     19.7.7. (Added-30SW) COTS Software Disposal.
        19.7.7.1. (Added-30SW) USLMs shall be responsible for disposal of excess and/or
        obsolete software in accordance with licensing and/or purchasing agreements.
        19.7.7.2. (Added-30SW) Disposal documentation shall be maintained in Tab 3 of
        the three ring binder for one year from the date of purchase.




                                      MICHAEL W. PETERSON, Lt Gen, USAF
                                      Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                      Chief Information Officer

                                      (30SW)
                                      RICHARD W. BOLTZ, Colonel, USAF
                                      Commander
 14                                               AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
E.O. 13103, Computer Software Piracy, September 30, 1998
Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. section 552, as amended by Public Law No. 104-231, 110
Stat. 3048
The Copyright Act
The Information Technology Management Reform Act (Division E of Public Law 104-106)
The Privacy Act
CJCSI 6212.01A, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control,
Communications, Computers, and Intelligence Systems, 30 June 1995
DFAR Supplement, Part 208, Requires Sources of Supplies and Services, Subpart 208.74,
Enterprise Software Agreements, 25 October 2002
DoDD 3405.1, Computer Programming Language Policy, April 2, 1987
DoDD 4630.5, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control,
Communications, and Intelligence (C3I) Systems, November 12, 1992
DoDI 4630.8, Procedures for Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command,
Control, Communications, and Intelligence (C3I) Systems, November 18, 1992
DoD 5400.7-R/AFSUP, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 22 July 1999
DoDD 8320.1, DoD Data Administration, September 26, 1991
DoD 8320.1-M, Data Administration Procedures, March 29, 1994
DoD 8320.1-M-1, Data Standardization Procedures, April 2, 1998
ISO/IEC 19770, Software Asset Management (SAM)
ISO/IEC 20000, Information Technology - Service Management
AFI 21-116, Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics
AFPD 33-1, Information Resource Management
AFPD 63-1, Capability-Based Acquisition System
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program
AFI 33-101, Communications and Information Management Guidance and Responsibilities
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS)
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging
AFI 33-129, WEB Management and Internet Use
AFI 33-202, Network and Computer Security
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                    15


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIND—Air Force Index
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computers
C4I—Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence
CITS—Combat Information Transport System
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CMDB—Configuration Management Database
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf
CRADA—Cooperative Research and Development Agreements
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
DFAR—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
E.O.—Executive Order
ESA—Enterprise Software Agreement
ESI—Enterprise Software Initiative
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
IT—Information Technology
ITASM—IT Asset & Systems Management
ITIL—Information Technology Infrastructure Library
JTA—Joint Technical Architecture
JTA-AF—Joint Technical Architecture-Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
 16                                                AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAM—Software Asset Management
SPI—Software Process Improvement
STSC—Software Technology Support Center
USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force

Terms
AutoDiscovery Tool—Applications that can audit computers and services for physical and
software configuration information.
Certification—For purposes of this instruction, the act of determining that software performs
without defects and viruses, and does what the supporting documentation says it will do in
accordance with any specified acceptance criteria.
Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems—Integrated systems of
doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment, facilities, and
communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control, across
the range of military operations. Also called “communications and information systems.”
Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Software—Software developed, tested, and sold by
commercial companies to the general public. Examples include word processors, databases,
application generation, drawing, compiler, graphics, communications, and training software.
Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—Identifies the supporting CSO at
all levels. At base level, this is the commander of the communications unit responsible for
carrying out base communications and information systems responsibilities, the base CSO.
Tenant organizations may also have CSOs. At MAJCOM, and other activities responsible for
large quantities of communications and information assets, it is the person designated by the
commander as responsible for overall management of communications and information assets
budgeted and funded by the MAJCOM or activity. The CSO function, when under the base
communications unit, uses the office symbol “SC” that expands to three and four digits to
identify specific functional areas.
Configuration Management Database (CMDB)—A CMDB is a database that contains all
relevant information about the components of the information system used in an organization's
IT services and the relationships between those components. Typically includes hardware,
software, and topology information.
Computer Security (COMPUSEC)—1. The protection resulting from all measures to deny
unauthorized access and exploitation of friendly computer systems. See also “communications
security”. 2. Measures and controls that ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
information systems assets including hardware, software, firmware, and information being
processed, stored, and communicated.
Copyright—Without a license that specifies otherwise, the purchaser’s use of software is
restricted to making an archival copy and installing the computer program onto a single
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                                 17


computer, in accordance with the Copyright Act of 1976. Do not reproduce or use copyrighted
software in any other manner.
Documentation—Records required to plan, develop, operate, maintain, and use electronic
records and software. Included are systems specifications, file specifications, code books, record
layouts, user guides, and output specifications.
DoD Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI)—A DoD Chief Information Officer-led joint DoD
project to develop and implement a DoD enterprise process to save money and improve
information sharing on COTS products. The objective is to reduce problems identified with
procuring software for DoD (including price, acquisition cost, distribution, training,
maintenance, and support) for common-use, standards-compliant software.
Enterprise License—Allows the purchasing organization to use multiple copies of a specific
COTS software program, usually up to a specified number, across the organization for a set
price. This is usually a more cost-effective acquisition strategy than purchase of individual
copies. Either the Air Force Enterprise Software License Program or DoD ESI should be
considered for commonly used software.
Enterprise Software Agreement (ESA)—Agreements, such as contracts or blanket purchase
agreements, by which organizations acquire software or software maintenance under specified
terms and conditions.
Hardware—The physical equipment and devices forming a computer and peripheral
components.
Interoperability—The ability of systems, units, or forces to provide services to and accept
services from other systems, units, or forces and to use the services so exchanged to enable them
to operate effectively together. The condition achieved among communications-electronics
systems or items of communications-electronics equipment when exchanging information or
services directly and satisfactorily between them and/or their users.
License Agreements—Contracts between the software publisher and the user that instructs and
limits the software use. When purchasing software, the buyer only acquires a license to use it.
The publisher retains the full rights to the software and has the sole right to its further
distribution and reproduction.
Maintenance—Any job described as one that eliminates faults or keeps hardware or software
running in satisfactory working condition falls into the maintenance category. (See AFI 21-116,
Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics.)
Network—Two or more computers connected to each other through a multi-user system or by
other electronic means to exchange information or share computer hardware or software.
Requirement—A need for a new or improved information processing capability that, when
satisfied, increases the probability of operational mission success or decreases the cost of mission
support.
Reuse—The process of developing or supporting a software-intensive system using existing
software assets. (See DoDD 3405.1.)
Sensitive Information—The loss, misuse, unauthorized access to, or modification of
information that could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of federal programs,
 18                                                  AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under Title 5 U.S.C. Section 522a (The Privacy
Act), but that has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an E.O. or an Act
of Congress to be kept SECRET in the interest of the national defense or foreign policy. (See Air
Force Directory [AFDIR] 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information
Terminology.)
Shareware—Privately or commercially developed software that users receive free of charge but
pay a fee for continued or extended use. Normally, implied or promised support by the author is
minimal or nonexistent. (See AFDIR 33-303.)
Software—A set of computer programs, procedures, and associated documentation concerned
with the operation of a data processing system (for example, compilers, library routines, and
manuals).
User—The individual who operates the computer or uses application software.
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                                 19


                                          Attachment 2
                                  RELEASE OF SOFTWARE

A2.1. Software Reuse. It is HQ USAF policy to consider releasing specific software upon
receiving a valid written request.
   A2.1.1. Software is available from the Central Archive for Reusable Defense Software, the
   Defense Software Repository System, or the Air Force Defense Software Repository System.
   In such releases, the memorandum of agreement at paragraph A2.3 need not be completed.
   A2.1.2. As government furnished property software is available under the provisions of an
   acquisition contract. NOTE: When the government has unlimited rights in computer software
   in the possession of a contractor, the government will not pay for the use of such software in
   performance of government contracts or for the later delivery to the government of such
   computer software, provided that the contractor be entitled to compensation for converting
   the software into the prescribed form for reproduction and delivery to the government. In
   addition to adhering to the specific contract's provisions, the contractor also must sign the
   memorandum of agreement at paragraph A2.3.
   A2.1.3. Software is also available to organizations with which the Air Force does not have a
   contractual arrangement. In such situations, the recipient must sign the memorandum of
   agreement at paragraph A2.3.
A2.2. Software Release or Disclosure. Each OPR bases the decision to release or disclose
software on review of all significant factors including but not limited to, national security,
militarily critical technology/dual use, royalty arrangements, potential for Air Force-industry
CRADA, or pre-existing license agreement terms and conditions.
   A2.2.1. In all software releases, the Air Force must ensure that it will not be held liable for
   any failure of the released software or its continued maintenance. This also applies to Air
   Force software deposited in all software reuse libraries. As such, the OPR must ensure that
   recipients of software from the reuse libraries understand this waiver of warranties and
   damages liability.
A2.3. Memorandum of Agreement: I/We the undersigned, on behalf of the Requesting
Organization listed below (hereafter referred to as the "Requester"), request release of (software
name) and understand and agree to the following:
 a. NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT. The Requester requests some or all of the following
from ______________ (insert the name of the specific Air Force organization or software reuse
library): data, technical data, computer software, computer software documentation, computer
programs, source code, firmware, and other information of like kind, type, or quality, either
commercial or non-commercial, all of which may be subject to limited rights, restricted rights,
government-purpose license rights, patents, copyrights, trade secret rights, or other confidential
or proprietary constraints (collectively, the "Data"). In consideration therefore, the Requester
agrees:


    1) That the Data shall be used only for government, non-commercial, or non-profit purposes.
 20                                                    AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


    2) To strictly abide by and adhere to any and all restrictive markings placed on the Data, and
the Requester shall not knowingly disclose or release the Data to third parties who are not
engaged in work related to government, non-commercial, or non-profit purposes.
     3) That any restrictive markings on the Data shall be included on all copies, modifications,
and derivative works, or any parts or portions thereof; in any form, manner or substance, which
are produced by the Requester including but not limited to incorporation of the Data into any
other data, technical data, computer software, computer software documentation, computer
programs, source code, or firmware, or other information of like kind, type or quality. In all such
events, Requester shall clearly denote where such Data initiates and concludes by use of
annotations or other standard markings.


     4) That the government is entitled to royalty-free use of the Air Force-owned or -developed
software that is released.
  b. WAIVER OF WARRANTIES AND LIMITATIONS OF DAMAGES AGREEMENT.
The requester and the Approving Authority agree that:
     1) No guaranties, representations, or warranties either expressed or implied shall be
construed to exist in any language, provision, or term contained in these materials or in any other
documentation provided herewith (all such items are collectively referred to as the "Agreement"),
and furthermore, the releasing organization disclaims and the requester waives and excludes any
and all warranties of merchantability and any and all warranties of fitness for any particular
purpose.
     2) The Requester shall obtain from the releasing organization all of the "Data" (defined in
the Non-Disclosure Agreement above), or any other products or services contemplated by the
Agreement, in an "as is" condition.
      3) The Requestor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify the Air Force against any and all
loss, liability, cost or expense arising out of the use of any Data released under this agreement, to
include, but not limited to, litigation costs or expenses.
  c. The Requester's use of the Data shall not prevent the government from releasing the Data at
any point in the future.
   d. The Requester shall not offer the released Data or any modified version thereof for resale to
the government, in whole or as part or subpart of a government deliverable, without explicitly
stating that he is doing so by providing certification documentation (e.g., Section K of the
Government Solicitation) to the contracting officer before contract award.
   e. The Requester may use the released Data in a contract with the government, but
understands that the government shall not pay the Requester for rights of use of such Data in
performance of government contracts or for the later delivery to the government of such Data.
The Requester may be entitled to compensation for converting, modifying, or enhancing the Data
into another form for reproduction and delivery to the government, if authorized under a contract
with the government.
   f. The Requester is not entitled to any released Data that are subject to national defense
security classification or the proprietary rights of others. The Requester shall report promptly the
discovery of any such restricted Data to the USAF release approving authority below, and follow
AFI33-114_30SWSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                                 21


all instructions concerning the use, safeguarding, or return of such Data. The Requester shall not
copy, or make future study or use of any released Data later found to be subject to such
restrictions.
   g. As required, the Requester shall be responsible for compliance with any proscriptions on
foreign disclosure of the released Data (contained, for example, in the Department of State
International Traffic in Arms Regulations or the Department of Commerce Export
Administration Regulations).
  h. There may be a fee to cover the copying and shipping of the Data and any documentation.
 i. The Requester and the Approving Authority intend that all agreements under this
Memorandum of Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the United States of America.


NAME OF REQUESTOR                      NAME/TITLE OF USAF APPROVING AUTHORITY
Requesting Organization/Address        Air Force Organization/Address
City, State, Zip Code                  City, State, Zip Code
Signature of Requestor and Date        Signature of USAF Approving Authority and Date
