BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1063
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                            10 JUNE 2005
                                                             Incorporating Through Change 2, 13 May 2010
                                                                           Certified Current 24 June 2010
                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                                                ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEMS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFCESA/CEOA                                                                     Certified by: HQ AF/A7CA
Supersedes: AFI 32-1063, 31 March 1994                                                         (Col Jon E. Ostertag)
                                                                                                          Pages: 16


This instruction implements Air Force policy directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities, by assigning responsibilities for providing, operating, maintaining, and accounting for
electrical power and other selected electrical systems. The Chief Electrical Engineer,
Headquarters, Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Operations Directorate (HQ
AFCESA/CEOA), is the final interpretation authority for definitions and guidance contained in
this document. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the
Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS (Air Force Records
Information Management System) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Users should send comments and suggested
improvements on AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through major
commands (MAJCOM) and HQ AFCESA, 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB, FL 32403-
5319, to HQ USAF/A7C, 1260 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, D.C. 20330-1260. The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change clarifies generator forms management, emergency generator support for a
single facility, and medical facilities generator testing requirements.

       1.      Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Responsibilities. ........................................................   2
 2                                                                                                AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005


        2.      Conditioning and Continuation Interfacing Equipment (PCCIE). .........................                                  5
        3.      Accounting for Generators. ....................................................................................         5
        4.      Validating Existing Emergency Generators. ..........................................................                    6
        5.      Emergency and Standby Power Authorizations. ....................................................                        6
        6.      Applicable Codes. ..................................................................................................    8
        7.      Maintaining, Testing, and Exercising Electrical Systems. .....................................                          8
        8.      Replacing Generators and Transfer Switches. .......................................................                    11
        9.      Adopted Forms and Prescribed Forms. ..................................................................                 11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         12


1. Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Responsibilities. The BCE has the following responsibilities:
     1.1. Provide, operate, and maintain all real property electrical power systems and equipment.
     Operate and maintain equipment authorization inventory data (EAID) equipment assigned to
     the BCE, including operating and maintaining real property installed equipment (RPIE)
     items, except units supporting missile systems.
     1.2. Provide and maintain other real property and RPIE electrical systems, such as:
        1.2.1. Controls, sensors, and alarm circuits needed for operation of real property
        facilities, such as tank liquid level sensors and alarms.
        1.2.2. Fire alarm systems.
        1.2.3. Mass notification systems.
        1.2.4. Systems for utility plant management and distribution, such as energy
        management and control systems (EMCS), which includes supervisory control and data
        acquisition systems (SCADA) and utility monitoring and control systems (UMACS).
        Installation of any electrical system, motor, or generator security device, such as those to
        mitigate any electrical system vulnerability, shall be approved in writing by HQ
        AFCESA/CEOA.
     1.3. Install and maintain the electrical distribution system operating at any frequency. Users
     are responsible for frequency generators/converters installed on equipment. Install surge
     protection in accordance with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-520-01, Interior Electrical
     Systems, and National Fire Protection gency (NFPA) 780, Standard for the Installation of
     Lightning Protection Systems, for protection against switching and lightning surges.
     Distribution and other electrical equipment shall not be installed in manholes.
     1.4. Ensure EAID or RPIE generators and any other energy source (i.e., solar panels, fuel
     cells, wind generators) do not tie into, transfer power to, or synchronize with any real
     property electrical system (i.e., transformer, switch gear, or utility) unless authorized by the
     BCE. New facility tie-ins shall be coordinated with the MAJCOM during project design
     reviews and before installation. Emergency and standby generators are permitted to be used
     as utility tariff control provided operation is limited to 100 hours per year, there is no
     remote/external control of the generator, environmental permits are not violated, and
AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005                                                                        3


  operation does not adversely affect the mission. Any generator used as utility tariff control
  shall be reported to HQ AFCESA/CEN (information copy to HQ AFCESA/CEO), 139
  Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB, FL 32403.
  1.5. Service special-use facilities and power conditioning and continuation interfacing
  equipment (PCCIE), if applicable, as described in paragraph 2
  1.6. Maintain current records of equipment operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement,
  including AF IMT 719, Historical Record - Diesel-Electric Generator and System, for the
  life of the generator; AF IMT 487, Emergency Generator Operating Log (Inspection
  Testing), or other MAJCOM-approved form, for three years within the shop then archive
  until the unit is replaced.
  1.7. Conduct an inventory of all emergency and standby generators each year and send a
  copy to the MAJCOM. Reconcile inventory results with real property records for RPIE
  generator accountability or with custodian authorization and custody receipt listing
  (CA/CRL) records for EAID generators (see paragraph 3). Include the following data for
  each generator in the inventory:
     1.7.1. Location (building number and, if available, geographic information system (GIS)
     coordinates, including height). For EAID generators, indicate the primary-use facility.
     1.7.2. Capacity in kilowatts (kW).
     1.7.3. Voltage.
     1.7.4. Manufacturer, make, and model of both alternator and engine.
     1.7.5. Single- or three-phase.
     1.7.6. Type of fuel.
     1.7.7. Fuel tank above or below ground, integral or separate fuel tank, and fuel tank size.
     1.7.8. Run time on full tank.
     1.7.9. Serial and stock numbers.
     1.7.10. Year manufactured.
     1.7.11. Cumulative generator run time (in hours).
     1.7.12. Proper account listing (RPIE or EAID).
     1.7.13. Maximum demand load.
     1.7.14. Automatic transfer switches, 3 or 4 pole, make, and model.
  1.8. Develop and maintain the following documents, and ensure that they are kept accurate
  and current:
     1.8.1. Electrical power system capability studies, including relay calibration and utility
     pole infrared scans.
     1.8.2. Record drawings.
     1.8.3. Facility schematics.
     1.8.4. Connection diagrams.
4                                                                   AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005


       1.8.5. One-line electrical diagrams.
       1.8.6. As-built drawings depicting electrical power system equipment.
       1.8.7. Operation and maintenance (O&M) manuals, including warranty information, if
       applicable.
       1.8.8. Refueling plans to support generator operation during extended power outages at
       mission essential/critical facilities. Coordinate refueling plans to ensure refueling plan
       supportability during extended outages. For generator sites located off-base, size the fuel
       tank for 72-hour run time dependent on estimated load fuel consumption.
       1.8.9. Copies of environmental permits, with restrictions.
       1.8.10. Historical records of energy usage by the facility, including AF IMT 487 or other
       MAJCOM-approved form kW readings when supported by a generator.
       1.8.11. Current waivers.
    1.9. Adhere strictly to special accountability requirements for generators (see paragraph 3).
    1.10. Train users (appointed in writing to BCE by facility managers) annually (training
    includes procedures required for safe start and operation of electrical power systems). This
    includes review and compliance with the latest version of NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical
    Safety in the Workplace. Post a list of authorized generator operators near the generator
    control panel and ensure that only personnel who are properly trained and documented start
    or operate the electrical system.
    1.11. Maintain electrical power generating systems at special-use facilities under the
    operational control of others only as defined in the applicable support agreement.
    1.12. Develop a memorandum of agreement (MOA) or memorandum of understanding
    (MOU) for each special-use facility, if applicable. Ensure Judge Advocate review of any
    MOA or MOU. The memorandum will state:
       1.12.1. The user organization operates and performs operator-level maintenance for all
       emergency power plants supplying electrical power exclusively to these facilities.
       1.12.2. The BCE performs the intermediate-level maintenance and arranges for depot-
       level maintenance on equipment, and may assist with operator-level maintenance on an
       as-required reimbursable basis.
       1.12.3. The BCE retains the real property accountability for the generating units that
       supply emergency power exclusively to these facilities.
    1.13. Provide installation and maintenance support of electrical power systems, fire
    protection systems, Joint-Services Interior Intrusion Detection Systems (J-SIIDS), and
    electrical heating and air-conditioning systems of equipment similar to RPIE. Include
    systems temporarily deployed during exercises, or contingency or wartime operations, or
    systems permanently assigned to an installation.
    1.14. Assume O&M responsibilities for other user organization electrical systems when all
    other parties agree. Negotiate such agreements only if they cut costs and improve support.
    Document them as memoranda of agreement or host–tenant support agreements, and
AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005                                                                      5


   prescribe support on a reimbursable basis, if appropriate. Ensure Judge Advocate review of
   any agreements negotiated.
   1.15. Ensure that personnel comply with AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, Air Force
   Occupational Safety and Health Standard (AFOSHSTD) 91-501, Air Force Consolidated
   Occupational Safety Standard, and UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety O&M.
2. Conditioning and Continuation Interfacing Equipment (PCCIE). PCCIE is classified as
equipment. For guidance on acquisition and maintenance of this equipment, contact the PCCIE
Product Group Manager, 500 CBSS/GBLD, Building 1207-N, 6029 Wardleigh Road, Hill AFB,
UT 84056-5838.
   2.1. Users shall include PCCIE in mission equipment acquisitions when needed to
   accomplish that mission and coordinate all PCCIE installations with the BCE. The
   purchasing organization initiates action to place an item on the allowance standard (AS) of
   the equipment served. When the equipment requires installation support, include it in the
   purchasing agreement, construction project, or statement of work. Otherwise, charge
   installation expenses to the O&M account of the user.
   2.2. PCCIE maintenance shall be included with the mission equipment it serves. If the user
   cannot obtain a maintenance contract, and if the BCE agrees to take maintenance
   responsibility, the user shall reimburse the BCE maintenance account for time and material.
3. Accounting for Generators. Account for all generators either as RPIE or EAID.
   3.1. Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE). List any generator installed in a facility on
   the real property record as RPIE. A permanently installed generator that is an essential
   component of an electrical power system and supports mission essential or critical functions
   is considered RPIE equipment. Notify the real property office if these generators are
   temporarily or permanently relocated from one facility to another. Account for RPIE
   generators awaiting installation in the appropriate work order documents. For excess
   generators and associated equipment (i.e., automatic transfer switches), ask the MAJCOM
   for review and disposition instructions before removing the generator and associated
   equipment from a RPIE facility. After removing a generator, account for it on Department of
   Defense (DD) Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document, if the generator is
   shipped to another base or to the Civil Engineer Maintenance, Inspection, and Repair Team
   (CEMIRT). If the generator is turned in to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
   (DRMO), account for it on DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document.
   MAJCOMs will report excess generators larger than 200 kW to the Field Support Directorate
   at HQ AFCESA (HQ AFCESA/CEM).
   3.2. Equipment Authorization Inventory Data (EAID). EAID generators are essentially
   portable. Classification as RPIE or EAID is determined by generator use.
       3.2.1. EAID generators are listed in AS, requisitioned from Warner Robins Air
       LogisticsCenter (WR-ALC/LESGF), 295 Byron Street (Bldg 300-East Wing, Bay D),
       Robins AFB, GA31098-1647, DSN 472-1760, Comm (478) 222-1760, and accounted for
       by Base Supply and WR-ALC/LESGF.
       3.2.2. EAID units that meet the RPIE definition should be reclassified or turned in to
       Base Supply. When reclassifying a generator, coordinate with the Item Manager, WR-
 6                                                                     AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005


        ALC/LESGF. Also report excess EAID generators to WR-ALC/LESGF. Any RPIE or
        commercial EAID generators that are no longer required or are inoperable should be
        identified to the MAJCOM for review and disposition coordination. Disposal of mobile
        electric power (MEP) EAID generators should be first coordinated with the EAID Item
        Manager at WR-ALC/LESGF. If generators are not required or needed by WR-
        ALC/LESGF, they should be disposed of in the same manner as RPIE and commercial
        EAID generators.
4. Validating Existing Emergency Generators. Review all AF IMTs 487 at least annually to
verify that generators and associated equipment are adequate and reliable. When AF IMT 487
does not provide a generator's true load, use alternative data—such as clamp-on ammeter
readings, building and equipment wiring schematics, and equipment power consumption data—
to determine the generator's actual load.
     4.1. If monthly load testing conducted in accordance with paragraph 7 of this instruction
     using normally connected loads produces loading of less than 50 percent of rated capacity in
     a 12- month period, the following steps will be taken (Exception: Generators used solely to
     support motor air conditioning loads may be sized to meet inrush current demands, and RPIE
     generators less than 25 kW do not have to meet the requirements of paragraph 4.1.1 or 4.1.2
     For generators, the Air National Guard [ANG] is exempt):
        4.1.1. The generator shall be programmed for replacement with a smaller unit sized to
        achieve a loading range of at least 50 percent, or
        4.1.2. A new load study and justification to keep the current generator shall be
        accomplished and forwarded as a waiver request to the MAJCOM Electrical Engineer.
        The load study and waiver shall not exceed one year and shall be kept with AF IMT 719.
5. Emergency and Standby Power Authorizations.
     5.1. The Air Force authorizes use of emergency or standby diesel generators when needed to
     support mission-critical functions. A generator installed to support a mission-critical facility
     shall be installed and connected to only provide power to that specific facility. Utilizing one
     generator to support multiple facilities is not authorized because if the generator were to fail
     it would jeopardize multiple missions. If unique circumstances exist where one generator is
     needed to support multiple facilities, a waiver request must be submitted and approved by the
     MAJCOM. Authorizations and corresponding generator classification permitted are listed in
     paragraphs 5.1.1 through 5.1.26, per UFC 3-520-01. A MAJCOM/A7 (Civil Engineer) has
     authority to approve additional emergency or standby generator authorizations not listed in
     these paragraphs as long as they support mission-critical functions; this authority may not be
     re-delegated. MAJCOMs also have authority to approve additional mission critical
     authorizations at the written request of the BCE or equivalent. BCEs will keep authorization
     approval letters for these additional requirements on record and have them readily available
     for inspection. Emergency generator systems are defined as RPIE installations incorporating
     automatic transfer switch (ATS) arrangements. Standby generators are defined as EAID
     generators incorporating double-throw disconnect switches and Cannon plug type
     connections in accordance with paragraph 7.2. All generators shall operate on the fuel type
     defined in AFI 32-1062, Electrical Power Plants and Generators. Natural gas generators are
     not authorized for backup power for critical missions or facilities. Whole building generator
AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005                                                                        7


  systems require HQ AFCESA/CEO approval. Recommended generator classifications are
  noted in parenthesis.
     5.1.1. Medical treatment facilities in accordance with UFC 4-510-01, Design: Medical
     Military Facilities.
     5.1.2. For Air National Guard installations, authorized emergency generators are
     identified in Air National Guard Engineering Technical Letter (ANG ETL) 01-1-1, Air
     National Guard Design Policy.
     5.1.3. Air navigation aids and facilities, and airfield lighting (Emergency).
     5.1.4. Mission/emergency-essential refrigerated storage rooms (Standby).
     5.1.5. Petroleum, oil, and lubricant (POL) storage and dispensing facilities (Standby).
     5.1.6. Mission-essential/critical utility plants and systems (Emergency or Standby).
     5.1.7. CE control centers (Emergency).
     5.1.8. Mission-essential/critical communication facilities and telephone exchanges
     (Emergency).
     5.1.9. Fire stations, including fire alarm, fire control, and radio equipment (Emergency).
     5.1.10. Mission-essential computer automated data processing facilities (Emergency).
     5.1.11. Air traffic control towers (Emergency).
     5.1.12. Base weather stations (Emergency).
     5.1.13. Surveillance and warning facilities (Emergency).
     5.1.14. Command and control facilities (does not include HQ facilities without command
     and control functions) (Emergency).
     5.1.15. Weapons systems (Emergency).
     5.1.16. Entry control points, security gates, and related security lighting systems
     (Standby).
     5.1.17. Aircraft and aircrew alert facilities (Emergency).
     5.1.18. Law enforcement and security facilities (Emergency).
     5.1.19. Disaster preparedness control centers (Emergency).
     5.1.20. Mission, property, and life support facilities at remote and not readily accessible
     sites, such as split-site aircraft warning and surveillance installations (Emergency).
     5.1.21. One feeding facility per installation or geographic location (MAJCOM may
     approve additional facilities.) (Standby).
     5.1.22. Industrial facilities that have noxious fumes requiring removal (Provide power
     for the exhaust system only.) (Emergency) (Aircraft fuel cell repair facilities are not
     authorized emergency or standby power.)
     5.1.23. Readiness facilities relying on electrical power to support tactical or mission-
     essential operations (requires MAJCOM approval) (Emergency).
 8                                                                    AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005


        5.1.24. Photographic laboratories providing mission-essential support to combat and
        contingency tactical missions (Emergency).
        5.1.25. Simulation or materials laboratories where continuous power is needed for
        human safety or to maintain low tolerance temperature (<5 degrees) and humidity (<5
        percent) control to avoid catastrophic consequences. (Emergency).
        5.1.26. Emergency lighting, elevators, fire alarms, security systems, or other life safety
        equipment within high-occupancy buildings or places of assembly of 1,000 or more
        people, for the purpose of moving people out safely. (Emergency).
     5.2. When only a portion of a facility is authorized emergency power, that portion of the
     facility shall be placed on a separate subpanel. This subpanel shall be fed from the generator
     and switched by either a manual or automatic transfer switch, depending on the mission of
     the facility. For existing facilities without separate critical loads (subpanels), replacement
     generators and transfer switches shall be sized only for the authorized emergency load, and a
     plan shall be devised for load shed of non-critical loads. Uninterruptible power supply (UPS)
     battery charging is not considered a critical/mission-essential load during generator operation
     and shall be turned off. For UPS systems not capable of battery charger elimination during
     generator operation, charging shall be limited to 5 percent of generator capacity.
6. Applicable Codes. The codes listed in Attachment 1 and host nation codes apply.
7. Maintaining, Testing, and Exercising Electrical Systems. Schedules and procedures for
maintaining, exercising, and testing electrical systems shall be developed and maintained.
Recommendations in NFPA 70B, Recommended Practice for Electrical Equipment
Maintenance, and AFI 32-1062 shall be followed. If local conditions or operations justify
variation in this paragraph and subparagraphs, MAJCOMs shall request a waiver from HQ
AFCESA/CEO, 139 Barnes Ave, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB, FL 32403. A waiver is not required for
overseas locations where the host nation retains responsibility for maintaining, exercising, and
testing electrical systems, or where a Status of Forces Agreement dictates that the host nation’s
standards and procedures shall be followed. Building occupants shall be notified prior to testing
under actual building load.
     7.1. Automatic Transfer Switch Capability and Engine-Driven Generators. Automatic
     transfer switch capability and engine-driven generators shall be tested monthly in accordance
     with subparagraphs 7.1.1 through 7.1.9.5:
        7.1.1. Test generators under actual building load during peak load periods to ensure
        proper automatic transfer switch operation, generator capacity, and overall system
        reliability. Deployable generators shall be tested in accordance with paragraph 7.3.
        7.1.2. Generators may be started/idled in preparation to support a scheduled mission fast
        transfer; however, for the purposes of paragraph 7., this is not considered a generator
        test
        7.1.3. Electrically load RPIE and EAID generators to at least 50 percent of rated capacity
        during monthly tests using connected facility loads. Deployable generators shall be tested
        in accordance with paragraph 7.3. Exception: RPIE generators rated at 25 kW or less
        are permitted to be tested with available connected load, which may not be 50 percent of
        rated capacity.
AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005                                                                         9


        7.1.3.1. When the facility representative provides written notification and rationale to
        the Operations Flight Chief that critical temporary mission activity or requirements
        preclude testing generators using actual facility load, the MAJCOM Electrical
        Engineer may approve using load banks solely to achieve a minimum 50 percent
        generator-loading range; however, this shall be permitted only once per quarter
        because it fails to prove the operational reliability of the entire system. Exception:
        RPIE generators rated at 25 kW or less are permitted to be tested with connected load
        only and are not required to be augmented with load banks to achieve a minimum 50
        percent loading.
        7.1.3.2. If permission to perform the monthly test is refused by the facility owner, the
        Operations Flight Chief or equivalent shall explain to the facility representative or
        authority the possible risks of not conducting the test and indicate that the using
        agency accepts full responsibility for failure of the emergency backup system in the
        event of an actual commercial power outage. A written copy of the notification will
        be filed with the individual generator record. Furthermore, if any potential
        environmental, safety and health, operational, fiscal or mission risks are associated
        with a failure to perform the monthly test, the base/wing Staff Judge Advocate shall
        be notified and consulted. Such risks may also create potential legal liabilities for the
        Air Force and Air Force personnel.
     7.1.4. Once an engine driven generator set reaches operating temperature and is loaded
     according to paragraph 7.1.3, the generators shall be exercised for a minimum of 1
     contiuous hour.
        7.1.4.1. Generator readings, excluding blocks 10 through 12, shall be entered on the
        front page of AF IMT 487 or MAJCOM-approved equivalent immediately after
        startup. A second reading will be taken 15 minutes after load is transferred on to the
        generator. Readings will then be taken every two hours and a final reading prior to
        transfer back to utility power even if transfer occurs immediately after the last
        reading. The highest KW load, voltage, and amperage readings will be annotated in
        blocks 10 through 12.
        7.1.4.2. When connected to actual building load and while under generator operation,
        functionality of all connected building equipment and systems shall be verified by the
        facility manager.
        7.1.4.3. Any problems shall be reported to the BCE and a representative from each
        user within the facility.
     7.1.5. If, during the preceding 12 months, the generator has not been loaded to at least 50
     percent of its rated capacity either through testing or in actual use, the generator shall be
     loaded to at least 75 percent of rated capacity using facility loads augmented with load
     banks, or load banks alone, and exercised for a minimum of two hours. If the generator
     passes the load test, follow guidance in paragraph 4.1.1 or paragraph 4.1.2 to
     revalidate the generator. Exception: RPIE generators rated at 25 kW or less are not
     required to be loaded to 75 percent even if they have not been loaded to at least 50
     percent of rated capacity during the preceding 12 months; paragraph 4.1.1 or
     paragraph 4.1.2 guidance is not applicable to RPIE generators rated 25 kW or less.
10                                                                AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005


     7.1.6. Exercise emergency systems supporting navigational aids for air traffic control
     facilities according to this instruction and AFI 13-203, Air Traffic Control.
     7.1.7. Exercise emergency power systems supporting Defense Communications Systems
     (DCS) or related communications activities according to Defense Information Systems
     Agency (DISA) Circular 350-195-2, Auxiliary Electric Power Systems.
     7.1.8. Exercise emergency power systems that support composite medical facilities
     according to this AFI and NFPA 99, Standard for Health Care Facilities.
     7.1.9. Generators supporting an actual power outage during the testing month do not
     require additional monthly testing, provided:
         7.1.9.1. The outage duration was at least 1 hour.
         7.1.9.2. The transfer switch operated properly during the outage.
         7.1.9.3. Readings were taken while the generator was supplying power to the facility.
         7.1.9.4. All items were checked/annotated on AF IMT 487.
         7.1.9.5. Post operational inspection was performed.
  7.2. EAID Generators.
     7.2.1. Exercise EAID generators stored and ready for emergency use according to
     paragraph 7.1.3 of this instruction. Use a load bank or connect the generator to a facility
     or system.
     7.2.2. Exercise the unit annually while connected to the facility or system it primarily
     supports. Generator facility connections shall be in accordance with Engineering
     Technical Letter (ETL) 10-7, Connection Methods for Standby Generators - 600 Volts or
     Less.
         7.2.2.1. No generator connection described in paragraph 7.2.2 of any type is to be
         substituted for disconnecting means required by the NEC. Plugs-receptacles must be
         inspected for corrosion before each use. Correct as necessary and coat contacts with
         proper electrical connection corrosion preventative compound.
         7.2.2.2. Proper strain relief must be provided to prevent loose connections.
  7.3. Deployable Generators. The BCE will test CE deployable generators upon receipt. After
  tests and documentation of operating parameters on AF IMT 719 and AF IMT 487, these
  units will be purged, shelved, and prepared for immediate deployment. Deployable
  generators shall be inspected and operationally tested every six months for a minimum of one
  hour while loaded to at least 50 percent of rated capacity. Deployable generators are defined
  as those assigned to a UTC/ESL. CE deployable generators shall be maintained in
  accordance with guidance outlined in paragraph 7.2. All other deployable generators shall
  be maintained by the owning unit in accordance with approved technical order data and load-
  tested monthly using facility load or load banks in accordance with paragraph 7.2.
  7.4. Other Engine-Driven Equipment. Exercise gasoline-engine-driven motors for 30
  minutes every month. Exercise fire pumps in accordance with UFC 3-600-02, Operations
  and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems.
AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005                                                                        11


   7.5. Transfer Switch. Test transfer switches according to the manufacturer's instructions. At
   mission-essential/critical electronic facilities, use the synchronized closed transition. All
   other transfer switches will be tested per paragraph 7.1 during monthly generator tests.
   7.6. Grounding Systems. At major communications and electronics facilities, test the
   building ground system every 21 months. The user will inspect, maintain, and repair the in-
   house electronic equipment ground system. Resistance measurements and any repairs to the
   facility ground shall be reported to the BCE. See AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, for more
   guidance and requirements at other facilities.
   7.7. Control Systems. Test all electrical fire detection, notification, and extinguishing
   systems according to AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention
   Program. Test other signal and call systems at least once every 2 years.
   7.8. Protective Relays. Record operations (flags) of all power systems’ protective relays in a
   logbook used for this purpose. Keep this logbook in a secure location as close to the relay as
   possible, preferably inside the breaker cubicle. Record the date, which relay operated (phase
   A, B, C, or ground over- current), whether the trip was timed or instantaneous, and whether
   any reclosing relay operated to close out. These data are extremely useful for troubleshooting
   power system (feeder or generator) problems and for projecting corrective actions and
   upgrades.
8. Replacing Generators and Transfer Switches. Replacement generators or newly installed
generators shall be at least 50 percent loaded. Generators and transfer switches shall be sized to
carry only authorized emergency loads within a facility (see paragraph 5). All new or
replacement 3-phase transfer switches used on 3-phase, 4-wire wye systems shall have a
switched neutral conductor (4-pole switch). Maintenance bypass capability shall be included in
their installation design. The preferred transfer switch maintenance bypass is accomplished using
two appropriately rated double-throw switches in conjunction with the ATS. If this cannot be
accomplished, the transfer switch shall be ―bypass‖ capable. Replacement of existing 3-pole
transfer switches may be accomplished by attrition. Installation of 3-pole transfer switches for
new installations requires MAJCOM approval.
9. Adopted Forms and Prescribed Forms.
   9.1. Prescribed Forms: None.
   9.2. Adopted Forms: Air Force IMT 487, Emergency Generator Operating Log
   (Inspection Testing)
    AF IMT 719, Historical Record - Diesel-Electric Generator and System
    DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document
    DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document




                                             DONALD J. WETEKAM, Lt General,
                                             USAF DCS/Installations & Logistics
 12                                                               AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


AFI 13-203, Air Traffic Control
AFI 32-1062, Electrical Power Plants and Generators
AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices
AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, Volume IV, Part One, ―Air Force Equipment System
Policy and Procedures‖
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFOSHSTD 91-10, Civil Engineering
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities
ANG ETL 01-1-1, Air National Guard Design Policy
ANSI C84.1, Electric Power Systems and Equipment - Voltage Ratings (60 Hz),
http://www.ansi.org/
ANSI/NEMA MG 1, Motors and Generators, http://www.nema.org/
DISA Circular 350-195-2, Auxiliary Electric Power Systems
ETL 04-15, Electrical Safety Guidance
ETL 09-9, Connection Methods for Standby Generators - 600 Volts or Less
IEEE C2, National Electrical Safety Code (NESC), http://www.ieee.org
MIL-HDBK-1190, Facility Planning and Design Guide
NEMA MG 1, Motors and Generators, http://www.nema.org/
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code (NEC), http://www.nfpa.org
NFPA 70B, Recommended Practice for Electrical Equipment Maintenance,
http://www.nfpa.org
NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace, http://www.nfpa.org
NFPA 99, Standard for Health Care Facilities, http://www.nfpa.org
NFPA 780, Standard for the Installation of Lightning Protection Systems, http://www.nfpa.org
AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005                                                               13


UFC 3-520-01, Interior Electrical Systems,
http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/browse_cat.php?o=29&c=4
UFC 3-560-01, Electrical Safety O&M, http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/browse_cat.php?o=29&c=4
UFC 3-600-02, O&M: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems,
http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/browse_cat.php?o=29&c=4
UFC 4-510-01, Design: Medical Military Facilities,
http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/browse_cat.php?o=29&c=4

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force (as used on forms)
AFB—Air Force base
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ANG ETL—Air National Guard Engineering Technical Letter
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
AS—Allowance Standard
ATS—Automatic Transfer Switch
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization and Custody Receipt Listing
CBSS/GBLD—Combat Sustainment Squadron, PCCIE Flight
CE—Civil Engineer
CEMIRT—Civil Engineer Maintenance, Inspection and Repair Team
DCS—Defense Communications System
DD—Defense Department (as used on forms)
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
EAID—equipment authorization inventory data
EMCS—energy management and control system
ESL—Equipment Supply Listing
 14                                                           AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005


ETL—Engineering Technical Letter
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
GIS—Geographical Information System
HQ AFCESA/CEM—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Field Support
Directorate
HQ AFCESA/CEN—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Facility Energy
Center
HQ AFCESA/CEO—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Operations and
Program Support Directorate
HQ AFCESA/CEOA—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Engineer
Support Division 2
HQ AFCESA/CES—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Engineering
Support Directorate
Hz—Hertz
IEEE—Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
IMT—Information Management Tool
J-SIIDS—Joint-Services Interior Intrusion Detection Systems
k VA—kilovolt-amperes
kW—kilowatt
MAJCOM—major command
MEP—mobile electric power
MIL—HDBK—Military Handbook
MOA—memorandum of agreement
MOU—memorandum of understanding
NEC—National Electrical Code
NEMA—National Electrical Manufacturers Association
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OO—ALC/LGHC—Ogden Air Logistics Center, Commodities Management Division, Program
Management Branch
O&M—operations and maintenance
POL—petroleum, oil and lubricants
PCCIE—Power Conditioning and Continuation Interfacing Equipment
RDS—records disposition schedule
RPIE—real property installed equipment
AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005                                                                        15


SCADA—supervisory control and data acquisition systems
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
UMACS—Utility Monitoring and Control Systems
UPS—Uninterruptible Power Supply
UTC—Unit Type Code
WR—ALC/LESGF—Warner Robins Air Logistics Center

Terms
Critical Loads—Electrical circuits to support mission-essential/critical functions and operations.
Depot Level Maintenance—Maintenance work on power systems and equipment performed or
directed by personnel in a CE organization. It supports and supplements local (on-site,
organizational, and intermediate) levels of maintenance and includes:
•      Providing technical and professional help to equipment operators and maintenance
personnel.
•     Operating a repair facility and maintaining stock of serviceable parts, components,
equipment, and assemblies needed to perform all levels of maintenance.
•     Performing major inspection and major overhaul of equipment (e.g., rebuilding or
manufacturing parts), reassembling system components, and testing.
Emergency Generator—Independent reserve source of electric energy that, upon failure or
outage of the normal source, automatically provides reliable electric power within a specified
time to critical devices and equipment whose failure to operate satisfactorily would jeopardize
the health and safety of personnel or result in damage to property (NEC definition). Note: These
are RPIE generators with automatic transfer switches.
Equipment Authorization Inventory Data (EAID) Equipment—Organizational equipment as
described in AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, Volume IV, Part One, ―Air Force
Equipment System Policy and Procedures‖.
Generator—Motor- or engine-driven device that converts mechanical energy into electrical
energy by electromagnetic induction.
Intermediate Level Maintenance—Maintenance work by personnel of an organization that
may or may not be responsible for equipment operation. This level of maintenance is more
complex than (and directly supports) organizational maintenance, including:
•       Major inspection of power systems and equipment.
•       Repairing or replacing minor components and assemblies of systems and equipment.
•       Routine testing and calibration of system control equipment and allied components.
•      Local manufacture of parts when needed but not available through normal supply
channels.
Mission—Essential/Critical—Terms used synonymously to indicate extremely important
functions that are needed to support the mission. Requires BCE concurrence.
 16                                                                   AFI32-1063 10 JUNE 2005


Organizational—Level Maintenance—Maintenance work performed by personnel of an
organization responsible for equipment operation. This level of maintenance includes routine
inspection, servicing, minor repairs, and adjustments.
Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE)—In this instruction, RPIE is electrical equipment
that aids real property functions. RPIE is permanently attached to, installed into, or built in or on
government-owned or -leased real property. How this equipment is mounted (on wheels or a
stationary foundation) is not significant in RPIE classifications. Coordinate with the MAJCOM
when item accountability is in doubt.
Replace—To remove existing, provide new, and install.
Special—Use Facility—A facility built specifically for a high-priority mission and usually
suitable only for that mission. These facilities often are not funded or budgeted through normal
military construction channels and frequently are acquired through equipment funds as part of a
new mission beddown package. Examples are satellite communication systems and phased array
radar systems.
Standby Generator—Independent reserve source of electric energy that, upon failure or outage
of the normal source, provides electric power of acceptable quality so that the user’s facilities
may continue in satisfactory operation (NEC definition). Note: These are EAID generators.
