BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2925
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            28 AUGUST 2013
                                                 Incorporating Change 1, 13 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                     Personnel

                                               PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION
                                                      ON AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A1SR                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/A1S (Brigadier
                                                                       General Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes:   DODI 1344.07_AFI 36-2702,                                             Pages: 12
              7 November 2007


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-29, Military
Standards, and Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 1344.07, Personal
Commercial Solicitation on DoD Installations. This AFI is applicable to all Active Duty, Air
Force Reserve and Air National Guard units or installations. This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Requests for waivers must be
submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route Air Force Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain
of command. Requests for waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR
listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change will update language found in paragraph 2.5.5. and Attachment 2, reassigns
the requirement for Wing/CC’s to the non-government non-commercial organization to submit
packages for approval, incorporates a time limit on approved packages to ensure periodic
reviews, eliminates installation-level assessment A&FRC’s summary of trainer interview and
 2                                                             AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013


recommendations or approval/disapproval, and eliminates requirement for a cover memo
reflecting the installation commander’s support. It will also remove paragraph 2.4. as it is not
necessary to repeat the Department of Defense Issuance.
AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                       3



                                           Chapter 1

                                         OVERVIEW

1.1. Overview. This instruction establishes guidance and procedures for personal commercial
solicitations on Air Force installations consistent with DoDI 1344.07.
1.2. Roles and Responsibilities
   1.2.1. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Force
   Management Integration (SAF/MR) is the approval authority for non-government
   organization providing education programs.
   1.2.2. Air Force Services (AF/A1S) provides program oversight IAW DoDI 1344.07.
   1.2.3. Air Force Installation Staff Judge Advocates (SJAs) shall submit reports of
   withdrawal or notification of denial to a request of commercial solicitation privaledges
   through their Major Command (MAJCOM) SJAs to Air Force Administrative Law
   Directorate (AF/JAA) within 15 calendar days. Reports shall identify the following
   information: 1) name of installation; 2) name of company/agent to include physical and
   mailing address, and names of any subsidiary companies; 3) date of suspension or denial of
   request; 4) action taken; and 5) reason for action. AF/JAA will submit quarterly reports to
   A1S.
   1.2.4. The Installation Commander has the overall responsibility for controlling access to the
   installation and may deny or limit that access on the part of individuals, groups, or entities.
   For the purpose of commerical solicitation, this authority may not be delegated below the
   level of the Deputy Group Commander, Mission Support Group/Air Base Group or
   equivalent.
 4                                                                AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013


                                             Chapter 2

                               COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION

2.1. Requirements. Personal commercial solicitation may be permitted only if the following
requirements are met IAW DoDI 1344.07.
     2.1.1. The solicitor agrees to provide each person solicited DD Form 2885, Personal
     Commercial Solicitation Evaluation, during the initial appointment. The person being
     solicited is not required to complete the evaluation, however, completed evaluations should
     be sent by the person who was solicited to the office designated by the installation
     commander on the back of the evaluation form.
     2.1.2. The solicitor agrees to provide Air Force personnel with a written reminder, prior to
     their making a financial commitment, that free legal advice is available from the Office of the
     SJA.
2.2. Prohibited Practices are IAW DoDI 1344. 07 and the following.
     2.2.1. Procuring, attempting to procure, supplying, or attempting to supply non-public
     listings of Air Force personnel for purposes of commercial solicitation, except for releases
     made IAW AFPD 33-3, Information Management.
     2.2.2. Air Force personnel making personal commercial solicitations or sales to Air Force
     personnel who are junior in rank or grade, or to the family members of such personnel,
     except as authorized in Section 2-205 and 5-409 of DoD 5500.07-R, Joint Ethics Regulation.
     2.2.3. Using any portion of installation facilities, including quarters, as a showroom or store
     for the sale of goods or services, except as specifically authorized by DoDD 1330.17, Armed
     Services Commissaries Operations, DoDI 1015.10, Military Morale, Welfare and Recreation
     (MWR) Programs, AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, and AFI 34-211 (I),
     Army and Air Force Exchange Service General Policies. This does not apply to normal
     home enterprises that comply with applicable State and local laws and installation rules.
2.3. Denial, Suspension, and Withdrawal of Installation Solicitation Privileges.
     2.3.1. Failure to incorporate and abide by the Standards of Fairness policies contained in AFI
     36-2906, Personal Financial Responsibility.
     2.3.2. The installation commander shall ensure any denial, suspension, withdrawal or
     reinstatement of an agent or company’s solicitation privileges is reported by the installation
     SJA to AF/JAA through their MAJCOM. AF/JAA will notify the AF Requirements Division
     (AF/A1S), AF/JA and SAF/MR. In turn, SAF/MR will submit any names of companies to
     the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (PDUSD
     (P&R)), which will maintain a list of insurance and financial product companies and agents
     currently barred, banned or otherwise limited from soliciting on any or all DoD installations.
     This list may be viewed at www.commanderspage.com. If warranted, the installation
     commander may recommend to the Military Department concerned that the action taken be
     extended to other DoD installations. The Military Department may extend the action to other
     military installations in the Military Department. The PDUSD(P&R), following consultation
AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                        5


   with the Military Department concerned, may order the action extended to other Military
   Departments.
2.4. Deleted.
2.5. Financial Educational Programs.
   2.5.1. The Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) shall develop and disseminate
   information and provide educational programs for members of the Air Force on their
   personal financial affairs, including such subjects as insurance, Government benefits,
   savings, budgeting, and other financial education and assistance requirements. The A&FRC
   shall ensure that all instructors are qualified as appropriate for the subject matter presented.
   The services of representatives of authorized on-base banks and credit unions may be used
   for this purpose. Under no circumstances shall commercial agents, including representatives
   of loan, finance, insurance, or investment companies, be used for this purpose. Presentations
   shall only be conducted at the express request of the installation commander.
   2.5.2. The A&FRC shall also make qualified personnel and facilities available for individual
   counseling on loans and consumer credit transactions in order to encourage thrift and
   financial responsibility and promote a better understanding of the wise use of credit, as
   prescribed in DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 5, Chapter 34.
   2.5.3. Commanders, managers and supervisors at all levels, shall encourage military
   members to seek advice from a legal assistance officer, the installation financial counselor,
   their own lawyer, or a financial counselor, before making a substantial loan or credit
   commitment.
   2.5.4. The Air Force shall provide advice and guidance to Air Force personnel who have a
   complaint under AFI 36-2906, or who allege a criminal violation of its provisions, including
   referral to the appropriate regulatory agency for processing of the complaint. Air Force
   members shall report any incidents through their local leadership to their local SJAs Office.
   2.5.5. Educators from non-government, non-commercial organizations expert in personal
   financial affairs and their materials may, with appropriate disclaimers, provide the
   educational programs and information required by this instruction if approved by SAF/MR.
       2.5.5.1. All non-government, non-commercial organizations providing services and
       materials on personal financial affairs must be on a SAF/MR-approved list prior to
       transacting business on an AF installation.
       2.5.5.2. If an organization is not yet on the approved list, the organization must submit a
       formal written request for approval to SAF/MR.
          2.5.5.2.1. The required content of packages submitted for approval is outlined in
          Attachment 2.
          2.5.5.2.2. SAF/MR approvals shall remain valid for a period not to exceed 36 months
          from the date of approval, provided the actions of the organization remain compliant
          with all relevant clauses of DoDI 1344.07.
          2.5.5.2.3. SAF/MR will notify AF/A1S and AF/JAA when they add or remove an
          educator from the approved list.
6                                                    AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013


    2.5.5.2.4. SAF/MR, AF/A1S, and AF/JAA will maintain a list of educators approved
    by SAF/MR.
    2.5.5.2.5. Presentations by approved organizations shall be conducted only at the
    express request of the installation commander pursuant to all provisions of DoDI
    1344.07.
AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                        7


                                            Chapter 3

                                 VOLUNTARY EDUCATION

3.1. Education and Training Flight Managers. Managers are responsible for ensuring
existing agreements with on-base academic institutions are preserved and that duplication of
offerings on Air Force installations are avoided. Guidelines for establishing, maintaining, and
operating voluntary education programs as a continuing practice on a federal installation are
found in AFI 36-2306, Voluntary Education Program. Since tuition assistance can be provided
only for courses and degree programs offered by institutions accredited by a national or regional
accrediting body recognized by the Department of Education, those are the only academic
institutions that may be approved for on-base solicitation to Air Force personnel.
3.2. Academic institutions. Academic institutuions must have a memorandum of
understanding (MOU), signed by the leadership of the academic institution and the installation
commander, to conduct degree programs on base. Academic institutions include all schools: a)
with either regional or national accreditation; b) using traditional classroom delivery of courses,
electronic delivery of courses or both; c) without regard to the geographical location of the home
or satellite campus; d) who are members of Servicemembers Opportunity College.
   3.2.1. For the period of time specified in the MOU, the academic institution may conduct the
   business required to assist their students with pursuit of an education goal to include on-base
   courses, academic advisement, and commercial solicitation. Any academic institution
   without an MOU does not have the same rights and responsibilities, however, they may
   request permission for access to pre-approved locations on-base, on a non-permanent, non-
   recurring basis, for the purpose of commercial solicitation with pre-arranged individuals. If
   permission is granted, they must follow the policies for commercial solicitation as outlined in
   this instruction.
       3.2.1.1. The commercial solicitors, academic institutions in this case, must be licensed
       and compliant with Federal, State, State Board of Education (in some States if schools are
       out-of-State), and municipal laws as well as installation regulations.
       3.2.1.2. Overseas, solicitors representing academic institutions must in addition observe
       the applicable laws of the host country, any tri-Service contract restrictions, and the
       policies of the executive agent (Army in Europe and Air Forces in Pacific) for the
       commercial service or product.
       3.2.1.3. Personal commercial solicitation on-base by academic institutions must first
       have permission of the local installation commander, or their designated representative
       (for academic institutions will normally be the servicing Education and Training Flight
       Chief).
       3.2.1.4. Permission to conduct commercial solicitation must be extended to academic
       institutions on an equitable basis.
       3.2.1.5. Specific appointments must be made with individuals concerned and the
       commercial agents must identify themselves as representing the specific academic
       institution.
 8                                                                AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013


        3.2.1.6. Those appointments will only be conducted in areas specified by the installation
        commander, or designated representative, and in compliance with paragraph 3.2.1.
        3.2.1.7. Sales literature for academic institutions may only be displayed in locations
        specified by the installation commander, or designated representative.
        3.2.1.8. Desk space used for interviews must be managed through pre-arranged
        appointments.
        3.2.1.9. Presentations (such as school fairs or job fairs) shall be conducted by academic
        institutions without approved MOUs only with express permission of the local
        installation commander or designated representative, and consistent with “general rules”
        described in this section.
        3.2.1.10. Military members shall be encouraged to seek advice (e.g., legal, personal
        financial management counseling, supervisory mentoring) before making a substantial
        financial commitment to an academic institution if part of the solicitation is beyond
        service benefits such as tuition assistance of G.I. Bill benefits. The Air Force can provide
        advice if a military member has a complaint under Public Law 90-321, Truth and
        Lending Act.
3.3. Prohibitions pertaining to voluntary education and training.
     3.3.1. Air Force personnel may not represent, or appear to represent, an academic institution
     in any official capacity, with or without compensation.
     3.3.2. Air Force personnel may not designate themselves as a counselor or advisor
     representing the AI.
     3.3.3. No academic institution display signs are permitted during appointments at pre-
     arranged locations.
     3.3.4. Military official and unofficial notices, such as a “Daily Bulletin” or e-mail, cannot
     announce the presence of an academic institution agent or their availability.
     3.3.5. Commercial solicitation of DoD personnel in a mass or captive audience is prohibited.
     3.3.6. Making appointments with, or soliciting military personnel who are in an “on-duty”
     status, is prohibited. The prohibition includes solicitation via electronic means over
     government-provided telecommunications devices (telephone, computers, blackberries, fax
     machines, etc.).
     3.3.7. Commercial solicitation of individuals without an appointment, even in areas
     approved by appointments by the installation commander, or designated representative, is
     prohibited.
     3.3.8. Use of official DoD identification by active, retired, National Guard, or Reserve
     members for the purpose of access to military installations or facilities to conduct, or to
     facilitate personal introduction for the purpose of commercial solicitation is prohibited.
     3.3.9. Release of listings of Air Force personnel for purposes of commercial solicitation
     except through the DoD Freedom of Information Act Program covered in AFPD 33-3, is
     prohibited.
AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                       9


   3.3.10. Using any portion of a base installation as a showroom of services without the
   permission of the installation commander, or designated representative, is prohibited.
   3.3.11. The following practices by academic institutions are prohibited on all AF
   installations:
       3.3.11.1. The offering of unfair, improper, and deceptive inducements.
       3.3.11.2. The use of rebates, or inclusion of prohibited Military tuition assistance
       benefits, to facilitate transactions or eliminate competition.
       3.3.11.3. The use of manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent devices, schemes or artifices,
       including misleading advertising and sales literature.
       3.3.11.4. The use of oral or written representations to suggest or give the appearance that
       DoD sponsors or endorses any particular academic institution, its agents, or its
       commercial services.
   3.3.12. Entering into any unauthorized or restricted area is prohibited.
   3.3.13. Soliciting door to door is prohibited.
3.4. Revoking Permissions. The installation commander may deny or revoke previously
granted permission to a company, academic institution in this case, and its agents to conduct
commercial solicitation under any of the following circumstances:
   3.4.1. Commission of any of the prohibited practices.
   3.4.2. Substantiated complaints or adverse reports regarding quality of product and services
   in the manner in which they were offered for purchase.
   3.4.3. Personal misconduct of an academic institution representative while on the
   installation.
3.5. Withdrawal of Solicitation Privileges. This may be limited to the academic institution
representative or extend to the entire academic institution. The installation commander may
make an immediate suspension of solicitation privileges for 30 days, if circumstances dictate,
while an investigation is conducted. If warranted, the installation commander may recommend
through AF/JA that this action be extended to other DoD installations and the PDUSD(P&R),
may even extend this action to other Military Departments.




                                             DARRELL D. JONES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
 10                                                           AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1000.11, Financial Institutions on DoD Installations, 16 January 2009
DoDI 1015.10, Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs, 6 July 2009
DoDI 1330.17, Armed Services Commissaries Operations, 8 October 2008
DoDI 1344.7, Personal Commercial Solicitation on DoD Installations, 30 March 2006
DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 5, Chapter 34, Financial Institutions on DoD Installation, February
2011
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFI 34-211(I), Army and Air Force Exchange Service General Policies, 30 July 2008
AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, 8 March 2007
AFI 36-2906, Personal Financial Responsibility, 30 May 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2885, Personal Commercial Solicitation Evaluation

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&FRC—Airman & Family Readiness Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
IAW—In Accordance With
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDUSD (P&R)— Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                        11


Terms
Agent— An individual who receives compensation as a salesperson or whose compensation is
dependent on volume of sales or products.
Commercial Sponsorship— The act of providing assistance, funding, goods, equipment, or
services to an MWR program or event by an individual, agency, association, company or
corporation, or other entity (sponsor) for a specified (limited) period of time in return for public
recognition or advertising promotions.
Personal Commercial Solicitation— Personal contact, to include meetings, meals, or
telecommunications contact, for the purpose of seeking private business or trade.
Suspension— Temporary termination of privileges pending completion of a commander’s
inquiry or investigation.
Withdrawal— Termination of privileges for a set period of time following completion of a
commander’s inquiry or investigation.
 12                                                               AFI36-2925 28 AUGUST 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                 REQUIREMENTS FOR GUEST TRAINER PROPOSALS

A2.1. All packages submitted by a non-government, non-commercial organization for SAF/MR
approval must contain the following information. Incomplete packages will not be processed, but
will be returned without action.
   A2.1.1. Proof of the trainer's tax exempt status under Title 26 United States Code Section
   501 (c) (3) or 501 (c) 23.
   A2.1.2. A description of the trainer's educational background and qualifications.
   A2.1.3. A copy of the actual course syllabus outlining the course of study.
   A2.1.4. Any proposed course evaluation forms or class surveys.
   A2.1.5. A copy of any slide presentations and/or training materials.
A2.2. Training materials will not include endorsement or promotions of commercial services or
suggest preferential treatment of any individual corporation, product or service.
A2.3. Additional training materials will not be marketed or sold before, during or after training
sessions and personal information on class attendance will not be provided to the trainer.
A2.4. All training materials must include appropriate disclaimers to clarify that the trainer is not
associated with, or endorsed by, the DoD or the Department of the AF.
A2.5. Educational presentations by approved trainers will only be conducted at the express
request of the installation commander. The installation commander also exercises discretion on
the duration of the training; classes may be discontinued at any time, in the commander's
discretion, based on good cause shown.
