BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2903
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                    AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                 19 APRIL 2013

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF
                                                             AIR FORCE PERSONNEL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A1KM                                                            Certified by: ACC/A1K
                                                                            (David L. Stenglein)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2903_ACCSUP, 10                                                   Pages: 7
               January 2007


AFI 36-2903 is supplemented as follows. This supplement provides further clarification and
guidance regarding dress and appearance standards of Air Combat Command personnel.
Installation commanders will further supplement this instruction as directed (follow processing
instructions found in AFI 36-2903, paragraph 2.8.). Proposed supplements to this publication
will be forwarded to the ACC Personnel Division (HQ ACC/A1K) for review and approval prior
to publication. This supplement applies to Air Force Reserve (AFRES) and Air National Guard
(ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Distribution Schedule (RDS). Contact supporting records managers
for approval as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this supplement to
HQ ACC/A1K, ACC.A1Kad@langley.af.mil, 114 Douglas Street, Suite 214, Joint Base
Langley-Eustis VA 23665-2773 using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This version is
restructured to conform to the new basic instruction.
 2                                                      AFI36-2903_ACCSUP 19 APRIL 2013


2.6.3. Distinctive civilian clothing is authorized for ACC band members as directed by the
band commander. Other agencies/functions desiring to wear civilian attire in lieu of the military
uniform will submit requests to HQ ACC/A1K through the local Force Support Squadron (FSS)
and installation commander. Requests will include a detailed description of clothing to be worn,
complete wear instructions and specific justification.
        2.6.7. Attachment 8 prescribes ACC Security Forces Bike Patrol Uniforms authorized
        for all ACC installations.
        2.6.8. Installation commanders are authorized to prescribe wear of “personal hydration
        systems” with ABUs, FDUs, PTUs and IPTUs while on home station (e.g., location, time
        of year, etc.).
     2.7. Numbered Air Force (NAF), Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) and Field Operating
     Agency (FOA) Commanders. NAFs, DRUs and FOAs reporting to ACC must send
     supplements to HQ ACC/A1K to be processed for approval prior to publishing. Send drafts
     to HQ ACC/A1K: ACC.A1Kad@langley.af.mil.
     2.8. Installation Commanders or Equivalent. Base supplements must be approved by HQ
     ACC/A1K,        prior to    publishing.   Send     drafts   to    HQ      ACC/A1K:
     ACC.A1Kad@langley.af.mil.
           5.1.1.1. Officers who routinely work or periodically visit industrial areas (i.e., flight
           line or aircraft maintenance areas) must wear subdued cloth rank insignia.
        5.1.7. Hoods of parkas and outer garments are considered headgear.             Appropriate
        headgear must be worn when the hood is not in use.
           6.4.3.2. The wear of black boots with ABUs in industrial work environments or in
           work centers where industrial products or processes cause irreparable staining to the
           sage green boot is temporarily authorized. Black boots will not be worn outside of
           the affected work environment. This exception is in effect until a stain-resistant green
           boot becomes available and is not specifically restricted to flightline activities.
           Installation commanders will designate their approved black boot wear areas in the
           base supplement.
           6.5.2.3. Installation commanders will prescribe the wear of long-sleeved turtlenecks,
           dickies, mock necks, and thermal undergarments with the wear of the
           ABU/FDU/DFDU/Informal Uniforms in base supplements.
        8.1.2. See ACC paragraph 9.1.1
           8.3.1.1. For ACC staff personnel, members may wear the FDU configured as their
           most recently assigned flying unit.
        8.3.3. The DFDU may be worn during contingencies, exercises, deployments, and
        tactical training requiring desert camouflage as appropriate for climactic conditions. The
        DFDU will not be worn as a day-to-day uniform.
        8.3.9. The pen pocket flap located on the left sleeve may be removed.
           8.4.5.1. (Added) Nametags. The installation commander will identify the color of
           the cloth and embroidery for each organization (i.e., squadron, group, wing, etc.) in
AFI36-2903_ACCSUP 19 APRIL 2013                                                             3


        an appropriate supplement to AFI 36-2903. Name (in block letters) and appropriate
        aeronautical badges (wings) will be embroidered. Wings will be approximately 2 3/4
        inches by 5/8 inch in size. Other badges to include the parachutist badge will be
        proportioned accordingly. Members have the option of wearing either one or two
        badges (aeronautical wings are mandatory.) . If two badges are worn, the aeronautical
        wings will be approximately two inches wide to allow two badges to fit properly on
        the name tag. Badges and name are centered. No other emblems or silhouettes are
        permitted. For officers, last name is mandatory; first name, initial(s), or common
        nicknames are optional provided they are in good taste (e.g., member may use
        "SAMUEL P. JONES," "SAM JONES," "S. JONES," "ACE JONES," or "JONES").
        For enlisted personnel; last name and abbreviated rank (e.g., SSgt, TSgt, MSgt, etc.),
        initial(s), or common nicknames are optional provided they are in good taste (e.g.,
        member may use "TSGT SAMUEL P. JONES," "TSGT SAM JONES," "TSGT S.
        JONES," "TSGT ACE JONES," or "TSGT JONES").
            8.4.5.1.1. (Added) For personnel assigned to the ACC headquarters staff, last
            name is mandatory and common nicknames are authorized provided they are in
            good taste. Cloth embroidered, royal blue background (not navy, not light blue),
            silver lettering, silver border, and silver occupational badge are authorized.
     8.4.6. A silhouette shape of the ACC Command Emblem will be centered on the right
     breast of the FDU/DFDU, above the pocket. A 3 1/2 x 3 1/2-inch square piece will be
     placed on each sleeve just below the shoulder for authorized patches.
     8.4.7. Left Sleeve. A vivid emblem, approximately 3 X 3 inches in size, of the
     appropriate parent wing, separate operating group, or numbered air force will be worn on
     the Velcro. Members may wear the Weapons School Patch, USAF Test Pilot School
     (graduate or instructor) upon completion of the appropriate school. Installation
     commanders prescribe wear of the U.S. flag on the FDU. If prescribed, implementation
     will be installation wide.
        8.4.8.1. (Added) Right Sleeve. A vivid emblem, approximately 3 X 3 inches in
        size, of the squadron assigned to for flying will be worn.
        8.4.9.1. (Added) Add-On Patches. Add-on patches are those that "extend" existing
        patches. They must be approved by HQ ACC/CV in accordance with current
        COMACC delegation authority.          Staff requests to HQ ACC/A1K:
        ACC.A1Kad@langley.af.mil.
        8.4.9.2. (Added) Emblems/patches not specifically addressed in this instruction
        must be approved by HQ ACC/CV in accordance with current COMACC delegation
        authority.
     8.4.10. Neckwear. Installation commanders will prescribe the wear of neckwear in their
     base supplement. The installation commander will determine the requirement to wear
     scarves with the FDU when not flying. Scarves will be in distinctive unit (squadron or
     wing) colors. The FDU front zipper will be closed to within approximately 3 inches of
     the neckline. Scarves will be worn around the neck and must be tucked in.
     8.5.1. Flight Jacket. Sleeves will be worn full length (not pushed up).
4                                                    AFI36-2903_ACCSUP 19 APRIL 2013


    8.6.3. See ACC paragraph 9.11
    9.1.1. Installation commanders will prescribe other functional clothing in their base
    supplements. Installation commanders will provide wear instructions in the base
    supplement to AFI 36-2903 as a minimum, for at least the following:
       9.1.1.1. Watch cap (See 6.2.7. and 6.2.8.)
       9.1.1.2. Coveralls
       9.1.1.3. Flight jacket or short parka by non-flying personnel (such as pole climbers)
       9.1.1.4. Specialized Winter Flight Clothing
       9.1.1.5. Reflective tape, jackets and arm bands
       9.1.1.6. Protective hair/head coverings (Wearing these head coverings is authorized
       only when work is being performed which requires the protection from the elements
       of work, e.g. paint, oil, grease, sprays, and so forth.)
       9.1.1.7. Protective footwear (See also 6.4.3.2)
    9.11.18. (Added) Demonstration Teams.
       9.11.18.1. (Added) USAF Demonstration Squadron. The Commander, USAF Air
       Demonstration Squadron is authorized to prescribe distinctive uniform items for wear
       by members assigned to that organization, subject to approval of CSAF.
       9.11.18.2. Aerial Demonstration Teams. The owning wing commander is authorized
       to prescribe distinctive uniform items for wear by members assigned to aerial
       demonstration teams within that organization, subject to approval of CSAF.
       9.12.5.1. Religious apparel waiver requests should be forwarded, when appropriate,
       to HQ ACC/A1K: ACC.A1Kad@langley.af.mil. Include an information copy of
       subject requests to HQ ACC/HC: ACC/HC@langley.af.mil. All religious apparel
       waiver requests will be coordinated at the MAJCOM level with HQ ACC/HC.




                                         RICHARD T. POORE, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                         Director of Manpower, Personnel & Services
AFI36-2903_ACCSUP 19 APRIL 2013                                                        5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2903, IC 1, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 1 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
COMACC—Commander, Air Combat Command
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FSS—Force Support Squadron
HQ ACC/A1—Headquarters ACC Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services
HQ ACC/A1K—Headquarters ACC Personnel Division
NAF—Numbered Air Force
 6                                                        AFI36-2903_ACCSUP 19 APRIL 2013


                                      Attachment 8 (Added)
                      SECURITY FORCES BIKE PATROL UNIFORMS

A8.1. GENERAL. May be issued and worn as authorized by local Defense Force Commander.
This uniform will be worn exclusively during the performance of bike patrol duties. Personnel
will not perform other security forces duties (i.e., installation entry control, vehicle patrol, etc.)
while wearing the bike patrol uniform.
     A8.1.1. SHIRT. Light blue short-sleeved Polo style knit shirt with collar. Buttoned plackets,
     welt cuffs and hemmed bottom. Screen print or embroider back of shirt to read “POLICE” in
     five-inch block-style capital letters. Letters will be centered on the back of the shirt with the
     top of the letters approximately 5-inches below the bottom of the collar. On the front left
     breast is a screen print or embroidered security police shield. Shield will be three to five
     inches in height and will be centered between the left arm and placket. Front right breast
     pocket is screen print or embroidered rank and last name only centered between the right arm
     and placket level with the shield. All screen print and embroidery will be in dark blue.
     A8.1.2. SHORTS. Loose fitting dark blue hemmed shorts made of all weather type material.
     Shorts will come within 2-3 inches of the top of the knee cap when standing. Shorts will have
     two side entered pockets at hips and two closing pockets on front thigh or side seam. Rear
     pockets are optional. Waist will have Velcro or snap type belt keepers, elastic back, and
     drawstring or snap waist. Reflective strip is optional; however if worn, will be located on the
     side seam in white only.
        A8.1.2.1. TROUSERS (OPTIONAL). In lieu of shorts above, member may wear loose
        fitting dark blue trousers made of all weather type material made to cover the ankle when
        standing. Trousers will have two side entered pockets at hips and two closing pockets on
        front thigh or side seam. Rear pockets are optional. Waist will have Velcro or snap type
        belt keepers, elastic back, and drawstring or snap waist. Reflective strip is optional;
        however if worn, will be located on the side seam in white only. Trousers may have
        either elastic or gusseted zipper at hem line. Optional items for the pants include pleated
        reinforced knees and elastic stirrup.
     A8.1.3. FOOTWEAR. Rugged black tennis shoes and laces. May be running, cross training,
     basketball, or coach style. Will not have company logo unless discrete and in black.
     A8.1.4. SOCKS. Socks may be either white or black. Socks will be ankle length and will not
     be pulled over the calf.
     A8.1.5. BELT. Black leather or nylon belt, holster and ammunition pouch.
     A8.1.6. HEADGEAR. White helmet meeting applicable safety standards as outlined in AFI
     91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 Oct 2011. Left and right side of helmet
     will read “POLICE” in one inch black capital letters. When dismounted from the bike for an
     extended period of time (e.g., walking patrol) or off-duty, wear the standard security police
     beret or organization baseball cap approved by the installation commander.
     A8.1.7. UNDERGARMENTS. Appropriate undergarments as necessary. Compression
     underwear shorts are authorized. If worn, they will not be visible at anytime while wearing
     the bike patrol uniform.
AFI36-2903_ACCSUP 19 APRIL 2013                                                                 7


  A8.1.8. JACKET (OPTIONAL). Waist length royal blue over dark blue, zipper closed, with
  collar (polo style) and optional zip-off vest. Jacket and vest will be made of all weather type
  material. Jacket will have Velcro or elastic closing cuff, elastic waistband, Velcro on breast
  pocket for the standard aircrew style name tag with security police shield, and dual diagonal
  side entered hand pockets in front. Optional items for the jacket include microphone tab at
  left or right shoulder, pen pocket on breast, top entered interior welt pockets, and white
  reflective tape at hem line and front/back of sleeves. Vest will be waist length royal blue over
  dark blue, zipper closed, have an elastic waistband, Velcro on breast pocket for the standard
  aircrew style name tag with security police shield, and dual diagonal side entered hand
  pockets in front. Vest collar may be same as jacket collar when worn together. Optional
  items for the vest include epaulets, two Velcro belt keepers at back of waistband, buttons at
  top and bottom of front closing zipper, top entered interior welt pockets, and pen pocket on
  breast.
