Administrative Change to AFI 38-206, Additional Duty Management, dated 6 May 2014

OPR: AF/A1MR Manpower Requirements Branch

Signature block Approving Official reference (Page 7) is changed from:

SAMUEL D. COX, Lieutenant General, USAF
DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services

To:

DANIEL R. SITTERLY
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
(Manpower and Reserve Affairs)

21 May 2014
BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 38-206
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    6 MAY 2014

                                                                   Manpower and Organization

                                                       ADDITIONAL DUTY MANAGEMENT




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1MR                                                                Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                        (Mr. Robert E. Corsi Jr.)
Supersedes:   AFI 38-206,                                                               Pages: 9
              27 December, 2011


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 38-2, Manpower. This Air
Force Instruction (AFI) applies to all Air Force units and organizations, the Air National Guard
(ANG) and the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and provides guidance and procedures pertaining to the
management of Air Force-directed additional duties. The goals of this Instruction are to:
establish a gatekeeper process to assess Air Force and unit level additional duties; improve
management of additional duties; and eliminate non-value-added additional duties. To
accomplish these goals this Instruction defines an additional duty, discusses the philosophy of
how the Air Force uses and maintains control over additional duties, and establishes the decision
flow process commanders/directors must use to document the value, priority, resources assigned
and guidance for each additional duty. In collaboration with the Director of the Air National
Guard (NGB/CF) and the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE), the Deputy Chief of Staff for
Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) develops HRM policy for Total Force Human
Resource Management Governance. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at
any level; all MAJCOM supplements must be approved by the HRM Strategic Board (HSB)
prior               to                  certification               and                 approval.

Supplements (other than Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command) must be routed
to Headquarters USAF Manpower, Organization and Resources, Manpower Requirements
Division (AF/A1MR) for coordination prior to further staffing. AFI content changes, related to
ANG and AFRC, must be approved by the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF)
through the ANG Manpower, Organization, and Resources Division (NGB/A1M); or Air Force
Reserve Command (AF/RE) through the Air Force Reserve Command Manpower, Organization
 2                                                                      AFI38-206 6 MAY 2014


and Resources Division (AFRC/A1M), respectively. Requests for waivers must be submitted to
the AF/A1MR for consideration and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to AF/A1MR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 through channels to AF/A1MR, 1040 Air Force Pentagon Suite
5B349, Washington, DC 20330-1040 or e-mail: usaf.pentagon.af-a1.mbx.af-a1mr-
workflow@mail.mil. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).
The use of a name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised and it is recommended it be thoroughly reviewed. Major
changes include the inclusion of Tier Waiver Authorities as outlined in AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, paragraph 1.9, and the addition of Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve Command guidance pertaining to the oversight and management of additional duties
with the respective commands.
1. Overview.
     1.1. Additional Duty Definition. An Air Force-directed additional duty is a task required by
     federal law, executive order, and/or departmental publication and which is deemed external
     to the unit's primary mission/duties and not identified as direct or indirect workload. This
     definition is further clarified to include tasks mandated by a HAF 2-letter and levied upon
     another HAF 2-letter and its subordinate units. Tasks mandated by a HAF 2-letter that are
     required throughout a functional community are considered primary duties (i.e., direct
     workload).
     1.2. The list of Air Force-directed additional duties is maintained on the Air Force
     Additional Duties Review – Saving Airmen’s Time SharePoint site; at
     https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/AF-DP-00-70/default.aspx.
     1.3. Management Philosophy.
        1.3.1. Work force reductions and ever-expanding, complex and diverse missions require
        Air Force leaders, at every level, to re-evaluate their capabilities to achieve the balance
        between accomplishing the mission and not over stressing their people. This guidance is
        intended to maximize unit effectiveness and eliminate those activities that unnecessarily
        drain resources.
        1.3.2. All new additional duty proposals at the Air Force-level will be subject to a
        rigorous “gatekeeper” review. The purpose of the review is to ensure only mission
        essential, AFI, or higher directive required additional duties are added.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. AF/A1 (Gatekeeper):
AFI38-206 6 MAY 2014                                                                            3


     2.1.1. AF/A1 is the Air Force Additional Duty "Gatekeeper" responsible for the overall
     process for approval, assignment and delegation of additional duties. AF/A1 shall
     exercise those responsibilities with an emphasis on guidance, oversight, and liaison with
     the HAF components. The AF/A1 is responsible for providing guidance, direction and
     oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review and execution of plans,
     policies, programs and budgeting relative to:
        2.1.1.1. Development and maintenance of an approved Air Force-directed Additional
        Duty List.
        2.1.1.2. Manpower, budgeting and management of AF-directed additional duties to
        include the specific placement of additional duties in a functional area; all efforts will
        be made to improve the process to reduce the cost of additional duties.
        2.1.1.3. Establishing guidance outlining the review process to assess new/revised Air
        Force-directed and unit-level additional duties.
        2.1.1.4. Ensure manpower requirements are considered and proper coordination is
        obtained for each additional duty levied upon other organizations/functions by a HAF
        2-letter. In addition, consider manpower requirements to perform the additional duty
        in the overall manpower allocation for each unit.
     2.1.2. The AF/A1 has the authority to convene a cross-functional council, as required, to
     review current or proposed Air Force-level additional duties.
  2.2. AF/A1M will:
     2.2.1. Serve as the Gatekeeper’s OPR for additional duties.
     2.2.2. Establish a process to oversee new AF-directed additional duties. The intent of the
     process is to ensure cross-functional activities are fully coordinated and agreed upon by
     the HAF functional leads. Review and coordination is done prior to publication of any
     new or revised Air Force directive (e.g., AFPD, AFI, AFMAN).
     2.2.3. Make recommendation to AF/A1 to concur/non-concur with adding an additional
     duty to the Air Force-directed Additional Duty List.
     2.2.4. Manage and update the master Air Force-directed Additional Duty List.
     2.2.5. Determine if a HAF 2-letter request for a new or revised additional duty contains
     the appropriate rationale and justification to staff accordingly.
  2.3. Air Force Personnel Center Manpower Directorate (AFPC/MA) responsibilities
  are to:
     2.3.1. Maintain the Air Force-directed Additional Duty List.
     2.3.2. Categorize and credit additional duty workload; i.e., whether the manpower credit
     for an approved additional duty should be included in applicable Air Force Manpower
     Standards (AFMS), or the Commanders Support Staff (CSS) manpower standard.
     2.3.3. Update the appropriate factor and/or manpower standard as appropriate.
     2.3.4. Review new and/or revised official directive Air Force publications for additional
     duties and identify the manpower impact to AF/A1M. The review will address:
4                                                                       AFI38-206 6 MAY 2014


           2.3.4.1. Does the proposal meet the definition of an additional duty?
           2.3.4.2. Is the proposal a true new additional duty requirement?
           2.3.4.3. Is the proposal a revision to a current approved additional duty?
           2.3.4.4. Is the workload already accounted for in a manpower standard as direct
           workload?
           2.3.4.5. Is the workload already credit in the CSS manpower standard?
           2.3.4.6. Is the workload already accounted for in the applicable AFMS?
           2.3.4.7. Has sufficient rationale/justification for the proposed additional duty been
           provided?
           2.3.4.8. Does the manpower/resource impact estimate, and how it was computed,
           seem logical?
           2.3.4.9. Do the estimated training requirements, and how they were computed, seem
           logical?
           2.3.4.10. Does the estimate of required resources, and how they were computed,
           seem logical?
           2.3.4.11. Have the AFPC/MA recommendations and comments been forward to
           AF/A1MR?
           2.3.4.12. Have the recommendations and comments been forwarded to AF/A1 for
           approval?
    2.4. NGB/A1M responsibilities:
       2.4.1. Solely responsible for the accurate quantification of ANG full-time manpower
       requirements through the development, implementation and management of ANG
       Manpower Standards (MS).
       2.4.2. Categorize and credit AFPC/MA-identified additional workload in the applicable
       ANG manpower standard to support ANG fulltime manpower requirements.
       2.4.3. Establish a process to oversee new AF-directed additional duties for Guard units.
       The intent of the process is to ensure cross-functional activities are fully coordinated and
       agreed upon by NGB/A1M, NGB/CF and HAF functional leads. Review and
       coordination is done prior to publication of any new or revised ANG directive.
    2.5. AFRC/A1M responsibilities: The AFR determines its own fulltime manpower
    requirements and will likewise categorize and credit identified additional workload using the
    AF Indirect Allowance Factors and AFR Common Reserve Support manpower standard to
    support AFR fulltime manpower requirements.
    2.6. HAF 2-letters will:
       2.6.1. Submit proposed new/revised additional duty workload to AF/A1 through
       AF/A1M workflow (afa1m.workflow@pentagon.af.mil), and ensure any new or revised
       publication (e.g., AFPD, AFI, AFMAN) adheres to the criteria established in this
       Instruction for review of a new or revised additional duty workload (Figure A2.1).
       New/revised additional duty workload must be approved by AF/A1 before being
AFI38-206 6 MAY 2014                                                                           5


     incorporated into any new or revised directive. Requests for new or revised additional
     duties must include:
        2.6.1.1. Rationale justifying why a new additional duty is mandated.
        2.6.1.2. Description of the entire additional duty task(s) in detail.
        2.6.1.3. Scope of the additional duty; is it Air Force-wide, MAJCOM, or functionally
        specific, and what unit and organizational level will perform the additional duty.
        2.6.1.4. Documented process improvement efforts incorporated to minimize the
        manpower impact to tasked organizations.
        2.6.1.5. All Air Force publications, or directives, concerning the proposed additional
        duty, the HAF 2-letter plans to incorporate.
        2.6.1.6. Estimated manpower impact (increase or decrease) the additional duty will
        have on each organizational level (i.e., man-hours per month) and how the impact
        was determined.
        2.6.1.7. Required training requirements (time/frequency) and a description of how,
        and who, will conduct the training
        2.6.1.8. Estimate of any other resources required (i.e., equipment, supplies, material).
        2.6.1.9. Documentation that other HAF 2-letter(s) have coordinated/concurred with
        the new/revised additional duty when a cross-functional tasking impacts their
        resources/personnel.
     2.6.2. Include appropriate documentation that AF/A1 has approved the new/revised
     additional duty as part of the publication process IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and
     Forms Management.
     2.6.3. Periodically evaluate additional duties tasked to subordinate echelons to ensure
     they are valid and required; and conduct a review at least annually, or when a unit
     mission change occurs.
  2.7. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU commanders/directors will:
     2.7.1. Require their unit commanders/directors to periodically re-evaluate MAJCOM and
     locally directed additional duties to ensure there is ‘value added’ benefit to performing
     the duties at their location and whether there is mission impact.
     2.7.2. Supplement this Instruction as needed, routing through AF/A1M, requests for
     clarification or implementation proposals specific to their command, and direct execution
     of additional duties not mandated by higher headquarters.
     2.7.3. Require their subordinate staffs to periodically evaluate additional duties to ensure
     they are valid and required; and conduct a review at least annually, or when a unit
     mission change occurs.
  2.8. Wing, group, squadron and other level commanders/directors will:
     2.8.1. Execute the applicable Air Force-directed additional duties and locally-directed
     additional duties as deemed necessary based on mission needs, local conditions and
     resource availability. (T-1).
 6                                                                       AFI38-206 6 MAY 2014


        2.8.2. Re-evaluate MAJCOM and locally-directed additional duties as applicable. (T-1).
        Commanders and directors must determine there is value added or benefit to performing
        these duties; and when there is nominal or a negative/debilitating impact to the unit
        and/or personnel they should consider elevating their concerns/issues to their MAJCOM
        functional counterpart for resolution. (T-1).
        2.8.3. When it is determined the performance of an additional duty is so significant (in
        terms of the man-hours expended) that it warrants consideration as an approved Air
        Force-directed additional duty, the unit commander, director, or designated
        representative, will submit a proposal to their respective MAJCOM counterpart, (T-1),
        that addresses the following points:
           2.8.3.1. Identify and describe the additional duty.
               2.8.3.1.1. What is the origin of the duty, or task and how does it affect unit
               mission and morale?
           2.8.3.2. Is the task/duty mandated by an Air Force Instruction?
           2.8.3.3. Has specific direction concerning the duty been provided by higher
           headquarters?
           2.8.3.4. Is the duty unique to your base/unit?
           2.8.3.5. What resources are required to perform the duty? (Comment on: manning
           to include skill level and training, time, money, facility, equipment, etc.).
           2.8.3.6. Is there an impact if this duty is eliminated?       (Comment on: positive,
           negative, or no effect on unit mission and morale)?
           2.8.3.7. Is it a large duty that requires more than one person to accomplish in the
           unit?
           2.8.3.8. Is it mission/time-critical enough to require assignment of a primary and
           alternate POC?
           2.8.3.9. Is the duty valid for your unit? If the duty is not valid, or appropriate for the
           unit, unit commanders/directors should consider elevating the concern(s) to the
           respective MAJCOM functional representative IAW paragraph 1.3.2.
3. Overall Additional Duty Review Process.
     3.1. Air Force-Level Proposed Additional Duties.
        3.1.1. Additional duties must be identified and described in an Air Force publication as
        defined in AFI 33-360. In the event an additional duty appears to generate a manpower
        requirement, the sponsoring HAF 2-letter (OPR) will follow the steps in paragraph 2.6. of
        this Instruction by providing an estimated manpower impact as well as the other required
        information related to the value and cost of the additional duty requirement, along with a
        priority value of the new additional duty with respect to all other additional duties
        sponsored by the 2-letter.
        3.1.2. Headquarters Air Force (HAF) 2-letters will use the Gatekeeper Additional Duty
        Review Process at Figure A2.1 to submit proposed additional duties. Any new or
        revised publication, as identified in AFI 33-360 having a manpower impact (with respect
AFI38-206 6 MAY 2014                                                                        7


     to the man-hours required to perform the additional duties), must be identified by the
     OPR and coordinated with AF/A1M prior to publication. HAF 2-letter (functional
     managers) are also responsible for appointing functional representatives to assist
     individuals in the development of standards and factors effected by the additional duty.
  3.2. MAJCOM and Locally Proposed Additional Duties.
     3.2.1. It is imperative unit commanders and directors understand the importance, value
     and intent of additional duties so they may place the appropriate emphasis on them. (T-
     1). It is important to note manpower will not be programmed for additional duty
     workload without Air Force or higher approval. (T-1).
     3.2.2. Documenting the Proposed Additional Duty. Unit commanders and directors must
     document the proposed additional duty and ensure any impact and/or concern(s) resulting
     from the additional duty are identified and documented IAW paragraph 2.8.3. (T-1).
     This is to ensure unit members remain informed and ensures that individuals assigned to
     perform the task(s)/duties have the necessary training required to perform the task/duty.
     3.2.3. Unit commanders/directors must periodically evaluate the performance of
     additional duties to determine if they are mandated and/or required. (T-1). Are there
     adequate resources to continue performance? If a duty is not mandated, must it be
     performed or can it be consolidated with other similar tasks, or should it be subject to
     higher review? Is it feasible to subdivide the duty between multiple units or locations?
     The goal should be to minimize the impact upon the unit and personnel to the absolute
     extent possible by reducing the time and/or resources required. (T-1).




                                          SAMUEL D. COX, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
 8                                                                 AFI38-206 6 MAY 2014


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 38-2, Manpower, 5 February 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 29 August 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPC/MA—Air Force Personnel Center Manpower Directorate
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
MAJCOM—Major Command
AFI38-206 6 MAY 2014                                                                                                                 9


                                                               Attachment 2
                        GATEKEEPER ADDITIONAL DUTY REVIEW PROCESS

Figure A2.1. Gatekeeper Additional Duty Review Process



         HAF 2-letter OPR:                                     AF/A1M
  Submit all proposed new / revised                  Review new / revised additional
 additional duty workload to AF/A1M                  duty workload for mission and
       IAW AFI 38-206, para 2.6                       manpower / resource impact




                                       No                    Proposal contains
                                                             required material /
                                                            documentation IAW
                                                            AFI 38-206, para 2.6




                                                                          Yes




                                                No               Proposal
             HAF 2-letter/OPR                                                          Yes                  AFPC/MA
                                                                 satisfies
  Provides additional documentation to AF/                                                           Reviews the new / revised
                                                              additional duty
       A1M and resubmits if desired                                                                  additional duty workload
                                                                definition




            HAF 2-letter/OPR                                      AF/A1M
     Publishes guidance IAW AFI 33-                        Requests OPR provide
                                                                                                           AFPC/MA
    360 however does not receive credit                   additional information if
                                                                                                    Provides recommendation /
         for workload that is to be                       necessary, or submits to
                                                                                                      comments to AF/A1M
    accomplished as an additional duty                    Gatekeeper (AF/A1) for
            by another function                            approval / disapproval




              HAF 2-letter/OPR               Non-concur
    Removes additional duty workload or                           AF/A1
    identifies other method to accomplish



                                                                                                         AFPC/MA
                                                                            Approves
                                                                                             Validates manpower / resource impact
                                                                                              and updates in appropriate factor or
            HAF 2-letter/OPR
                                                 Approves                                             manpower standard
   Updates appropriate AFI / AF guidance
   and maintains Gatekeeper decision with
        documentation of publication




                                                               AF/A1M
                                                          Updates AF-approved
                                                          Additional Duty List
