BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 35-107
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              21 OCTOBER 2009
                                                                               AIR UNIVERSITY
                                                                                     Supplement
                                                                                     27 MAY 2011

                                                                                     Public Affairs

                                                           PUBLIC WEB COMMUNICATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing Web site at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFPAA                                                Certified by: SAF/PAO (Col Marcella F.
                                                                                       Adams)
                                                                                      Pages: 11
                                               (AU)
OPR: HQ AU/PAO                                                 Certified by: HQ AU/PA (Maj John
                                                                                       Redfield)
Supersedes:    AUI 35-101, 30 March 2007                                                Pages:3


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 35-1, Public Affairs
Management. It provides guidance pertaining to integrating new public Internet, Web, and
related information technologies into U.S. Air Force public and internal communication
programs. It also supports Department of Defense (DOD) 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation.
Read this instruction with Joint Publication 3-61, Doctrine for Public Affairs in Joint Operations,
and AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use. This AFI requires the collection and
maintenance of personal information including the following systems notices: F035 AF
AFNEWS A (Hometown News Release Background Data File), F035 AF SAFPA C (Official
Biographies), and F035 SAFPA B (Mobilization Augmentee Training Folders). Records
Disposition. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, and route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
 2                                                        AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011


command. This instruction applies to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the Air
National Guard (ANG) unless otherwise noted.

(AU) AFI 35-107, 21 October 2009, is supplemented as follows.

(AU) This supplement implements AFI 35-107. It outlines the steps needed for Air Force
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) detachments to gain security and policy approval for
their detachment websites. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This supplement
applies to the Headquarters Air University Public Affairs Office, Headquarters Air Force ROTC,
its regions and detachments. It does not apply to Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training
Corps (AFJROTC), the AFRC or ANG. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(AU) This supplement supersedes AUI 35-101 that has been replaced by supplements to the
appropriate Air Force Instructions based on content.
1. Purpose. This instruction outlines the guidelines for integrating new public Internet, Web,
and related information technologies into Air Force public and internal communication
programs. This chapter complements other Air Force and Defense documents relating to the use
of the Internet and information technology in public and internal communication strategies. It
also outlines the roles and responsibilities of the Air Force Public Web Program.
1. (AU) Purpose. This supplement outlines the procedures Air Force ROTC detachments are
to use for annual reviews of their public websites. The annual review described is conducted by
Air University Public Affairs (AU/PA), Security and Policy Review (SPR) section, and is
separate and apart from the annual review conducted by Headquarters Air Force ROTC. Though
hosted on host universities’ web servers, Air Force ROTC detachment websites are considered
official Air Force public websites and must undergo annual security and policy reviews.
2. Overview. All Air Force public Web sites will be consolidated and centrally hosted as part of
the Air Force Public Web Program. This service-wide initiative saves the Air Force money,
manpower, and resources while providing a standardized corporate image and content approval
process for all Web sites.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) will:
        3.1.1. Develop guidance for the integration of public Web sites into the Air Force Public
        Web Program. Serve as chair of the Air Force Public Web Policy Board.
AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011                                                                  3


     3.1.2. Develop guidance governing the public communication program and the security
     and policy review program.
     3.1.3. Review and approve/disapprove waiver requests for AF public Web sites hosted
     outside the scope of the Air Force Public Web Program.
  3.2. Air Force Public Affairs Agency (AFPAA) will:
     3.2.1. Manage and operate the Air Force Public Web Program and quality assurance
     program. This includes operational and financial planning and implementation of the
     program as well as developing and enhancing the content management system.
     3.2.2. Set agenda, compile issues, and track submissions for the Air Force Public Web
     Policy Board. Ensure policy board convenes annually, at a minimum, to recommend
     updates to policy and guide development efforts for the Air Force Public Web Program.
     3.2.3. Manage and operate Air Force Link, http://www.af.mil/, the official Web site of
     the Air Force.
  3.3. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU commanders or their designated representatives will:
     3.3.1. Ensure conformity with the Air Force Public Web Program.
     3.3.2. Identify and designate, in writing, an Air Force Public Web Program
     representative (group and site managers). An electronic e-mail to the AFPW Program
     will suffice. Group and site managers will be Public Affairs members (AFSCs 3NXXX,
     35PX or civilian equivalent) to the maximum extent possible.
     3.3.3. Establish and maintain one official public Web site, specifically structured for
     general public use.
     3.3.4. Ensure relevant public Web sites receive initial security and policy review for
     content and a usability evaluation by PA staff prior to site launch. Establish record of
     review and approval for all subordinate content. Additionally, PA must assess the need,
     requirement, and suitability for release of information.
     3.3.5. Provide Air Force Public Web Program standards of content, quality, and
     appearance for all public Web sites, including those at subordinate organizations when
     applicable.
     3.3.6. Ensure security and policy review of all substantial updates or new material posted
     to the publicly accessible Web site. Subsequent reviews are necessary to ensure new or
     updated content meets all security considerations.
     3.3.7. Ensure Web sites are registered by submitting the signed memorandum of
     understanding, provided during the initial migration process to Air Force Public Web.
  3.4. Installation-level or equivalent commanders or their designated representatives will:
     3.4.1. Ensure conformity with the Air Force Public Web Program.
     3.4.2. Initiate and sign/approve appointment letters for the installation’s site manager,
     content manager, and content provider. Identify and designate, in writing, an Air Force
     Public Web Program representative (site manager). An electronic e-mail to the AFPW
     Program will suffice. An electronic e-mail from the unit commander, or designated
 4                                                         AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011


        representative, to an individual may constitute an appointment letter. Site managers will
        be Public Affairs members (AFSC 3NXXX, 35PX or civilian equivalent) to the
        maximum extent possible.
        3.4.3. Establish and maintain one official public Web site, specifically structured for
        general public use.
        3.4.4. Ensure public Web sites receive initial security and policy review for content and a
        usability evaluation by PA staff prior to site launch. Establish record of review and
        approval for all subordinate content. Additionally, PA must assess the need, requirement,
        and suitability for release of information.
        3.4.5. Provide Air Force Public Web Program standards of content, quality, and
        appearance for the public Web site.
        3.4.6. Ensure security and policy review of all substantial updates or new material posted
        to the publicly accessible Web site. Subsequent reviews are necessary to ensure new or
        updated content meets all security considerations.
            3.4.6.1. (Added-AU) Review/approval of Air Force ROTC detachment websites.
            AU/PA SPR is responsible for reviewing and approving all Air Force ROTC
            detachments’ public websites hosted on their universities’ servers both before initial
            launching and annually thereafter. Annually, detachments must complete the Air
            Force ROTC Public Website Evaluation Checklist and submit to AU/PA SPR for
            approval (contact information is on the checklist). General references are found in
            AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use. The evaluation checklist can be
            found on the Public Affairs page of the Holm Center’s restricted website
            (https://hq.afoats.af.mil/AFOATSOp/Mission/Public%20Affairs/index.asp). Air
            Force ROTC Headquarters conducts its own annual review of detachment websites;
            however, that review is not for security and policy purposes.
        3.4.7. Ensure Web sites are registered by submitting the signed memorandum of
        understanding provided during the initial migration process to Air Force Public Web.
4. Web Site Management.
     4.1. Public Web Sites. Public Web sites exist as part of the Air Force’s public
     communication program. Public Web sites will not contain any classification or markings
     such as ―Approved for Public.‖
     4.2. Approval to Establish Public Web Content. Commanders with the authority to make
     public the release of information (typically wing- or installation-equivalent commanders)
     have the authority to approve public Web content. Organizations seeking to publish public
     Web content will justify that the content is intended for a wide public audience (not military-
     specific) and coordinate with local PA, legal if appropriate, and communications authorities
     prior to seeking release approval from the commander.
     4.3. Internal Air Force Audience. Web content that targets the internal Air Force audience,
     and/or requires restricted access controls, should be posted on the Air Force Portal Web site
     and not the publicly accessible Web site covered under this AFI.
     4.4. Web sites hosted outside scope of the Air Force Public Web Program. These sites
     include specialty sites that require unique consideration because they do not meet criteria
AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011                                                                 5


   established within this publication for authorized public Web sites. Waiver requests and
   justification must be submitted through the appropriate chain of command to the Air Force
   Public Affairs Agency (AFPAA) for consideration.
   4.5. Web Site Registration. Organizations must ensure their public Web sites are registered
   as part of the Air Force Public Web Program. To register, an organization must submit the
   signed memorandum of understanding provided during the initial migration process via fax
   or e-mail to the Air Force Public Web Division.
   4.6. Security and Policy Review. See AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review.
5. Web Site Content.
   5.1. General Content. The average Air Force public Web site allows commanders to keep the
   general public informed of local news and information. Only information cleared for public
   release in accordance with AFI 33-129, this instruction, and other associated policies and
   instructions can be posted to public Web sites. The following provides guidance on routine
   Web content items:
      5.1.1. Electronic Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Reading Room Material.
      Frequently requested material released as a part of the unit’s FOIA program may be
      posted to the Web site.
      5.1.2. Base or Unit Fact Sheet. Maintained locally, base fact sheets provide general
      history, organization, and economic impact of a particular unit or installation.
      5.1.3. Links to Key Leaders. Official biographies of general officers, civilian
      equivalents, and key senior enlisted personnel are maintained in the Air Force Link
      Library. Biographies, whether posted to the Air Force Link or the installation’s Web site,
      must not reveal names, addresses or other identifying material of family members of Air
      Force employees or members.
      5.1.4. Links to Associated Weapons Systems. Fact Sheets maintained within the Air
      Force Link Library provide basic information on aircraft and other weapons systems in
      the Air Force inventory.
      5.1.5. News Releases. Locally produced news, cleared for public release, tell the unit’s
      story.
      5.1.6. News Related Photos. Approved local photography of people and associated
      equipment helps tell the unit’s story.
      5.1.7. Detailed Imagery. Do not include maps or aerial photography of installations on
      public Web sites.
      5.1.8. Standard Publications and Forms. Standard publications and forms that are not
      exempt from release under FOIA may be made available through a link to the Air Force’s
      e-Publishing Web site, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/, or via the Air Force Portal.
      5.1.9. Links to Higher Headquarters Sites. Sites must link to public sites belonging to
      higher headquarters within their organizational chain.
      5.1.10. Mandatory Links: To promote recruiting and retention, each Air Force
      components’ Public Web site must contain a link to their respective recruiting sites (
6                                                         AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011


       Active – http://www.airforce.com/; Reserve – http://www.afreserve.com/; Air
       National Guard – http://www.goang.com/). All components must link to the Air Force
       Portal at http://www.my.af.mil/.
    5.2. External Links.
       5.2.1. Criteria. The ability to hyperlink to external sources is a fundamental part of the
       Worldwide Web and can add significant value to the functionality of a public Web site.
       Air Force activities will establish objective and supportable criteria or guidelines for the
       selection and maintenance of links to external Web pages. Guidelines must consider the
       informational needs of personnel and their families, mission-related needs, and public
       communication and community relations objectives. Such guidelines must be consistent
       with the following considerations:
       5.2.2. Links to non-DOD Web site resources must support the organization’s mission.
       External links must be reviewed periodically to ensure their continued suitability. If the
       content of a linked external site becomes questionable or objectionable, remove the link.
       5.2.3. In accordance with DOD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, no product
       endorsements or preferential treatment shall be given on Air Force public Web sites.
       5.2.4. No payment of any kind shall be accepted in exchange for a link placed on an
       organization’s public Web site.
       5.2.5. In accordance with DOD 5500.7-R, Air Force public Web sites shall not require or
       encourage users to choose any specific browser software. Only text or hyperlinked text
       shall be used to direct visitors to software download sites. Graphics or logos depicting
       companies or products shall not appear on publicly accessible DOD Web sites.
       5.2.6. Organizations will not use ―frames‖ technology.
       5.2.7. Organizations are encouraged to link to authorized activities in support of the
       organization’s mission, such as the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, the Navy
       Exchange Service Command, and the Marine Corps Exchange. If these sites contain
       commercial advertisements or sponsorships, the appropriate disclaimer shall be
       displayed.
       5.2.8. To avoid the perception of Air Force promotion or endorsement, links to
       commercial organizations such as, but not limited to, contractors who produce Web sites,
       non-military content providers, or event organizers and promoters, must be avoided. If a
       link to a non-government Web site is considered for placement on an Air Force public
       site, the commander is responsible for ensuring that a proper disclaimer notice is
       displayed (see 5.2.11. for an example). The disclaimer must state that neither the Air
       Force nor the unit endorses the product(s) or organizational entity at the hyperlink
       destination. The disclaimer must also state that the Air Force does not exercise any
       responsibility or oversight of the content at destination.
       5.2.9. A link from an Air Force public Web site must relate to the mission of the
       organization. For example, if members of an organization routinely interact with a
       defense contractor, it is permissible to point to that contractor's Web site. The link must
       not go to the primary home page, but specifically to the page that directly relates to
       official Air Force contracted business.
AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011                                                                  7


      5.2.10. Organizations must realize once a decision is made to link to a non-DOD Web
      site, the unit may be required to link to similar sites. Any appearance of impropriety may
      be avoided with a notice identifying similar sources. The notice must state that links to
      these sources do not constitute official or unofficial endorsement of goods or services by
      the Air Force and the organization and that the list of sources is not necessarily all
      inclusive.
      5.2.11. Disclaimer for External Links. The disclaimer below shall be displayed when
      linking to external sites. This disclaimer may appear on the page or pages listing external
      links or through an intermediate "exit notice" page generated by the system whenever a
      request is made for any site other than an official DOD Web site (usually the .mil
      domain). An example of such an exit notice is: ―The appearance of hyperlinks does not
      constitute endorsement by the (organizational name), the United States Air Force, or the
      Department of Defense of the external Web site, or the information, products, or services
      contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and
      Services/Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) sites, the United States Air Force does
      not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations.
      Such links are provided consistent with the stated purpose of the Web site.‖
   5.3. Links to Restricted Sites. Air Force public Web sites will not link to restricted sites
   which are unavailable or inaccessible to the general public.
   5.4. Posting of Base Newspapers on the Internet. While the publishing of base newspapers
   constitutes public release of information, the distribution is normally limited. Web sites
   constitute a much broader, global release of information to the general public. Therefore,
   some information appropriate for printed base newspapers may not be appropriate for
   publicly-accessible Air Force Web sites. The content of base newspapers may be reproduced
   for the Web site if that content meets the restrictions provided in DOD’s Interim Policy, Web
   Site Administration Policies and Procedures (25 Nov 1998). All stories must be reviewed
   against Part V of the DOD policy prior to being posted to public Web sites.
   5.5. Point of Contact (POC). Point of contact for each significant Web page is required. Use
   generic or organizational POC information, not individual e-mail addresses.
   5.6. Feedback. Each site must provide a means to provide feedback or request further
   information.
   5.7. Current as of Date. Information posted on Web site must be kept current.
6. Usability Requirements: Section 508.
   6.1. In 1998, Congress amended the U.S. Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to require that federal
   agencies make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with
   disabilities. Section 508, 1194.22, Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and
   Applications, is of particular importance with regard to Web site management. This section
   outlines the requirements for federal Web sites, both Internet and intranet. It states that
   federal Web sites must meet the needs of disabled employees and members of the public and
   allow them access to Internet technology in a format understood by software readers/viewers.
   In order to accomplish this, several simple, fundamental changes are required. For the entire
   list of requirements, go to http://www.section508.gov.
 8                                                        AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011


7. Inappropriate Material and Prohibitions.
     7.1. The following items are inappropriate for public Web sites:
        7.1.1. Inappropriate Links. Air Force public Web sites will not link to offensive or
        unrelated commercial material.
        7.1.2. Operational and Personnel Security. Air Force public Web sites will not post
        references to any information that would reveal sensitive movements of military assets or
        personnel or the locations of units, installations, or personnel where uncertainty is an
        element of security of a military plan or program.
        7.1.3. Personal Information. Use of personal information protected by the Privacy Act
        (AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program) is prohibited. Further restrictions on the use of
        personal information are provided by DOD policy, Web Site Administration Policies and
        Procedures, 25 Nov 1998.
        7.1.4. Copyright Information. Copyrighted material may only be used with written
        permission from the owner (see AFI 51-303, Intellectual Property—Patents, Patent
        Related Matters, Trademarks and Copyrights). United States laws on copyright,
        primarily 17 U.S.C. 101, et seq., preserve, for the owner of copyrighted material, the
        benefits and earnings to be derived from the reproduction and distribution of such works.
        Material that is subject to copyright protection includes ―original works of authorship
        fixed in any tangible medium…,‖ 17 U.S.C. 102(a). It is now accepted that computer
        software, sequences of code, and instructions, are in fact subject to copyright.
        7.1.5. Trademarks and Logos. The use of commercial trademarks or logos is prohibited.
        7.1.6. Inactive or broken links. Inactive or broken links must be corrected or removed
        immediately.
        7.1.7. ―Under Construction‖ Notices. These notices will not be used.
        7.1.8. All content on a public Web site must be cleared for public release. Do not include
        material that is classified or for official use only. Public Web sites will not contain any
        classification markings. Do not include scientific and technical information that has not
        been cleared for public release.
8. Appearance. The appearance of public Web sites will be standardized through the Air Force
Public Web Program. Only designs and templates approved by the Air Force Public Web
Program management team will be used. Exceptions to this policy must be approved by AFPAA
prior to public access.
9. Collection of Information. Air Force Web sites must comply with DOD limitations on the
collection and use of user information. The use of cookies or other browser measures to gather
information on public site users beyond statistical summaries is prohibited. Web site
administrators will ensure the appropriate privacy and security notices are included or linked to
the home page.
10. Web-based Message Boards, Threaded Chat Rooms, and Guest Books. These
technologies allow users to post opinions, messages, or information openly on a Web site. They
provide a useful means of creating two-way communication but are prohibited as part of public
Web site services.
AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011                                                                   9


11. Information Collection, Records, and Forms.
   11.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   11.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in
   accordance with the AFRIMS RDS located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.
   11.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).

11.3.1. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

11.3.2. Prescribed Forms.

No forms are prescribed by this publication.




                                               LES A. KODLICK, Colonel, USAF
                                               Director of Public Affairs

                                               (AU)

                                               ALLEN G. PECK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                               Commander
 10                                                       AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 17, United States Code – Copyrights, October 2007
Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act of 1973
U.S. Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended in 1998
DOD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, 23 Mar 2006
DOD Interim Policy, Web Site Administration Policies and Procedures, 25 Nov 1998
Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Term, 12
Apr 2001, as amended through 17 Oct 2008
AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary, 11 Jan 2007
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 Feb 2005
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 Jan 2004
AFI 51-303, Intellectual Property-Patents, Patent Related Matters, Trademarks and Copyrights,
1 Sep 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFRIMS RDS, https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
(Added-AU) AU/PA—Air University Public Affairs
DOD—Department of Defense
DODD—Department of Defense directive
DODI—Department of Defense instruction
DRU—direct reporting unit
FOA—field operating agency
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
MAJCOM—major command
OASD/PA—Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs
PA—Public Affairs
PAO—Public Affairs Office, Public Affairs officer
POC—point of contact
AFI35-107_AUSUP_I 27 MAY 2011                    11


(Added-AU) ROTC—Reserve Officer Training Corps
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
(Added-AU) SPR—Security and Policy Review
