BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-320
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  15 MAY 2002
                                                               Incorporating Through Change 2,
                                                                              29 February 2012

                                                 COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION

                                                                        FEDERAL REGISTER

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/A6PPF                                                          Certified by: SAF/A6PP
                                                                            (Mr. Albert Bodnar)
Supersedes:   AFI 37-120,                                                              Pages: 11
              18 February 1994


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management,
and Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Administrative Instruction No. 102, Office of the
Secretary of Defense (OSD) Federal Register (FR) System, August 6, 1999. It gives guidance on
the overall Federal Register (FR) system and tells how to submit rules and notices’ affecting the
public for publication in the FR except as applies to Privacy Act system notices (Air Force
Instruction [AFI] 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program). It also establishes procedures for
automatic distribution of the FR and the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) to Air Force
organizations. It explains which kinds of rules should be published in the FR after the Air Force
has accepted them with change or no change. The Federal Register Document Drafting
Handbook is accessible online for further help on FR submissions at
http://www.nara.gov/fedreg. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Address questions on this instruction
to Chief Information Officer, Director, Plans & Policy (SAF/A6PP, 1800 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington, DC 20330-1800). Send recommended changes or comments to Headquarters Air
Force Communications Agency (HQ AFNIC/EVP ), 203 W. Losey Street, Room 2200, Scott
AFB IL 62225-2200, through channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, with an information copy to SAF/A6PP. Title 44 United States Code [U.S.C.]
3501 et seq., Paperwork Reduction Act, and AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management
Program, affect this publication. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.
 2                                                                         AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change cancels the hard copy distribution of the Federal Register. All subscriptions
for print versions of the Federal Register are terminated. This change updates the URL
http://www.gpoaccess.gov/nara/index.html to www.gpo.gov/fdsys. The online edition of the
Federal Register is also available www.federalregister.gov. These changes are effective
immediately.
1. The Department of the Air Force will:
     1.1. Participate in the regulatory activities of the DoD and adhere to guidelines provided by
     the OSD and the Director of Administration and Management (DA&M).
     1.2. Determine when it’s appropriate to encourage maximum participation of the public in
     the formulation of its documents by allowing public comments on proposed rules or notices
     affecting them.
     1.3. Participate in the regulatory process and adhere to Executive Order (E.O.) 12866,
     Regulatory Planning and Review; Title 5 U.S.C. 601, Regulatory Flexibility Act; and Title 44
     U.S.C. 3501 et seq.
     1.4. Publish an Air Force document in the FR for public comment if:
         1.4.1. It confers a right or privilege on a segment of the public or has a direct or
         substantial impact on the public or any significant portion of the public.
         1.4.2. It prescribes a course of conduct that must be followed by persons outside the
         Government to avoid a penalty, or secure a right or privilege.
         1.4.3. It constitutes authority for persons outside the Government to act or to secure
         immunity from the consequences of not acting.
         1.4.4. It imposes an obligation on the general public or members of a class of persons
         outside the Government.
         1.4.5. It describes where the public may obtain information, instructions, and forms;
         make submittals or requests; take examinations; or obtain decisions.
         1.4.6. It describes procedures by which it conducts its business with the public.
     1.5. Establish a Federal Register Liaison Office and designate an Air Force Federal Register
     Liaison Officer (AFFRLO) to conduct business directly with the Office of the Federal
     Register.
2. Exemptions. Documents are not usually published in the FR if the rule:
     2.1. Is directed at an individual in his or her capacity as an employee of a Federal agency or
     a member of the Armed Forces.
     2.2. Pertains to a military or foreign affairs function of the United States, determined under
     the criteria of an E.O. or statute, to require a security classification in the interest of national
     defense or foreign policy.
     2.3. Is limited to Air Force organization, management, or personnel matters.
AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002                                                                            3


3. The Federal Register Liaison Office. AF-CIO/P is designated to perform Federal Register
duties and support the duties required of the AFFRLO. The AFFRLO will:
   3.1. Act as the single point of contact with the Office of the Federal Register (OFR).
   3.2. Coordinate on draft Air Force documents (i.e., proposed or final rules, interim rules)
   requiring publication in the FR (see AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management).
   3.3. Provide advice and guidance to Air Force personnel on publishing rules and notices in
   the FR.
   3.4. Coordinate with the Secretary of the Air Force Office of General Counsel (SAF/GC)
   when necessary to determine whether or not a document (proposed/final rule/notice) should
   be published in the FR.
   3.5. Ensure that rules prepared by Air Force organizations include certification (signed by
   designated officials) and statements of determination (rule is/is not significant) in compliance
   with executive, legislative, and FR requirements.
   3.6. Complete and submit Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Form 83-R,
   Instructions for Requesting OMB Review Under Executive Order 12866. This form is
   required when rules are determined to be significant as defined by E.O. 12866. The
   AFFRLO will also provide additional documents for the rule when requested by OMB.
   3.7. Prepare “Submission of Federal Rules Under the Congressional Review Act” for new
   and revised rules and submit to both Houses of Congress and General Accounting Office in
   accordance with Title 5 U.S.C. 801, Congressional Review Act.
   3.8. Authorize, certify, validate, obtain regulatory identifier number (RIN), assign billing
   code, and send rules and notices to the OFR for publication in the FR.
   3.9. Maintain original certifications and statements of determination.
   3.10. Send description of rules under development to OMB, Office of Information and
   Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20503, for review in compliance
   with E.O. 12866.
   3.11. Coordinate recommended OMB changes with the originating office.
   3.12. Review, update, revise, and submit the Air Force portion of the Unified Agenda of
   Federal Regulations to OSD/DA&M, 1215 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington VA 22202-
   4302.
   3.13. Provide a Statement of Regulatory Priorities (i.e., Presidential, Agency) and summaries
   of significant regulatory actions to the OSD/DA&M for the annual Regulatory Plan in
   accordance with E.O. 12866.
   3.14. Provide negotiated rulemaking procedures in accordance with Title 5 U.S.C. 561-570,
   Negotiated Rulemaking Act.
   3.15. Provide a copy of the published rule or notice to Office of Primary Responsibility
   (OPR), if requested.
   3.16. Maintain distribution lists of and approve requests for FR and CFR (see paragraph 8).
 4                                                                       AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002


4. Major Command (MAJCOM), Field Operating Agency (FOA), Direct Reporting Unit
(DRU) Records Manager (RM) and Headquarters United States Air Force [HQ USAF]
Designated OPR. As liaison between the originating office and AFFRLO, the OPR will:
     4.1. Participate in the regulatory activities of the Department of the Air Force.
        4.1.1. Prepare and submit to the AFFRLO, AF-CIO/P, Air Force Pentagon, Washington
        DC 20330-1155, the description of rules under development by their organizations for
        AFFRLO and OMB review.
     4.2. Send the final rule to the AFFRLO within 30 calendar days after printing or electronic
     distribution of the publication. Also include OMB Form 83-R and accompany any final rule
     determined to be significant as defined in E.O. 12866.
     4.3. Send notices required in paragraph 6.3 to the AFFRLO.
     4.4. Review, approve, and send requests, with justification, for printed copies of the FR and
     CFR      (complete    sets   only)    to     the     AFFRLO         if    electronic    access
     (http://www.gpoaccess.gov/cfr/index.html) is unavailable, or if paper/microfiche media is
     required.
5. Rules with a Substantial and Direct Impact. When a rule has a substantial and direct
impact on the general public, and therefore requires publication in the FR, the originating office:
     5.1. Prepares the rule in compliance with E.O. 12866, Title 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., and Title 44
     U.S.C., 3501 et seq., and notices with Title 5 U.S.C. 551-559 and 701-706, Administrative
     Procedure Act, using the FR format in the National Archives and Records Administration
     Federal          Register         Document           Drafting          Handbook              at
     http://www.nara.gov/fedreg/draftres.html.
     5.2. Coordinates the rule with the appropriate OPR (paragraph 4) for compliance with this
     instruction.
     5.3. Submits the rule to the AFFRLO using AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, or
     memorandum, requesting publication of the document in the FR. The originating office
     should coordinate the AF Form 1768 or memorandum through his/her functional counterpart
     at HQ USAF. The package must be coordinated by SAF/GC, signed by an official appointed
     by the President and confirmed by the Senate (Presidential Appointments with Senate
     Confirmation [PAS]) and contain the following information:
        5.3.1. A certification as to whether the document is a major rule that has an annual effect
        on the economy of $100 million or more, or certain other specified effects under E.O.
        12866.
        5.3.2. A certification explaining an economic analysis is determined if a rule has
        significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as a regulatory
        flexibility analysis required by Title 5 U.S.C. 601, et seq. If such an analysis is not
        required, a Title 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. certification explaining that determination must be
        signed by a PAS.
        5.3.3. A supporting statement for a rule containing a collection of information that
        includes reporting and record keeping requirements under the provisions of Title 44
        U.S.C. 3501, et seq.
AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002                                                                            5


  5.4. Sends the signed AF Form 1768 in editable format (e.g., MS Word) to the AFFRLO.
  Ensures proposed rules contain the following preamble information:
     5.4.1. Agency. Identify the originating agency.
     5.4.2. Action. Identify the type of document. Do not summarize the substance of a
     document (proposed rule [i.e., advance notice of proposed rule], extension of comment
     period, notice of proposed rulemaking; final rule [i.e., delay of effective date],
     confirmation of effective date, interim rule, adopted rule, etc.).
     5.4.3. Summary. Explain briefly the “what,” “why,” and “effect” of the document.
     5.4.4. Dates. Include the dates essential to the document (e.g., effective date, comment
     deadlines, public hearings, and other dates) that would concern the public’s knowledge of
     rulemaking proceedings. A period of not less than 60 days from the date the proposed
     rule is published in the FR is allowed for accepting comments.
     5.4.5. Addresses. Include any address that the public needs to know (e.g., mailing or
     hand-delivering public comments, attending public hearings or meetings, and any
     material available for public inspection).
     5.4.6. For Further Information Contact. Include the name, address, telephone number,
     and e-mail of a person within the Air Force who can answer questions about the
     document.
     5.4.7. Supplementary Information. Include the regulatory history of the rulemaking
     document. Present background information and detail necessary to give adequate notice
     of the issues to be commented on as required by Title 5 U.S.C. 551-559 and 701-706. If
     appropriate, state briefly why inviting public comment on a proposed rule is impractical,
     unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest.
        5.4.7.1. If the rule is a major rule under the requirements of E.O. 12866, so state and
        include details. If it is not a major rule, include a statement, e.g., “The Department of
        the Air Force has determined that this proposed rule is not a major rule because it will
        not have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more,” or other rationale
        that applies.
        5.4.7.2. If Title 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. applies, so state, accomplish a regulatory
        analysis, and provide details of that analysis. If such an analysis is not required or is
        exempt, a Title 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. certification explaining that determination must
        be signed by an official appointed by the President and confirmed by the PAS and
        submitted.
        5.4.7.3. If the provisions of Title 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. apply, so state and provide
        details. If an analysis is not required or is exempt, include a statement, e.g., “This rule
        does not impose any reporting or recordkeeping requirements under the Paperwork
        Reduction Act of 1980, amended in 1995 (Title 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.).”
     5.4.8. Authority Citation. Cites the authority that authorizes the Air Force to change the
     CFR. Give the authority citation in the shortest form. There are two types of authority:
        5.4.8.1. Statutory (Public Law or U.S.C.).
 6                                                                       AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002


            5.4.8.2. Nonstatutory (Presidential Executive Order; Presidential Administrative
            Order; Presidential Memorandum; Agency delegation, policy, or directive; OMB
            circular, or CFR regulations).
     5.5. Reviews the comments received from the public on a proposed rule and decides what
     changes, if any, should be made. Obtains proper coordination.
     5.6. Sends the final rule to the AFFRLO within 120 calendar days after publishing the
     proposed rule in the FR. Addresses the public comments received and gives the changes, or
     the reasons for not making changes, in the Supplementary Information section of the
     preamble.
     5.7. Notifies the AFFRLO if a rule previously printed in the FR becomes obsolete, requires
     revision, or when another office assumes responsibility from the originating office.
        5.7.1. Uses amendatory language to identify changes to the rule in the CFR. The only
        acceptable terms used in an amendment are “add, amend, correct, nomenclature change,
        redesignate, remove, republish, reserve, revise, stay, suspend, and withdraw.”
        5.7.2. Amendments to proposed and final rules are published in the FR to change the
        CFR or to address public comments.
6. Rules with Federalism Impacts. When a rule is determined to have any Federalism
implications, as defined in E.O. 13132, Federalism, and prior to formal promulgation of said
regulation, the originating office shall:
     6.1. Afford adequate time for meaningful discussions and consideration of issues of concern
     expressed by state and local officials.
     6.2. Document any such issues of concern and the extent to which they have been met.
     6.3. Send the AFFRLO a notice for publication in the Federal Register. In a separately
     identified portion of the preamble to the regulation, prepare a Federalism summary impact
     statement consisting of a written description of:
        6.3.1. The extent of prior consultation with state and local officials.
        6.3.2. The extent to which the concerns of state and local officials have been met.
        6.3.3. The Air Force’s position supporting the need to issue the regulation.
     6.4. Provide a copy of the Federal Register rule including the above statement to all
     participants in the consultation process.
7. Notices of Hearings and Advisory Committee Meetings. See DoDD 5105.4, DoD Federal
Advisory Committee Management Program, September 5, 1989, for specific requirements and
procedures applicable to the Air Force Committee Management Program. The originating office
shall:
     7.1. Send the notice, in editable format (e.g., MS Word), under the cover of a memorandum
     signed at least at the colonel-level, through the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU designated OPR to
     the AFFRLO. Notice documents must include the following items:
        7.1.1. Headings. Agency Name (DoD)/Subagency Name (Department of the Air Force).
        7.1.2. Subject Heading (Name of the meeting or intent of the notice).
AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002                                                                           7


       7.1.3. Authority Citation. Cite the authority that authorizes the Air Force to issue the
       notice (see paragraph 5.4.8).
       7.1.4. Text. The originating office should present the text of the notice in any organized
       and logical format; or use the same preamble format required for a rule or proposed rule
       omitting preamble captions that are not applicable (see paragraph 5.4).
   7.2. Notify the AFFRLO of any change in the content or status of a notice (i.e., canceled,
   date changed) that would affect the public. Publish notices in the FR 15 days prior to the date
   of the hearing/meeting. The AFFRLO must receive the notice not later than 30 days prior to
   the date of the hearing/meeting, to allow the AFFRLO and OFR sufficient processing time.
       7.2.1. If the notice does not meet the publication criteria of 15 days prior, postpone the
       hearing/meeting or cancel. A notice shall not be submitted for publication without
       advance approval from OSD and Air Force Committee Management Offices, and
       coordination with the Office of the Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC).
       7.2.2. Publication of notices for hearings/meetings closed to the public must also be
       coordinated with SAF/GC prior to submitting the notice to the AFFRLO.
8. Distribution.
   8.1. Federal Register. The Federal Register is accessible, free, online through the
   Government Printing Office (GPO) Access Service at www.gpo.gov/fdsys. Hard copy
   subscriptions are no longer available.
   8.2. Code of Federal Regulations. The CFRs are accessible, free, online through GPO
   Access Service at www.gpo.gov/fdsys.
   8.3. DELETED.
   8.4. DELETED.
9. Information Collections, Records, and Forms.
   9.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   9.2. Records. Retain and dispose of records created as a result of this instruction according
   to AFMAN 37-139 (will convert to AFMAN 33-322, Volume 4), Table 37-19, Rule 8.
   9.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
       9.3.1. Adopted Forms. OMB Form 83-R, Instructions for Requesting OMB Review
       Under Executive Order 12866; AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
       Publication; and AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet.
       9.3.2. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this publication.




                                            WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                            Chief Information Officer
 8                                                                 AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
E.O. 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review
E.O. 13132, Federalism
Title 3, CFR, The President
Title 5, CFR, Administrative Personnel
Title 5 U.S.C. 551-559 and 701-706, Administrative Procedure Act
Title 5 U.S.C. 561-570 et seq., Negotiated Rulemaking Act
Title 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., Regulatory Flexibility Act
Title 5 U.S.C. 801, Congressional Review Act
Title 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq., Paperwork Reduction Act
National Defense Act
Federal Register
Federal Register Document Drafting Handbook
DoDI 5025.01, DoD Directives System, October 28, 2007
DoD 5025.1-M, DoD Directives System Procedures, October 1, 2001 (Draft)
DoDI 5105.4, DoD Federal Advisory Committee Management Program, August 6, 2007
OSD Administrative Instruction No. 102, Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Federal
Register (FR) System, Novermber 6, 2006
AFPD 33-3, Information Management
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management Program
AFMAN 33-322, Records Management Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFRLO—Air Force Federal Register Liaison Officer
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DA&M—Director of Administration and Management
DoD—Department of Defense
AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002                                                                                9


DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
E.O.—Executive Order
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FR—Federal Register
GPO—Government Printing Office
HQ AFNIC—Headquarters Air Force Network Integration Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
OFR—Office of the Federal Register
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PAS—Presidential Appointments with Senate Confirmation
RIN—Regulation Identifier Number
RM—Records Manager
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Advisory Committee—Any committee, board, commission, council, conference, panel, task
force, or other similar group, or their subcommittees that the Air Force forms or uses that has any
members who are not full-time officers or employees of the government, established by statue.
The committee is also established or utilized by the President or an agency official (see DoDD
5105.4 and DoDD 5105.18, DoD Committee Management Program, January 18, 1990).
Amendatory Language—Specific terms must be used to identify a change to the rule in the
CFR. The only acceptable terms used in an amendment are “add, amend, correct, nomenclature
change, redesignate, remove, republish, reserve, revise, stay, suspend, and withdraw.”
Amendments to Rules—Amendments to proposed and final rules are published in the FR to
change the CFR or to address public comments.
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)—The CFR is the foundation of the Federal Register
publication system. The CFR is an annual codification of the rules of each Federal agency. It is
divided into 50 titles representing broad subject areas of Federal agencies; e.g., National Defense
Act, contains the Air Force rules. Each title of the CFR is divided as follows:
(1) Chapter and Subchapter. The division of a title assigned to a Federal agency or one of its
components. Chapters are identified by Roman numerals; e.g., I, II, III, etc. The subchapter is
used to group related parts within the chapter and are usually identified by capital letters; e.g., A,
 10                                                                     AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002


B, C, etc.
(2) Part and Subpart. The division of a chapter that consists of a unified body of rules applying
to a single function of the issuing agency or is devoted to a specific subject matter under the
control of that agency. A part is identified by Arabic numerals through each title; e.g., 1, 2, 3,
etc. A subpart is issued to group related sections within a part and identified by capital letters.
Document—Specific categories are Rules, Proposed Rules, Notices, Meetings, Executive
Orders, and Proclamations.
Federal Register (FR)—The daily FR contains four categories of documents: regulations
(rules), proposed rules, notices, and Presidential documents. Rules published in the FR keep the
CFR current. Proposed rules solicit public comment on an agency's rules and encourage public
participation in the rulemaking process. Notices provide information of interest to the public but
are not part of the regulatory process.
Federal Register/Code of Federal Regulations Publication System—The Federal Register
system is composed of two major publications, the annual revised Code of Federal Regulations
and the daily Federal Register. Together, the two publications provide a current version of each
Federal agency's regulations.
Negotiated Rulemaking Procedures—A process of drafting regulations (rules) bringing parties
together that would be affected by the rule to include Government (as an advisory committee) to
reach consensus (in all or part) before the rule is published.
Notice—A document that announces information of public interest. It will not contain
regulatory text, impose requirements with general applicability and legal effect, or affect a
rulemaking proceeding. Some notices are required to be published in compliance with
legislation. Typical notice documents announce: meetings; availability of applications; issuance
or revocation of a license; grant application deadlines; availability of certain environmental
impact statements; certain petitions; and orders or decisions affecting named parties.
Preamble Requirements—Each agency document published in the proposed rules category of
the FR must contain a preamble. The preamble follows the subject heading of the document. It
explains the basis and purpose of the regulatory text. The preamble contains no regulatory text.
It arranges basic information on the “who, what, where, when, and why” of a document for the
reader's convenience. See paragraph 5.4.3.
Regulation—A document of general application designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe
procedural requirements.
Regulation Identifier Number (RIN)—A document number assigned by OMB to each
regulatory action published in the United Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory
Actions.
Regulatory Action—A decision making process that affects the general public.
Regulatory Plan—A Statement of Regulatory Priorities that identifies the most significant
regulatory actions that the Air Force expects to issue in the next fiscal year in accordance with
E.O. 12866.
AFI33-320 15 MAY 2002                                                                               11


Rule—A regulatory document, such as an AFPD, AFI, AFMAN, that has general applicability to
and legal effect on the public, that is published in the FR, and most of which is codified in the
CFR.
(1) Adopted Rule. An Interim Rule that has been published in the FR, that has been accepted as
a final rule with change or a final rule without change.
(2) Proposed Rule. A draft document, such as a proposed AFPD or AFI, published in the FR to
allow 60 days for public comments. A proposed rule is followed up with a final rule.
(3) Interim Final Rule. A document that is published in the FR and CFR without prior notice of
a proposed rule, usually to respond to an emergency situation or in response to a legislative or
executive requirement. The interim rule may include requests for public comment, which may
contain expiration dates for responses. An interim final rule is followed by a final rule.
(4) Direct Rule. A rule that has not been preceded by a proposed rule. Used for routine
and noncontroversial regulations that will not generate adverse comment. A direct final
rule becomes effective on a specific future date, unless adverse comments are received
within a specified period of time, generally before the effective date. If adverse comments
are received, the rule is withdrawn. A confirmation document is optional, unless stated
rule confirmed follow—up confirmation document.
(5) Final Rule. A concluding document published in the FR and CFR that presents decision of
the Air Force and addresses public comments.
(6) Significant Rule A proposed, interim final, or final rule may be a “significant rule” if it: (a)
has an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely affects in a material
way, the economy: a sector of the economy productivity, competition, jobs, the environment,
public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (b) creates a serious
inconsistency or otherwise interferes with an action taken or planned by another agency; (c)
materially alters the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or load programs or the
rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (d) raises novel legal or policy issues arising out of
legal mandates, the President's priorities, or principles of E.O. 12866.
Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations—Consolidated OMB documents published in the FR
consisting of published rules that have significant public impact and interest.
Unit—The OFR format for text in the FR and CFR.
