BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3504
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     9 JULY 2013

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                    DISENROLLMENT OF UNITED STATES
                                                          AIR FORCE ACADEMY CADETS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1PT                                            Certified by: AF/A1P (Maj Mark Cipolla)
                                                                                     Pages: 11
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2020, 22 April 1999


This Instruction implements AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, by providing
direction for administratively disenrolling, separating, and discharging from the US Air Force
Academy (USAFA), cadets who do not satisfy the conditions of enrollment and commissioning.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. This publication does not
apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does not apply to the Air
National Guard (ANG).

This Instruction directs collecting and maintenance of information subject to the Privacy Act of
1974. System of Records Notice F036 USAFA applies.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document supersedes AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy
Cadets. It has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: removing provisions specifying disenrollment, separation and discharge criteria and
procedures and instead delegating such authority to the USAFA Superintendent; delegating
certain discharge characterization authority to the USAFA Superintendent; providing guidance
for medical evaluations of cadets; and incorporating statutory changes pertaining to recoupment.
 2                                                                   AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013


1. Overview. This Instruction provides direction pertaining to the disenrollment, resignation,
and discharge of USAFA cadets and the collateral consequences of these actions, including
enlisted service, monetary reimbursement for the cost of a USAFA education, and educational
delay for the purpose of obtaining an alternative commissioning source.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Secretary of the Air Force:
        2.1.1. Has direct statutory authority pertaining to the disenrollment of USAFA cadets.
        2.1.2. Or designee approves all disenrollments, transfers, and administrative discharges
        as well as procedures for affecting them. Hereafter, the phrase “decision authority” will
        substitute for the phrase “Secretary of the Air Force or designee” whenever it refers to
        final decision authority for individual disenrollment, resignation, and collateral
        consequence actions.
     2.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR):
        2.2.1. Serves as the agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and
        oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans,
        policies, and programs addressing cadet disenrollment, resignation, and associated
        collateral consequence actions.
        2.2.2. Makes final decisions on individual disenrollment, resignation, and collateral
        consequence actions in those cases for which SAF/MR is the decision authority.
            2.2.2.1. Notifies the Secretary of the Air Force in writing, and courtesy copies
            AF/A1, of intentions before taking any disenrollment action that is highly sensitive or
            has the potential for significant Congressional or public interest.
            2.2.2.2. Makes recommendations to the decision authority on individual
            disenrollment, resignation, and collateral consequence actions in those cases for
            which there is a higher level decision authority.
            2.2.2.3. Ensures each recommendation forwarded includes a rationale and a complete
            case file.
     2.3. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel and Services (AF/A1):
        2.3.1. Formulates, reviews, and executes plans, policies, and programs addressing cadet
        disenrollment.
        2.3.2. Ensures execution of orders for disenrolled cadets to perform enlisted service.
        2.3.3. Reviews active duty obligations and assigns military grades to disenrolled cadets if
        the decision authority directs active duty service.
        2.3.4. Ensures execution of an educational delay in processing a disenrolled cadet into
        the enlisted force for a period of 150 days, in those cases in which the collateral
        consequences decision authority orders an educational delay for the purpose of allowing
        the disenrolled cadet to obtain another commissioning source.
AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013                                                                          3


         2.3.4.1. Approves or disapproves requests for extensions in the educational delay in
         30-day increments, not to exceed a total of one year from the date of the original
         order.
         2.3.4.2. Instructs the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) to call a disenrolled cadet
         to active duty who was granted educational delay but does not obtain an alternative
         commissioning source within the specified time.
      2.3.5. Serves as liaison with other Services for disenrollment actions being taken on a
      cadet who had been an enlisted member in a Sister Service and was released from their
      obligation to that service contingent upon their acceptance and successful graduation and
      commissioning from USAFA.
   2.4. Director, Air Force Review Boards Agency (AFRBA):
      2.4.1. Makes final decisions on individual disenrollment, resignation, and collateral
      consequence actions in those cases for which AFRBA is the decision authority.
      2.4.2. Notifies the Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/MR, and AF/A1 of intentions before
      taking any disenrollment action that is highly sensitive or has the potential for significant
      Congressional or public interest.
      2.4.3. Makes recommendations to the decision authority on individual disenrollment,
      resignation, and associated collateral consequence actions in those cases for which there
      is a higher level decision authority.
      2.4.4. Ensures each recommendation forwarded includes a rationale and the complete
      case file.
   2.5. Superintendent, USAFA:
      2.5.1. Ensures expeditious review and updating of cadet agreements to reflect current
      law and DoD and Air Force directives and policy.
      2.5.2. Implements training and education programs to ensure cadets’ awareness of and
      ability to comply with Air Force and USAFA standards of conduct, character, integrity,
      attitude, and deportment.
      2.5.3. Prescribes criteria and procedures for reviewing cadet performance in the areas of
      academics, athletics/physical fitness, character development, military skills and potential,
      and summer training.
      2.5.4. Prescribes criteria and procedures for cadets to remedy deficiencies when
      disenrollment is determined not to be appropriate without first attempting remedial
      actions to bring deficient cadets into compliance with standards.
      2.5.5. Develops and implements (after coordination with, and approval of, AF/A1), cadet
      disenrollment and resignation criteria, standards, and procedures which:
         2.5.5.1. Balance military, academic, physical fitness, and other training interests in
         expeditious processing with administrative due process appropriate to the nature of
         the action.
         2.5.5.2. Upon implementation, are available in the USAFA listings on the Air Force
         Electronic Publications website.
 4                                                                    AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013


        2.5.6. Makes final decisions on individual disenrollment and resignation actions in those
        cases for which the Superintendent is the decision authority.
            2.5.6.1. Notifies the Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/MR, AFRBA, and AF/A1 in
            writing of intentions before taking any disenrollment action that is highly sensitive or
            has the potential for significant Congressional or public interest.
            2.5.6.2. Makes recommendations to the decision authority on individual
            disenrollment, resignation, and associated collateral consequence actions in only
            those cases for which the Superintendent is not the decision authority.
            2.5.6.3. Ensures each recommendation forwarded to the decision authority includes a
            rationale and a complete case file and is forwarded to AFRBA.
        2.5.7. Ensures complete records of final disposition are kept for all disenrollment,
        resignation, and collateral consequence decisions for no less than 3 years from the date of
        the disenrollment, in accordance with the Air Force record disposition schedule and
        Privacy Act System of Record Notice, F036 USAFA.
     2.6. Commander, AFPC (AFPC/CC):
        2.6.1. Determines and awards the service commitment for disenrolled cadets ordered to
        active enlisted service. The service commitment will not exceed 4 years and is reduced
        proportionately for each month active duty is served.
        2.6.2. Monitors the status of disenrolled cadets who are granted an educational delay for
        the purpose of seeking an alternative commissioning source to ensure that their service
        commitment is satisfied.
3. Enrollment and Disenrollment Acknowledgements
     3.1. Upon entry to the USAFA, basic cadets must sign an agreement that if they are
     subsequently disenrolled or resign during their second- or first-class year, they may be
     required to either:
        3.1.1. Serve on active duty as an enlisted member in the Regular Air Force or Active or
        Reserve Component for a period of time not to exceed 4 years, or
        3.1.2. Reimburse the for education costs when it is determined that fulfillment of the
        active duty service obligation by the cadet would not be in the best interest of the Air
        Force.
4. Conditions Supporting Disenrollment. Cadets are subject to involuntary disenrollment in
one or more of the following circumstances:
     4.1. Failure to comply with their USAFA enrollment agreement;
     4.2. Lack of demonstrated potential for commissioned service;
     4.3. Failure to abide by established Air Force or USAFA standards of conduct, character,
     integrity, or academic, military or physical fitness requirements; or
     4.4. Are medically unsuited for continued military service.
5. Disenrollment Considerations. A decision to disenroll a cadet or accept a cadet’s
resignation constitutes a finding the cadet has broken the agreement to complete the course of
AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013                                                                           5


instruction at USAFA. Disenrollment because of medical disqualification not due to the cadet’s
misconduct or fraudulent concealment of medical conditions ordinarily will not be found to
constitute a breach of the agreement.
6. Collateral Consequences Considerations.
   6.1. Active duty service is the primary means of reimbursement for a cadet’s education at
   USAFA; however, monetary reimbursement or an educational delay for the purpose of
   allowing the disenrolled cadet to obtain an alternative commissioning source can be
   considered under appropriate circumstances.
   6.2. Cost of education debts are determined by USAFA/FMA and forwarded to the Defense
   Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) to establish the accounts receivable. Monetary
   accounts receivables for educational costs are established by DFAS for appropriate collection
   action.
7. Disenrollment/Discharge Resulting in Entry-Level Discharge Characterizations
   7.1. Basic cadets engaged in Basic Cadet Training (BCT) and fourth-class cadets, prior to
   issuance of their first academic progress report and still within 180 days of entering military
   service, who are determined by medical personnel to have a pre-existing (EPTS)
   disqualifying medical condition not compatible with continued military service will be
   disenrolled from USAFA and discharged from the Air Force with an Entry-Level
   characterization. If a disqualifying medical condition is sustained, or if a reported pre-
   existing condition was waived and the condition is aggravated during BCT, or at some time
   prior to the cadet's first academic progress report, the cadet is subject to a medical evaluation
   board (MEB).
   7.2. Basic cadets who submit a voluntary resignation during BCT receive an Entry-Level
   discharge characterization unless they have prior enlisted service or have graduated from the
   USAFA Preparatory School, in which case they receive a discharge characterization IAW
   paragraph 12 below.
8. Medical Evaluation Board (MEB) and Physical Evaluation Board (PEB). When a
question arises about a cadet’s medical qualification for continued service or commissioning,
medical personnel evaluate the cadet using the medical standards set forth in DoDI 6130.03,
Medical Standards for Appointment, Enlistment, or Induction in the Military Services; and AFI
48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards. If medical personnel determine the cadet does
not meet continuation standards, an MEB will be convened under procedural guidance outlined
in AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Administration Functions, AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting
Conditions, AFPD 36-32, Military Retirements and Separations and AFI 36-3212, Physical
Evaluation for Retention, Retirement and Separation.
9. Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC), Grade Awards and Educational Delays.
   9.1. Enlisted grade is based on the cadet's class year at the time the disenrollment conduct
   occurred or the resignation was submitted and not based on the cadet's class year at the time
   of the final action. Disenrolled cadets are awarded the following grades:
       9.1.1. Second class--Airman First Class (E-3). (EXCEPTION: The cadet will revert to
       the highest pay grade held during enlisted service prior to entering USAFA if that pay
       grade was higher than E-3.)
 6                                                                   AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013


        9.1.2. First class--Senior Airman (E-4). These individuals must qualify at the five-skill
        level Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) to retain the grade of E-4. (EXCEPTION: The
        cadet will revert to the highest pay grade held during enlisted service prior to entering
        USAFA if that pay grade was higher than E-4.)
     9.2. A disenrolled cadet may request an educational delay in fulfilling their service
     commitment for the purpose of obtaining a commission by means of an alternative source.
     9.3. The disenrolled cadet will normally be called to active duty not later than 30 days after
     the receipt of the decision authority’s order directing enlisted service as the collateral
     consequence of disenrollment.
     9.4. When the Superintendent concludes a cadet is not qualified for graduation and
     commissioning, the Superintendent will determine the cadet’s status while the case is
     pending disposition.
10. Disenrolling Cadets with Prior Service.
     10.1. Cadets who enter USAFA from the regular or reserve component of any military
     service and who fail to fulfill their USAFA enrollment agreement may incur an active duty
     service commitment (ADSC) in return for their education at USAFA. Subject to the
     subparagraphs below, a disenrolled cadet with a prior service commitment will serve that
     commitment concurrently with any USAFA commitment with the longer of the two taking
     precedence.
     10.2. Cadets who were members of a regular or reserve component before enrollment and
     are disenrolled before they begin their second class year academics, return to their former
     military status to complete any remaining service commitment.
        10.2.1. If the commitment is to the Air Force and is within 1 year of ending or has ended
        by the separation date, the cadet is reassigned to the Reserves (not extended active duty).
        10.2.2. If the cadet's prior service was not in the Air Force, USAFA notifies AF/A1PT
        who reports the disenrollment and removal from cadet status to the proper Service to
        coordinate disposition.
     10.3. Cadets who were members of a Regular or Reserve component before enrollment and
     have begun their second class year academics are disenrolled in the same manner as cadets
     with no prior service, except under the following circumstances:
        10.3.1. If the prior service commitment extends beyond the period of active duty
        commitment the cadet incurs according to paragraph 9, the cadet then completes the prior
        service obligation unless the decision authority determines that a different collateral
        consequence is more appropriate because of the circumstances surrounding the
        disenrollment.
        10.3.2. If the prior service did not take place in the Air Force and the disenrolled cadet
        has a remaining service commitment from the prior service, USAFA notifies AF/A1PT,
        who reports the disenrollment and removal from cadet status to the proper Service and
        coordinates disposition.
AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013                                                                       7


          10.3.2.1. If the cadet’s previous Service elects not to have the cadet return to
          complete any outstanding obligations to them, the cadet is separated from cadet status
          in the same manner as a cadet with no prior service obligation.
          10.3.2.2. If the cadet’s previous Service elects to have the cadet return to complete
          any outstanding obligations to them, the disenrolled cadet is separated from cadet
          status and returned to service in accordance with the prior Service’s instructions.
11. Disenrolling Foreign Cadets. USAFA will notify AF/A1, who in turn will notify SAF/IA
upon initiation of disenrollment actions on a foreign cadet for coordination with home nation
government.
12. Service Characterization. The disenrollment decision authority determines the cadet’s
discharge characterization according to the following standards:
   12.1. Honorable. This is the highest character of discharge. It should be awarded when the
   quality of the cadet’s service has met Air Force standards of acceptable conduct or when the
   cadet’s record is otherwise so meritorious that any other characterization would be
   inappropriate.
   12.2. General Under Honorable Conditions (General). This service characterization is
   appropriate when a cadet’s service has been honest and faithful but contains significant
   negative aspects which outweigh the positive. The decision authority may direct this type of
   discharge if the military record is not sufficiently meritorious to warrant an honorable
   discharge but does not warrant a discharge under other than honorable conditions.
   12.3. Under Other Than Honorable Conditions (UOTHC). This is the least favorable type of
   administrative discharge. The decision authority may direct a UOTHC discharge when there
   exists a pattern of behavior or one or more acts or omissions that constitute a significant
   departure from the conduct expected of officer candidates.
   12.4. Entry-Level. Assign an Entry-Level characterization when a cadet is disenrolled and
   discharged within 180 days of taking the oath of appointment, unless they have prior enlisted
   service or have graduated from the USAFA Preparatory School, and for certain EPTS-related
   disenrollments of Basic Cadets in BCT and of certain 4th-class cadets as described above.
13. Voluntary Resignations.
   13.1. All resignations tendered in accordance with this paragraph are voluntary.
   13.2. These include, but are not limited to, such reasons as change of career goals, personal
   reasons, or difficulty in acclimating to a military environment.
   13.3. They do not include resignations tendered in the situations described in paragraphs
   13.3.1 and 13.3.2. Tenders of resignation of this nature will not be acted upon until the
   command has determined paragraphs 13.3.1 and/or 13.3.2 no longer apply.
       13.3.1. The individual is under preferred charges under the Uniform Code of Military
       Justice (UCMJ) or under consideration for or the subject of an investigation that could
       lead to a court-martial or disenrollment action under this AFI. See paragraphs 14 and 15
       for tenders of resignation for the good of the service or resigning instead of further
       disenrollment procedures.
 8                                                                    AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013


        13.3.2. If the individual submitting the voluntary resignation is under consideration for
        or is the subject of an investigation that could lead to involuntary disenrollment under
        paragraphs 4.1 – 4.3. See paragraph 14 for tenders of resignation instead of further
        disenrollment procedures.
     13.4. Cadets must tender voluntary resignations to the Superintendent in writing.
     13.5. The decision authority determines whether to accept a cadet’s resignation and assigns
     the service characterization.
     13.6. Acceptance of a tender of voluntary resignation does not negate the applicability of
     paragraphs 6, 9, and 10.
     13.7. The Superintendent may permit cadets who have tendered voluntary resignations to
     withdraw them if the Superintendent determines withdrawal of the resignation is in the best
     interest of the Air Force.
14. Resigning Instead Of Further Disenrollment Action.
     14.1. Cadets under consideration for, or who are the subject of, an investigation that could
     lead to involuntary disenrollment under paragraphs 4.1 – 4.3 may tender resignations in lieu
     of further disenrollment action.
     14.2. Cadets resigning in lieu of further disenrollment action may receive an honorable,
     general, or under other-than-honorable-conditions discharge characterization as determined
     by the decision authority. The Superintendent may establish procedures permitting cadets to
     tender resignations conditioned on service characterization that includes the Superintendent’s
     authority to deny such conditional resignations.
     14.3. The decision authority determines whether to accept a cadet’s resignation and assigns
     the appropriate service characterization.
     14.4. Acceptance of a tender of resignation in lieu of further disenrollment action does not
     negate the applicability of paragraphs 6, 9, and 10.
     14.5. The Superintendent may permit cadets who have tendered resignations in lieu of
     further disenrollment action to withdraw them if the Superintendent determines withdrawal
     of the resignation is in the best interest of the Air Force.
     14.6. Cadets must tender resignations requests to the Superintendent in writing.
15. Resigning for the Good of the Service. Cadets who are subject to trial by court-martial
may tender a resignation for the good of the service under the provisions of AFI 36-3207,
Separating Commissioned Officers, (but see References, Atch. 1) and AFI 51-201,
Administration of Military Justice.
16. Fulfilling Service Commitments. Cadets whose resignations are approved must fulfill their
ADSC and/or obligations to reimburse the Government for education costs per AFI 36-2002,
Regular Air Force and Special Category Accessions. A cadet ordered to active duty has a
military service obligation equivalent to the period for which they are ordered to active duty or to
the reserve components.
AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013                                                                         9


17. Conducting Additional Investigations. If the Superintendent decides to conduct an
investigation after a resignation requiring decision by a higher authority has been forwarded, the
Superintendent:
   17.1. Informs AF/A1 of the reasons by message, and
   17.2. Requests the decision authority delay action until the investigation is complete and the
   Superintendent can forward recommendations based on the results of the investigation.
18. Reporting Disenrollments.
   18.1. USAFA will submit Air Force Cadet Wing End Strength to the Manpower Program
   Development Division (AF/A1MP) and the Accessions and Training Management Division
   (AF/A1PT) no later than the fifth of each month.
   18.2. USAFA will provide the AFRBA a quarterly listing of disenrollment actions (includes
   resignations under paragraphs 14 and 15) that are initiated or finalized during the respective
   quarter. This listing need only include the cadet name, class year, basis for disenrollment,
   status or final disposition, and a short summary of the facts supporting the action.




                                             DARRELL D. JONES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and
                                             Services
 10                                                                AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
             GLOSSARYOFREFERENCESANDSUPPORTINGINFORMATION

References
10 U.S.C. §2005
10 U.S.C. §8013
10 U.S.C. §9348
37 U.S.C. §303a(e)(1)
AFPD 36-35, United States Academy, 1 February 2007
AFPD 36-32, Military Retirements and Separations, 14 July 1993
AFI 36-3206, Separating Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers, 9 July 2004
AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for Retention, Retirement, and Separation, 2 February 2006
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 24 September 2009
AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 6 June 2012
AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 21 December 2007
AFI 36-2002, Regular Air Force and Special Category Accessions, 7 April 1999
AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions, 25 June 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Forms Prescribed. No forms are prescribed by this publication.
Forms Adopted. AF Form 847

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADSC—Active Duty Service Commitment
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFPC—Air Center
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
EPTS—Existed Prior to Service
IAW—In Accordance With
MEB—Medical Evaluation Board
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UOTHC—Under Other than Honorable Conditions
AFI 36-3504 9 JULY 2013                                                                      11


Terms
Collateral Consequences—Incidents of disenrollment flowing from disenrollment. Includes
reimbursement of educational expenses financially or through enlisted service, and educational
delay.
Discharge—Acompleteseverancefrommilitarystatus,activeorotherwise.
Disenrollment—Termination ofcadetstatus.         Disenrollmentisaconsequenceof the decision
authority’s     determinationthatacadetisnotqualifiedforcommissioning        or      graduation.
Acadetisdisenrolledwhen the decision authority decides the cadet is unfit or unsuitable for
graduation and/or commissioning, or otherwise fails to meet graduation and/or commissioning
standards, approves the cadet’s resignationor the cadet is dismissed in accordance pursuant to
sentence       of     a       general      courtmartial.             Removalfromthecadetwing
pendingdisenrollmententailslossofentitlementtoparticipateinacademic,athletic,morale,andmilitary
programs,butdoesnotinitselfendcadetstatusorothermilitaryobligations,andsomeorallofitsnormaleff
ectsasdescribedabovemaybesuspendedbytheSuperintendent.
Resignation—Arequestbyacadetfor            removal         from       cadet       status.
Ifaresignationisapproved,thecadetis either disenrolled and removed from cadet status or
discharged.
