BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2617
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        8 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                        AIR RESERVE FORCES POLICY
                                                   COMMITTEE AND MAJOR COMMAND
                                                   AIR RESERVE COMPONENTS POLICY
                                                            AND ADVISORY COUNCILS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the Air Force e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/MRRP                                                         Certified by: SAF/MRR
                                                                      (Mr. Gordon O. Tanner)
Supersedes:   AFI 36-2617, 28 July 1994                                              Pages: 13


This Instruction explains the operating procedures of the Air Reserve Forces Policy Committee
(ARFPC), its policy subcommittees for the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force
Reserve (AFR), and the major command (MAJCOM) Air Reserve Components (ARC) Policy
and Advisory Councils (ARCPAC). It implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development in
accordance with Title 10 U.S.C. § 10305, Air Force Reserve Forces Policy Committee. This
publication applies to the AFR and the ANG. MAJCOMs will issue supplements to this
Instruction pertaining to Section C, Chapter 8: MAJCOM ARC Policy and Advisory Councils.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication,  through    channels   to    SAF/MRRP      Workflow    email    address:
saf.mrrp@pentagon.af.mil .

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. Major
changes include the naming of the Headquarters Air Force (HAF) directors that make up the
ARFPC regular component members, and the addition of three HAF alternate members. There is
a detailed description of the ARFPC Support Staff. This staff is composed of Full-Time Support
 2                                                              AFI36-2617 8 September 2011


Active Guard Reserve (AGR) officers and NCOs assigned to SAF/MRR and augmented by
officer and enlisted Delegates designated from existing ARC HAF staff elements. The
relationship of MAJCOM ARC Policy and Advisory Councils to ARFPC has been clarified and
the liaison role of MAJCOM ARC Advisors, HAF ARC Advisors, and NGB and AF/RE
Functional Directors is explained. Mandated report formats have been deleted.

Section A—Air Reserve Forces Policy Committee (ARFPC)

1. Purview:
     1.1. Title 10 U.S.C. § 8014, § 8021, and § 10305 establish the Air Reserve Forces Policy
     Committee (ARFPC), the Subcommittee on Air National Guard (ANG) Policy, and the
     Subcommittee on Air Force Reserve (AFR) Policy. ARFPC is one of six named components
     of the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force and serves as a mechanism by which the
     Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force have unencumbered access
     to ARC senior leaders’ perspectives and the pulse of Reserve Component (RC) airmen.
     ARFPC provides the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force
     unfiltered, objective, and independent advice regarding any major policy matter directly
     affecting the ARC and the mobilization preparedness of the Air Force.
     1.2. To ensure equitable component representation, a majority of the members of the entire
     ARFPC shall act whenever addressing policy matters affecting both the ANG and the AFR.
     However, when any policy matter solely affecting one RC is being considered, it shall be
     acted upon by only that component’s policy subcommittee, the Subcommittee on ANG
     Policy or the Subcommittee on AFR Policy, as appropriate. Appointed Regular Air Force
     (RegAF) members of the ARFPC will serve on both of these Subcommittees.
        1.2.1. The Subcommittee on ANG Policy consists of the ARFPC ANG and RegAF
        members. The Chairman of the Subcommittee on ANG Policy will be the corresponding
        component member who is serving as either the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the entire
        ARFPC. The Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on ANG Policy will be an elected
        Regular Air Force ARFPC primary member and will also serve in the same role for the
        AFR Policy Subcommittee.
        1.2.2. The Subcommittee on AFR Policy consists of the ARFPC AFR and RegAF
        members. The Chairman of the Subcommittee on AFR Policy will be the corresponding
        component member who is serving as either the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the entire
        ARFPC. The Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on AFR Policy will be an elected
        RegAF ARFPC primary member and will also serve in the same role for the ANG Policy
        Subcommittee.
     1.3. The ARFPC Chairman and Vice Chairman will jointly submit Committee and
     Subcommittee recommendations to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff.
     When deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the Air Force, any policy item impacting other
     military service reserve components will be forwarded by the ARFPC Chairman to the
     Military Executive of the Reserve Forces Policy Board (RFPB) for review, consideration,
     and possible action at the OSD level.
AFI36-2617 8 September 2011                                                                  3


   1.4. ARFPC functions under the administrative support of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of
   the Air Force for Reserve Affairs (SAF/MRR) who serves as the Secretary of the Air Force’s
   direct representative to the Committee. SAF/MRR serves as a nonvoting member of the
   Committee and will offer advice to ARFPC regarding current Air Force senior leader topics
   of concern. Each RC will assign two AGR members consisting of one senior officer and one
   senior enlisted NCO to SAF/MRR to provide Full-Time Support to ARFPC under
   SAF/MRR’s supervision. The officers will serve as the Military Executives, ANG or AFR
   Policy as applicable, and the NCOs will serve as the ARFPC Senior Enlisted Advisor and the
   ARFPC Programs Manager. If both RC Military Executives hold equal rank, then the
   component Military Executive from the same component as the current ARFPC Chairman
   serves as the Executive Director, ARFPC (SAF/MRRP). The component Military Executive
   from the same component as the current Vice Chairman of the ARFPC serves as the Deputy
   Executive Director, ARFPC. The administrative support of SAF/MRR for ARFPC will also
   include daily supervision and oversight of the ARFPC Support Staff. SAF/MRR may
   delegate direct supervision and rater responsibilities for the ARFPC Programs Manager to the
   Executive Director, ARFPC. (ref Section B).
   1.5. At the request of the Chairman or either Executive Director, the ARFPC convenes the
   Executive Board to set agendas or to review and comment on matters that do not require a
   full committee meeting, or a component policy subcommittee meeting.
      1.5.1. The Executive Board consists of the Chairman, Vice Chairman, the elected regular
      component Air Force member as the Subcommittee Vice Chairman, SAF/MRR,
      Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director, Senior Enlisted Advisor and any
      additional members the Chairman chooses to appoint.
      1.5.2. At each Full Conference Forum of the ARFPC, the Committee will elect one of
      the RegAF primary members of the Committee to serve as a member of the Executive
      Board as well as the Vice Chairman of both policy subcommittees until the next full
      ARFPC Full Conference Forum.
2. Secretary of the Air Force Appointments and Committee Membership:
   2.1. Officers in the grade of brigadier general and above from the Regular Air Force, ANG,
   and AFR are appointed to serve on the ARFPC as voting members. There are 15 voting
   members, five from each component. There are also a total of seven appointed alternates,
   two from each RC, and three from the regular component, bringing the total of Secretary
   appointed members to 22. There are also six permanent non-voting members, namely: the
   Deputy Assistant Secretary for Reserve Affairs (SAF/MRR), the Commander of CAP-USAF
   (CAP-USAF/CC), the CAP Corporate (CAP-CORP) National Commander, the Chief Master
   Sergeant of the AF (CMSAF), and the Command Chiefs of each RC. An Open Executive
   Session shall include the 22 appointed members, the named non-voting members, and any
   designated guests of the Chairman, the Executive Director, the Deputy Executive Director,
   the Senior Enlisted Advisor and the Programs Manager. When the committee meets in
   Closed Executive Session, only the 22 named members whom the Secretary of the Air Force
   has designated as primary voting members and alternates shall be included. Non-voting
   members and invited guests will be excluded from ARFPC Closed Executive Sessions. The
   Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director, Senior Enlisted Advisor and the Programs
4                                                              AFI36-2617 8 September 2011


    Manager may provide administrative support for a Closed Executive Session at the
    Chairman’s request.
    2.2. Eight RegAF members on duty within the Headquarters Air Force (HAF) are appointed
    by the Secretary of the Air Force as permanent members of the ARFPC.
       2.2.1. The Secretary of the Air Force has appointed five HAF directors as RegAF
       primary members of the ARFPC. These directors are: Director of Force Management
       Policy (AF/A1P), Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and
       Reconnaissance (AF/A2 Deputy), Director of Logistics (AF/A4L), Director of
       Operational Planning, Policy and Strategy (AF/A5X), and Director of Strategic Planning
       (AF/A8X). Additionally, the following HAF directors are appointed as RegAF alternate
       members of the ARFPC: Director of Operations (AF/A3O), Director of Cyberspace
       Operations (SAF-CIO/A6O), and Director of Security Forces (AF/A7S). Alternates are
       named to allow flexibility in scheduling while aiding the intent to have five appointed
       members of each component available to vote at each meeting of the Committee.
       Additionally, by having primary members and alternates attend ARFPC deliberations, a
       more comprehensive breadth of HAF senior leader viewpoints and expertise will be
       available to address RC policy concerns strategically framed from multiple HAF
       directors’ perspectives.
       2.2.2. The designated RegAF HAF directors automatically become members of the
       ARFPC once they assume their position. These individuals serve on the committee for
       the duration of their tenures in that HAF director position. HAF RegAF ARFPC
       members may designate a representative to attend an ARFPC meeting on their behalf.
       Designated representatives will be the next highest ranking regular component member
       available within their directorate. A HAF designated representative, as a guest of the
       Chairman, will be welcomed during any Open Executive Session, but will be excluded
       from all Closed Executive Sessions, which are intended for Secretary of the Air Force
       appointees only, those appointees being the primary and alternate members from each of
       the three components.
    2.3. The Secretary of the Air Force will appoint five general officers from the ANG and five
    general officers from the AFR to serve on the Committee as primary voting members.
    Appointed RC general officers must not be serving in an active duty status in fulfillment of
    an active duty requirement while serving on the ARFPC. Primary members will be
    appointed for three year terms.
       2.3.1. The Director, ANG (NGB/CF) and Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE)
       recommend nominations for RC appointments to ARFPC to the Secretary of the Air
       Force through SAF/MR.
       2.3.2. When vacancies occur, the affected RC chief submits at least three nominations to
       SAF/MR.
       2.3.3. New appointments to fill scheduled vacancies, after approval by the Secretary of
       the Air Force, are effective 1 July each year and are staggered by year to ensure
       continuity. Appointments to fill unscheduled vacancies are effective upon approval by
       the Secretary of the Air Force. All appointments for primary members will be for three
       year terms and all appointments for alternate members will be for two year terms.
AFI36-2617 8 September 2011                                                                 5


      2.3.4. The Secretary of the Air Force, when appointing new RC members, shall insure
      that among the officers of each RC on the Committee there will at all times be two or
      more members with more than one year of continuous service on the Committee.
      2.3.5. RC alternate committee members are nominated and appointed in the same
      manner as RC primary members with the exception of tour length. RC alternate
      members are appointed for two year terms. RC alternate members may be extended
      beyond two years of service by being elected to the role of Chairman or Vice Chairman
      or by being nominated and re-appointed to fill a vacant RC primary member position.
      2.3.6. The Committee selects a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among the non-
      RegAF primary and alternate members. The position of Chairman will alternate between
      the ANG and the AFR. The Chairman serves for a maximum of two years and is
      normally succeeded by the Vice Chairman at which time the committee will select
      another Vice Chairman from the ANG or the AFR members as appropriate to continue
      the process of alternating between each RC. Election to Chairman or Vice Chairman will
      extend an ARFPC member for up to another two years of appointed membership to
      ARFPC. Succession from Vice Chairman to Chairman may generate another two years
      of appointed membership. The Chairman and Vice Chairman are primary voting
      members.
   2.4. In addition to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs
   (SAF/MRR), other senior officers may be appointed by the Secretary of the Air Force or
   requested by the Chairman of ARFPC to attend and support ARFPC meetings as non-voting
   members.
      2.4.1. The Secretary of the Air Force has appointed two members of Civil Air Patrol
      (CAP) as non-voting members of the ARFPC: the CAP-CORP National Commander and
      the Commander of CAP-USAF. The ARFPC CAP members may delegate to their
      respective Vice Commanders to attend an ARFPC meeting in their absence.
      2.4.2. To promote awareness of enlisted issues affecting RC policy and to mirror the
      three component balance of the ARFPC, the CMSAF, the ANG Command Chief, and the
      AFRC Command Chief are invited to participate as non-voting members of the ARFPC.
      The CMSAF and the RC Command Chiefs may each designate another CMSgt (E-9)
      from their respective components to serve as their representatives for attending an
      ARFPC meeting in their absence. As ARFPC non-voting members these senior enlisted
      leaders, or their designated representatives, will be invited to participate in any Open
      Executive Sessions of the Committee.
      2.4.3. In order to provide legal insight into deliberations of ARC policy, senior legal
      officers from the ANG, the AFR, and the Regular Air Force may be invited by the
      ARFPC Chairman to participate in ARFPC meetings as non-voting members.
      2.4.4. Voting members, with the concurrence of the ARFPC Chairman, may invite
      MAJCOM, NAF and HAF ARC advisors as well as key AF/RE and NGB functional
      directors to support ARFPC deliberations as subject matter experts from their respective
      commands or directorates as needed.
 6                                                              AFI36-2617 8 September 2011


        2.4.5. The ARFPC Chairman and Vice Chairman may invite other senior Air Force
        leaders to participate in ARFPC deliberations as non-voting members as they deem
        appropriate. Invitations from the Vice Chairman will be at the concurrence of the
        Chairman.
3. Committee Schedule and Agenda:
     3.1. Normally, the ARFPC should meet in person at least semiannually in a Full Conference
     Forum and in person at least semiannually in a Closed Executive Session. Between ARFPC
     Full Conference Forums, the Committee should meet and correspond using other efficient
     means such as telephone/video conferencing, email communications or other electronic
     means via the internet/computer technologies.
     3.2. The Chairman should coordinate with the Executive Board 60-90 days prior to each Full
     Conference Forum to review and determine the agenda. The Chairman should coordinate
     with the Executive Board 20-30 days prior to a scheduled Open or Closed Executive Session
     to review and determine the agenda.
     3.3. The Executive Director should obtain a HAF position on each agenda item 30-45 days
     before a Full Conference Forum, or as requested by the ARFPC Chairman.
     3.4. The Executive Director, on behalf of the Chairman, should task the appropriate office
     for a position on previous agenda items requiring a status update. These positions should be
     obtained no later than 30 days before an ARFPC meeting.
     3.5. ARC Wing Commanders may submit agenda item requests directly to the Executive
     Director or through the HAF ARC Advisors or MAJCOM ARC Policy and Advisory
     councils.
     3.6. The National Guard Bureau, the Air Force Reserve, any HAF or SAF office, and any
     military associations; such as the National Guard Association of the United States, the
     Reserve Officer Association, the Air Force Association, or any other interested entity or
     individual may submit suggested agenda topics directly to the Executive Director.
4. Committee Procedures:
     4.1. The ARFPC Chairman or ARFPC Vice Chairman and at least seven other voting
     members will constitute a quorum for policy matters affecting both Reserve Components.
     The Subcommittee Chairman or Vice Chairman and at least five other voting members will
     constitute a quorum for policy matters affecting only one RC.
     4.2. Each primary member has one vote. Alternate members may vote in the absence of the
     primary member from the same component.
     4.3. A majority vote of the members present at a meeting or voting by other means
     determines the committee’s decisions and recommendations. Opposing members may
     submit a minority opinion and dissenting views will be included and acknowledged in the
     ARFPC Chairman’s briefing to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff.
AFI36-2617 8 September 2011                                                                 7


5. Committee Reports:
   5.1. After each meeting, the ARFPC Chairman, the ARFPC Vice Chairman, and the
   Subcommittee Vice Chairman will normally brief the Secretary of the Air Force on any
   ARFPC findings or recommendations regarding any ARC matter or mobilization policy. The
   ARFPC Chairman will also provide a copy of this briefing to the Chief of Staff of the Air
   Force.
   5.2. The Executive Director provides a copy of this briefing to Committee members and the
   HAF and MAJCOM ARC Advisors. NGB and AF/RE Functional Directors may also be
   provided of copy of this briefing.

Section B—ARFPC Support Staff

6. SAF/MRR Full-Time Support to ARFPC:
   6.1. ARFPC Full-Time Support will consist of four Full-Time Support AGR members, one
   officer and one NCO from each RC. These members will fill the positions of the AFR Policy
   Military Executive, the ANG Policy Military Executive; the ARFPC Senior Enlisted
   Advisor; and the ARFPC Programs Manager.
      6.1.1. Each RC Military Executive position should be filled by an officer holding the
      rank of colonel who possesses experience in or other specialized knowledge of his or her
      RC’s policy matters. Each RC Military Executive also should be capable of drafting
      ARC policy recommendations on behalf of the entire committee and in collaboration with
      all affected HAF and MAJCOM ARC Advisors, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC),
      the Air Force Reserve (AF/RE), the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), and the National
      Guard Bureau (NGB/ZA). The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve
      Affairs (SAF/MRR) is the hiring authority for the Military Executive, ANG Policy and
      the Military Executive, AFR Policy positions.
      6.1.2. The selection of which RC Military Executive will serve as the Executive
      Director, ARFPC (SAF/MRRP) is outlined in paragraph 1.4 of this Instruction.
      SAF/MRR rates and supervises both officers. The Executive Director and the Deputy
      Executive Director will have authority to act on behalf of ARFPC in implementing
      ARFPC approved plans, programs, and policies and act on those matters that do not
      require formal Committee action. Duties will include: preparing the ARFPC agenda for
      conferences, telephone-conferences, SecAF/CSAF briefings, Executive Board meetings,
      subcommittee meetings, organizing information for committee members, taking
      necessary steps to assemble a meeting of the ARFPC, referring matters for committee
      consideration, process committee recommendations, supervise all administrative matters
      of ARFPC to include leadership of the ARFPC Support Staff, and representing the
      committee when ARC policy matters are being discussed within the HAF. The Executive
      Director and Deputy Executive Director may act independently and directly engage all
      three components. The Executive Director and Deputy Executive Director will
      coordinate their actions with each other to maintain consistency in cross-component
      coordination efforts, while avoiding duplication of efforts. These coordination efforts
      will conform to guidance received from the ARFPC Chairman and the Executive Board.
 8                                                               AFI36-2617 8 September 2011


     6.2. The Senior Enlisted Advisor to SAF/MRR will also serve as the Senior Enlisted Advisor
     to ARFPC and contribute to the administrative support for the functioning of the committee.
     This position is filled by an E-9 member of the Full-Time Support AGR program from either
     RC.
     6.3. The ARFPC Programs Manager is an NCO or SNCO (E5-E8) who is assigned program
     elements to manage and ensures execution of ARFPC operations as directed by the Executive
     Directors. This position is filled by a member of the Full-Time Support AGR program from
     the component different from the one providing the ARFPC Senior Enlisted Advisor. The
     ARFPC Programs Manager will also serve as an administrative and executive services NCO
     to SAF/MRR.
     6.4. Manpower sourcing for the ARFPC Programs Manager and the ARPFC Senior Enlisted
     Advisor should be rotated between the Guard and the Reserve based on normal cycles of
     duty changes for personnel. Whichever component provides the ARFPC Senior Enlisted
     Advisor, the other component is expected to provide the ARFPC Programs Manager.
7. AF/RE and NGB/CF Delegates to SecAF for ARFPC:
     7.1. In addition to the Executive Director, the Deputy Executive Director, the Senior
     Enlisted Advisor, and the Programs Manager, the ARFPC Support Staff will also include no
     less than one officer and one NCO from each RC selected from those serving in full time
     support positions within the National Capital Region (NCR) and detailed by appointment to
     the ARFPC Support Staff as an additional duty for the purpose of providing the ARFPC with
     ongoing administrative support. The officer position (O-3 to O-5) from each RC will be
     appointed as the Director ANG’s and the Chief of AFR’s officer delegate to the Secretary of
     the Air Force for ARFPC. The NCO position (E-5 to E-8) from each RC will be appointed
     as the Director ANG’s and the Chief of AFR’s enlisted delegate to the Secretary of the Air
     Force for ARFPC. The Director ANG (NGB/CF) and the Chief of AFR (AF/RE), or their
     delegated offices, will select and appoint the members from their components to fill these
     positions on the ARFPC Support Staff. The names of the members appointed for these
     positions will be kept updated with the respective component (ANG/AFR) Military
     Executive to ensure SAF/MRR and ARFPC stay abreast of duty status changes that would
     make an ARFPC delegate no longer capable of supporting this additional duty. The ANG
     and the AFR should expect that the officer and enlisted delegates to the Secretary of the Air
     Force for ARFPC will be tasked to provide a maximum of 45 nonconsecutive days of support
     to ARFPC annually. NGB/CF and the AF/RE, or their delegated office, will determine how
     long an officer or an NCO will serve as ARFPC delegates and may replace their respective
     appointees as required.
     7.2. The Executive Director and the Deputy Executive Director will coordinate support from
     the RC officers and enlisted delegates. This support should be considered a significant
     additional duty to their primary full time position within the NCR. Each RC officer delegate
     serves as the focal point for ARFPC requests for information directed to any organization
     within their respective RC. The Executive Director may request additional support if
     required from the AFR and the ANG, not to exceed five officers from each RC, as authorized
     under Title 10 U.S.C. § 10305 (h).
AFI36-2617 8 September 2011                                                                   9


   7.3. Support expectations will include, but are not limited to: pre-conference administrative
   efforts, email coordination, conference package development, attendance confirmations,
   conference administrative and technical support, and post-conference administration, creation
   of meeting minutes, consolidate action items, posting updates to the ARFPC electronic
   storage, and routing requests for information to each respective component.

Section C—MAJCOM ARC Policy and Advisory Councils, HAF ARC Advisors, NGB and
AF/RE Functional Directors

8. Responsibilities of MAJCOM ARC Policy and Advisory Councils (ARCPAC):
   8.1. MAJCOM commanders should establish ARC Policy and Advisory Councils to
   consider policy matters referred to them, which directly affect either one or both of the Air
   Reserve Components. ARC MAJCOM Advisors will serve as the liaison between their
   respective MAJCOM ARC Policy and Advisory Councils and the ARFPC.
   8.2. MAJCOMs which have had ARFPC matters referred to them will be asked by the
   Committee to provide feedback on their proceedings in general and specifically on those
   ARC policy issues that may affect more than one MAJCOM. Inputs from MAJCOMs should
   be routed from MAJCOM ARC Advisors to the Executive Director or the Deputy Executive
   Director, ARFPC.
   8.3. Specific format and functioning of MAJCOM ARC Policy and Advisory Councils will
   be at the MAJCOM commander’s discretion and operating guidance will be published as a
   MAJCOM supplement to this Instruction.
   8.4. The ARFPC Executive Director, or Deputy Executive Director, will serve as the focal
   point for communication and coordination with MAJCOM ARC Policy and Advisory
   Councils through each corresponding MAJCOM’s ARC Advisors. Any MAJCOM that
   elects not to formally establish a MAJCOM ARCPAC will still have interface with the
   ARFPC via their assigned MAJCOM ARC Advisors. The Executive Director or Deputy
   Executive Director may task MAJCOM ARC Advisors to provide background information or
   coordinate input from the Advisor’s MAJCOM. In addition, ARC MAJCOM Advisors may
   be asked to update the Committee on MAJCOM policies with Guard and Reserve interest.
   8.5. MAJCOM ARC Advisors, to include NAF ARC Advisors within a given MAJCOM,
   may be invited to participate in an ARFPC Full Conference Forum. However, they will
   normally be excluded from Executive Session deliberations, which are reserved for appointed
   Committee members, unless individually invited by the ARFPC Chairman.
9. HAF ARC Advisors and NGB and AF/RE Functional Directors:
   9.1. HAF ARC Advisors and NGB and AF/RE Functional Directors are a critical link
   between the Committee and ongoing Air Force policy development. As matters arise that
   require background information or follow-up discussion with Air Force policy implications,
   these officers can interpret and provide guidance on those policies impacting the ARC from a
   functional and reserve affairs perspective and suggest recommendations on how best to
   facilitate the integration of those proposed policies across the Total Force.
10                                                          AFI36-2617 8 September 2011


  9.2. When acting on behalf of the ARFPC Chairman or Vice Chairman, the ARFPC
  Executive Director or Deputy Executive Director may task HAF ARC Advisors and NGB
  and AF/RE Functional Directors to provide background information or coordinate input from
  the Advisor’s HAF functional community. In addition, ARC Advisors may be asked to
  update the Committee on HAF policies with Guard and Reserve interest.
  9.3. HAF ARC Advisors and NGB and AF/RE Functional Directors may be invited to
  participate in an ARFPC Full Conference Forum. However, they will normally be excluded
  from Executive Session deliberations, which are reserved for appointed Committee members,
  unless individually invited by the ARFPC Chairman.




                                         DANIEL B. GINSBERG
                                         Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                         (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
AFI36-2617 8 September 2011                                                                    11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Section 8014, Office of the Secretary of the Air
Force, February 1, 2010
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Section 8021, Air Reserve Forces Policy
Committee, February 1, 2010
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Section 10305, Air Reserve Forces Policy
Committee, February 1, 2010
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Section 10301, Reserve Forces Policy Board,
February 1, 2010
Department of Defense Directive 5120.2, Reserve Forces Policy Board, May 13, 1996
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-26, Total Force Development, August 27, 2008
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AF/RE—Chief of the Air Force Reserve
AGR—Active Guard Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGUS—Air National Guard of the United States
ARCPAC—Air Reserve Components Policy and Advisory Councils (MAJCOM)
ARC—Air Reserve Components
ARFPC—Air Reserve Forces Policy Committee
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CAP—CORP—Civil Air Patrol Corporate
CAP—USAF—Civil Air Patrol United States Air Force
CMSAF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
 12                                                           AFI36-2617 8 September 2011


NCR—National Capitol Region
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NGB/CF—Director of the Air National Guard
RC—Reserve Component
RegAF—Regular Air Force
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
SAF/MRR—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs
SAF/MRRP—Executive Director, Air Reserve Forces Policy Committee

Terms
ARFPC Full—Time Support – ARFPC Full-Time Support is composed of four AGRs assigned
to SAF/MRR with designated duties to support the functioning of ARFPC. Two of these
positions are officers and two are enlisted (one a SNCO and the other a NCO or a SNCO). The
officers should both be O-6 positions but of the two, one may be an O-5. The enlisted positions
are an E-9 and an E-6, E-7, or E-8. One officer and one NCO position will be filled by the AFR
and the remaining two are filled by the ANG.
ARFPC Support Staff— ARFPC Support Staff refers to the combined staff support of the
AFRPC Full-Time Support personnel and the Delegates to ARFPC.
Closed Executive Session— A Closed Executive Session is when the Committee meets to refine
deliberations from a Full Conference Session or an Open Executive Session by excluding all but
appointed primary members and appointed alternates. A Closed Executive Session is the normal
forum for voting on ARFPC recommendations to the SecAF as well as the election of new Chair
positions. The Chairman may request the presence of ARFPC Support Staff members to provide
administrative assistance to any executive session.
Delegates to ARFPC (NGB or AF/RE)— Delegates to ARFPC are the four full time (AGR,
EAD, Long term MPA tour – Active Duty Operational Support, or any category of full time duty
for Guard and Reserve) personnel assigned to the either the NGB staff or the AF/RE staff and
designated to be Delegates to the Secretary of the Air Force for ARFPC by the Director, ANG or
the Chief of AFR as a significant additional duty. These Delegates serve as liaisons from each
RC to the ARFPC and provide support to the Committee on a part-time but ongoing basis
according to the cycle of Committee meetings and conferences. The ARFPC Support Staff is
composed of one officer (O-3, O-4, or O-5) and one NCO (E-5, E-6, or E-7) from each RC.
Deputy Executive Director, ARFPC— The Deputy Executive Director, ARFPC is the junior
Military Executive or from the RC corresponding to the current Vice Chairman of ARFPC.
Executive Board, ARFPC— The Executive Board consists of the Chairman, Vice Chairman,
the elected regular component Air Force member, SAF/MRR, Executive Director, Deputy
Executive Director and any additional members the Chairman chooses to appoint.
Executive Director, ARFPC— The Executive Director, ARFPC is the senior Military
Executive or from the RC corresponding to the current Chairman of ARFPC. Office symbol for
the Executive Director, ARFPC is SAF/MRRP.
AFI36-2617 8 September 2011                                                                 13


Full Conference Forum of the ARFPC— A Full Conference Forum of the ARFPC includes
appointed primary and alternate members, named non-voting members, guests of the Chairman,
MAJCOM and HAF ARC Advisors and NGB and AF/RE Functional Directors. This is the
largest gathering of ARFPC and is intended to gather insight into RC policy matters from the
broadest strategic framework possible.
Military Executive, AFR Policy— The Military Executive, AFR Policy, is an AFR AGR
assigned to SAF/MRR to support the ongoing functions of ARFPC and the AFR Policy
Subcommittee. This position should be filled by an O-6. However, one of the two Military
Executives may be an O-5.
Military Executive, ANG Policy— The Military Executive, ANG Policy, is an ANG AGR
assigned to SAF/MRR to support the ongoing functions of ARFPC and the ANG Policy
Subcommittee. This position should be filled by an O-6. However, one of the two Military
Executives may be an O-5.
Open Executive Session— An Open Executive Session is when the Committee meets to refine
deliberations from a Full Conference Forum by excluding non general officer guests so that only
appointed primary members, appointed alternates, named non-voting members, and general
officer guests of the ARFPC Chair may attend. The Chairman may request the presence of
ARFPC Support Staff members to provide administrative assistance to any executive session.
Programs Manager, ARFPC— The ARFPC Programs Manager is an NCO or SNCO (E6-E8)
assigned to SAF/MRR as either an AFR or ANG AGR. The ARFPC Programs Manger is
responsible for managing program elements and ensures execution of ARFPC operations as
directed by the Executive Director.
Senior Enlisted Advisor, ARFPC— The Senior Enlisted Advisor, ARFPC is either an AFR or
an ANG AGR SNCO (E9) assigned to SAF/MRR and dual hated as the Senior Enlisted Advisor
to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs (SAF/MRR).
Subcommittee on AFR Policy—The Subcommittee on AFR Policy consists of the ARFPC AFR
and RegAF members. The Chairman of the Subcommittee on AFR Policy will be the
corresponding component member who is serving as either the Chairman or Vice Chairman of
the entire ARFPC. The Subcommittee on AFR Policy convenes to discuss policy matters that
only pertain to the AFR. This Subcommittee and the corresponding ANG Policy Subcommittee
are both permanent standing Subcommittees of ARFPC. The Chairman may elect to establish
other temporary Subcommittees of ARFPC to work specific policy focus areas.
Subcommittee on ANG Policy— The Subcommittee on ANG Policy consists of the ARFPC
ANG and RegAF members. The Chairman of the Subcommittee on ANG Policy will be the
corresponding component member who is serving as either the Chairman or Vice Chairman of
the entire ARFPC. The Subcommittee on ANG Policy convenes to discuss policy matters that
only pertain to the ANG. This Subcommittee and the corresponding AFR Policy Subcommittee
are both permanent standing Subcommittees of ARFPC. The Chairman may elect to establish
other temporary Subcommittees of ARFPC to work specific policy focus areas.
