BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2872
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           30 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                       THE WILLIAM A. DAVIDSON AWARD



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AAP                                                                Certified by: SAF/AA
                                                                           (Mr Robert E. Corsi, Jr)
                                                                                          Pages: 4


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations,
and establishes the criteria and procedures for submitting nominations for the Air Force-level
William A. Davidson Award for Outstanding Contributions to the Security and Law
Enforcement Professions. Nominations are open to any Air Force active duty, Air Force Reserve,
and Air National Guard military or civilian personnel assigned below the level of the HAF
(Secretariat and Air Staff) or MAJCOM/NAF Headquarters. Forward recommended changes or
suggested improvements about this Instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through appropriate functional’s chain of command to SAF/AA or e-mail to
safaa.workflow@pentagon.af.mil.

Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Instruction are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims.rims.cfm.

This Instruction requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974. The authorities to collect and/or maintain Privacy Act system of records
prescribed in this Instruction are covered under the Privacy Act System of Record Notice F036
AF PC V, Awards and Decorations apply. Forms affected by the Privacy Act must have an
appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System Notice is available online at:
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf.
 2                                                         AFI36-2872 30 SEPTEMBER 2011


1. Purpose of the Award. This award recognizes the Air Force individual who has personally
and profoundly impacted the Security and Law Enforcement communities through
accomplishments that have had broad impact at field level.
2. Description of the Award.
     2.1. The award is named in honor of William A. Davidson, former Administrative Assistant
     to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA), for his outstanding leadership, service and
     dedication to the Air Force and Nation. In his role as the SAF/AA, Mr. Davidson was also
     dual-hatted as the Senior Security Official for the Air Force and widely known for his
     outstanding interagency and cross-functional/cross-service networks, calculated risk-taking
     ability, innovation and overall impact across the Security profession.
     2.2. The award, established in 2011, is a plaque engraved with the winner’s name which will
     remain on permanent display at the Pentagon, and an individually engraved plaque to be
     presented to the winner. Both military and civilian award winners will be authorized to wear
     the Air Force Recognition Ribbon and civilians authorized to wear the Air Force Recognition
     Ribbon lapel pin in accordance with AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, para. 1.8.1
     and 1.8.1.3.
3. Eligibility Criteria. Nominations are open to all Air Force active duty, Air Force Reserve,
and Air National Guard military or civilian Airmen not assigned to Headquarters Air Force,
MAJCOM, or NAF staffs. This award is limited to members directly assigned to Security
related or Law Enforcement duties with less than ten years of service in specialties 08X, 18XX,
3P, 7S and 71S and in the following grade levels or below: GS/GG-12, O-3, and E-6.
4. Nomination Procedures. Nominations for the award are submitted through the respective
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU to SAF/AA; only one nomination per organization will be accepted.
Submissions for all awards must reach SAF/AA by 15 March. The award period covers
accomplishments from 1 January through 31 December of the previous year. Nomination
packages will be forwarded to safaa.workflow@pentagon.af.mil. Packages submitted by each
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU and Air National Guard Bureau will include a cover memorandum signed
by the Director/Commander or Deputy. Cover memo will include nominee’s name, rank/grade,
organization, telephone number, e-mail address, and assigned unit. Additionally, the cover memo
will have three attachments:
     4.1. Biographical fact-sheet that includes rank/grade and full name, duty assignment,
     organization and location, unit mission, unit Commander/Director, military and civilian
     education to include academic levels, and military awards and decorations.
     4.2. Specific justification for the award submitted on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award,
     one page, single spaced, 12-pitch, Times New Roman, bullet format, noting achievements
     from the applicable calendar year only. Classified nominations will be accepted, but must be
     submitted IAW DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program. Category headings for all
     nominations are the following: Cross-functional/Cross-service Involvement, Innovation and
     Performance Results.
     4.3. Citation for award limited to eleven lines and must be unclassified. (See AFI 36-2805,
     Atch 3, for format).
AFI36-2872 30 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 3


5. Selection Process. The Deputy SAF/AA will chair an annual board consisting of prominent
leaders within the Security and Law Enforcement communities to evaluate nominations and
select the winner with final approval by the SAF/AA, the Senior Security Official for the Air
Force.
6. Award Announcements and Presentations. SAF/AA or a designated representative will
notify the commander or director and the winner. The award will be presented at the Pentagon in
an appropriate venue with the Security and Law Enforcement communities. As the sponsor for
the William A. Davidson Award, SAF/AA will fund the winner’s TDY, plus one, to attend the
award ceremony.




                                           DARRELL D. JONES, Lt General, USAF
                                           DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
 4                                                       AFI36-2872 30 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 Aug 1997
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 Jun 2001
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. AF Form 1206, Nomination for
Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force (Secretariat and Air Staff)
MAJCOM—Major Command
SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
