BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-502
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)                                              30 MARCH 1994

                                                                    CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                 Supplement

                                                                                 4 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                          Personnel

                                                          MANAGING CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                                                                            RESOURCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOFSS/FSMC                                                       Certified by: 27 SOW/CV
Supersedes: AFI36-502_CANNONAFBSUP                                             (Col Kirk W. Smith)
            1 OCTOBER 2006                                                                 Pages: 3


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-502,
Managing Civilian Personnel Resources, March 30, 1994. It establishes responsibilities and
procedures for managing all 27 SOW civilian overhire positions. This instruction applies to all
27 SOW units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates office titles and functional address symbols, and updates who serves as
voting members on the civilian corporate board.
1. The objective of this instruction is to outline the process for requesting and validating civilian
overhire requirements.
2.2.1. (Added) Civilian Human Resource Management Board (CHRMB). Serves as the
corporate board responsible for ensuring 27 SOW appropriated fund civilian resources are used
 2                                       AFI36-502_CANNONAFBSUP 4 JANUARY 2012


efficiently and effectively per AFI 36-502, paragraph 2.2. The 27 SOW/CV serves as the
chairperson (or whomever the 27 SOW/CC designates). Mandatory attendees include Group
Commanders, the Director of Staff, and the Civil Engineer Squadron Commander or their
designated representatives who serve as voting members and functional advisors to include the
Chief, Manpower and Organization Flight, Chief, Civilian Personnel Flight and Comptroller
Squadron Commander. Advisors serve as non-voting members. The CHRMB will normally
meet quarterly.
2.2.2. (Added) 27 SOW/CV (or designee) chairs the CHRMB. Retains veto authority to
approve or reject any proposed overhire.
2.2.3. (Added) Valid Overhire Requirement. A requirement justified by mission essentiality,
sufficient workload and other criteria as identified in the applicable Air Force Manpower
Standard and AFI 38-201. Overhire requirements not meeting these criteria are not valid
requirements.
2.2.4. (Added) Trade-off. A civilian position which is retained as a vacancy, so civilian pay
dollars may be utilized for more urgent manning requirements.
2.4.2. (Added) Reviews overhire requests and advises on work year availability and duration of
availability.
2.4.3. (Added) Provides 27 SOW/CV with overhire recommendations.
2.4.4. (Added) Serves as an advisory member of the CHRMB.
2.5.1. (Added) Review and validates civilian overhire requests to ensure they meet mission
needs.
2.5.2. (Added) Analyzes overhire requests and advises unit of validation or non-validation of
requirements, including rationale.
2.5.3. (Added) Forwards overhire requests (valid and non-valid requirements) to the
Comptroller Squadron within three workdays of receipt.
2.5.4. (Added) Serves as an advisory member of the CHRMB.
2.6.1. (Added) Financial Analysis Flight reviews overhire requests and advises if funding is
available and how long position can be funded.
2.6.2. (Added) Financial Analysis Flight forwards overhire requests to Civilian Personnel
within three workdays of receipt.
2.6.3. (Added) Serves as an advisory member of the CHRMB.
4. (Added) Civilian Overhire Process .
4.1. (Added) All requests will be submitted to the Manpower and Organization Flight
(27 SOFSS/MOF) with in-turn review by Comptroller (27 SOCPTS/CC) and Civilian Personnel
Flight (27 SOFSS/FSMC) using an electronic CAFB Form 38, Request for Civilian Overhire.
4.2. (Added) After review by the advisory members, the request will be presented to the next
CHRMB for discussion and approval/disapproval. In the event of an urgent request that cannot
wait until the next scheduled CHRMB meeting, the owning Group Commander will arrange a
AFI36-502_CANNONAFBSUP 4 JANUARY 2012                                                             3


meeting with the CHRMB chairperson and the other voting members to consider the request or
review an out-of-cycle request via electronic means.
5. (Added) Requesting Organization.
5.1. (Added) Submits overhire requests using CAFB Form 38 with Group Commander’s
concurrence to Manpower and Organization Flight.
5.2. (Added) Provides the following data:
5.2.1. (Added) Workload data justifying overhire requirement: Define the workload, providing
documented backlog (if any). Provide documentation and/or references (if any) which identify
the workload as mission essential. Explain mission failure if overhire is not approved.
5.2.2. (Added) Potential funding trade-off, assigned civilian strength for entire unit and the total
number of vacant civilian positions in the unit. Assigned civilian strength and number of
vacancies should reflect the entire group or staff function rather than assigned strength and
vacancies of only the squadron, flight, division or branch requesting the overhire.
5.2.3. (Added) Proposed duration of the overhire requirement.
5.2.4. (Added) Standard Form 52, Request for Personnel Action, and position description with
the overhire request.
6. (Added) Prescribed and Adopted Forms .
6.1. (Added) Prescribed Forms:
CANNONAFB Form 38, Request for Civilian Overhire.
6.2. (Added) Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Standard Form 52, Request for Personnel Action




                                              ALBERT M. ELTON II, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 27th Special Operations Wing
