BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-6005
22D AIR REFUELING WING
                                                           MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement

                                                                         29 NOVEMBER 2010
                                                            Certified Current 27 December 2011
                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                              UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                                                                       MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 22 CES/CEAC                                                          Certified by: 22 CES/CC
Supersedes:   MCCONNELLAFBI32-6001,                                           (Lt Col. Louis Liley)
              31 May 1994                                                                 Pages: 17


AFI 32-6005, dated 9 Oct 2008 is supplemented as follows: This instruction prescribes policies
and procedures for management of single enlisted military dormitories at McConnell AFB.
Violation of this instruction may subject the individual to disciplinary action pursuant to the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). It implements Air Force Instruction 32-6005 and the
most current Dormitory Resident Brochure. This information applies to all personnel residing in
dormitories, their First Sergeants and Commanders.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: identification of prohibited activities and items; clarification of visitation hours.
1.2.5.8.(Added) Commanders will visit the dormitory at least quarterly.
 2                               AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010


1.2.5.9. (Added) Ensure proper standards are being maintained.
1.2.5.10. (Added) First Sergeants will investigate cases involving any damage beyond fair wear
and tear, or circumstances which may subject the individual(s) to pecuniary liability, and will
ensure all required actions are accomplished prior to final (base) out processing.
1.2.8.36.(Added)Dormitory Manager will assign rooms, issue keys and initial set of linens.
1.2.8.37. (Added) Conduct random inspections.
1.2.8.38. (Added) Act to resolve complaints from residents, and if not resolved, forward to their
First Sergeant.
1.2.8.39. (Added) Conduct initial/termination inspection. Provide dormitory residents with
checklist and standards for termination of quarters.
1.2.8.40. (Added) Conduct an annual inventory of furniture and monitor overall condition of
rooms.
1.2.9.2.1. (Added) Unaccompanied Housing (Dormitory) Residents are responsible for the
appearance/cleanliness of their rooms and all common areas.
1.2.9.5. (Added) Must comply/adhere to standards outlined in most current local Dormitory
Resident Brochure.
1.3. (Added) OBJECTIVES :
1.3.l.(Added) Provides general guidelines for dormitory management at McConnell AFB.
Specific information is identified in the most current Dormitory Resident Brochure.
1.3.2. (Added) Ensure dormitories are maintained in a manner conducive to good health, morale,
safety, and welfare
1.3.3. (Added) Promote individual responsibility.
2.20.1. (Added) Visiting hours are from 0600 to 2400 hours 7 days a week, regardless of the
shift being worked by the military member. No sleepover guests are permitted.
2.20.2. (Added) Residents (Hosts) are responsible for the conduct of their guests.
2.20.3. (Added) Quiet hours are 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and also apply to guests.
2.21.1. Smoking is prohibited in all dormitories to include individual rooms, balconies,
stairways and common areas. Smoking is only allowed in designated smoking areas.
2.22. (Added) Weapons. Use or possession of weapons in the dormitory campus area is
prohibited. Guns may be stored at the Security Forces armory, contact 759-3258 for procedures.
All other weapons identified below must be stored off base at owner’s arrangements.
2.22.1. (Added) Weapons are identified as firearms, munitions and explosives including, but not
limited to: black powder, fireworks, BB guns, pellet guns (to include metal or paint pellets), dart
guns, air rifles, bows and arrows, swords, machetes, straight razors, axes, hatchets, martial arts
weapons, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument. This list of prohibited
weapons is not meant to be inclusive.
2.22.2. (Added) Knives with blades which exceed 6 inches. Exceptions listed below.
AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010                                                        3


2.22.2.1. (Added) Government-issued survival knives and equipment required to be stowed with
mobility gear may be secured in the resident’s locker.
2.22.2.2. (Added) Decorative swords or other nonfunctional weapons manufactured solely for
the purpose of decorative display may be tastefully displayed in the member’s quarters in a glass
case.
2.22.2.3. (Added) Knives used for cooking are limited to 4 per resident; the maximum size is a
total length of no more than 10 inches.
2.23. (Added) Pets. Pets are prohibited. However, a fish aquarium of 20-gallon capacity or less,
is permitted for the sole purpose of keeping fish. Poisonous/dangerous fish are prohibited.
2.24. (Added) Open flames. No incense, candles, or open-flame items will be burned.
2.25. (Added) Fire Emergency. In case of a fire, evacuate the building, notify the Fire
Department, ext 911, and advise Fire Department personnel of the nature and location of the fire.
Small fires will be fought with available fire extinguishers. During fire alarm conditions (actual
or drill), all dormitory residents will evacuate the dormitory area to a safe distance as directed by
the Fire Department, Security Forces, or other authority.
2.25.1. (Added) Evacuation distance will normally be not less than 100 feet from the dormitory.
Resident will not return to the dormitory until the ―
                                                    all clear‖ is given.
2.26. (Added) Maintenance Emergency. If any maintenance emergency occurs involving the
facility during non-duty hours, dormitory occupants will immediately notify 759-3902. The
work order number received from CE will be provided to the dormitory manager.
2.27. (Added) All other emergencies should be reported to the Security Forces Base Defense
Operations Center, 759-3976.
 4                           AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 October 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB— Air Force Base
UCMJ— Uniform Code of Military Justice
AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010                                                     5


                                          Attachment 7
      MCCONNELL AFB UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING RESIDENT BROCHURE
                             DEC 09



INTRODUCTION. Welcome to unaccompanied housing (UH) at McConnell AFB! We
are pleased to have you with us and hope your stay is pleasant. This brochure prescribes
policies and procedures for management of single enlisted military dormitories. Violation
of this brochure may subject the individual to disciplinary action pursuant to the Uniform
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). This brochure applies to all personnel residing in
dormitories, their First Sergeants and Commanders. It is impossible to itemize all details
of our responsibility, or yours. The following pages explain the Air Force responsibility
for your campus, as well as what we expect from you. If you are considerate of your
neighbors and treat fellow residents with respect and pride, we assure you relationships
will be enhanced at all levels. Because unaccompanied housing represents a substantial
investment by the United States Air Force as well as all taxpayers, we must diligently
work together to care for the campus.


              YOUR UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING MANAGEMENT TEAM

Position               Name                   Phone                 Area of Responsibility
Housing Manager        Ms Dina Patton         316-759-3171          Accompanied/Unaccompanied
                                                                    Housing
UH Superintendent      Mr. Tony Whitted       316-617-6676          Overall UH Mgt Team
UH Manager                                    316-759-4130          342-340-350
UH Manager                                    316-759-4673          350-340-342
UH Manager                                    316-759-5388          340-342-350


Here are some telephone numbers that might be useful while residing on
McConnell AFB.

TELEPHONE NUMBERS:
Fire Department                                   911 or 759-3902
Ambulance                                         911
Security Forces                                   759-3976
Crime Stop                                        759-5100
Directory Assistance/ McConnell AFB Information   759-6100
First Term Airmen Center (FTAC)                   759-3451
 6                               AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010


Sexual Assault Response Coordinator               759-4357 or 759-HELP
Red Cross Emergency                               1-877-272-7337
Life Skills on Call                               316-706-7148
TMO In-bound                                      759-5915
Command Post                                      759-3251
AADD                                              759-4663 or 759-HOME



GENERAL INFORMATION
McConnell AFB policy is that all unaccompanied first term Airmen and Airmen with less
than three years of service will be assigned a dormitory room and become dormitory
residents. Residents are required to maintain the assigned room and perform cleaning
details as determined by the dormitory manager.             In order to maintain a readiness
capability, residents are expected to reside at their assigned room address.

Personnel Information Changes: Report any changes of personal information to UH
Section. This includes changes in rank, name, duty or home phone, squadron, office
symbol, marital status, etc.

Dining Facility: The Chisholm Trail is located in building 408. At the west end of the
dorm campus. Meals are provided if you are not receiving separate rations. Check with
your squadron to determine eligibility.

Rooms Inspections: There are three types of dormitory inspections: VIP, Formal and
Informal.
The Installation Commander, Unit Commander, First Sergeant, or representative will
conduct these inspections. They will also determine the frequency of the inspections.
First Sergeants or Commanders normally conduct the formal inspections and the
inspections will be announced. Each unit will conduct inspections at least quarterly on a
scheduled basis and monthly on a random basis. However, informal inspections can be at
any time and are typically performed by UH managers in conjunction with maintenance
activities. Informal inspections confirm that rooms are neat and orderly. Whenever
possible, rooms displaying ― Shift Worker‖ or ―  Crew Rest‖ signs will be inspected during
hours other than the occupant’s normal sleeping hours. Your room is expected to be
maintained in a neat and orderly manner at all times.

Room Decorations: You are encouraged to decorate the interior of your room in a tasteful
manner. Any physical change (paint, wallpaper border etc) must be approved by dorm
management prior to being done. Keep in mind that when you move from the room for
any reason, it must be returned to the original condition; any damages will be assessed to
the resident and taken directly out of their pay. Pictures, posters, and artwork are
AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010                                                     7


welcome. However, they must be in good taste. All media displays of nudity and is
sexual in nature is prohibited. Any pornographic, inflammatory, or any material that
provokes the use of a controlled substance (illegal drugs) will not be openly displayed.
Decorative knives, swords, etc. must be encased behind glass. In all cases, room
decorations will display good taste, proper application, and will not be prejudicial to good
order and not directly violate AFI’s. Do not hang any items on wallpapered wall (Bldg
340/342). Do not hang any items from sprinkler heads on ceilings.

Smoking: Smoking is prohibited in all dormitories to include individual rooms, balconies,
stairways and common areas. Each dormitory has a designated smoking area. Maps are
posted on bulletin boards in each dormitory identifying the smoking areas. Smoking is
only allowed in these designated areas throughout the dormitory campus.

Vehicle Parking/Maintenance: In general parking is unrestricted; however there are a few
designated parking places near the dorms, (i.e. 1st Sgts and Commanders). All vehicles
must have a current license tag/registration and be registered on base. Motorcycles or any
other type of motor-driven vehicle will not be parked in picnic shelters, grass areas,
walking surfaces, or under stairwells. They must be parked in a marked designated
parking area. Minor maintenance maybe performed in the parking lot such as headlight
replacement, stereo installations, etc,. Other maintenance such as car washing, oil changes
or engine repairs are not authorized in parking lot.

Storage: Each building has bulk storage within the building. Residents are responsible for
providing their own lock. Bicycles will be stored in outdoor lockers provided. See UH
Manager to sign-up for storage areas or bike locker.

Pets: Animals with fur and reptiles are not allowed. Aquariums are allowed, however,
there is a 20 gallon size limit, and they must be maintained in a manner that prevents them
from being unsightly. Any water damage caused by the aquarium is the resident’s
responsibility. If you are deployed you must provide a POC (point of contact- someone
responsible for your aquarium) to the UH manager.

Unauthorized Items: Fireworks, firearms, and weapons are not allowed. In IAW MAFBI
31-101 the following items are considered firearms or weapons. A firearm is a weapon that
expels a projectile through some type of explosive process, e.g., shotguns, rifle, handgun,
starter pistol, etc. Non-firearm weapons are defined as instruments capable of propelling a
projectile by compressed air, gasses, springs or other mechanical or physical means. This
includes, but is not limited to BB (hard or soft), pellet or paintball guns; bows, crossbows,
underwater spear guns, hunting sling shots and blow guns. Also prohibited are
instruments normally wielded by physical effort that are capable of killing or maiming
such as knives with blades in excess of 6 inches (all knives that are not specifically
designed for cooking are considered to be weapons, cooking knives are limited to no more
than four with a maximum total length of 10 inches), swords, throwing spears and
nunchakus (fighting sticks). Weapons also include explosive material, including, but not
 8                               AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010


limited to, ammunition, blasting caps, gunpowder, firecrackers, flares (except road flares)
or any similar items, to include any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation.

Auto parts will not be stored, cleaned or painted in rooms.

Cleaning Equipment/Supplies: Equipment and supplies used for cleaning common areas
in the dormitory are supplied. These items can be found in the laundry rooms located on
the first floor of dorms 340/342 and in the supply closet in between the male and female
bathrooms on the first floor of dorm 350.

Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) Waiting List: All Airmen may request to be placed
on the waiting list for BAH by submitting a letter to UH manager. A form letter is
available from the UH manager. The BAH waiting list is activated when the base wide
dormitory occupancy is above 90%. Airmen will be authorized BAH by rank order from
the BAH waiting list and allowed to move off base with their Commander’s approval.

Insect Control: Contact UH managers for specific information if a problem exists.

Telephone/Cable TV/Internet service Installation: Phone, cable and/or internet service in
the room is the resident’s responsibility. Residents must contact a local service provider.
Service must be provided using the existing outlets.

Self Help: Before starting any self help projects (i.e. painting of rooms, installing shelves
etc.) in assigned quarters residents must get the UH Managers approval in writing.



SECTION A – AIR FORCE RESPONSIBILITIES
In support of this government-owned facility, UH management will provide maintenance
and repair, refuse collection and disposal, basic pest control, fire and police protection,
grounds maintenance for common areas, and snow removal from streets.

Initial Inspection: The UH manager, with the residents assistance, will perform an initial
inspection to identify and document discrepancies in his/her assigned room and
furnishings. This inspection is normally performed at the time of room assignment.
Residents will sign for room furniture, keys, and all linen. Residents should inspect the
furniture and room for damages and ensure dorm management is made aware of
discrepancies found within 48 hours. Residents will not remove any furniture from the
room without prior approval from the UH Manager, any missing furniture will be charged
to the resident -- No Waterbeds are allowed in the dorm.
AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010                                                  9




Maintenance and Repair: The Civil Engineer has the primary responsibility for
maintaining the building’s structure and the dormitory campus. To request repairs, call
your UH manager. For emergencies during non-duty hours, contact 759-3902.

Refuse Collection and Disposal: Place your room trash/garbage in the dumpsters provided.
Government-provided garbage cans in the common areas are used for small trash or litter,
not room trash. Do not place trash on balconies or stairwells. The Civil Engineer
Squadron, Entomology flight will dispose of dead animals found on base.

Lockouts: The UH manager keeps a master key to all rooms. Commercially duplicating a
key is prohibited. If locked out, contact the UH manager in person during duty hours,
0730 – 1630. After duty hours and on weekends, contact the Dorm Chief or Floor Chief.
If a key is lost the resident must provide a letter from the First Sergeant/Squadron
Commander for replacement. Residents are responsible for the cost of replacing lost keys
and must reimburse the government for replacement keys at the government rate. If re-
keying the lock is required, resident will have to reimburse the government for that
additional cost. Resident must pay for missing keys when they terminate their room. The
UH manager will assist resident with payment procedures.

Exterior Building and Grounds Care. Residents are responsible for keeping the inside of
their room clean as well as the exterior area immediately adjacent to the resident’s entry
door. This may require sweeping or vacuuming the hallway or walkway area around the
resident’s room. The installation normally maintains common areas around the campus.
Residents are responsible for keeping the grounds around the facility clean.

Snow Removal: During normal duty hours Monday through Friday from 0730 – 1630, a
contractor will provide snow removal for all dormitories. After hours and weekends
Dorm/Floor Chiefs will be responsible for creating a safe egress to and from their
dormitories with volunteers or may be an assigned detail.

Appliances: The government replaces ranges, refrigerators, and microwaves as needed, or
makes appliance repairs. Appliances are assigned by serial number and recorded on AF
Form 228. Notify the UH Section regarding needed repairs. Please do not attempt repairs
or adjustments.

Laundry Facility (Washers and Dryers): Washers and dryers are provided for residents use
at no cost. The laundries are located on the first floor of each building. Residents are
responsible for removing clothes immediately after the cycle is completed. If clothing is
not removed it will be bagged and held for 7 days and then disposed. Chemical warfare
suits are not to be washed in washers. Empty dryer filters before and after use.
 10                              AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010


Filters: Air-conditioning and heating filters are government furnished. A contractor will
change filters on a quarterly basis.

Name Plates/Signs: Must be placed on every occupied room upon assignment. Names
plates/ signs are to remain in place and may not be altered by dorm residents. If residents
do not have a name plate or need to change the information please notify your UH
manager.



SECTION B - RESIDENT RESPONSIBILITIES
Personal Standards: All residents will maintain dress and appearance standards as outlined
in AFI 36-2903. Residents and guests utilizing any common area of the dormitory will be
fully attired to include shoes and shirt.

Conduct: All residents must conduct themselves in such a manner, which respects the
rights of others living in the dormitory. Televisions and stereos must be maintained at a
minimal level of volume that does not disturb your neighbors. When violations occur it is
recommended that the residents involved resolve the situation at the lowest level.
Repeated violations should be reported either to Floor Chief, Dorm Chief, the UH
manager, unit First Sergeant, or Security Forces at extension 759-3976 or 759-3978.

Social Visits: Dormitory residents will be responsible for all guests while they are in and
around the dormitory complex. Guests must remain with the host during visits. Residents
may not have a "live-in" guest. No one is authorized to reside in the dormitory room other
than the assigned resident. Cohabitation, to include married residents, is not permitted.

Guests under the age of 18 are not allowed, unless the guest is a military member or
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. First Sergeants may approve room visits by
dependent children or family members.

Under no circumstances will a guest be given or loaned a room key.

Only occupants are authorized use of dormitory laundry facilities.

Leave or Extended TDY to include Deployments: For accountability purposes and
possible maintenance problems you must not leave your room unoccupied for extended
periods (over three days). If you plan to be absent longer than three days, you must
arrange for security and prudent care of your room. Notify the UH manager in writing, of
intended absence and the name of the person designated to care for the room. If
deploying, leave a copy of orders on the bed and make sure the room is in Formal
Inspection order. The UH manager will inspect your room prior to your deployment. Do
not turn off your HVAC system or unplug the refrigerator during your absence.

Maintenance and Repair:        Discrepancies found with furniture, fixtures, electrical,
AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010                                                    11


plumbing, and other hardware will be reported to the UH Manager immediately. Notify
the UH manager, during normal duty hours, for emergencies after duty hours, contact the
dorm chief, floor chief, or 22d Civil Engineer Squadron Customer Service at 759-5735.

Damages: Residents will be held liable and accountable for loss or damage to equipment
or furnishings that they or their guests cause by abuse or negligence. When inspection
determines resident is responsible for damages beyond reasonable wear and tear and the
resident elects to perform the repair, Air Force standards for the repair or replacement
must be met. Your UH manager can fully explain options to repair or replace damaged
items and the method of payment.

Repair Costs: Costs include labor and materials. The current labor rate is $60.00 per hour.
Repairs cost may vary, depending on circumstances and cost of materials. Carpet
replacement is a fixed price of $34.00 per square yard.

Environmental: Residents are encouraged to recycle paper, aluminum cans and plastic.
Recycling trailers are located in the dormitory parking lot. All automotive waste such as
engine oils, engine coolants, car grease and other similar products should be disposed of at
the Auto Hobby Shop. The Shoppette will accept used tires. Used florescent light bulbs
should be given to the UH manager for disposal.



SECTION C – CLEANING STANDARDS
A standardized inspection checklist is available from the UH manager or First Sergeant.
This checklist identifies the inspection criteria. Listed below are general cleaning
guidelines.

Windows: Residents are responsible for cleaning the inside and outside of windows,
tracks and window sills. Report damaged or missing screens to the UH manager. For
security reasons, lock windows when you leave the room.

Kitchen: Give special attention to maintaining appliances and cabinets; clean ovens, top
burners and broiler units regularly to prevent grease buildup, which can quickly become a
fire hazard. Do not use oven cleaner on self-cleaning ovens. Clean refrigerator interiors
frequently to remove food deposits. Do not use sharp instruments to remove ice when
defrosting, and do not use gritty or harsh detergents when cleaning. Also do not pour
grease down the drain as it can solidify in the pipes and cause stoppages. Be careful to
keep hot pots, pans, and utensils off countertops to avoid permanent damage. We
recommend non-adhesive shelf paper for inside drawers and cupboards to avoid damaging
surfaces upon removal. Clean walls periodically to prevent grease buildup. In Dorm 350
the common kitchen may be used by all residents. All users are expected to leave the
kitchen clean, to include stove, counters and sink. The refrigerator is to be used only
during the preparation of food. Food items may not be stored in the refrigerator. No
 12                              AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010


alcohol will be stored in the common area refrigerator.

Bathroom: Because of the potential for bacteria growth, bathroom areas require special
care and attention. Clean the toilet inside and out with a disinfectant type cleaner at least
weekly. Do not leave soap scum or other residue on walls. Since shower curtains tend to
mold quickly if allowed to remain damp for extended periods of time, clean mold and
mildew stains frequently. Clean tub and shower walls periodically with a product made to
clean mildew. It is recommended that the bathroom door be left open after showering or
bathing to allow air circulation to reduce the moisture in the tub area.

Floors: Excessive water can damage any floor. Tile floors should be damp mopped
weekly with a disinfectant type cleaner.

Carpets: Vacuum and shampoo carpets weekly or as needed.

Walls: Use mild soap and warm water for cleaning walls. Do not apply adhesive-backed
materials, wallpaper, or decals to the walls, since removal can cause damage. Contact UH
manager to determine appropriate picture hangers to hang pictures and objects. Residents
can be charged if the walls are damaged by excessive number of holes or inappropriate
picture hangers. Please make sure doorstops are in place to prevent damage to walls.

Housekeeping: Do not allow food particles to accumulate on countertops, trash cans and
other surfaces of your living space. Keep closets or storage areas free of trash.

Painting: Request approval from the UH manager prior to painting your room.



SECTION D – FIRE PROTECTION.
The Fire Department is responsible for instructing residents on the procedures to follow in
case of fire. All first term Airmen residents will receive a briefing on fire prevention
instructions during FTAC (First Term Airmen Center). All others assigned personnel will
be briefed by UH manager within seven days after moving in.
Additional questions on fire prevention should be directed to the base Fire Department.

Fire Evacuation Plan: A fire evacuation plan is posted on the UH bulletin boards with
primary and alternate routes of escape. Arrange furnishings so as not to obstruct or
impede entering or opening doors leading from rooms to exit doors. Know the plan.
Direct questions on fire prevention to the base fire department at 759-3902.

Smoke Detectors: Tampering with alarm call boxes or fire fighting equipment is a serious
offense, punishable under the UCMJ. The Fire Department is responsible for inspecting
smoke detectors.
AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010                                                   13



Fire reporting: If a fire occurs in your room/UH facility, notify the base Fire Department,
at 911, immediately. Give the fire alarm operator your name, dorm number, and street.
Do not hang up until you are sure the information has been received correctly. Report any
fires, regardless of size.

Flammable Storage: Storage of flammables is prohibited. Flammables include but are
not limited to gasoline, kerosene, lighter fluid, and charcoal lighter fluid.

Incense and Candles: May not be burned, these items may be used for decoration and
aroma only in the room.

Barbeque Grills: Barbeque grills are provided at the dormitories. Portable grills are
prohibited for use around the dormitories.

Space Heaters: Space heaters of any type are prohibited in dormitories.

Cooking: Cooking in dayrooms and dorm rooms is prohibited, except in microwaves. Hot
plates, toaster ovens and convection ovens are NOT permitted. Cooking is permitted in
government provided kitchen. When cooking, never leave cooking unattended. If a grease
fire occurs, cover the burning pan with a lid, turn off the appliance and call the fire
department. NEVER USE WATER AND DO NOT ATTEMPT TO MOVE THE PAN!
Clean the kitchen exhaust fan filter often to prevent accumulation of grease.

Heat Producing Devices: Unplug heat-producing devices when not in use. (i.e. curling
irons, flat irons, blow driers)

Extension Cords: Extension cords must be of continuous length without splices and must
be UL approved. Since extension cords can be a tripping hazard, position the cords in a
safe and secure manner.



SECTION E - SECURITY FORCES.
The Installation Commander is responsible for controlling and safeguarding base property.
When notified, the Security Forces will investigate incidents under their jurisdiction.
Direct inquiries concerning law enforcement to the Security Forces at 759-3976.

Crime Stop. For immediate response to a crime in progress, telephone 759-3976.
 14                                AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010


SECTION F—GOOD NEIGHBORS
UH living and close neighbors are synonymous.               We appreciate your support and
cooperation in the following areas:

Excessive stereo and television volumes: This is the primary complaint received by the
UH managers. Don't assume your neighbors enjoy the same type of music or television
programs that you do; please keep the volume down. Excessive noise is defined as any
sound heard outside your room. Many residents work shifts and sleep during the day.
Please be considerate.



SECTION G—SPECIAL CONDITIONS
WARNING AND NOTIFICATION SYSTEMS:

ALERT SIGNAL: A three to five minute steady tone. This means that some emergency
or disaster situation either exists or is likely to exist in a short time. It is important that you
learn as soon as possible what disaster situation you are being alerted for; it may be an
earthquake, tornado, very high winds, flood or any other situation or combination of
situations. You should immediately turn on a radio or local television and listen for
loudspeaker vehicles. Learn the situation and determine what you can do to protect
yourself and then take whatever actions you can to get protection. Don’t tie up the phone
lines by calling the base for information. The actions you should take will depend on the
particular emergency, but the first action, in all cases, would be to get yourself into the
dorm and turn on a radio or television.

McConnell AFB personnel may be directed to take protective shelters during an
emergency situation. All personnel, except those designated as emergency essential, will
take shelter in the nearest available shelter. The following buildings have the nearest
shelters: Bldgs 340, 342, 350, Education Center basement, Medical Clinic basement, and
Bldg 1 (Wing Headquarters). Check the bulletin board for specific locations.

                Do not call the base operator. All lines will be required for emergency
                operations.

TEST OF BASE SIRENS: Every Monday at 1200 (noon), a wavering or steady tone (not
to exceed 20 seconds duration) will test the system to ensure it is operational.

TORNADOES:

When a tornado Watch is announced: (1) Keep a radio or television on and listen for the
latest weather service warnings and advisories. If power fails, use portable battery radios
or car radio. (2) Keep watching the sky, especially to the south and southwest.

When a tornado Warning is announced a tornado has been sighted in the area:
AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010                                                       15


Your best protection is an underground shelter or basement, or a substantial steel-framed
or reinforced concrete building.

If unable to get to the basement, take cover under heavy furniture on the ground floor in
the central part of the building. Stay as far from windows and doors as possible.

If outside in open country, take cover and lie flat in the nearest depression, such as a ditch,
culvert or ravine

If in an office building, get to an interior hallway on the lowest floor or to a designated
shelter area. Stay away from windows.

Do not remain in a trailer or mobile home if a tornado is approaching. Take cover
elsewhere.

FLOODS: Your best protection from a flood is to evacuate to higher ground. Do not
attempt to drive over a flooded road; you could become stranded or trapped, if your car
stalls while in flowing water, abandon it immediately.

BLIZZARDS AND ICE STORMS: Should this occur, some utilities may be disrupted and
you may have to remain in your dorm for some time.



SECTION H—COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL ACTIVITIES
Dorm and Floor Chiefs are dormitory residents that are trusted agents with access to room
keys. They have the authority to act in behalf of the UH manager and to enforce DORM
POLICY after duty hours. Dorm chiefs are only authorized in the office or any dorm
storage areas after duty hours for military necessity or emergencies.

Dormitory Council: It is intended to be the forum by which residents of an individual
dormitory address their concerns about their living environment with a panel of their peers,
establish standards for residents, present solutions for problems areas, establish positive
recreational activities and identify facility/furnishing improvements. Membership is
strictly voluntary but highly encouraged. Constitution and by-laws are available from
dorm council officers.

Quiet Hours: Quiet hours are 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are shift workers in
every dormitory. Loud stereos and televisions are disturbing and disruptive. If sounds
from inside your room can be heard outside your room or through the walls, it is too loud.

Alcohol: Underage drinking of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. No open containers are
allowed outside the dormitory campus.
 16                              AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010


SECTION I—TERMINATION OF UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
Airmen must obtain appropriate authority to move out of Unaccompanied Housing and
must complete all required prerequisites prior to securing off base living quarters.
Prerequisites include:

       1. Reach 36 months TIS (Time in service) and grade of E4

       2. Personal Financial Management Plan (the green sheet) prepared by A&FRC

       3. Housing Office Counseling (information about leases, military clauses, renters
       insurance, good/bad areas to rent, rent vs. buy)

       4. First Sergeant brief (Quality Force Indicator)

       5. First Sergeant approval (Commander delegated)

Termination of Quarters/ Giving Notice: When you know you are leaving, please do not
wait for orders, call or visit the UH manager for departure arrangements. Residents must
schedule an appointment for pre-inspection of quarters (conducted by the UH manager) at
least 30 days prior to termination date (except short notice PCS). Final inspection date
will also be scheduled at this time.

Prefinal Inspection: This inspection is designed to assist you in preparing for your final
inspection. It includes reviewing checkout procedures and provides us an opportunity to
answer your questions. During the inspection, the UH manager also identifies normal
maintenance and damages above normal wear and tear. The UH manager will provide a
cleaning checklist and can discuss your individual cleaning requirements.

Final Inspection: This is an inspection to make sure you have met the cleaning standards
and identify maintenance not noted at your pretermination inspection. All personal items
must be removed from the room. All inventory items must be accounted for, including
furnishings. The room will be cleaned in formal inspection order. All keys must be
accounted for and turned in. You, the resident, will be charged for damages to government
property. Residents who fail to terminate quarters properly will be placed on
administrative hold until all issues are resolved. If you fail your final inspection, ask the
UH manager to schedule a reinspection as soon as possible.

Room Changes: Involuntary moves are made at the direction of the unit commander or
First Sergeant based on varied circumstances. In these situations, your unit will pay for the
move (i.e. phone and cable transfer). Prior to final approval of a move, the room must be
thoroughly cleaned, all inventory items accounted for and all keys returned. The
individual will have 48 hours to complete the move unless extenuating circumstances
prevent this. Dorm management must be aware of any delay in the moving process. It is
the responsibility of the occupant to contact their unit orderly room to update the recall
roster.
AFI32-6005_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 29 NOVEMBER 2010                                                  17



SECTION J. - DORMITORY SEXUAL ASSULT AWARENESS
AF Policy: Sexual assault is a criminal act incompatible with the Air Force’s core values,
high standards of professionalism, and personal discipline. The Air Force has zero
tolerance for sexual assault.

 Helping Agencies

 1.   Chain of Command
 2.   Life Skills—759-5091
 3.   Victim Support Liaison (VSL)—759-HELP or 759-3048
 4.   Chaplain—759-592
 5.   Security Forces—759-3976
 6.   Office of Special Investigations—759-4273
 7.   Wichita Areas Sexual Assault Center—263-6000




                                            JAMES W. CROWHURST, Col, USAF
                                            Commander, 22d Air Refueling Wing
