BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-6005
14 TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                            9 OCTOBER 2008
                                                            Certified Current 1 December 2010
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 2 February 2011
                                                          AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                                           COMMAND
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                             16 MARCH 2010
                                                              Certified Current 12 March 2012
                                                              COLUMBUS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                  3 APRIL 2012

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                              UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                                                                       MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 14 CES/CEAC                                                       Certified by: 14 MSG/CC
                                                                      (Col Scott G. Frickenstein)
Supersedes:   AFI 32-6005 CAFB Sup1,                                                    Pages: 10
              25 January 2001


This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does
not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). This instruction implements AFI 32-6005,
Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 Oct 08 and supplements thereto. This instruction
provides guidance and establishes procedures for personnel directly or indirectly responsible for
the management of Unaccompanied Housing at Columbus AFB. The instruction applies to all
personnel, tenant activities, facilities, structures and areas under the jurisdiction of the U S
Government at Columbus Air Force Base. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with the Air Force Manual
 2                              AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012


(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims//rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication makes changes to referenced material and attachments. In the absence of other
directives, this publication will be used as the authority having jurisdiction. This publication has
been revised and must be reviewed in its’ entirety.


     1.2.8.25. A locally generated monthly unaccompanied report will be used to maintain daily
     records by office personnel. The final report will be forwarded to UPH Superintendent NLT
     the third workday of each month. Report is required to compute monthly average of
     available/occupied rooms versus the ACES report which computes occupancy on the last day
     of the month. When there is less than 95% utilization, the dorm manager recommends
     corrective action to the Housing Capital Asset Manager.
               1.2.8.29.1. (Added) Residents must have Dorm Manager and/or Civil
               Engineering approval prior to making any alternations/modifications to their
               rooms, i.e., painting, paneling, shelves, wallpaper, etc. If approved, occupant is
               responsible for returning room to original condition at his/her expense, prior to
               termination. Personal decorations in good taste are authorized; however,
               displaying pornographic or inflammatory material is prohibited.
            1.2.8.36. (Added) If quarters are required for higher priority personnel, the Dorm
            Manager will notify next eligible resident on the waiting list and initiate the letter
            allowing their Squadron Commander to approve/disapprove their quarters
            termination. Once the letter is approved, member may make permanent arrangements
            and the Dorm Manager will inspect room, terminate quarters and initiate BAH action.
            1.2.9.5. (Added) AFI32-2001_COLUMBUSAFBSUP,                Attachment       5,    Fire
            Emergency Services Program. Resident has the ultimate responsibility to prevent and
            report fire and/or fire hazards (Attachment 2, Dormitory Fire Prevention Checklist).
            All UPH buildings have exterior fire extinguishers and fire alarm pulls as well as
            carbon monoxide and smoke detectors inside the rooms. Residents are responsible
            for testing detectors monthly. The dorm manager has replacement batteries if needed.
            Heat, smoke, optical, sprinkler heads, nozzles/extinguishers and/or light fixtures are
            not to be blocked, painted, covered or tampered with. Residents will be held liable
            for damages occurring through negligence.
            1.2.9.6. (Added) Fireworks of all types are prohibited at Columbus AFB as well as
            plug in candles that have heated oil not in a sealed glass container.
            1.2.9.7. (Added) Storage of privately owned weapons in dorms, VQs and TLFs.
            Personnel residing in on-base dormitories, VQs, or TLFs are not authorized to keep
            firearms/munitions or dangerous weapons.
               1.2.9.7.1. (Added) Dangerous        Weapons: The        following    weapons     are
               considered dangerous:
AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012                                                 3


             Nunchakus, nightsticks, ASPS, saps or blackjacks (spring loaded or not spring
             loaded), kungfu/ninja throwing stars, crossbows, conventional bows, bolts,
             arrows, metal-tipped arrows, swords, bladed weapon (having a blade exceeding
             3 1/2” in length), and any other weapon that will propel an object by non-
             explosive means (such as “BB” or pellet guns, air pistols, sling shots, paint-ball
             guns, etc.), any instrument in the design of a weapon used in connection with the
             practice of self-defense (not including pepper spray/mace purchased at a retail
             establishment), stun guns or any other similar devices. Reloading supplies
             (gunpowder, primers, etc.) will not be maintained or stored. Dangerous
             weapons required for duty are exempt and may be carried by authorized
             personnel in the line of duty while on base.
            1.2.9.7.2. (Added) Unauthorized       Weapons: The following weapons are
            considered prohibited:
             Switchblade knives or knives with any type of automatic blade release,
             incendiary/explosive weapon (i.e., grenades), fireworks, gravity knives, inertia
             knives, stiletto knives, metallic knuckles, any device designed (made or adapted)
             to muffle report of a firearm, a short barrel firearm (rifle with barrel less than
             16” or shotgun with barrel less than 18” or both less than 26” overall length),
             and/or any type of firearm capable of or modified to fire in the automatic mode.
        1.2.9.8. (Added) Personnel requesting termination of quarters for personal
        reasons/hardship and if occupancy is under 95%, must submit a justification letter to
        their Squadron and Group Commander for out-of-turn consideration. 14 MSG/CC
        has final approval authority. The Dorm Manager will assist resident with letter
        format and routing procedures. If approved, resident may then terminate quarters and
        BAH will start after completing termination inspection. Approved requests will be
        reviewed annually, by the Housing Asset Management Office (HAMO), to ensure
        justification still exists. Member will be required to submit additional justification to
        continue to receive BAH.
        1.2.9.9. (Added) No pets, except for legal fish and seeing eye-dogs, are allowed in
        UPH or adjoining common areas. Occupants will be held liable for personal injury,
        damage or destruction, pest control and any cleaning/sanitation.
     2.2.1. (Added) UEQ unit integrity will be maintained to the maximum extent possible.
     If resident(s) must be relocated to maintain integrity, it is a government paid move and
     the affected member(s) are entitled to reimbursement of existing telephone and/or cable
     services. Relocating residents should be the last option used to maximize integrity.
     Residents of the UOQs are assigned to 14th STUS.
     2.2.2. (Added) UEQ unit allocations will be validated at least quarterly and adjustments
     made as necessary. Validation will be documented in writing, indicating current
     allocations versus new allocations, necessary moves for re-alignment, and projected
     incoming personnel. Validation letter will be signed by 14 MSG/CC and kept on file in
     the Dorm Office.
        2.3.1.1. Reallocate existing inventory to maintain 95% utilization in each
        Unaccompanied Housing facility.
4                               AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012


    2.11. Dorm Council: UEQ residents elect a President, Vice President, and
    Secretary/Treasurer annually or as required, to gather information, plan projects, and are
    invited members to the QIC meetings. The Dorm Manager attends meetings to give advice,
    to obtain suggestions, and provides general guidance on problems. Command Chief is also
    invited. Minutes are made available to all residents to provide a continued pro-active
    involvement.
    2.13. Dorm Inspection Program: Commanders/First Sergeants (UEQ) and 14th STUS
    representatives (UOQ) will inspect their respective residents at least quarterly for both UEQs
    and UOQs to ensure occupants maintain Air Force standards while assigned quarters.
    Squadron Commanders are highly encouraged to do at least one inspection annually.
    Inspections will be announced and documented. Record copy of inspections will be
    maintained in unit files as well as the respective dorm office.
       2.13.1. (Added) The Dorm Manager, CE Commander, and/or Fire Dept will make
       periodic visits to ensure fire/safety standards are maintained and violations will be
       annotated. Resident and their Commander/First Sergeant will be notified of any
       fire/safety violations and required corrective action. A copy of notification/violation will
       be maintained in resident’s file.
       2.14.1. (Added) UEQ: Dorm Manager schedules two residents for weekly bay orderly,
       Wed-Tues, and if at all possible from different units. Schedule is prepared at least 30
       days in advance and coordinated with respective First Sergeants to ensure personnel are
       available. Once schedule is approved, changes must be coordinated through Dorm
       Manager and member’s First Sergeant. Tasked personnel will report to Dorm Manager
       for daily duties.
       2.14.2. (Added) UOQ: Dorm Manager provides 14 STUS a resident listing each
       Friday, who then selects and details two (2) residents to perform janitorial common area
       cleaning on Mondays and Thursdays.
       2.15.1. QIC: Housing (normally UPH Superintendent) acts as recorder, as well as
       coordinates Meeting dates, agenda items, meeting notification letters and initiates
       meeting minutes. Meetings are held quarterly and 14 FTW/CV has been delegated as
       chairman. In addition to listed required membership, Columbus AFB has added 14 OG
       and 14 MDG Commanders to the voting members.
           2.16.2.3. (Added) Keys: Residents will be issued one (1) room key upon
           assignment. Residents will be charged $10 to replace lost room key and are
           responsible for contacting his/her dorm manager immediately (first duty day) to make
           payment and obtain a replacement key. If lost key affects building security, resident
           can be charged to re-key/change core using current CE labor/material costs.
           Government agencies losing master keys could be charged to re-key the affected
           building.
       2.20.1. (Added) Guests/Social Visits: No one under 18 years of age is allowed in
       unaccompanied quarters at any time unless guest is related to occupant. Guests are
       allowed in quarters no earlier than 0800 hours and no later than 2300 hours on weekdays
       (0100 hours on weekends and/or days preceding a holiday). Resident must accompany
       their guests at all times and sponsors are responsible for their conduct. Unauthorized,
AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012                                             5


     suspected unauthorized, and/or unaccompanied visitors will be reported to Security
     Forces.
     2.20.2. (Added) Quiet Hours: Quiet hours are between 2200 – 0600 daily. Loud,
     boisterous, and/or unprofessional conduct will not be tolerated at any time.
     Unprofessional conduct and damage/destruction in common areas or to government
     property items will be reported to Security Forces immediately.
        4.2.1.3. K&E personnel as listed in (AFI32-6001_COLUMBUSAFBSUP, Family
        Housing Management), not accompanied by dependents or single, may be housed in
        the UOQ until appropriate family housing becomes available when requested by 14
        MSG/CC. Single K&E would forfeit single rate BAH while assigned to UPH if
        assigned quarters meet space requirements.
        4.2.1.6. (Added) International and Aviation Leadership Program (ALP) students
        attending Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training (SUPT) will be housed in UOQ
        rooms. Exception applies if student is authorized to bring family members while
        attending training. If dependents accompany students, then arrangements will be
        made through the the Housing Asset Management Office referral personnel to house
        member in base housing (Columbus Family Housing) if desired or off base..
        Entitlement will be verified by the International Training Officer (14 OG/OST).
     4.2.2. Priority 2, Space Required. UPH assignment includes all E1-E4 under 3 YOS
     and O-1/O-2’s SUPT students (both single and mil to mil not at the same base).
     Exceptions to UPH assignment must be made in writing and approved by 14 MSG/CC
     prior to making any other permanent arrangements.
           4.2.4.2.1. (Added) Unaccompanied personnel may request, in writing, space
           available assignment to UPH for a period not to exceed 90 days, if UPH space is
           available. Dorm Manager will assist member with letter format which must be
           approved through the member’s squadron and group commanders before quarters
           will be assigned. Member would be given a 30-day termination notice if space is
           required for higher priority personnel. Member is not entitled to reimbursement
           of telephone/cable/storage of household goods while assigned to or terminating
           government quarters.
        4.4.1.1. (Added) Waiting list for Bldg 550 (suites) is maintained by rank and DOR
        within their respective unit. When a room becomes available, the next ranking
        resident in that unit is contacted and, if desired, the move is at the expense of the
        member.
        4.4.2.1. (Added) UEQ waiting list to terminate UEQ based on occupancy is
        maintained in the UEQ office and is maintained by rank, DOS, and DOR. UOQ
        waiting list to terminate UOQ based on occupancy is maintained in the UOQ office
        and is maintained by report in date. If member is interested in terminating quarters,
        Dorm Manager will initiate letter that is approved by member’s Commander prior to
        making formal arrangements.              Commander retains the authority to
        approve/disapprove and member will not be released from UPH until Commander’s
        approval is given.
6                              AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012


       4.5.2. Hospitality rooms will be made available for emergency situations when space
       permits. Dorm Manager will be contacted by Commander/First Sergeant to verify
       requirement and member must vacate room within 72-hours of assignment. Dorm
       Manager will provide linen and cleaning supplies and member is responsible for all
       cleaning when terminating quarters.
           4.6.2.2. Smoking: Smoking is prohibited in any common area, such as lobbies,
           laundry rooms, shared room bathroom/kitchen, etc. Every attempt will be made not
           to assign a smoker with a non-smoker, space permitting within unit integrity. All
           residents are briefed that in the case of smoking dispute, the non-smoker wins.
              4.6.2.2.1. (Added) Alcohol: Mississippi law prohibits drinking under the age of
              21. Residents under the age of 21 are not permitted to have any alcoholic
              beverages in their rooms. Every attempt will be made not to assign underage
              residents with a resident over 21, space permitting within unit integrity. All
              residents are briefed that if they have an underage person sharing their kitchen,
              they must keep alcoholic beverages in their sleeping room behind locked doors.
           4.6.3.9. (Added) Room (Facility) folders will be maintained and completed for each
           occupant using a six part folder. Occupant will sign all appropriate data including
           furnishings and then becomes responsible for the room, furnishings, room key, postal
           key, and government linen. Folder will contain, as a minimum, the following
           information:
              Part 1, Current and past resident list
              Part 2, Current resident information, signed, in the following order: AF 291,
               UPH Asgmt/ Termination Rcd, AF 594, Start/Stop/Change BAH, a copy of
               orders, Asgmt Checklist, AF 4422, Sex Offender Ltr, AF 228, Furniture
               Inventory, and other information pertaining to that resident.
              Part 3, File copies of FMO requests
              Part 4, File copies of CE work requests
              Part 5, File copy of termination (COM) checklist (previous occupants)
              Part 6, Appliance room information.
    4.8. Termination: Residents requesting termination of, or required to terminate quarters,
    are required to comply with all requirements on the termination checklist provided by the
    Dorm Manager. Room will be inspected for cleanliness/COM requirements, all keys
    returned, storage lockers emptied, and approval letter on-hand prior to BAH being
    authorized. Member will be given a copy of AF 594, Start/Stop/Change BAH for record
    purposes. Resident records will be filed and maintained for one (1) year after termination
    date.
           5.1.3.4. Pregnancy. Member must provide AF 422, Profile Change or letterhead
           statement from the OB/GYN verifying 20th week gestation date. Once member has
           attained the 20th week, they may initiate termination process with the Dorm Manager.
           If a live birth does not occur or child does not reside with the member full-time,
           and/or member is not E4 over 3 YOS, they are required to submit a written request to
           continue to reside off-base. Any request prior to the 20th week will be submitted as a
           hardship request through their Squadron and Group Commander with 14th MSG/CC
           making the final decision.
AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012                                                  7


         5.1.3.6. Marriage: Residents are authorized to request termination up to 60 days
         prior to the date of marriage in order to set up new living arrangements. Resident will
         initiate a letter to their Squadron Commander with the planned date of marriage and a
         statement that the spouse will be living with them. Dorm Manager will assist with the
         letter and routing process. Once resident has terminated UPH, Dorm Manager will
         maintain a suspense file (marriage date) and the member is responsible for bringing a
         copy of the marriage certificate within 30-days of the marriage.
         5.1.5.1. Dorm Manager is responsible for completing/certifying AF 594,
         Start/Stop/Change BAH immediately upon assignment and/or termination of resident.
         Resident will receive a courtesy copy, a copy for facility folder, and original to
         Finance. Finance should receive AF 594 within one (1) duty day to ensure timely
         processing.
  5.3. Drayage/Storage: Residents, other than space available, are entitled to have personal
  property items stored at government expense in permanent storage while assigned to UPH.
   Dorm Manager will verify items to be stored and complete AF IMT 150, Drayage/Storage
   Authorization-Government Quarters, within the first 30-days of UPH assignment. Residents
   do not have access to items in permanent storage. Storage entitled ends when resident
   terminates quarters and Dorm Manager completes AF IMT 150 to remove items from
   storage. A copy of AF IMT 150 will be maintained in facility folder.
     5.4.1. Reconnection Fees: If resident is forced to move, they are entitled to
     reimbursement of reconnection fees for existing telephone and/or cable TV services.
     Resident must provide a copy of charges for each service and Dorm Manager will process
     request for payment to Finance Office.
  5.13. Housekeeping/Custodial: Residents in private rooms may elect to contact
  independent cleaners for termination cleaning requirements and Dorm Manager has a list of
  reliable cleaners. It is a private contract and resident is responsible for negotiating fee. All
  personal property must be removed and cleaned prior to termination inspection. Lodging no
  longer provides this service.




                                            BARRE R. SEGUIN, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 14th Flying Training Wing
 8                         AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012


                                      Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

(Added) References
AFI 32-2001_COLUMBUSAFBSUP, Attachment 5, Fire Emergency Services Program, 6
March 2008
AFI 32-6001_ COLUMBUSAFBSUP 1, Family Housing Management, 3 May 2010

(Added) Adopted Forms
AF 291, UPH Asgmt/Termination Rcd,
AF 4422, Sex Offender Ltr
AF 422, Profile Change

(Added) Abbreviations and Acronyms:
DOR-Date of Rank
DOS-Date of Separation
UPH-Unaccompanied Housing
UEQ-Unaccompanied Enlisted Quarters
AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012                                            9


                                   Attachment 11 (Added)

CAFBI 32-6005                                                                YES   NO   N/A
1. Do not use extension cords as permanent wiring.
2. Cooking is prohibited in rooms except in specially designated kitchen
areas (does not include coffee makers or microwave ovens). Foreman
grills, crock pots, etc., will be used in kitchen areas only..they must have
approved UDL wiring and must be used with supervision.
3. Tampering with fire detection or protection systems is prohibited.
4. Individuals will not store gasoline in dormitory or billeting rooms.
5. Cleaning solvents will be nonflammable. Under no circumstances will
gasoline be used for cleaning.
6. Rags and steel wool that are used for cleaning purposes should be stored
in metal containers.
7. Replace defective appliance cords with one of appropriate size.
8. The use of multiple extensions cords is prohibited which includes daisy
chaining (several cords together). Multiple outlet devices may be used
provided that they are “UL” or “FM” approved with fuse/circuit breaker
protection not to exceed 15 amperes. The device must be in perfect repair
with no modifications and be limited to appliance inputs.
9. Only metal or other non-combustible type wastebaskets will be used
inside rooms. Do not place cigarette butts or ashes in wastebaskets.
10. Smoking on, or in bed, is prohibited. Violators are subject to
punishment under Articles 92 and 108 of the UCMJ. Ashtrays will be
made of fire resistant material with cigarette retainer sections. Do not
leave cigarettes burning in unattended ashtrays.
11. Are adequate smoking material receptacles available for disposal of
smoking material?
12. Disconnect electrical appliances when not in use.
13. Open flame lighting devices, candles and incense are prohibited in any
room. Special permission may be granted for religious purposes.
14. Hanging items on or blocking smoke detectors is prohibited.
15. Do not run electrical cords under carpet or rugs or any place where
they could be damaged.
16. Keep combustible material at least 18 inches from light fixtures.
17. Operation of kerosene lamps is prohibited.
18. Stairwell smoke doors must be kept closed. Do not block open.
19. Are all hallways and stairways adequately lighted and clear of
obstruction?
20. Wall posters will not cover more than 25 percent of the wall area and
10 percent of ceiling area. Wall decorations must be flush mounted with
no free-hanging edges.
 10                            AFI32-6005_AETCSUP_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 3 April 2012


21. Storage of stereo boxes, vehicle batteries, gasoline, paint, oil and
grease is prohibited in rooms.
22. Check fire extinguishers and conduct operational checks of emergency
exit lighting units monthly.
23. Check operation of panic hardware devices daily.
24. Is proper fire reporting telephone number (911) decal attached to each
telephone?
25. Do not barbecue on balconies, stairwell landings or within 10 feet of
building.
26. AETC VA 32-1, Grease Fire, will be displayed on range exhaust
hoods and approved cooking equipment.
27. Is the applicable Dormitory/Billeting Fire Prevention Checklist, posted
in Facility Folder?
28. Is Smoking in Bed is Prohibited, posted in Facility Folder and briefed
during in processing?
* NOTE; This is briefed during in processing. A memorandum is signed by
the member stating that He/She will not smoke in bed.
Should a fire occur or if a smoke detector is heard, take the following actions:

1. Activeate a fire alarm pull station, notify as many residents as safely as possible
2. Diall 911. If using a personal cell also state Columbus AFB
3. Give ECC operator your building number, location of the fire, name and phone number, type
of fire (building, grass, automobile, etc.) and if any injuries.
4. If possible, try to extinguish the fire using available fire extinguishers. If you cannot
extinguish the fire, get out.
5. Have someone direct firefighters to fire location.
6. Ensure everyone is out of building. Ensure everyone evacuates to a safe distance (normally
50 feet), away from traffic and firefighting operations.

NOTE: Fire Prevention Specialists are available for lectures and demonstrations upon request.
Contact the Fire Prevention Office at extensions 434-2270/2271/2274.
