BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2903
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                     COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                 27 APRIL 2009
                                                                    VANCE AIR FORCEBASE
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                  22 JUNE 2011

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF
                                                             AIR FORCE PERSONNEL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing Web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A1KKM                                                Certified by: HQ AETC/A1KD
                                                                              (Mr. T. Obermiller)
Supersedes:    AFI36-2903_AETCSUP,                                                     Pages: 30
               14 May 2003
                                         (VANCEAFB)
OPR: 71 FTW/CCE                                                       Certified by: 71 FTW/CCC
                                                                                (CMSgt Balutski)
                                                                                         Pages:4


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal
Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 August 2006 (incorporating Change 1, 6 August 2007).
This supplement is not applicable to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to the Air Force
Distribution Schedule, located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims. The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

(VANCEAFB) This publication implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 August 2006, and Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) Supplement, 27 April 2009. Guidance concerning
 2                               AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011


no hat areas applies to all personnel assigned to Vance AFB. Guidance concerning wear of the
Flight Dress Uniform (FDU) applies to personnel under operational control of the 71st Flying
Training Wing (71 FTW). This publication will remain in effect until rescinded, revised, or
replaced by the 71 FTW/CC. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFM) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS)
located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847
through HQ AETC/A1KKM. This publication will not be supplemented.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
publication incorporates changes to the following areas: The personal hydration system,
organizational baseball caps, nonprior services (NPS) airman accessory standard, inspector
general (IG) badges, flight duty uniform (FDU) patches, chaplain and services uniform items,
basic military training (BMT)/officer training school (OTS) hats, changes to the
survival/evasion/resistance/escape (SERE) uniform tables, and changes to the battlefield airmen
(BA) field (pararescue (PJ), combat control (CCT), tactical air control party (TACP), combat
rescue officer (CRO), and special tactics officer (STO)) uniform tables. References have been
deleted to the maintenance organizational hats and patches, black T-shirts with the 5-inch
AEROSPACE POWER! and ―No One Comes Close‖ logos, as well as references to wear of the
professional military education (PME) badge and the hospital white uniforms.
Table 1.1. Commanders’ Responsibilities.


 To Maintain Uniformity and Good Order and Discipline.
 Major Command Commanders
 (See note 1)
 NOTES:
 1. Wear of personal hydration system is authorized with the battle dress uniform (BDU) and
 flight dress uniform (FDU) while on home station from 1 May - 30 September. Hydration
 systems will be black, olive drab, or woodland camouflage.

Table 1.1. (VANCEAFB) Reflective belts will be worn on the flightline during hours of
darkness (beginning of civil twilight through the end of civil twilight). During officially
sanctioned sporting events (i.e. 71 FTW is given free tickets to an Oklahoma Thunder game), the
71 FTW/CC, or designated representative, will ensure standardization of uniforms being worn by
personnel attending the event.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                   3




Table 1.5. Personal Grooming Standards (see notes).


             A                                       B                                    C
 L
   Item of
 I
   Grooming (M-
 N
   Men, W-
 E
   Women) (see
   Note 1)               Will be/have                                                Will not
 2   Hair Style (M)      Basic Military Training (BMT) Students - First haircut
                         for males: No more than 1/4 inch in length using the
                         clippers over the entire head. Subsequent haircuts during
                         BMT: Neatly trimmed and tapered and allow for the
                         gradual growth of hair and sideburns within Air Force
                         standards.
                         Officer Training School (OTS) Students - Hair at the        Be a block
                         back of the neck will be tapered.                           cut at the
                                                                                     back of the
                                                                                     neck.
 6   Mustache (M)
     (Note 9 (Added))
 NOTES:
 9 (Added). BMT students will not wear mustaches.

Figure 2.1. Men’s Service Dress.
NOTES:
4. The instructor badge is worn on the right side centered between the arm seam and lapel, with
the bottom edge of the badge parallel to the top of the welt pocket.

Figure 2.2. Men’s Mess Dress Uniform.
NOTES:
2. The instructor badge is worn on the top right side in same relative position as badges worn on
the left.

Figure 2.3. Men’s Semi-Formal Dress Uniform (Enlisted only).
NOTES:
4. The instructor badge is worn on the right side centered between the arm seam and lapel, with
the bottom edge of the badge parallel to the top of welt of the pocket.
 4                                AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011




Figure 2.4. Men’s Short-Sleeved Shirt.
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the right pocket centered between the left and right edges and
between the bottom of flap and bottom of the pocket.

Figure 2.5. Men’s Long-Sleeved Shirt.
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the right pocket centered between the left and right edges and
between the bottom of the flap and bottom of the pocket.

Figure 2.7. Men’s and Women’s Battle Dress Uniform (BDU).
NOTES:
4. Subdued, sewn-on AETC command emblem will be worn on the right breast
pocket. Subdued, sewn-on wing emblem will be worn on the left breast pocket. Installation
commanders may authorize subdued sewn-on unit emblems for wear centered 1/2 inch above the
name tape over the right breast pocket. Such emblems must be subordinate to the emblem worn
on the left pocket. Include a list of authorized unit emblems in the installation supplement.
Exceptions: The recruiter badge, security forces shield, fire protection shield, or missile badge is
worn on the left breast pocket in place of the wing emblem. Morale patches and competition
patches are not authorized. Morale patches include, but are not limited to, PRIME BEEF, PRIME
RIB, Response Force; competition patches such as Gunsmoke, William Tell, Giant Sword; and
recognition patches such as the Hennessy, Daedalian, Journeyman, or other technician award
patches. Instructor badge may be worn 1/2 inch above the right pocket.

Figure 2.8. Women’s Maternity Battle Dress Uniform (BDU).
NOTES:
4. Subdued, sewn-on AETC command emblem will be worn on the right breast
pocket. Subdued, sewn-on wing emblem will be worn on the left breast pocket. Installation
commanders may authorize subdued sewn-on unit emblems for wear centered 1/2 inch above the
name tape over the right breast pocket. Such emblems must be subordinate to emblem worn on
the left pocket. Include a list of authorized unit emblems in the installation supplement.
Exceptions: The recruiter badge, security forces shield, fire protection shield, or missile badge is
worn on the left breast pocket in place of the wing emblem. Morale patches and competition
patches are not authorized. Morale patches include, but are not limited to, PRIME BEEF, PRIME
RIB, Response Force; competition patches such as Gunsmoke, William Tell, Giant Sword; and
recognition patches such as the Hennessy, Daedalian, Journeyman, or other technician award
patches. Instructor badge may be worn 1/2 inch above the right pocket.

Figure 2.12. Men’s and Women’s Headgear.
NOTES:
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                   5


3. Officers are authorized to wear the bright or nonsubdued grade insignia on BDU caps while in
garrison.

Figure 2.14. Women’s Service Dress Uniform.
NOTES:
4. The instructor badge is worn on the right side centered between the arm seam and lapel, with
the bottom edge of the badge parallel to the top of the welt pocket.

Figure 2.15. Women’s Mess Dress Uniform.
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the top right side in the same relative position as badges worn
on the left.

Figure 2.16. Women’s Semi-Formal Dress Uniform (Enlisted only).
NOTES:
4. The instructor badge is worn on the right side centered between arm seam and lapel, with the
bottom edge of the badge parallel with the top of the welt pocket.

Figure 2.17. Women’s Short-Sleeved Blouse.
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the right side, 1/2 inch above the name tag.

Figure 2.18. Women’s Long-Sleeved Blouse.
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the right side, 1/2 inch above the name tag.

Figure 2.19. Maternity Service Dress Uniform (Jumper).
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the right side, 1/2 inch above the name tag.

Figure 2.20. Maternity Mess Dress Uniform.
NOTES:
2. The instructor badge is worn on the right side with the bottom edge parallel to the top of the
medals or that relative position when medals are not worn.

Figure 2.21. Women’s Semi-Formal Dress (Maternity-Enlisted Only).
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the right side with the bottom edge parallel to bottom edge of
the ribbons.
 6                                                                                               AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011




Figure 2.22. Maternity Jumper (When Not Worn as Service Dress, Mess Dress, or Semi-
Formal).
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the right side with the bottom edge parallel to the bottom
edge of ribbons.

Figure 2.23. Maternity Long-Sleeved Blouse.
NOTES:
3. The instructor badge is worn on the right side, 1/2 inch above name tag.

Table 2.1. Men’s Service and Dress Uniforms (see note).

        A        B C D E F G                                                                                                                             H
                 Service Dress Uniform


                                                              Short Sleeved Shirt
                                         Long Sleeved Shirt



                                                                                                 Formal Dress
                                                                                                                Semi-Formal




L
                                                                                    Mess Dress




I
N
E    Items                                                                                                                    Wear Instructions/Materials
21 Aiguillett X X X X X X                                                                                                     Upon successful completion of prescribed formal
   e (Added)                                                                                                                  training courses, military training leaders (MTL) are
                                                                                                                              authorized to wear the blue aiguillette with all blue
                                                                                                                              uniform combinations. Airmen leaders will wear the
                                                                                                                              single-braid red, yellow, or green aiguillette. Chapel
                                                                                                                              assistants will wear the white aiguillette. Drum and
                                                                                                                              bugle or fife and drum will wear the silver or white and
                                                                                                                              navy blue aiguillette. Drill team members and special
                                                                                                                              activity teams will wear the black aiguillette. Note: The
                                                                                                                              ceremonial aiguillette is optional with mess dress, semi-
                                                                                                                              formal, and service dress. It is worn grounded on the
                                                                                                                              left shoulder seam.

Table 2.1. (VANCEAFB) . Watch cap is approved with Men’s Service & Dress uniforms from
1 Oct through 1 May or whenever the Index of Thermal Stress (ITS) is below 40 degrees F,
outside of those specific dates.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                                     7




Table 2.2. Men’s Battle Dress Uniform.

             A         B                                                    C




                      Uniform (BDU)
L
                      Battle Dress
I
N
E    Items                            Wear Instructions/Materials
7    Organizational   X               In addition to the issue BDU cap, woodland/BDU pattern baseball-style
     Baseball Cap                     caps (with or without meshed back) and solid black caps are authorized.
                                      The squadron emblem will be centered on the front with vertical lettering
                                      on both sides. Organizations may be identified on authorized baseball-style
                                      caps with a combination of black numbers and/or letters (BDU pattern) or
                                      squadron colors (solid black hats). Letters/numbers will be no more than 2
                                      inches high (Examples: 12 CES, 64 MSS). Lightning bolts, clouds, dart
                                      designs, badges, and emblems are not authorized on the BDU pattern
                                      baseball-style caps. The unit number will be on the wearer’s right and the
                                      unit on the wearer’s left. Use appropriate abbreviations (such as ―1st‖ or
                                      ―3d‖) if the unit number is lower than 10. Note: Headquarters personnel
                                      may wear only the issue BDU cap with BDUs. The issue BDU cap is the
                                      only headgear authorized for wear with BDUs during exercises,
                                      contingencies, or deployments. Exceptions: 1) HQ AETC/IG inspection
                                      team members may wear the organizational baseball cap during an
                                      inspection TDY. Cap will be dark blue with ―IG‖ affixed on the front,
                                      using maximum 2-inch high white lettering. 2) In the absence of an
                                      approved squadron cap, Services personnel may wear the blue cap with
                                      Services logo embroidered in white on front of the cap.
13   Undershirt       X               Crew-neck, long-sleeved turtleneck, dickey, thermal undershirts (no
                                      pockets) are authorized. Thermal undershirt may be white even if visible.
                                      Emblem (left side of the chest) may be any color, will not exceed 5 inches
                                      in diameter and may be silk-screened or ironed on. Include approved unit
                                      emblems in the installation supplement (optional black T-shirt only). The
                                      BDU shirt may not be removed when wearing thermal undershirts or
                                      turtleneck shirts.
14   Other            X               Aiguillettes: Upon successful completion of the prescribed formal training
                                      course, MTLs may wear the blue aiguillette with the BDUs. Airmen
                                      leaders will wear the single-braid red, yellow, or green aiguillette with all
                                      uniform combinations. Chapel assistants will wear the white aiguillette.
                                      Drum and bugle or fife and drum will wear the silver or white and navy
                                      blue aiguillette. Drill team members and special activity teams will wear
                                      the black aiguillette.
    8                                                                                              AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011



Table 2.2. (VANCEAFB) All active Vance Honor Guard members may wear an optional black
uniform T-shirt while performing mandatory Honor Guard Physical Training. In addition, and
only after being approved by the Wing Command Chief or Honor Guard program coordinator,
select members of the Vance Silver Talon Honor Guard may wear an optional blue-black (dark
blue) aiguillette (rope) on duty uniforms. Aiguillettes and distinctive PT shirts will not be worn
while member is off-base in a TDY status.

Table 2.3. Women’s Service and Dress Uniforms (see notes).

            A       B                           C                        D                         E                             F                      G                                   H                                    I                J                  K                               L




                                                                                                                                                                                                Short-Sleeved Maternity Blouse
                                                                                                                                                            Long-Sleeved Maternity Blouse
                                                                                                       Maternity Service Dress
                        Service Dress Uniform



                                                                             Short Sleeved Shirt
                                                    Long Sleeved Shirt




                                                                                                                                     Maternity Jumper




L

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Formal Dress

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Semi-Formal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mess Dress
I
N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Wear Instructions/
E       Items                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Materials
20      Aiguillette X                           X                        X                         X                             X                      X                                   X                                    X                X                  X                 Upon successful completion
        (Added)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of prescribed formal training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       courses, military training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       leaders (MTL) are authorized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to wear the blue aiguillette
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       with all blue uniform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       combinations. Airmen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       leaders will wear the single-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       braid red, yellow, or green
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       aiguillette. Chapel assistants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       will wear the white
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       aiguillette. Drum and bugle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       or fife and drum will wear the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       silver or white and navy blue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       aiguillette. Drill team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       members and special activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       teams will wear the black
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       aiguillette. Note: The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ceremonial aiguillette is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       optional with mess dress,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       semi-formal, and service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dress. It is worn grounded on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the left shoulder seam.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                                                                          9


Table 2.3. (VANCEAFB) Watch cap is approved with Women’s Service & Dress uniforms
from 1 Oct through 1 May or whenever the Index of Thermal Stress (ITS) is below 40 degrees F,
outside of those specific dates.

Table 2.4. Women’s Battle Dress Uniforms.

            A          B                                       C                                                          D


                          Maternity Battle Dress Uniform

                                                               Battle Dress Uniform (BDU)




L
I
N
E   Items                                                                                   Wear Instructions/Materials
6   Organizational    X                                    X                                In addition to the issue BDU cap, woodland/BDU pattern
    Baseball Cap                                                                            baseball-style caps (with or without meshed back), and solid
                                                                                            black caps are authorized. The squadron emblem will be
                                                                                            centered on the front with vertical lettering on both sides.
                                                                                            Organizations may be identified on authorized baseball-
                                                                                            style caps with a combination of black numbers and/or
                                                                                            letters (BDU pattern) or squadron colors (solid black hats).
                                                                                            Letters/numbers will be no more than 2 inches high
                                                                                            (Examples: 12 CES, 64 MSS). Lightning bolts, clouds, dart
                                                                                            designs, badges, and emblems are not authorized on the
                                                                                            BDU pattern baseball-style caps. The unit number will be
                                                                                            on the wearer’s right and the unit on the wearer’s left. Use
                                                                                            appropriate abbreviations (such as ―1st‖ or ―3d‖) if the unit
                                                                                            number is lower than 10. Note: Headquarters personnel may
                                                                                            wear only the issue BDU cap with BDUs. The issue BDU
                                                                                            cap is the only headgear authorized for wear with BDUs
                                                                                            during exercises, contingencies, or deployments.
                                                                                            Exceptions: 1) HQ AETC/IG inspection team members
                                                                                            may wear the organizational baseball cap during an
                                                                                            inspection TDY. Cap will be dark blue with ―IG‖ on the
                                                                                            front, using maximum 2-inch high white lettering. 2) In the
                                                                                            absence of an approved squadron cap, Services personnel
                                                                                            may wear the blue cap with Services logo embroidered in
                                                                                            white on front of the cap.
 10                                AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011



12 Undergarments
      Undershirt        X      X     Long- or short-sleeved T-shirt, turtleneck, dickey, or
                                     thermal undershirts (no pockets) are authorized. Emblem
                                     (left side of the chest) may be any color, will not exceed 5
                                     inches in diameter, and may be silk-screened or ironed on
                                     (optional black T-shirt only). The BDU shirt may not be
                                     removed when wearing thermal undershirts or turtleneck
                                     shirts.
13 Other                X      X     Aiguillette: Upon successful completion of the prescribed
                                     formal training course, MTLs may wear the blue aiguillette
                                     with the BDUs. Airman leaders will wear the single-braid
                                     red, yellow, or green aiguillette with all uniform
                                     combinations. Chapel assistants will wear the white
                                     aiguillette. Drum and bugle or fife and drum will wear the
                                     silver or white and navy blue aiguillette. Drill team
                                     members and special activity teams will wear the black
                                     aiguillette.

Table 2.6. Clothing/Accessory Standards.

I                  A                                              B
T
E     To present the proper
M     military image                Will be
10    Pager, cellular phone, and    Prohibited during the academic day and while in uniform for
      personal digital assistant    nonprior service (NPS) airmen (basic military training and
                                    initial technical school trainees). Also prohibited: two-way
                                    radios, MP3 players, or any other electronic device.
19    Campaign Pins/Ribbons         Worn only during the campaign, and only if approved by
      (i.e. Combined Federal        installation commander. Specific period of wear will be
      Campaign, Red Ribbon          determined and published locally by the installation
      Campaign) (Added)             commander in conjunction with each campaign. When
                                    authorized, the ornament will be worn centered 1/2 inch
                                    above the name tag. If a badge is worn above the name tag,
                                    the ornament will be worn centered 1/2 inch above the badge.
20    Exercise Badges (with         Worn, if authorized by installation commander, only by
      ―EET‖ identifier) (Added)     exercise evaluation team members and only during exercise
                                    periods.
21    Inspector General (IG)        Worn by inspection team members only during inspection
      Badges (with ―IG‖             periods.
      identifier) (Added)
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                       11


Table 2.6. (VANCEAFB) Item 15. Religious head covering is approved as written.

Table 2.6. (VANCEAFB) Item 20 (AETC Sup). Exercise badges are authorized as written.

Table 2.8. (Added-VANCEAFB) No-Hat Areas on Vance AFB.

Building Numbers                                  Area Description
Flight Line                                       Fenced flight line area
Bldgs 179 & 183 (8 FTS & 25/33 FTS)               West of building entrance gate
Bldg 541 (32 FTS)                                 South entrance to Crew bus (Flight duties only)
Bldg 601 (Collocated Club)                        Patio outside Enlisted Lounge
Bldg 690 (71 OSS/5 FTS)                           Deck on southwest side (Sq/CC Official functions
                                                  only)
Bldg 826 (Aerospace Physiology)                   East of bldg 826, when used for AP training
Bldg 304 (Plains Pool)                            Within fenced area of pool complex
Bldg 293 (Vehicle Maint) & Bldg 299 (Car          When maintaining & servicing vehicles
Wash)
Bldg 810 (Clinic) & Bldg 814 (MDG                 Between Clinic & Admin bldgs.
Admin bldg)

       3.1.1. See Table 2.1 through Table 2.4, as supplemented, for wear of the aiguillette with
       blue and battle dress uniforms. Note: Wear of the ceremonial aiguillette is optional with
       mess dress, semiformal, and service dress. The aiguillette is worn grounded on the left
       shoulder seam.
              3.1.1.1. (Added) When in BDUs, Air Force students enrolled in Phase I and Phase II
              of DoD-sponsored physician assistant training will wear Reserve Officer Training
              Corps (ROTC)/Officer Training School (OTS)-style rank insignia. Phase I students
              will wear one silver bar on a black background. Phase II students will wear two silver
              bars on a black background.
              3.1.1.2. (Added) When wearing the blue service uniform, Air Force students
              enrolled in Phase I and Phase II of the DoD-sponsored physician assistant training
              will wear OTS-style shoulder board insignia similar to that worn by candidates at
              OTS. Phase I students will wear black shoulder boards with a 1/2-inch silver braid
              attached 1/4 inch from the board’s lateral edge. Phase II student shoulder boards will
              have a second silver braid spaced 1/4 inch from the first braid. The change to Phase
              II insignia occurs upon graduation from Phase I. Soft shoulder boards are worn with
              long- and short-sleeved blue shirts. Hard shoulder boards are worn with the service
              dress, lightweight blue jacket, and raincoat. The officer cap is worn without insignia.
              3.1.1.3. (Added) Pararescue (PJ), combat control (CCT), tactical air control party
              (TACP), combat rescue officer (CRO), and special tactics officer (STO) cadre
              uniforms will be worn as prescribed in Table 3.11 (Added) of this supplement. This
12                           AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011


        table does not mandate the purchase or wear of specialized clothing items, but allows
        unit commanders to purchase specialized clothing to support specific training
        requirements.
        3.1.1.4. (Added) PJ, CCT, CRO, and STO cadre uniforms will be worn as
        prescribed in Table 3.12 (Added) of this supplement. This table does not mandate the
        purchase or wear of specialized clothing items, but allows unit commanders to
        purchase specialized clothing to support specific training requirements.
        3.1.1.5. (Added) Survival, evasion, resistance, and escape (SERE) uniforms will be
        worn as prescribed in Table 3.13 (Added) of this supplement. This table does not
        mandate the purchase or wear of specialized clothing items, but allows unit
        commanders to purchase specialized clothing to support specific training
        requirements.
        3.1.1.6. (Added) Flight duty uniform (FDU) will be worn as prescribed in Table
        3.14 (Added) of this supplement.
     3.2.3. (Added) Due to the unpredictable and wide temperature ranges in Oklahoma, the
     Flight Jacket is authorized for wear throughout the year.
        3.2.5.2. The FDU/desert FDU and DuPont™ Nomex® style flight jackets name tags
        may have a small design or emblem, such as a logo or aircraft. Aerospace physiology
        (4M0X1) personnel are authorized to wear the enlisted medical and/or aerospace
        badges on the name tag. Style must be standardized throughout the installation. Grade
        (for enlisted members) and first and last name will be centered in block letters. A
        nickname may be used in lieu of the first name, but it must be in good taste. Include
        installation specifications for name tags in the installation supplement.
        3.2.5.2. (VANCEAFB) Nametags will be standardized by squadron. O-6’s will
        wear cloth nametags with black leather trim. Pre-solo JPPT T-6 students will wear
        black leather nametags. After initial solo, JPPT T-6 students may wear cloth
        nametags, matching the color of the T-6 squadron in which they are training. JSUPT
        students (T-1/T-38 students) will wear the cloth nametag, matching the color of their
        training squadron. IFF students (AT-38 students) will wear the cloth nametag
        matching the color of the 3 FTS. All students may have an aircraft silhouette emblem
        on their cloth nametag. Students will not wear patches on the left pencil pocket
        Velcro.
            3.2.5.2.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) 3 FTS. Nametag: blue cloth w/ yellow trim
            and white lettering. Emblem: none.
            3.2.5.2.2. (Added-VANCEAFB) 5 FTS. Nametag: navy blue cloth w/yellow
            trim, yellow lettering. Emblem: ―Spitten kitten.‖
            3.2.5.2.3. (Added-VANCEAFB) 8 FTS. Nametag: red cloth w/ black trim,
            white lettering. Emblem: Feathered eight ball.
            3.2.5.2.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) 25 FTS. Nametag: blue cloth w/ yellow trim,
            yellow lettering. Emblem: T-38 silhouette.
            3.2.5.2.5. (Added-VANCEAFB) 33 FTS. Nametag: black cloth w/ red trim,
            white lettering. Emblem: Red/yellow dragon.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                              13


          3.2.5.2.6. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 OSS. Nametag: black cloth w/yellow trim,
          white lettering. Emblem: Aircraft silhouette.
          3.2.5.2.7. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 FTW/71 OG. Nametag: Gray cloth w/black
          trim, black lettering. Emblem: Aircraft silhouette.
       3.2.5.4. Position the US flag, or wing, group, or center emblem
       3.2.5.5. Position 3 by 3 1/2-inch vivid color squadron patch, flight patch, wing
       montage, or class patch no lower than 1 inch below the right shoulders seam; see
       Table 3.14 (Added). Personnel assigned to an echelon above wing level may wear the
       patch of the headquarters organization to which they are assigned (such as the
       numbered Air Force or Air University emblem), or a directorate patch. Center
       standardization/evaluation (stan/eval) emblems below the shoulder seam and attach to
       the squadron patch. Variations are authorized for personnel deployed or on special
       assignment with other commands. Style must be standardized throughout the
       organization.
       3.2.5.5. (VANCEAFB) Right sleeve. Style will be standardized by squadron.
          3.2.5.5.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) 3 FTS. Squadron patch.
          3.2.5.5.2. (Added-VANCEAFB) 5 FTS. Squadron patch.
          3.2.5.5.3. (Added-VANCEAFB) 8 FTS. Squadron patch or flight patch.
          3.2.5.5.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) 25 FTS. Squadron patch.
          3.2.5.5.5. (Added-VANCEAFB) 32 FTS. Squadron patch or flight patch.
          3.2.5.5.6. (Added-VANCEAFB) 33 FTS. Squadron patch or flight patch.
          3.2.5.5.7. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 OSS. Squadron patch or class patch (JPPT
          & JSUPT students)
          3.2.5.5.8. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 FTW. Enid America/JSUPT patch (silver
          with colored lettering).
          3.2.5.5.9. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 OG. OG montage patch.
          3.2.5.5.10. (Added-VANCEAFB) Friday patches (Permanent Party only). To
          provide motivation for student pilots and foster espirit-de-corps amongst all, prior
          unit or heritage patches are authorized on the right sleeve. These patches will not
          be worn off-station (cross-country).
       3.2.5.6. Position vivid color parent unit or installation commander-approved special
       patches no lower than 1 inch from the shoulder seam on the left sleeve.
       Foreign/allied military members training with AETC units are authorized to wear
       their nations’ 2 by 3 1/2-inch flag, in vivid color, in lieu of the US flag.
       3.2.5.6. (VANCEAFB) Left Sleeve. US Flag is always authorized on left sleeve.
          3.2.5.6.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) 3 FTS. Wing patch.
          3.2.5.6.2. (Added-VANCEAFB) 5 FTS. Group patch.
14                             AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011



            3.2.5.6.3. (Added-VANCEAFB) 8 FTS. Flight patch, Wing patch or T-6 IP
            patch.
            3.2.5.6.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) 25 FTS. Wing patch or Flight patch.
            3.2.5.6.5. (Added-VANCEAFB) 32 FTS. Flight patch, Wing patch or T-1 IP
            patch.
            3.2.5.6.6. (Added-VANCEAFB) 33 FTS. Flight patch, Wing patch or T-6 IP
            patch.
            3.2.5.6.7. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 OSS.              Wing patch or Flight patch (IPs
            only).
            3.2.5.6.8. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 FTW. Wing patch.
            3.2.5.6.9. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 OG. Wing patch.
            3.2.5.6.10. (Added-VANCEAFB) Friday patches (Permanent Party only). To
            provide motivation for student pilots and foster espirit-de-corps amongst all, prior
            MWS, heritage or FAIP patches are authorized on the left sleeve. These patches
            will not be worn off-station (cross-country).
        3.2.5.7. Vivid color 3 by 3-inch AETC command patch will be worn on right breast,
        centered and even with the name patch on the left breast of the uniform. A flying hour
        tab is not authorized above the AETC command patch.
        3.2.5.8. Unit commanders may prescribe appropriate, distinctive unit-colored scarf or
        neckwear. If prescribed, wear is mandatory for all unit members. Wear around the
        neck tucked into the FDU. Do not wear while performing flight duties.
     3.2.6. Installation commander may authorize unit-colored T-shirts for Friday wear.
     (Exception: Not authorized while flying cross-country.) Commanders must maintain
     close control over style and uniformity. Approved T-shirts will be listed in the installation
     supplement.
     3.2.6. (VANCEAFB) Undergarments. Unit-colored T-shirts are authorized for Friday
     wear. These colored shirts are not authorized while flying cross-country. The approved
     colors for each squadron are listed below.
        3.2.6.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) 3 FTS. Black.
        3.2.6.2. (Added-VANCEAFB) 5 FTS. Gray.
        3.2.6.3. (Added-VANCEAFB) 8 FTS. Red.
        3.2.6.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) 25 FTS. Navy blue.
        3.2.6.5. (Added-VANCEAFB) 32 FTS. Royal blue.
        3.2.6.6. (Added-VANCEAFB) 33 FTS. Royal blue.
        3.2.6.7. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 OSS. Yellow.
        3.2.6.8. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 FTW. Gray.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011   15


       3.2.6.9. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 OG. Gray.
 16                             AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011




Table 3.4. Distinctive Uniforms--Security Forces (SF).

Item                      Description/Wear Provisions
Belt                      Black nylon belt without MAJCOM crest with matching duty gear.
BDU Cap/Airman            When performing field duty, wear the woodland pattern cap with the
Battle Uniform (ABU)      BDU and the ABU pattern cap with the ABU.
Cap (Added)
Bike Patrol Uniform       Wear only when performing bike patrol duties.
(Added)
Helmet (Added)            Wear black or white American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or
                          Snell-approved bicycle helmet at all times while operating the bicycle.
                          Note: Beret will be worn when not wearing the helmet.
Shorts (Added)            Dark blue cycling shorts with chamois and Velcro® keepers. Wear
                          with the bike patrol shirt.
Shirt (Added)             White or light blue polo shirt will have 4-inch, reflective, embossed,
                          silver and black security forces badge on front left chest, and ―police‖
                          centered on back in all upper case 3-inch letters. Wear with bike patrol
                          shorts or pants.
Pants (Added)             Dark blue cycling pants with Velcro® keepers.
Vest (Added)              Dark blue and yellow in color with POLICE in 4-inch letters in
                          reflective material on front chest of vest and bolero. Vest will be
                          equipped with zip on-off bolero. Both will have a Velcro® name tag
                          holder on front right chest. An aircrew-style name patch with
                          appropriate functional badge, name, grade, and USAF worn on the
                          vest.
Shoes/Socks (Added)       Black low-cut athletic shoes with soft rubber soles. Socks will be
                          white.
NOTES:
2. White gloves are not authorized in AETC.
6. Installation commanders will establish SF uniform of the day requirements.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                     17




Table 3.6. Distinctive Uniforms--Miscellaneous.

Group                                              Item
Basic Military Training Instructors                Note 5 (Added)
Chaplains                                          Chaplains are authorized to wear civilian
                                                   clothing or clergy garments in accordance with
                                                   their ecclesiastical traditions while conducting
                                                   chapel worship services and performing
                                                   specific religious ministries (e.g., religious
                                                   education). Duty uniforms are required for
                                                   other duty-related activities (e.g., visitation).
                                                   Chaplain Assistants are not authorized wear of
                                                   civilian clothing while on duty.
OTS Drill and Ceremonies Instructors (Added)       Note 5 (Added)
NOTES:
5. (Added) Basic military training instructors (MTIs) and OTS drill and ceremonies instructors
(DCIs) are authorized to wear the campaign (bush) hat. OTS DCIs must have completed basic
military training (BMT) MTI training, served a tour as a BMT MTI, and be assigned DCI duties.
Master MTIs at BMT and OTS wear a blue braid around the crown of the hat. No other braid
color is worn. The hat is not worn off base or outside the BMT or OTS environment (Exception:
While in transit to and from quarters, during essential stops while in transit, and during officially
sponsored off-base activities specifically authorized by the BMT or OTS commander). The hat
is not authorized for wear while attending PME or formal school training.

Table 3.8. Distinctive Uniform--Air Force Food Service Uniform.

4    Apron (Optional)         HQ AETC/A1 approves the wear of this item.
13   Headgear-Ball Cap        HQ AETC/A1 approves the wear of this item.
     (Optional)
 18                            AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011




Table 3.11. (Added) Battlefield Airmen (BA) (PJ, CCT, TACP, CRO, and STO) Cadre
Uniforms.

L             A                           B                                   C
I
N
E     Item                 Description                         Wear Instructions
1     Desert Camouflage    Includes daytime hat, daytime       May be worn during
      BDU                  coat, night parka and liner, and    contingencies, exercises,
                           daytime trousers. Items             deployments, and tactical
                           described in Allowance Standard     training requiring desert
                           (AS) 016.                           camouflage (Note 1).
2     Snow Camouflage      Includes helmet cover, parka,       May be worn over other
      Ensemble             trousers, and pack cover. Items     ensembles when required for
                           described in AS 016.                maximum cover and
                                                               concealment in snowy, hostile
                                                               environments, or during tactical
                                                               training. Not authorized for
                                                               garrison wear (Note 1).
3     Extreme Cold         Includes down/polyester-            May be worn when required for
      Weather (ECW)        insulated hood, mittens,            maximum protection in adverse
      Ensemble             jacket/parka, jacket liner,         environments or during tactical
                           trousers, trousers liner, and       training. Not authorized for
                           undergarments. Items described      garrison wear (Note 1).
                           in AS 016.
4     Tree Suit Ensemble   Includes pararescue jacket (type    Worn over other ensembles with
      (Pararescue Only)    CWU-14/P) and trousers (type        appropriate helmet and boots for
                           CWU-15P). Items described in        maximum protection in rough
                           AS 016.                             terrain or forest environments
                                                               during parachuting operations.
                                                               Not authorized for garrison wear
                                                               (Note 1).
5     Jump Suit            Cotton-duck black or silver free-   Wear while performing military
                           fall parachutist coveralls.         free-fall parachute jumps.
                           Described in AS 016.                Aircrew style name patch
                                                               (ASNP) is authorized. Not for
                                                               garrison wear.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                  19


6    Swimmer/Scuba       Includes swimsuit, hood, gloves,     Wear with swimmer/scuba
     Ensemble            mittens, booties, coral boots, wet   accessories for protection in
                         suit (or dry suit in place of wet    water environment. Not
                         suit) as described in AS 016.        authorized for garrison wear
                                                              (Note 2).
7    Swim Trunks         Tan colored boxer-style swim         Wear with military T-shirt,
                         trunks, 50/50 cotton polyester.      running shoes and solid white
                         Items described in AS 016.           socks, or boots and black socks,
                                                              while performing physical
                                                              training (PT), parachuting,
                                                              boating, swimming, and scuba
                                                              diving activities, and while in
                                                              transit or preparing for these
                                                              activities. A navy blue or black
                                                              racing-style swimsuit or an
                                                              athletic supporter will be worn
                                                              under the swim trunks (Note 2).
                                                              Headgear authorized (Note 3).
8    Physical Training   Includes silver-gray warm-up         May be worn while participating
     (PT) Ensemble       suit, track shirt, black running     in PT, scuba diving, or
                         shorts, running shoes, silver gray   parachuting activities, and during
                         shirt, and socks. Nylon, acrylic,    transit to or from these activities.
                         and cotton materials; contrasting    Running shoes are only
                         4-inch PJ, CCT, TACP, CRO, or        authorized for PT. Not
                         STO crest on the left chest of the   authorized for wear outside the
                         jacket and shirt, and on the left    duty section. Wear of the Air
                         leg of the shorts. Socks will be     Force specialty-unique PT
                         solid white. Items described in      ensemble does not apply to
                         AS 016.                              squadron- or wing-level PT.
9    Mountain Boots      Subdued color safety boots           Worn with ensembles suited for
                         designed for mountain                mountain conditions. Not
                         operations. Local purchase (LP)      authorized for garrison wear.
                         item.
10   Field Boots         Subdued color safety boots           Worn, as appropriate, for
                         designed for field operations.       climatic/geographic conditions,
                         Examples: Herman Survivors™,         with ensembles suited for field
                         Chippewas™, Danners™. LP             conditions. Authorized for
                         item.                                garrison wear.
 20                                 AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011


11    Parachutist’s Boots      Men’s black 9-inch boots; soft        May be worn while performing
                               rubber heel and sole, leather         land parachute jumps. Not
                               upper, elastic front lacing;          authorized for garrison wear.
                               hinged, foam-cushioned, and
                               sole air pockets. Described in
                               AS 016.
12    Jump Boots               Men’s 10-inch boots, hard             May be worn with uniform
                               rubber heel and sole, leather         combinations that allow jump
                               upper, with front lacing. LP          boot wear. Authorized for
                               item.                                 garrison wear.
13    Specialized              Safety clothing designed for          May be worn as appropriate for
      Clothing: Climbing       specific training and operations.     training, operations, and climatic
      Knickers, Gaiters,       LP items.                             or geographic conditions. Not
      Storm Gear                                                     authorized for garrison wear.
14    Specialized              Safety clothing designed for
      Clothing: Gloves,        specific training and operations.
      Mittens, Watch           Items are described in AS 016.
      Cap, Pile Cap,
      Helmet with Liner
15    Ascot (Neck Scarf):      Ultra blue (5382 43325) Air           Must be worn by PJ/CRO and
      Blue (or other color     Force scarf, bib type 2-487           CCT/STO trainees when in
      as directed by the                                             BDUs, and while attending
      commander)                                                     initial/preliminary courses. Wear
                                                                     of the ascot is awarded and
                                                                     approved by the course
                                                                     superintendent.
NOTES:
1. BA personnel may wear FDU/BDUs/ABUs during mission preparation for airborne and surface tasks
in conjunction with training. Sleeves must be rolled down during flight. If employment is probable or
planned during operational or training scenarios, BA may wear the non-standard (sterile) BDUs/ABUs or
other applicable mission specific ensembles to include mission specific footwear in the duty section or
training area only; Air Force standards apply for all garrison activities. All BA may wear the garrison
FDU during cross-country flights.
2. Standard subdued name tape (with last name) will be centered on the right leg of the swim trunks, 1/2
inch from the bottom edge.
3. The desert camouflage hat may be worn to ensure maximum sun protection. Enlisted members will not
wear grade insignia on headgear. Officers will wear regular size, subdued metal grade insignia centered
vertically above the bill of the cap. Unit baseball cap may be worn with swim trunks, but when it is worn
with swim trunks it is not authorized for wear outside duty section.
4. The maroon or scarlet beret may be worn only by those who have satisfied instructional prerequisites
and have performed duty as a PJ or CCT. The PJ and CCT schools award the beret and distinctive PJ or
CCT badge upon completion of the three-level school. Personnel permanently removed from flying,
parachuting, or diving status are not authorized to wear the beret.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                  21




Table 3.12. (Added) BA (PJ, CCT, CRO, STO and TACP) Cadre Fitness Uniforms.

L           A                     B                                         C
I
N
E   Item        Description                              Wear Instructions
1   Coach’s     Composed of applicable coach/            Official garrison instructor work
    Uniform     athletic uniform items as specified.     uniform worn when not directly
                Detachment 1 instructors may wear        performing physical training
                a combination of tan pants or shorts     activities. Applicable for wear by PJ,
                with polo shirt. Combat dive             CCT, CRO, STO and TACP
                course instructors wear yellow           instructors (Notes 1 and 8), and
                athletic shirts.                         combat dive course staff (Note 7).
2   Cap         Black, fitted, cotton cap with           Worn with all coach and athletic
                medium crown and large visor. LP         uniform combinations (Note 2).
                item.
3   Shirt       Light gray, 3-button polo style          Worn with coach’s shorts (Note 3).
                pullover, quarter-length sleeve
                cotton-blend shirt. LP item.
4   Shorts      Black athletic-style, belted, medium     Worn with coach’s shirt (Note 7).
                length, cargo pocket short of
                breathable medium weight fabric.
                LP item.
5   Jacket,     Black, multi-layer jacket system.        Worn with all coach and athletic,
    Layered     Wind/rain resistant Gortex®              long-pant, uniform combinations,
                pocketed, full front-zippered outer      consistent with seasonal and climatic
                layer; wind resistant thermal (fleece    conditions. May be worn in single or
                or other), pocketed, full front-         double layer configuration, with either
                zippered inner layer. LP item.           layer acceptable for wear as an outer
                                                         garment (Note 4).
6   Shoes       Black, athletic-style, standard          Worn with coach uniform
                lacing, leather shoe. LP item.           combinations only.
7   Socks       White, athletic-style, optional fabric   Worn with coach uniform
                socks. LP item.                          combinations only.
8   Athletic    Includes athletic uniform items          Worn when directly performing or
    Uniform     specified in this table.                 transiting physical training activities.
                                                         Not for wear as a normal garrison
                                                         uniform. For wear by PJ, CCT, CRO,
                                                         STO and TACP instructors (Note 1).
22                               AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011


9    Athletic      Light gray, short or long sleeve T-     Worn with athletic shorts or pants
     Shirt         shirt made of lightweight wicking       consistent with seasonal and climatic
                   material (Coolmax® or other). Dive      conditions (Note 5).
                   course staff: See Note 7. LP item.
10 Athletic        Black medium length, running short      Worn with athletic shirt consistent
   Short           made of lightweight wicking             with seasonal and climatic conditions.
                   material. LP item.
11 Athletic        Black pullover running tights made      Worn with athletic shirt consistent
   Pant            of lightweight wicking material. LP     with seasonal and climatic conditions.
                   item.
12 Athletic        Black, lightweight pullover, wind       Worn with all coach and athletic
   Wind Suit       and rain resistant pants and long-      uniform combinations consistent with
   Ensemble        sleeve, half-zipper shirt               seasonal and climatic conditions.
                   combination. LP item.
13 Athletic        Black heavyweight, cotton blend,        Worn with all coach and athletic
   Sweat Suit      sweat suit ensemble includes non-       uniform combinations consistent with
   Ensemble        hooded, pullover sweatshirt and         seasonal and climatic conditions
                   pants. LP item.                         (Note 6).
14 Athletic        Black, layered, lightweight running     Worn with all coach and athletic
   Glove           glove system. Outer layer: Rain         uniform combinations consistent with
                   and wind resistant material. Inner      seasonal and climatic conditions.
                   layer: Wicking thermal layer. LP
                   item.
15 Athletic        Conservative running shoe designed Worn with athletic uniform
   Shoe            for individual running weight, style combinations only. For Security
                   and biomechanics. LP item.           Forces Combat Leaders Course (CLC)
                                                        Cadre (Note 9).
NOTES:
1. For wear by CCT, PJ, CRO, STO and TACP instructors assigned to recruiting/physical
training functions at Lackland AFB TX; Keesler AFB MS; Pope AFB NC; Kirtland AFB NM,
Hurlburt Field Naval Diving and Salvage Training Center (NDSTC) FL, and Naval Support
Activity, Panama City (NSA-PC).
2. Center embroidered COMBAT CONTROL, USAF PARARESCUE, USAF COMBAT
RESCUE OFFICER, USAF SPECIAL TACTICS OFFICER, USAF COMBAT DIVE, or
USAF TACP in 7/16–inch white block capital letters on the front of the hat.
3. Center applicable 3 1/2-inch vivid-colored specialty flash above the wearer’s left breast, and
center instructor’s rank and last name, in 7/16-inch black block capital letters, over the wearer’s
right breast.
4. Center 3 1/2-inch subdued specialty flash on the inner thermal layer above on the wearer’s
left breast. Centered embroidered CADRE below the flash; CADRE will be 7/16-inch white
capital block letters.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                    23


5. Center 3 1/2-inch black printed specialty flash above wearer’s left breast. Center CADRE
below the flash. CADRE will be printed in 7/16-inch black block capital letters.
6. Center white-lettered 3 1/2-inch specialty flash above the wearer’s left breast, and left thigh
on the pants. On the shirt, center instructor’s rank and last name, in 7/16-inch white block
capital letters, below the flash. Do not add instructor name to the pants.
7. Air Force Combat Dive Course, Panama City, FL: NDSTC staff members must wear yellow
athletic shirts, sweatshirts and outer garments to provide students with a visual reference for
safety. Air Force dive instructors will wear yellow athletic shirts made of moisture wicking
material. Center USAF Combat Dive Course, in 3 1/2-inch lettering, above the instructor’s left
breast.
8. Because of their geographic training locations, Detachment 1 Pararescue, Combat Rescue
Officers and SERE instructors are authorized to wear an alternate field uniform composed of
tan synthetic coach pants and shirt (summer), LP green, brown, tan, or gray pullover sweater
(winter), LP black Northface® Gortex® XCR jacket and LP hiking/mountaineering boots.
Specialized mountaineering clothing items are issued and tracked through the detachment
supply office.
9. Because of the significant amount of physical training they lead/conduct, Security Forces
CLC instructors are authorized to wear athletic shoes as required or directed by the commander.
 24                           AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011




Table 3.13. (Added) Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Uniforms.

L             A                           B                                   C
I
N
E     Item                Description                        Wear Instructions
1     Desert Camouflage   Includes daytime hat, coat and     Worn during contingencies,
      BDU                 trousers, and night parka and      exercises, deployments, and
                          liner. Items described in AS       tactical training requiring desert
                          016.                               camouflage (Notes 1 and 2).
2     ECW Ensemble        Includes down/polyester            Worn when needed for maximum
                          insulated hood, mittens, jacket    protection in adverse
                          (parka), jacket liner, trousers,   environments or during tactical
                          trouser liner, and upper and       training. Not authorized for
                          lower body undergarments.          garrison wear (Notes 1 and 2).
                          Items described in AS 016.
3     Jump Suit           Black or silver cotton duck        Worn while performing military
                          coveralls. Described in AS 016.    free-fall parachute jumps. ASNP
                                                             is authorized. Not authorized for
                                                             garrison wear.
4     Wool Shirt          Black or green cold weather        May be worn as an outer or
                          wool-nylon flannel shirt.          middle layer garment; worn with
                          Described in AS 016.               work ensembles or wool trousers,
                                                             consistent with requirements for
                                                             environmental protection and
                                                             proper cover and concealment.
                                                             May be worn as an outer garment
                                                             in garrison with work fatigues.
                                                             As outer garment, ASNP is
                                                             required.
5     Wool Trousers       Olive green cold weather wool      Worn as an outer or middle layer
                          serge. Item described in AS        garment, and with other work
                          016.                               ensembles or wool shirt. Not for
                                                             garrison wear.
6     Mountain Boots      Subdued color safety boots         Worn with ensembles suited for
                          designed for mountain              mountainous conditions. Not for
                          operations. LP item.               garrison wear.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                                   25


7    Field Boots          Subdued color safety boots           Worn with field uniform
                          designed for field operations        ensembles, as appropriate for
                          (Examples: Herman                    climatic or geographic
                          Survivors®, Chippewas®, or           conditions. Authorized for
                          Danners®). LP item.                  garrison wear.
8    Parachutist Boots    Men’s black 9-inch boots with        Worn while performing land
                          soft rubber heel and sole,           parachute jumps. Not for garrison
                          leather upper, elastic front         wear.
                          lacing, and hinged foam-
                          cushioned sole air pockets.
                          Described in AS 016.
9    Specialized          Safety clothing designed for         May be worn as appropriate for
     Clothing (Climbing   specific training and operations.    training, operations, or climatic
     Knickers, Gaiters,   LP items.                            or geographic conditions. Not for
     Storm Gear)                                               garrison wear.
10   Specialized          Safety clothing designed for
     Clothing (Gloves,    specific training and operations.
     Mittens, Watch       Items are described in AS 016.
     Cap, Pile Cap,
     Helmet with Liner)
11   Water                Includes black shirt, jacket, tan    Worn during water operations,
     Survival/Swimmer/    pants or shorts, black swimmers      swimming, boating and SCUBA
     Scuba Ensemble       trunks, hood, mittens, booties or    diving activities. May be worn in
                          black water shoes, wet/dry suit.     transit or preparing for these
                                                               activities. Not for wear outside
                                                               the duty section (Note 2).
12   PT Ensemble          Silver grey warmup suit, black       Worn by SERE instructors and,
     (Warmup Suit,        shorts, and silver grey shirt        when authorized by instructors,
     Track Shirt,         made of nylon, acrylic, and          during SERE indoctrination
     Running Shorts,      cotton fabrics. Contrasting 4-       course, Lackland AFB TX. May
     Running Shoes,       inch SERE crest will be on           be worn while participating in PT
     Socks)               jacket and track shirt left chest,   or parachuting activities, and in
                          and on the shorts left leg. Socks    transit to or from these activities.
                          will be solid white.                 Running shoes are authorized
                                                               only for PT. Not authorized for
                                                               wear outside the duty section.
                                                               SERE PT gear may not be worn
                                                               for squadron or wing PT.
NOTES:
1. SERE personnel are authorized to wear the desert camouflage BDU during training in
appropriate environments and scenarios.
2.   Authorized for Fairchild AFB only.
 26                              AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011


Table 3.14. (Added) Flight Duty Uniform (FDU).

              A                     B                                  C
L
I
N
E     Item               Description           Wear Instructions
1     Velcro™            Green                 Center 2 by 4-inch rectangular Velcro™ on
      Fasteners                                FDU left breast for name tag placement. Center
                                               AETC crest-shaped Velcro™ on FDU right
                                               breast. Shoulder patch Velcro™ fasteners will
                                               be 3 1/2 inches square.
2     Grade Insignia     Subdued cloth         Officers: Will be sewed to the FDU, centered
                         (Note 1)              5/8-inch from the shoulder seam. See Figure
                                               2.12 for guidance regarding general officer
                                               grade insignia. Enlisted members: See Name
                                               Tags and Badges guidance in this table.
3     Name Tags and      2 by 4 inches         Centered over left breast pocket. Aeronautical
      Badges             (Note 2)              badge may be centered over the name tag.
                                               Missile badges will be 1 3/4 by 3/4 inches.
                                               Limit: Two authorized badges. (Note 3)
                         Officers              First and last name in block letters; center on
                                               tag. Nickname authorized in lieu of first name,
                                               but must be in good taste.
                         Enlisted              Grade, first and last name (name in block
                                               letters); centered on tag. Nickname authorized
                                               in lieu of first name, but must be in good taste.
4     AETC Crest         Vivid color, 3 by 3   Worn centered on right breast, even with the
                         inches                name patch on the left breast (Note 4).
5     US Flag, Special   Vivid color 2 by 3    Positioned no lower than 1 inch below the left
      Patches            1/2-inch US flag      shoulder seam.
                         emblem; approved
                         parent unit or
                         commander-
                         approved special
                         patch (Note 5).
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                               27



6   Organizational   Vivid color           Positioned no lower than 1inch below the right
    Emblems          squadron, flight      shoulder seam. Standardization/ evaluation
                     wing or class         emblems will be centered below the shoulder
                     patch, 3 by 3 1/2     seam, attached to the squadron patch.
                     inches (Note 5).      Installation commanders may authorize
                                           variation for deployed personnel or those on
                                           special assignment to other commands. Style
                                           must be standardized throughout organization.
7   Neckwear         Unit-colored scarf    Worn around neck, tucked into the FDU. Not
                     or neckwear may       for wear during flight duties.
                     be prescribed by
                     unit commanders.
                     If prescribed, wear
                     is mandatory.
8   Headgear         Flight cap            Only headgear authorized except when
                                           performing aircrew duty or as authorized for
                                           safety reasons. Squadron baseball caps are not
                                           authorized.

                     Black knit            Installation commanders may authorize during
                     stocking cap          extremely cold weather; grade insignia is not
                                           worn.
9   Undergarments    White T-Shirt         V-neck only; must not be visible under FDU.
                     Brown T-Shirt         Crew neck, no pocket.
                     Black T-Shirt         Crew neck, no pocket, with or without
                                           commander-authorized emblem on left breast.
                                           See AFI 36-2903, Table 2.2, Line 13, for
                                           optional emblem criteria.
                     Colored T-Shirt       Installation commander may authorize unit-
                                           colored T-shirt for Friday wear. May not be
                                           worn when flying cross country. Commanders
                                           control style and uniformity. See installation
                                           supplement for approved T-shirts.
                     Black, Brown, or      Authorized 1 November–31 March.
                     Nomex®
                     Turtleneck
 28                               AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011



10 Jacket                 Leather A-2            Must be zipped at least halfway; sleeves will be
                                                 worn to the wrist, and will not be pushed up the
                                                 forearm. See AFI 36-2903, Table 3.6.
                          Nomex®                 Must be zipped at least halfway; sleeves will be
                                                 worn to the wrist, and will not be pushed up the
                                                 forearm. Same accouterment, name tag and
                                                 patch configuration as FDU. Nomex® jacket
                                                 may not be worn with blue service uniforms.
11 Footwear               USAF approved          See AFI 11-301V1 and AFI 11-
                          black leather boots    301V1_AETCSUP.
                          (laced or belted) as
                          authorized in AS
                          016. May have
                          zipper inserts.
NOTES:
1. Grade insignia on flight suits will be converted by attrition from nonmetallic encased in
plastic. Example: Replace upon promotion or when unserviceable.
2. Installation commanders will specify the type of name tag material: cloth (unit colors) or
laminated plastic. Style must be standardized throughout the installation.
3. a) Include name tag specifications in the installation supplement. b) Aerospace Physiology
personnel (4M0X1) are authorized to wear the enlisted medical badge and/or aerospace badges
on the name tag. c) Individuals authorized to wear either the missile badge or missile badge
with operations designator (worn to wearer’s right) are authorized to wear three badges. One
must be the space and missile badge. Others may be worn above or below the space and missile
badge, depending on order of precedence. d) Installation commanders may authorize a small
design or emblem, such as a logo or aircraft symbol.
4. Flying hour tab is not authorized above the AETC command patch.
5. a) Foreign military members training with AETC units are authorized to wear a 2 by 3 1/2-
inch vivid color national flag in lieu of the US flag. b) USAF Weapons School graduates may
wear the weapons school graduate patch. c) Personnel assigned to a higher level than wing
(such as Air University, numbered air force, or major command directorate) may wear the patch
of the organization to which they are assigned.

Table 3.14. Item 8 (Added-VANCEAFB) Either the Black knit or Sage Green knit/fleece
stocking cap is authorized for wear from 1 Oct through 1 May or whenever the Index of Thermal
Stress (ITS) is below 40 degrees F, outside of those specific dates.
AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011                                               29




Table 5.2. Wear of Badges on the BDU, Service, Service Dress, Mess, Formal, and Semi-
Formal Dress Uniforms (see notes).

 R                           A                              B                         C
 U
 L
 E
                If an individual wears the      And                         OPR
 16 (Added)     AETC Instructor Badge           Is wearing a blue uniform   HQ AETC/A1K
                                                ensemble, the badge is
                                                worn on right side, with
                                                the bottom edge of the
                                                badge parallel to the
                                                bottom edge of the
                                                ribbons.

       7.2.2. HQ AETC/A1KKM approves base supplements prior to their publication. Email
       draft with AF Form 673, Request to Issue Publication, to HQ AETC/A1KKM,
       aetc.a1kkm.military@randolph.af.mil.

7.3. Prescribed Forms

No forms are prescribed by this publication.

7.4. Adopted Forms

AF Form 673, Request to Issue Publication




                                               BRUCE W. LOVELY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Director of Manpower, Personnel & Services

                                               (VANCEAFB)

                                               RUSSEL L. MACK, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
 30                               AFI36-2903_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP_I 22 JUNE 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program, 23 February 2009, and its
AETC supplement

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AS—allowance standard
ASNP—aircrew style name patch
BA—battlefield airmen
BDU—battle dress uniform
BMT—basic military training
CCT—combat control
CFC—Combined Federal Campaign
CONUS—contiguous United States
CRO—combat rescue officer
DCI—drill and ceremonies instructor
ECW—extreme cold weather
FDU—flight duty uniform
FPCON—force protection condition
LP—local purchase
MTI—military training instructor
MTL—military training leader
NDSTC—Naval Diving and Salvage Training Center
OTS—officer training school
PJ—pararescue
PT—Physical Training
ROTC—Reserve Officer Training Corps
STO—special tactics officer
TACP—tactical air control party
TDY—temporary duty
TRG—training group
