                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                          HEADQUARTERS 412TH TEST WING (AFMC)
                          EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, CALIFORNIA




                                                         AFI36-815_EDWARDSAFBGM2014-03

                                                                                       8 April 2014


MEMORANDUM FOR 412 TW – All Groups
                All tenant units

FROM: 412 TW/CC
      195 E Popson Ave
      Edwards AFB, CA


SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AF Instruction 36-815, Absence and Leave


   By Order of the 412th Test Wing Commander, this Air Force Guidance Memorandum
immediately changes AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave. Compliance with this Memorandum is
mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications; the
information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management.

   According to AFI 36-815, the terms excused absence and administrative leave/dismissal have
basically the same concept – time off without charge to leave. Although used interchangeably,
they technically have differing applications. Excused Absence differs from Administrative
Dismissal in that it normally addresses individual employees being excused for non-mission
related emergency reasons, or for reasons the government encourages. Administrative dismissal
is an absence from duty when employees are released from duty because all or part of an activity
is closed, or it is in the public interest. Administrative dismissal generally applies to groups and
is normally used during hazardous weather or emergencies. The criteria used in considering
whether or not either is appropriate are basically the same.

  This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon incorporation by interim change to, or rewrite of AFI 36-815, Absence
and Leave, whichever is earlier.




                                               MICHAEL T. BREWER
                                               Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Commander
1. Excused Absences

  a. The following criteria must be met to determine what types of events can be considered
appropriate for the granting of excused absence:

     (1) It is infrequent (not accomplished on a regular basis).

     (2) It is of short duration.

     (3) It is generally available to all individuals in the organization.

  b. The following are examples of events that meet the criteria described above:

     (1) Wellness activities (e.g., Wellness physicals, cholesterol testing, on-site cancer
screenings, one-time 412 TW-sponsored activities and ergonomics seminars).

     (2) Expanded lunch hours for Special Emphasis Program luncheons and civilian fitness
under the criteria and rules of the Civilian Fitness Program.

     (3) On-base memorial services.

     (4) One six-hour resilience training per year.

   c. The following events fall under the criteria of excused absences, but are authorized on an
infrequent basis (1 or 2 times per year) for a short duration (2-3 hours). These events must be
available to all; employees who wish to refrain from participation can remain at work or be
granted appropriate leave.

     (1) Organization Picnics. These must be pre-approved in writing at the squadron level or
above.

     (2) Holiday Parties. These must be pre-approved in writing at the squadron level or above.

     (3) Sports Day. Civilian participation in Sports Day is voluntary and the 3 hours excused
absence can be used consecutively or periodically between the Sports Day event hours (e.g.,
0730 and 1630) on this day. The approved duty location is at the Sports Day event sites.

  d. There are some activities where it would not be appropriate to grant excused absence:

     (1) Sports leagues and intramural activities (e.g., bowling, softball, volleyball, and
basketball games).

     (2) Military “down” days.
      (3) Activities not open to everyone (e.g., golf tournament where some may be excluded
due to cost or physical disabilities).

     (4) Fund-raising events.

     (5) Off-base memorial services and farewell parties.

NOTE: Under the flextime authority, a supervisor can authorize an employee to participate in
these activities if the time is made up during the day or by using credit hours. Use of annual
leave is an option, and for some sports activities, approved participation in the Civilian Fitness
Program can provide excused absence if criteria are met.

e. Excused Absence for Fitness. Employees may be authorized 3 hours per week excused
absence for structured physical fitness activity.

2. Administrative Dismissals Due to Hazardous Weather/Emergencies

  a. The 412 TW Installation Commander (or designee) is the only individual authorized to
approve administrative (group) dismissals.

   b. Unless otherwise notified, all employees are to presume Edwards AFB will be open each
regular workday regardless of severe weather or emergency conditions. Employees are expected
to cope with difficult driving conditions and minor disruptions of public transportation facilities.

   c. If an emergency situation arises during duty hours, employee’s safety is considered first
when determining whether to authorize early dismissal. Early dismissal may only be authorized
by the Installation Commander, or other designees in the order described in paragraph d below.
Such dismissals will be announced through normal internal communication channels. Under
these circumstances, only those employees on duty at the time of the dismissal may be granted
administrative leave. Employees who had been on duty, but departed prior to early dismissal,
may be granted administrative leave.

   d. Severe weather or other emergency conditions may necessitate the closing of the base
before the beginning of the normal duty day. When this occurs, all employees scheduled to work
(except for essential personnel) may be excused from reporting to work. Employees scheduled to
be on leave that day are also granted excused absence unless they were in a nonpay status on the
day immediately before and after the day(s) the activity was closed. Installation Commander has
the authority to order closing of all or portions of the base: (a) 412 TW/CC; (b) 412 TW/CV, or
(c) 412 TW/ID.

   e. When the base is closed due to severe weather or other emergency conditions, official
closure information will be disseminated through the pyramid alert system. Additionally, official
instructions will be recorded on (661) 277-2345 or www.edwards.af.mil.

NOTE: Media sources may be used but the only official notification is through the supervisory
chain.
   f. Some employees may have special difficulties during hazardous weather (e.g., road
closures or unusual traffic conditions) which cause them to arrive later, or prevent them from
reporting to work at all. In such cases, the immediate supervisor can excuse up to 59 minutes for
late arrival or liberally grant annual leave for those who are more than 59 minutes late or who
cannot report to work at all. Only those employees who are less than 1 hour late are eligible for
this excusal. Employees who are tardy for more than 1 hour are to be charged leave for the entire
absence unless the Installation Commander has authorized administrative leave.

3. In making the determination to grant excused absence or administrative dismissals, the
approving official needs to weigh the cost of excusing the civilian (e.g., cost of salary, loss of
productivity, etc.) to the benefits of the event. In this environment of limited resources, events
should be scrutinized carefully to ensure they meet this policy.

4. Questions in this area should be addressed to the servicing Human Resource Specialist
(Employee/Labor Management) Relations, ext. 7-3840.
