BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-223
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             8 MARCH 2007
                                                 Incorporating Change 1, 30 NOVEMBER 2010
                                                                       Certified Current, 4 April 2011
                                                                                           Services

                                                                PRIVATE ORGANIZATIONS
                                                                         (PO) PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSVA/CDM                                                         Certified by: AF/A1S
Supersedes: AFI 34-223, 11 August 2003                                    (Mr. Arthur J. Myers)
                                                                                      Pages: 12


This instruction implements DoDI 1000.15, Private Organizations on DoD Installations (20 Dec
05). It provides guidance and procedures for establishing and operating POs on Air Force
installations. Send MAJCOM/FOA/DRU draft supplements to HQ Air Force Services Agency,
Commander’s Action Group (AFSVA/CDM), 10100 Reunion Place, Ste 501, San Antonio TX
78216-4138 for approval before publication. MAJCOM/FOA/DRUs must review and approve
supplements proposed by their subordinate units. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU publications/forms managers. This instruction applies to all Air Force
organizations and individuals within DoD (active duty military, retired members, dependents,
surviving spouses of the aforementioned and authorized DoD civilians), as well as, the Air Force
Reserve and Air National Guard. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, (will become
AFMAN 33-363) Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change provides guidance for the Private Organization (PO) Program on Air Force
Installations. All references to Services Division Chief have been changed to read Force Support
Squadron (FSS) Commander/Director (CC/CL). Services Division Chiefs retain the same
authorities outlined in this AFI as FSS Commanders until such time that all Services Squadrons
merge to FSSs. Paragraphs 6.5 and 6.6 were added to comply with new guidance in DoDI
 2                                                                   AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007


1000.15, Procedures and Support for Non-Federal Entities Authorized to Operate on DoD
Installations. Paragraphs 10.1. – 10.1.1.4. were deleted and replaced with paragraphs 10.1. –
10.1.2.3. to comply with new guidance in DoDI 1000.15, Procedures and Support for Non-
Federal Entities Authorized to Operate on DoD Installations; allowing the use of the name or
abbreviation of DoD, DoD components, organizational units and installations in PO names.
Paragraph 10.7.3 defines requirements for submitting financial statements to the FSS Resource
Management Office (FSS/FSR, formerly Resource Management Flight Chief (RMFC)).
Paragraph 10.13. identifies the responsibility for obtaining tax-exempt information and forms.

Section A—General

1. Private Organizations (POs). POs are self-sustaining special interest groups, set up by
people acting exclusively outside the scope of any official capacity as officers, employees, or
agents of the Federal Government. They operate on Air Force installations with the written
consent of the installation commander.
     1.1. POs are not Federal entities and are not to be treated as such. Accordingly, they are not
     NAF instrumentalities (NAFIs) as defined in AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds,
     nor are they entitled to the sovereign immunities and privileges given to NAFIs or the Air
     Force.
     1.2. Personal and professional participation in POs is governed by DoD 5500.7-R, Joint
     Ethics Regulation.
2. Applicability.
     2.1. The following organizations are not considered POs and are governed by DoD
     Directives (DoDDs) and Instructions (DoDIs) as referenced:
        2.1.1. Scouting organizations operating at US military installations located overseas
        (DoD Instruction 1015.9, (e), Professional United States Scouting Organization
        Operations at United States Military Installations Located Overseas).
        2.1.2. American National Red Cross (DoDD 1330.5, American National Red Cross).
        2.1.3. United Seaman’s Service (DoDD 1330.16, United Seaman’s Service (USS)).
        2.1.4. United Service Organizations, Inc. (DoDD 1330.12, United Service Organizations,
        Inc.).
        2.1.5. Credit Unions (DoDD 1000.11, Financial Institutions on DoD Installations).
        2.1.6. Banks (DoDD 1000.11, Financial Institutions on DoD Installations).
     2.2. Small unofficial activities (like coffee funds, flower funds, sunshine funds, and other
     small operations) are generally not considered POs. However, if their current assets (which
     include cash, inventories, receivables, and investments) exceed a monthly average of $1,000
     over a 3-month period, the activity/organization must become a PO, discontinue on-base
     operations, or reduce its current assets below the $1,000 threshold.

Section B—What People Do
AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007                                                                         3


3. The Director of Services (HQ USAF/A1S). AF/A1S issues guidance and provides oversight
for POs.
4. HQ Air Force Services Agency, Commander’s Management                         Support     (HQ
AFSVA/CDM). HQ AFSVA/CDM gives operations guidance to POs.
5. Major Command Chief of Services (MAJCOM/A1S), Field Operating Agency (FOA),
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU). MAJCOM/A1S/FOA/DRUs ensure that installation-level FSS
follow the procedures outlined in this AFI.
6. Installation Commander:
   6.1. Authorizes the establishment and operation of a PO when he/she determines it will
   make a positive contribution to the quality of life of base personnel. The commander may
   withdraw the authorization if the PO prejudices or discredits the United States Government,
   conflicts with Government activities, or for any other reason or just cause.
   6.2. Authorizes contractor and subcontractor POs when justified, as long as the interests of
   the Air Force are fully protected in the authorizing documents.
   6.3. Takes action on requests for fundraisers.
   6.4. May delegate the above authorities to the Mission Support Group Commander. The
   authority to approve or disapprove fundraisers may be further delegated to the FSS
   Commander/Director (FSS CC/CL).
   6.5. May direct a PO to eliminate duplication of services, particularly when these services
   compete with the installation’s nonappropriated fund revenue-generating activities.
   6.6. Ensures background checks are completed for employees and volunteers of POs who
   have contact with children under the age of 18 in DoD-operated, -contracted, or community-
   based programs that are used to supplement or expand child care or youth services, according
   to DoD Instruction 1402.5 (Reference (i)).
7. Force Support Squadron Commander/Director:
   7.1. Monitors and administers the PO Program. Ensures the membership provisions and the
   basis upon which the organization was permitted to operate on the installation continue to
   apply. Advises the installation commander if changed conditions by the PO warrant further
   review, documentation, and reconsideration for continued permission to operate on the
   installation.
   7.2. Ensures the Resource Management Flight Chief (RMFC) keeps a file on each PO.
   7.3. Monitors unofficial activities/organizations.
8. Resource Management Flight Chief. Keeps a file on each PO and reviews each PO
annually at the close of the PO’s fiscal year to ensure financial statements, documents, records,
and       procedures        outlined       in      the       PO        Guide      (https://www-
r.afsv.af.mil/_AFSVA/Publications.htm#privateorgs) and this AFI are in order.

Section C—Establishing, Operating, and Dissolving a PO Activity

9. Setting Up a PO. A PO must submit a written constitution, bylaws, or other similar
documents, outlined in the PO Guidance Handbook through the FSS/FSR, FSS/CC/CL and Staff
 4                                                                      AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007


Judge Advocate for consideration by the installation commander. DoD personnel acting in an
official capacity may not execute such constitutions, bylaws, or similar documents or submit
them for approval, with the exception of the individuals mentioned above who are part of the
formal submission process. The constitution, bylaws, or similar documents must:
     9.1. Address the nature, function, objectives, membership eligibility, and sources of income
     of the PO.
     9.2. Provide certification to FSS/FSR indicating that PO members have been notified and
     understand their personal financial liability for obligations of the PO, as provided by law.
     9.3. Describe the responsibilities of PO officers for asset accountability, liability satisfaction,
     and sound financial and operational management.
     9.4. Provide specific guidance on disposition of residual assets upon dissolution.
NOTE:
 A PO may dispose of its assets only in the manner outlined in its constitution, bylaws, or similar
documentation. If the proper provisions exist, a PO may give residual assets to the Air Force or a
NAFI in accordance with AFIs 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, and 34-201,
Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs). Neither appropriated fund (APF) activities nor NAFIs
may claim the assets of, or make or assume any obligation for, a PO except those that may arise
from a valid contract between them.
     9.5. Be updated every two years or when there is a change in the purpose, function, or
     membership eligibility of the PO, whichever comes first.
10. Operating a PO. Installation commanders provide limited supervision over POs. Their
control lies in the power to authorize and withdraw authorization for these organizations to
operate on the installation. They ensure compliance with the requirements of this instruction, but
do not control or dictate internal activities or structure of POs.
     10.1. To prevent the appearance of an official sanction or support by the DoD.
        10.1.1. POs may not use the seals, logos, or insignia of the DoD or any DoD Component,
        DoD organizational unit, or DoD installation on organization letterhead, correspondence,
        titles, or in association with organization programs, locations, or activities.
            10.1.1.1. DELETED.
            10.1.1.2. DELETED.
            10.1.1.3. DELETED.
            10.1.1.4. DELETED.
        10.1.2. POs operating on DoD installations may use the name or abbreviation of the
        DoD, an Air Force organizational unit, or installation in the PO name provided that the
        status as a PO is apparent and unambiguous and there is no appearance of official
        sanction or support by the DoD. The following applies:
            10.1.2.1. POs must have written approval from the installation commander before
            using the name or abbreviation of the installation or organizational unit. Requests for
            use of the DoD or Air Force name or abbreviation must be routed through the
            MAJCOM/A1S to HQ AFSVA/CDM.
AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007                                                                          5


         10.1.2.2. Any use of the name or abbreviation of an Air Force organizational unit, or
         installation must not mislead members of the public to assume a PO is an
         organizational unit of the Air Force.
         10.1.2.3. POs must prominently display the following disclaimer on all print and
         electronic media mentioning the PO’s name confirming that the PO is not part of the
         DoD: ―   THIS IS A PRIVATE ORGANIZATION. IT IS NOT A PART OF THE
         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OR ANY OF ITS COMPONENTS AND IT HAS
         NO GOVERNMENTAL STATUS.‖
  10.2. POs may not discriminate in hiring practices or membership policies on the basis of
  age, race, religion, color, national origin, disability, ethnic group, or gender. Anyone who
  suspects unlawful discrimination by POs should contact the local Equal Opportunity
  Counselor and follow the procedures in AFI 36-1201, Discrimination Complaints.
     10.2.1. POs may organize around a cultural or ethnic focus as long as they do not restrict
     their membership on the basis of culture or ethnicity.
  10.3. POs may not haze or harass (either physically or mentally) as part of their initiation
  rites.
  10.4. Religiously oriented POs may be authorized to operate on installations if:
     10.4.1. Requests by similar organizations are also approved.
     10.4.2. Authorization is for non-exclusive use of government facilities.
     10.4.3. No sign or insignia or other organizational identification is placed on or inside
     government facilities except when the organization’s activities are in progress.
     10.4.4. Membership is not restricted to members of the religion involved.
     10.4.5. The installation staff chaplain coordinates on the request.
  10.5. POs must be self-sustaining, primarily through dues, contributions, service charges,
  fees, or special assessments of their members. There will be no financial assistance to a PO
  or unofficial activity/organization from a NAFI in the form of contributions, repairs, services,
  dividends, or donations of money or other assets.
     10.5.1. POs must properly plan and adequately control the money aspects of their goals
     and objectives, including cash and other assets.
     10.5.2. Income must not accrue to individual members except through wages and salaries
     for PO employees or other payment for services rendered to the PO or military
     community. Any income will be derived primarily for offsetting expenses of operation,
     which may include competitive awards or charitable contributions. As an exception,
     installation commanders may authorize investment-oriented POs if they comply with all
     other provisions of this AFI.
  10.6. POs must use budgets and financial statements as financial management tools.
  Additional financial requirements are listed in the Private Organization Guide.
     10.6.1. The budget details financial plans for annual operations. It includes projected
     activities (income and expense) and capital purchases (equipment and property). The
     budget establishes financial objectives to generate sufficient income to offset planned
6                                                                    AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007


       expenses. Comparing actual results with the budget helps indicate management
       performance.
       10.6.2. POs must prepare an income-and-expense statement, either on an accrual or cash
       basis. The income and expense statement reflects monetary events that have occurred
       during a given period.
       10.6.3. POs must also prepare a balance sheet that accounts for total assets, liabilities and
       net worth (equity) of the PO’s financial condition on a given date.
    10.7. POs with certain levels of gross annual revenue must undergo audits and financial
    reviews at the PO’s own expense:
       10.7.1. Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) perform annual audits of POs with gross
       annual revenues of $250,000 or more. Use of a Certified Government Financial Manager
       is permitted in overseas locations when the RMFC documents that a CPA is not
       available.
       10.7.2. Accountants (CPA not required) perform annual financial reviews of POs with
       gross annual revenues of $100,000, but less than $250,000. Accountants conduct these
       reviews and provide written verification of the accounting data and other relevant
       information.
       10.7.3. POs that have gross annual revenues of less than $100,000, but more than $5,000,
       normally are not required to conduct an independent audit or financial review. However,
       such POs must provide an annual financial statement to FSS/FSR NLT 20 days following
       the end of the PO’s fiscal year.
       10.7.4. If there are signs of fraud or other improprieties, regardless of the amount of
       revenue, the FSS/CC/CL advises the installation commander.              The installation
       commander should request an audit from the Air Force Audit Agency, which may
       schedule the review within available resources.
       10.7.5. The audit (which generally provides more detailed information) and the financial
       review must verify the PO has:
           10.7.5.1. A uniform system of accounting.
           10.7.5.2. Consolidated reports of the accounting system into meaningful summaries.
           10.7.5.3. Identified areas of weakness and plan(s) for corrective action.
       10.7.6. POs must implement internal control procedures that ensure:
           10.7.6.1. Adequate segregation of duties.
           10.7.6.2. Proper procedures for authorizations.
           10.7.6.3. Adequate documents and records.
           10.7.6.4. Physical control over assets and records.
           10.7.6.5. Independent checks on performance.
    10.8. POs and unofficial activities/organizations must not engage in activities that duplicate
    or compete with activities of the Army and Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES) or
    Services NAFIs.
AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007                                                                          7


  10.9. POs and unofficial activities/organizations will not operate amusement machines, slot
  machines, or any other games of chance (except as authorized in paragraph 10.16, below);
  nor will they engage in frequent or continuous resale activities either directly, through third
  parties, or in their media (e.g., newsletters, handouts, posters, special-order brochures,
  websites, etc.).
     10.9.1. The installation commander may authorize (may delegate to the Mission Support
     Group Commander or the FSS/CC/CL) continuous thrift shop sales operations and
     occasional events for fundraising purposes (e.g., bake sales, dances, carnivals, car
     washes, or similar functions) which the PO or unofficial activity conducts directly,
     through a third party, or its media. Approval is required for POs or unofficial activities
     whether the fund raiser is conducted on or off installation. ―
                                                                  Occasional‖ is defined as not
     more than two per calendar quarter. The prohibition against frequent or continuous resale
     activities does not preclude collective purchasing and sharing of purchased items by
     members of POs or unofficial activities so long as there is no actual resale. See AFI 36-
     3101, Fundraising within the Air Force, for fundraising authority during the Combined
     Federal Campaign.
     10.9.2. The occasional sales limitation for funding does not apply to PO sales of Air
     Force School or unit souvenirs or memorabilia to members of the school or unit involved,
     provided AAFES or Services resale activities elect not to provide this service and the PO
     chartering documentation authorizes resale under these circumstances.
     10.9.3. POs and unofficial activities/organizations operating on an Air Force installation
     are prohibited from engaging in any conduct which has the effect of advertising for,
     making referrals to, or encouraging use of any commercial business concerns. The only
     exception to this policy is when a PO or unofficial activity/organization conducts an
     approved fund-raising event through a third-party (e.g., the spouses club conducts an art
     sale as an approved fund‐ raiser and contracts with an art dealer (third party) to provide
     the artwork to be sold).
  10.10. POs and unofficial activities/organizations may not sell or serve alcoholic beverages.
  10.11. POs must have liability insurance unless the Installation Commander waives the
  requirement. Insurance should be required unless the activities of the PO are such that the
  risk of liability is negligible. PO members must be made aware that they are jointly and
  severally liable for the obligations of the PO, and their understanding of the liability must be
  documented. The absence of liability insurance places their personal assets immediately at
  risk in the event of PO liability. Forward all waiver requests through the servicing legal
  office prior to approval. This waiver authority may be delegated to the Mission Support
  Group Commander. No further delegations are authorized. The commander or delegees may
  waive the requirement for continuous liability coverage; however, the approval document
  must advise the PO that the commander may still require liability insurance for specific
  events that involve a greater risk of injury or damage. Insurance waivers must be reevaluated
  annually.
  10.12. The PO should consider bonding for its treasurer. The treasurer is in a sensitive
  position, especially if handling and controlling large amounts of cash. POs may make a
  bonding determination by weighing the cost of commercial fidelity insurance protection from
  a qualified underwriter against the potential dollar risk.
8                                                                    AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007


    10.13. POs and unofficial activities must comply with all applicable federal, state, local, and
    foreign laws governing like civilian activities. Some POs may qualify for tax-exempt status.
    It is the responsibility of the PO or unofficial activity to obtain proper tax-exempt
    information and forms through the regional Internal Revenue Service office and the state
    taxing authority.
    10.14. PO officers and members must report any signs of fraud or other improprieties to the
    FSS/CC/CL.
    10.15. PO officer and member and unofficial activities/organization actions must not
    prejudice or discredit the United States Government or conflict with governmental activities.
       10.15.1. POs and unofficial activities/organizations may not solicit funds for their
       organization on base.
           10.15.1.1. Services may not co-sponsor events with POs or unofficial
           activities/organizations for the purpose of obtaining commercial sponsorship,
           contributions, donations, gifts, advertising or generating revenue for them.
           10.15.1.2. POs and unofficial activities/organizations are not authorized use of the
           DoD MWR Commercial Sponsorship policy.
           10.15.1.3. POs and unofficial activities/organizations may accept gifts and donations.
           These organizations will not solicit gifts or donations on base. Off-base solicitations
           must clearly indicate that they are for a PO or an unofficial activity/organization, and
           not for the base or any official part of the Air Force. Donor/gift recognition may not
           be made publicly. Recognition of the gift or donation can only be made to members
           of the PO or those present at an event benefiting from the donation/gift.
               10.15.1.3.1. POs and unofficial activities/organizations are prohibited from
               actions, which make it appear that the installation is endorsing or giving special
               treatment to the donors/givers involved.
       10.15.2. POs may not conduct games of chance, lotteries, raffles, or other gambling-type
       activities except as provided in paragraph 10.16 Unofficial activities/organizations may
       not conduct games of chance, lotteries, raffles, or other gambling-type activities under
       any circumstances.
    10.16. Those POs which are composed primarily of DoD personnel or their family members
    may conduct fund-raising raffles on an Air Force installation on an occasional, infrequent
    basis when authorized in advance by the installation commander or designee subject to the
    limitations detailed below. Such raffles provide a means of extending needed services or
    other assistance to members of the DOD family, but failure to strictly follow the provisions
    below could result in the raffles violating the general gambling prohibition in DoD 5500.7-R,
    Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), 30 Aug 93. All requests to conduct raffles must be reviewed
    by the servicing Judge Advocate’s office. Raffles must:
       10.16.1. Not violate the law of the city, county, state, or country in which the installation
       is located and comply with any applicable requirements of such laws, e.g., securing
       required licenses or permits, filing application documents and/or reports, and the like.
       10.16.2. Be for the benefit of DoD personnel or their family members. Raffles may not
       be authorized to raise money for local or national groups such as a regional or national
AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007                                                                         9


       Heart or Cancer Association whose funds would not benefit primarily DoD personnel or
       their family members.
          10.16.2.1. In evaluating PO raffle fund-raising requests, installation commanders
          must consider the proposed use of the proceeds and may approve only those requests
          which serve a charitable, civic, or other community welfare purpose within the DoD
          community and which directly benefit DoD personnel or their family members. For
          example, commanders may approve raffles when the proceeds would be used for new
          playground equipment at a child development center or new furnishings at a youth
          center; to fund scholarship programs for DoD personnel and their family members; to
          donate money to base scouting organizations; or to provide food, clothing, shelter, or
          other relief to needy DoD personnel or their families.
          10.16.2.2. Raffle requests to raise funds for purely social, recreational, or
          entertainment purposes which benefit only individual PO members and/or their
          family members, such as to underwrite the cost of a weekend ski trip, a sight-seeing
          tour, or a shopping excursion will not be approved.
          10.16.2.3. Requests for approval to conduct raffles must identify the purpose for
          which funds are being raised and the intended beneficiaries of the proceeds. They
          must also identify how the PO will ensure the proceeds are used only for that purpose
          and those beneficiaries.
       10.16.3. Not be officially endorsed or supported except as permitted by sections 3-210
       and 3-211 of the JER.
       10.16.4. Not be conducted in the workplace. With installation commander or designee
       approval, they may be conducted at public entrances and in community support facilities
       such as the lobby of the Base Exchange. Raffles on the Pentagon reservation are
       prohibited.
       10.16.5. Not be conducted by military members or civilian employees during their duty
       time. Military members may not conduct raffles while in uniform at any time. Air Force
       personnel may participate in PO fundraising raffles only in a purely personal, unofficial,
       volunteer capacity at authorized locations and in ways that do not imply official
       endorsement.
11. Logistical Support. POs must furnish their own equipment, supplies, and other materials.
Newly elected PO officers must consult FSS/FSR for guidance and training on local installation
requirements and procedures because POs generally do not get either APF or NAF support
except where specifically identified in this AFI.
   11.1. POs may be provided places to conduct meetings of reasonable duration and
   frequency.
       11.1.1. A PO must reimburse for services (to include utilities) when it uses a facility or
       space on an other-than-occasional basis unless a separate directive or instruction
       authorizes non-reimbursable support. Thrift shops are exempted from the requirement to
       pay utilities. A PO must reimburse for any additional costs incurred by the Air Force
       resulting from such uses, e.g., incremental increases in maintenance and janitorial
       expenses.
 10                                                                      AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007


         11.1.2. The Air Force mandates an approved outgrant when a PO has exclusive use of a
         facility, space, or land area. Any reimbursement for utilities will be determined in
         accordance with AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to US Air Force Installations. Any
         reimbursement for space occupied, maintenance, and other support will be determined in
         accordance with AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property.
         11.1.3. The use of Government equipment and systems for other than official purposes is
         extremely limited. Government systems (daily bulletin boards and or electronic public
         folders) may be used to provide notice of unofficial off-installation fundraising
         campaigns and volunteer requests if approved by the Installation Commander. In no
         event should official email, mail, computers, copiers, BITS, etc., be used to provide
         notice of these type of activities.
   11.2. POs in overseas areas can request additional support such as reimbursable
   transportation services; commissary; Armed Forces postal services; exchange; recreational
   activity privileges; reimbursable space-available hospitalization, medical, and dental care;
   and dependent school service. Requests must be forwarded through the installation
   commander to the MAJCOM/A1S. As part of the forwarding recommendation, the
   installation commander must include a statement acknowledging the commander can provide
   the additional support requested within available resources and without degrading the
   installation’s ability to fulfill its mission. The request must include:
         11.2.1. A cost estimate for the additional support.
         11.2.2. A list of services, programs, and activities the PO provides that warrant
         additional support.
         11.2.3. An acknowledgement by the PO that additional support may be terminated if the
         PO’s services, programs, and activities change so that they no longer warrant the support.
12. Dissolution of a PO. When A PO decides to dissolve or shut down, it must:
      12.1. Use its funds to satisfy any outstanding debts, liabilities, or obligations.
   12.2. Dispose of the residual balance as decided by the PO membership.
   12.3. Notify the FSS/CC/CL of the intent to dissolve the PO and prepare a time-phased
   action plan to do so.




                                                 ROGER A. BRADY, Lt General, USAF
                                                 DCS, Manpower and Personnel
AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007                                                                     11


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Instruction, 1000.15, Private Organizations on DoD Installations, 20 Dec 05
DoD Instruction 1015.9, Professional United States Scouting Organization Operations at United
States Military Installations Located Overseas, 31 Oct 90
DoD 5500-7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), 30 Aug 93, with changes 1 through 6
DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chapter 4, User Charges
AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to US Air Force Installations
AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs)
AFI 36-3101, Fundraising within the Air Force
AFMAN 37-123, (will become AFMAN 33-363)
AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
AFSVA/CDM—Air Force Services Agency/Commander’s Management Support
APF—Appropriated Funds
CPA—Certified Public Accountant
DoD—Department of Defense
HQ—Headquarters
HQ USAF/A1S—Air Force Director of Services
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAJCOM/A1S—Major Command/Chief of Services
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality
PO—Private Organization
 12                                     AFI34-223 8 MARCH 2007


RMFC—Resource Management Flight Chief
USAF—United States Air Force
