  BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AF INSTRUCTION 31-401
  HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                  KEESLER AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               Supplement 1

                                                                             22 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                Certified Current 12 March 2011

                                                            Information Protection
                                 INFORMATION PROTECTION PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
  ACCESSIBILITY:           This publication is available on            the   Air   Force    Portal,
  https://www.my.af.mil, Keesler home page, publications section.
  RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

  OPR: 81 TRW/IP                        Certified by: 81 TRW/CV (Colonel Christopher R. Valle)
  Supersedes AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Sup 1, 31 Mar 04.                                   Pages: 10

  This supplement implements and extends the guidance in AFI 31-401, 1 November 2005
  and AETC Supplement 1, 5 June 2007 are supplemented as follows.
  This supplement establishes the 81st Training Wing policy and procedures for use in conjunction
  with the basic publication. This directive applies to all organizations and tenant units who have
  requested support under the Information Protection Program to include Air Force Reserve and
  Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted otherwise. Refer recommended changes
  and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
  Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
  through the appropriate functional’s change of command. Ensure that all records created as a
  result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
  363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
  Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
  https://www.my.af.mil/gscc-af61a/afrims/afrims.


  SUMMARY OF CHANGES


  Clarified local procedures; paragraphs aligned with AFI. Attachment 10 was added, Standard
  Training Plan. A  indicates changes from the last revision.


1.3.5.1. To ensure program success and continuity, recommend personnel appointed have at least
  one-year retainability within the unit. The official appointment of security managers will be in
  standard memorandum format using the sample at attachment 8.
  2                             AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1         22 DECEMBER 2009



  1.3.6.4.1. (Added)(KAFB) Either the Primary or the Alternate Security Manager will attend the
  Unit Security Manager (USM) meetings held semi-annually at Keesler AFB.


1.3.6.11. (Added)(KAFB) Section 11, current month’s Joint Personnel Adjudication System
  Personnel and Periodic Reinvestigation rosters.


  1.3.6.12. (Added)(KAFB) Maintain copies of or Reference to (as a minimum): AFI 31-401,
  Information Security Program Management; AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
  Management; AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management; DOD 5200.1-R,
  Information Security Program; DOD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Program; DOD 5220.22-R,
  Industrial Security Regulation. The AETC Supplements to the above AFI’s should also be
  maintained electronically or in printed form. Units maintaining classified information will
  maintain the applicable security classification guides.


  1.3.8. Direct all questions, problems, or requests concerning SCI programs to 81 TRG/SSO’s
  office.


1.4.3.3. (Added)(KAFB) When conducting self-inspection, utilize the most current HQ
  AETC/Inspector General’s Programs Management checklist. It can be found on the HQ AETC
  website or can be provided by the Installation Security Program Manager (ISPM).


1.7. Units will conduct and maintain sampling data during the first two weeks of Dec, Mar, Jun,
  and Sep to track the number of original or derivative classification decisions made throughout
  the fiscal year. Forward the average of the eight week samples to 81 TRW/IP by September 15th
  utilizing the SF 311, Agency Security Classification Management Program Data, for reporting to
  HQ AETC/IP.


2.5.3. Provide 81 TRW/IP a copy of all challenges of classification before forwarding to HQ
  AETC/IP.


5.9.1.3. The SF 701, Activity Security Checklist, and SF 702, Security Container Check Sheet,
  will be maintained for 30 days after the end of the assigned month to aid in establishing a time
  line in the event of a security inquiry.


  5.9.3. (Added)(KAFB) On Keesler AFB, the primary requirements for emergency planning
  should use the “stow and go” philosophy in lieu of removal, escorting, or destruction of
  classified materials unless directed to do so by higher authority.
  AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1              22 DECEMBER 2009                                   3


  5.11.3. Incorporate plans for the protection, removal, or destruction of classified material in
  case of fire, natural disaster, civil disturbance, or enemy action to minimize the risk of
  compromise into unit operating instructions.


  5.13.2.1. (Added)(KAFB) See Attachment 9 for standards for secure discussion areas on Keesler
  AFB.


5.14.1. When Base Operations receives a notification that a transient aircraft contains classified
  information, they will notify the Security Forces’ Base Defense Operation Center.


5.14.2.3. Keesler Command Post will provide facilities for temporary storage of classified
  material up to SECRET level for transient personnel. TOP SECRET material must be stored at
  the Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) located in Stennis Hall.


  5.21. Security containers reflect the organization abbreviation along with a sequential number
  (e.g., SF-01, SF-04, CX-02, etc.) to identify security containers. Security managers maintain a
  listing of all security containers in the unit. This listing will reflect the unit, office symbol, and
  exact location (building/room number). Forward a copy of this listing to 81 TRW/IP.


5.23. Utilize the provisions of Technical Order (TO) AFTO 00-20F-2, paragraph 6, for
  maintenance on all security containers. Inspect each security container and document the results
  IAW paragraph 7. CSC Applied Technology, LLC can be contacted for container lockouts. If
  they are unable to fix the problem, it may need to be contracted out. Contact 81 CONS for
  further guidance.


5.28.1. Shredders, disintegrators, pulverizers or any other equipment item used to destroy
  classified material will only be purchased from the approved NSA/CSA Evaluated Products List
  (EPL).           This      list   is    updated      quarterly   and      is    available   at
  http://www.nsa.gov/ia/government/mdg.cfm. In the event a previously approved equipment item
  becomes unserviceable or is no longer on the EPL, repair is not authorized and a new item must
  be purchased from the current approved list.


5.28.3.1. (Added) (KAFB) The Central Destruction Facility for Keesler AFB is located in Bldg
  901, Records Management. Coordinate all requests for access to the facility through 81
  CS/SCOK.


6.8.1. (Added) (KAFB) Security Forces personnel conduct periodic checks for unauthorized
  removal of classified information during base entry point checks. If material is located or an
  individual’s authority to be in possession of classified is in question, contact the appropriate unit
  commander or unit security manager and verify the individual’s authority to transport classified
  4                             AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1         22 DECEMBER 2009


  information. Make an entry in the Desk Blotter reflecting the problem and its subsequent
  resolution.


  8.3.6.1. Develop and implement security education and training material to meet the
  requirements defined in AFI 31-401 and the specific needs of their unit. Document all training
  provided to the unit. The annual training plan will be included in the unit’s security operating
  instruction. A sample training plan is provided at attachment 10.


 9.8.1.1. (Added)(KAFB) Once appointed, inquiry officials report to 81 TRW/IP for a briefing on
  their duties and responsibilities.


 9.8.1.2. (Added)(KAFB) Once inquiry officials have completed the draft of the inquiry report,
  provide a copy to 81 TRW/IP for a technical review.


 9.9. ADOPTED FORMS: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                              IAN R. DICKINSON
                                              Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander, 81st Training Wing



  3 Attachments (Added) (KAFB)
  8. Sample Appointment Letter
  9. Standards for Secure Discussion Areas
  10. Sample Training Plan
AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1                 22 DECEMBER 2009                           5


                                 Attachment 8 (Added)(KAFB)
                                   Sample Appointment Letter


                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

                         AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND



                                                                               DATE

  MEMORANDUM FOR 81 TRW/IP

  FROM: UNIT/CC

  SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Security Managers

  1. IAW AFI 31-401, para 1.3.5.1., the following individuals are appointed as Unit Security
  Managers for the YOUR UNIT. These individuals will also require a Joint Personnel
  Adjudication System (JPAS) account.


                                  UNIT/OFFICE DUTY
                                  SYMBOL      PHONE DUTY PHONE
   RANK FULL NAME                GRADE           SYMBOL CLEARANCE PHONE
                                                             DUTY


   SSgt Mickey Deer (P)           81 SFS/S5A          377-0000     Secret – 12 Aug 98
   SrA Donald Bear (A)                                             Secret – 8 Dec 00
   Mr. Bill McDuck (A)                                             TS/SCI – 2 May 00



  2. This letter supersedes all previous letters.




                                                       JOHN A. DOE, Major, USAF

                                                       Commander
  6                              AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1          22 DECEMBER 2009


                                   Attachment 9 (Added)(KAFB)

           STANDARDS FOR SECURE DISCUSSION AREAS ON KEESLER AFB

  A9.1. OBJECTIVE: The objective of creating standards for areas that routinely house
  classified discussions is to ensure this information is protected to the highest degree possible
  while considering the overall cost of these standards. Additionally, the threat to the information
  and the area should be considered.

  A9.2. APPROVAL PROCESS:

 A9.2.1. Units desiring a secure discussion area will make their request in writing, approved by
 the unit commander. Their request must provide not only the building and room number of the
 area involved, but also specific justification for the need. The request is then forwarded to
 81 TRW/IP for processing.

  A9.2.2. Once the request letter is received and before any work is initiated, a representative from
  the 81 TRW/IP and CSC Applied Technology, LLC (identified as CSC throughout the rest of
  this attachment) will evaluate the facility and determine its fitness for approval. Any alterations
  needed to the area will be identified in a written report to the unit commander.

  A9.2.3. The unit commander will ensure a work request is accomplished specifying the work
  identified in the evaluation report only. Any additional work desired will have to be justified and
  approved on a case-by-case basis. This work request will be forwarded to CSC specifying the
  work to be accomplished.

  A9.2.4. Once all work is completed, the representatives from 81 TRW/IP and CSC will certify
  the area as meeting the standards and complete the appropriate letters stating this fact which are
  then forwarded to the designated approval authority for final review and approval/disapproval.

  A9.2.5. On Keesler AFB, the 81 TRW/CV is delegated the authority to act for the installation
  commander as final approval authority for all open storage areas.

  A9.2.6. Once approved, the original copy of the designation letter must be maintained within the
  facility or area with one copy maintained in the files of 81 TRW/IP.

  A9.3. STANDARDS:

  A9.3.1. Sound Emission:

  A9.3.1.1. Doors: Generally, use of manufactured acoustical doors is desired over local
  construction of doors. Additionally, the use of a double door system, which provides an “air
  gap” between the area and the outside, is desirable. In all cases, the objective is to eliminate
  sound emissions without compromising the physical effectiveness of the doors. As a minimum:
AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1            22 DECEMBER 2009                                 7


A9.3.1.1.1. Doors will be constructed of solid wood or metal construction. Metal doors should
have insulation inside the hollow core to reduce vulnerability to sound transmission.
A9.3.1.1.2. Doorjambs will be covered with neoprene or equivalent door gasket material, which
minimizes air gaps, and safeguards against sound leaks.

A9.3.1.1.3. Door thresholds: Wooden thresholds are preferred over metal because of their lower
sound conductivity rating. All thresholds should be fitted with replaceable rubber stripping
installed to minimize the air gap and sound leakage.
A9.3.1.1.4. Air gaps will be filled with a material, which abates sound transmission. Air gaps
are those areas not already discussed in previous areas. These include gaps, holes, or crevices in
the door, jamb, threshold, wall, etc.

A9.3.1.2. Pipes, Ducts and Conduits: Holes or crevices around pipes, ducts and conduits
leading into the protected area should be insulated against sound leaks. Where possible, all pipes
ducts and conduits no longer in use should be removed and the holes filled with the appropriate
insulating materials.
A9.3.1.3. Air Ducts and Ventilation Grills: Unless these ducts or grills are directly open to the
exterior unprotected area, no special ducting or baffles are required. If, however, sound leaks
into adjoining unprotected areas are discovered, a baffle must be installed which insulates the
duct or grill and stops the leakage of sound. If this cannot be effectively accomplished, the use
of “White Noise” should be considered. “White Noise” involves the installation of a speaker
system, which plays music, or some other sound, which masks any sound being transmitted from
the room. Use of “White Noise” in all adjacent hallways and offices is highly recommended.

A9.3.1.4. Windows: Wherever possible, windows should never be incorporated into the
structure of an area used for this purpose. If a window is present, a heavy sound insulation
(drapes, shades, etc.) must be used to insulate against sound leaks. The insulation must be drawn
anytime the area is being used to discuss classified.

A9.3.1.5. False Ceilings, Walls and Floors: The presence of false ceilings, walls and floors in
new or old construction must be carefully assessed to ensure sound transmission is reduced.

A9.3.1.6. Other Considerations: Other considerations such as floor trenches, alcoves, sound
locks, wall style air conditions, etc., must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Concerns over
sound leakage must be addressed on an individual basis and solved using the most expedient and
cost efficient manner.
A9.3.1.7. Utilization of “White Noise” Generators. Where possible and economically feasible,
the use of “White Noise” Generator should be considered in lieu of costly construction. “White
Noise” Generators are simply dedicated intercom systems with speakers in the areas where noise
reduction or abatement is needed. This intercom system will continuously broadcast a low-level
noise to nullify any illegal listening devices and hamper any listener in the immediate area.
8                             AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1          22 DECEMBER 2009


A9.3.2. Physical Security: While this area is not required to meet the stringent physical
standards of an open storage area, the overall physical security must conform to certain
minimum standards and below are recommendations to help with the overall physical security of
the room(s):

A9.3.2.1. Walls, Floors, and Ceilings:
A9.3.2.1.1. The floor to the facility must be constructed of materials consistent to the operation
of facility. The floor must have no unprotected openings large enough to allow entry of an
individual or the undetected introduction of a listening device.

A9.3.2.1.2. The walls must provide physical resistance to unauthorized entry and be designed to
allow for immediate discovery of all attempts or actual unauthorized entries into the area. All
openings in the walls will be reinforced to provide protection equivalent to the surrounding walls
and ensure immediate detection of unauthorized entry is possible.

A9.3.2.1.3. The ceiling must provide the protection equivalent to the walls and floor.
Additionally, all openings must be protected to the same level as the remainder of the ceiling.

A9.3.2.2. Door Hinges: Door hinges must be installed in such a manner as to preclude entry
into the area by simply removing the pin. Install the hinges inside the protected area, install
protected hinges, or alter existing hinges to prevent removal of the pin.
A9.3.2.3. Locking Devices: Use a GSA-approved cipher lock meeting federal standards. A
listing of approved locks can be found on the GSA website. If use of this lock is not possible, a
locking system providing comparable security will be approved on a case-by-case basis.
AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1           22 DECEMBER 2009                              9


                              Attachment 10 (Added)(KAFB)


                              STANDARD TRAINING PLAN


A10.1. The work center security manager will provide initial training to cleared and uncleared
personnel (see examples below).


A10.2. INITIAL:


A10.2.1. Review Initial Training PowerPoint Presentation and/or Handbook


A10.2.2. Read Unit Security Operating Instructions



A10.3. AIR FORCE TRAINING STANDARD MANDATORY TOPICS FOR CLEARED
PERSONNEL:


A10.3.1. Policy and Program Management; Marking of Classified Material/Documents;
Derivative Classification; Information Transmitted Electronically; Actual or Potential
Compromise of Classified Information; Original Classification; Safeguarding Classified
Information; Disposition and Destroying Classified Material; Transmission and Transportation
of Classified.


A10.4. AIR FORCE TRAINIG STANDARDS MANDATORY TOPICS FOR
UNCLEARED PERSONNEL:


A10.4.1.   Program Management; NATO; Controlling Unclassified Material; Access
Requirements; Safeguarding; Storage; Security Incidents


A10.5. ANNUAL/RECURRING TRAINING:


A10.5.1. Information Protection training will be conducted utilizing Advanced Distributed
Learning Services (ADLS).


A10.6. Other areas to provide training on (as needed):
10                           AFI 31-401/Keesler AFB Supplement 1       22 DECEMBER 2009



A10.6.1. Each unit can instruct and/or provide additional training as needed. Examples can be
found in the following: Physical Security (AFI 31-101); Industrial Security (AFI 31-601);
Personnel Security (AFI 31-501); Operations Security (AFI 10-701)
