BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-306
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                27 APRIL 2011

                                                                                       Services

                                                NONAPPROPRIATED FUND GROUP LIFE
                                                      AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND
                                                           DISMEMBERMENT PLAN

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSVA/SVXHI                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/A1S
                                                                         (Mr. Charles E. Milam)
Supersedes:   AFI 34-306, 28 Jan 2002                                                 Pages: 24


This instruction implements AFPD 34-3, Nonappropriated Funds Personnel Management and
Administration. It gives the requirements and procedures for managing and administering the
Air Force Nonappropriated Fund (AFNAF) Group Life and Accidental Death and
Dismemberment Insurance Plan (AFNAF Group Life and AD&D Plan). It requires the
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by
Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. System Of Records Notice F065 AF SVA B,
Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Employee Insurance and Benefits System File, applies. This
instruction applies to all active duty military, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve
members participating in the program. The reports in this instruction are exempt from licensing
in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management
Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections. This
AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this
Instruction must be routed to AF/A1S for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Section A- Program Overview
 2                                                                                                   AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: determining eligibility for participation, (paragraph 5), Leave With Out Pay, military
furlough, conversion of group life insurance to an individual policy, performing routing audits
and monitoring/acting on employee premium arrearages/shortages; counseling (paragraph 6),
including HRO discussing plan benefits with employees; and actions of the Shared Service
Center (SSC) (paragraph 7).

        1.     Definition. ..............................................................................................................     2
        2.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    2
        3.     Management and Administration. ..........................................................................                      2
        4.     Obtaining Information. ..........................................................................................              3
        5.     HRO Responsibilities. ...........................................................................................              3
        6.     HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch. ..............................................................................                     18
        7.     HQ AFSVA Shared Service Center (SSC). ...........................................................                             20
        8.     Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................                   22
        8.2.   Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................          22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES                                                                                                          23


1. Definition. The AFNAF Group Life and AD&D Plan is a commercially insured plan
providing basic life and AD&D coverage for eligible AFNAF civilian employees. The cost of
the plan coverage and administrative expenses of the Air Force Insurance Fund (AFIF) are paid
using employee and employer contributions deposited into the AFIF. The Plan offers two levels
of family-member life insurance for which an employee pays 100% of the cost. The Plan also
provides basic life coverage for eligible former employees and retirees who meet the minimum
age/participation criteria, and in some cases, service requirements. The AD&D portion of an
employee’s basic coverage ends when the person separates from NAF employment or otherwise
becomes ineligible for the Plan. Family-member life coverage, if in effect, may be converted to
an individual policy with the Carrier in accordance with this AFI. Participation in the Plan is
voluntary.
2. Purpose. The Plan provides a means for employees to maintain a measure of security for
themselves and their beneficiaries in the event of death or accidental injury.
3. Management and Administration.
     3.1. The Headquarters, Air Force Services Agency (HQ AFSVA) Insurance Branch provides
     general oversight, program management, and day-to-day administration of the Group Life
     and AD&D Plan for covered participants and their dependents and publishes instructional
     materials as required. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch also manages the continuing
     coverage program for eligible former employees/retirees and serves as their Human
     Resources Office (HRO).
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                           3


   3.2. The installation HRO performs routine base-level administration of the Plan as
   instructed by the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch, this AFI, and the Carrier’s Summary Plan
   Description (SPD).
   3.3. The HQ AFSVA Shared Service Center (SSC) Payroll Branch processes the collection
   of employee and employer contributions associated with plan participation as instructed by
   AF Services Financial Management System (AFSFMS) payroll procedures.
   3.4. The Carrier performs tasks concerning administration of the AFNAF Group Life and
   AD&D Plan. The Carrier provides customer service functions; reviews and pays claims; and
   provides information and assistance on premium setting and reserve funding. The Carrier
   also provides expert advice on group life and AD&D benefit management matters;
   establishes SPD content and publishes and distributes SPDs. The Carrier develops and prints
   employee communications; provides ongoing administrative and technical support on
   eligibility and enrollment issues, claims filing and payments, disability cases, and continuing
   coverage matters; and provides evaluation reports on group life and AD&D coverage.
4. Obtaining Information.
   4.1. HROs should forward technical questions, requests for additional supplies and
   information, and comments pertaining to the management and administration of the AFNAF
   Group Life and AD&D Plan to the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.
   4.2. Direct inquiries related to the filing, status, or payment of claims to the Carrier using the
   point of contact information (e.g., phone, fax, e-mail, or website) provided by the HQ
   AFSVA Insurance Branch.
   4.3. SPD. The term refers to the Group Life and AD&D benefits information booklet related
   to eligibility, covered and excluded benefits, continuing coverage programs, and other plan-
   related information.
Section B - What People Do
5. HRO Responsibilities. Properly administer the Plan by following instructions in this AFI,
and/or administrative guidance provided by the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch or Carrier. The
HRO will enroll eligible employees/dependents in the plan, counsel employees in the following
areas, and any other relevant subject matter in this AFI, as it pertains to the AFNAF Group Life
and AD&D Plan.
   5.1. Determine Eligibility for Participation. Employees may voluntarily enroll in the Plan
   and choose not to enroll in the DoD Health Benefits Program (DoD HBP) or any other
   benefit program. In this case, there is no requirement for employees to enroll in a retirement
   plan in order to qualify for post-retirement life coverage. Employees do not need to retire on
   an immediate annuity to qualify for retiree (continuing) life coverage. The HRO should
   counsel eligible employees about the future benefits a pension plan might pay later on and
   encourage them to join the AFNAF Retirement Plan as a basic means of financial security
   and protection for themselves and family. Additionally, employees must first enroll in group
   coverage for themselves before they may enroll any eligible dependents in family-member
   coverage. The requirements below, and those listed in the SPD establish the eligibility
   criteria for participation in the AFNAF Group Life and AD&D Plan.
4                                                                   AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


    5.2. Employee. To be eligible, an employee must be a US civilian, employed in a regular
    category and paid on the US dollar payroll, working a minimum of 20 hours per week. If
    employed outside the US, the employee must be a citizen or a permanent resident of the US,
    as defined below. Off-duty US military persons holding a regular AFNAF appointment are
    also included. Flexible employees, who have temporary or sporadic duties 0-40 hours per
    week and may be scheduled in advance or called in as needed, are not eligible for coverage in
    this plan. No person may be covered as an employee and dependent, and no person may be
    covered as a dependent of more than one employee. Life insurance may be continued for
    eligible former employees and retirees if they meet the required criteria. Refer to the SPD
    for definitions of eligible ―employee‖ and ―former employee/retiree.‖
       5.2.1. Citizen means all persons born or naturalized in the US and subject to the
       jurisdiction thereof.
       5.2.2. Permanent resident refers to a status that an alien may apply for, and if granted
       permanent resident status, receives a resident alien card.
    5.3. Dependent. To be eligible, a dependent must be a covered employee's spouse, including
    a common-law spouse in states that recognize common-law marriage; an unmarried child 14
    days old but less than 19 years of age; an unmarried child age 19 but less than 23 years of age
    who is a full-time student dependent; or a handicapped dependent child.
       5.3.1. Refer to the SPD for definitions of eligible "dependent" and "child" as well as
       special coverage rules pertaining to married NAF employees. Parents of employees are
       excluded from coverage under the Plan.
    5.4. Eligibility Following Employee Move from Appropriated Fund (APF) Position to a
    NAF Position (Portability Move). Life insurance is not portable, regardless of an employee's
    retirement system election. APF employees who move to NAF positions (whether
    involuntary or voluntary) may elect to enroll in the AFNAF Group Life and AD&D Plan
    within 30 days of appointment to a NAF position. They may not remain in the Federal
    Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) Program. Contact the HQ AFSVA Insurance
    Branch for special guidance on processing a portability-related enrollment under the AFNAF
    Group Life and AD&D Plan.
    5.5. Portability Move from NAF to APF Position. Under the AFNAF Group Life and
    AD&D Plan, there is no requirement for an automatic 31-day extension of life insurance
    coverage when an employee moves from a NAF position to an APF position. However, if a
    former plan participant (employee/dependent) passes away during the 31-day period
    immediately following an employee’s portability move to APF employment, a death benefit
    may be payable. For more details, see the conversion section in the SPD.
    5.6. Counseling Employees On Plan Provisions. Describe the plan provisions and types of
    coverage in the SPD and answer related questions so employees can make an informed
    decision about enrolling in the Plan. Provide the employee with a SPD upon enrollment.
    (Go to the HQ AFSVA website for an electronic version of the AFNAF Group Life and
    AD&D Plan SPD or request a copy through the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.) Employees
    are responsible for accuracy of deductions and timely reporting of errors or status changes on
    their Leave and Earnings Statement (LES) to the HRO for prompt resolution. This is
    especially important after certain life-changing events such as marriage, birth/adoption of a
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                       5


   child, divorce, death, etc. Depending on the status change, the employee/HRO may need to
   complete additional enrollment, beneficiary, or discontinuance forms and/or make an
   adjustment to the employee's payroll deductions using AF Form 2545, NAFI Notification of
   Personnel Action, in the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS). Advise
   employees to routinely (or at least annually) check their beneficiary designation information
   at the HRO so that in the event of death, the Carrier will pay benefits according to the
   employee’s wishes.
      5.6.1. Basic Life and AD&D Coverage. The Plan provides basic life insurance for
      insured active employees and their covered dependents, including former
      employees/retirees who qualify for continuing coverage under the retiree life program.
      The AD&D portion of coverage pertains only to insured active employees. See the SPD
      for more details.
      5.6.2. Basic Life Coverage. The Carrier pays a death benefit to a beneficiary when it
      receives written proof that a covered employee, dependent, or a former employee/retiree
      died while the insurance was in force. The life benefit is payable for all causes of death.
      5.6.3. AD&D Coverage. The Carrier pays an AD&D benefit if a covered active
      employee loses life, limb, or sight due to an accident. Accidental Death benefits are paid
      to a designated beneficiary; dismemberment benefits are paid to the insured employee.
      AD&D coverage does not pertain to covered dependents of insured employees nor former
      employees/retirees enrolled in continuing coverage. See the SPD for other coverage
      exclusions.
      5.6.4. Reporting Life and AD&D Claims to the Carrier. HROs and the HQ AFSVA
      Insurance Branch will submit valid Life/AD&D claims on covered plan participants to
      the Carrier using its electronic e-claim system reporting procedures. Contact the HQ
      AFSVA Insurance Branch for the required AF claim forms and additional guidance, if
      necessary. The Carrier will correspond with the designated beneficiary or the insured
      employee, as required, to obtain a certified death certificate and other documents needed
      to pay the claim. HROs and the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch can check the status of
      claims online at the Carrier’s website or by calling the Carrier directly.
          5.6.4.1. Processing AF Form 2545 Separation Action Due to Employee Death.
          Process an AF Form 2545 (separation action) in DCPDS to generate an automatic
          cancellation of the deceased employee’s coverage and payroll deductions.
      5.6.5. Family-Member Life (FML) Coverage. An employee must be insured under the
      Plan first before eligible dependents may be enrolled in FML coverage. Eligible
      employees may choose between two FML options, as explained below.
          5.6.5.1. Low Option. Spouse coverage is $5,000 and dependent child coverage is
          $2,500 for each covered child.
          5.6.1.2. High Option. Spouse coverage is $10,000 and dependent child coverage is
          $5,000 for each covered child.
          5.6.1.3. Initially Electing FML Coverage. An eligible employee may elect coverage
          for himself/herself and eligible dependents under the Plan within the initial 30-day
          waiting period following regular appointment or reclassification to an eligible
6                                                          AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


    employment category. The employee and HRO must complete an enrollment card
    before coverage can take effect. If the employee completes the enrollment card
    within the 30-day waiting period, coverage for the employee and his/her dependents
    will be effective on the 31st day after appointment or reclassification. The HRO
    notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee's group life election/payroll deductions
    on AF Form 2545 in DCPDS using the applicable plan code provided by the HQ
    AFSVA Insurance Branch. File the enrollment card in the employee's Official
    Personnel Folder (OPF).
    5.6.1.4. Special Rules For FML Coverage For Married NAF Employees. If both
    parents are NAF employees of a child(ren), and they qualify as eligible employees
    under the group plan, only one parent may elect FML coverage to cover the child(ren)
    only. If married NAF employees do not have eligible children, one employee may
    cover the other spouse as a dependent under FML coverage only if the other spouse is
    employed in an ineligible (flexible) employment category. (If the other spouse
    changes to an eligible (regular) category, the married NAF employee who is carrying
    the spouse under the FML option must cancel it as instructed below.) No person may
    be covered as an employee and dependent under the same policy, and no person may
    be covered as a family member of more than one employee.
    5.6.1.5. If the spouse being carried as a dependent under FML later qualifies for
    coverage on his/her own as a regular employee under the Plan, FML coverage must
    be terminated. In this case, the married NAF employee carrying the FML coverage
    must complete/sign a discontinuance card; file the card in the employee’s OPF. The
    effective date of FML cancellation is the date the spouse converts to a regular
    category. Process an AF Form 2545 within DCPDS to notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of
    the married employee’s change in insurance coverage, as instructed in this AFI
    (paragraphs 9. through 9.1.1.). Enroll the newly-eligible spouse in the group plan as
    discussed in this AFI (paragraphs 7. through 7.1.3) with one EXCEPTION: the
    effective date of coverage for the newly-eligible spouse is the date of the category
    change to regular (we waive the 30-day waiting period in this case).
    5.6.1.6. Electing or Increasing FML Coverage Upon Family Status Change. Certain
    family status changes (marriage or birth/adoption of a child) allow an enrolled
    employee in the Plan either to elect FML coverage or to increase the amount of FML
    coverage (go from low to high option) without first being required to submit evidence
    of insurability (EOI) to the Carrier. The employee must act within 30 days of the
    family status change by completing an enrollment card at the HRO. If the employee
    completes the enrollment card to elect or increase FML coverage within the 30-day
    dependent special enrollment period, the effective date of the FML election will be
    the date of the status change (qualifying event). NOTE: Regardless if the employee
    is enrolling in FML within 30 days of marriage, or within 30 days of the birth,
    adoption, or placement for adoption of a child, the dependent coverage will apply to
    all eligible family members. The HRO notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC of the
    employee's FML election/payroll deductions using AF Form 2545 within DCPDS.
    File the enrollment card in the employee's OPF.
    5.6.1.7. Decreasing FML Coverage. An employee may choose to decrease FML
    coverage from the high option to the low option anytime. However, before the
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                      7


         decrease in FML coverage can take effect, the employee and HRO must complete a
         new enrollment card reflecting the coverage change to the low option. The HRO
         notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee’s decrease in FML coverage/payroll
         deductions using AF Form 2545 within DCPDS. File the enrollment card in the
         employee's OPF.
         5.6.1.8. Discontinuing (Cancelling) FML Coverage. An employee may discontinue
         FML coverage anytime. However, it is the employee’s responsibility to inform the
         HRO when to cancel FML coverage; otherwise, if the employee fails to timely notify
         the HRO to terminate FML coverage, he/she will erroneously pay for coverage which
         does not exist. (If that occurs, the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch will review the
         employee’s situation to determine if a refund is due.) Before the discontinuance
         (cancellation) of coverage can take effect, the employee and HRO must complete a
         discontinuance card and file the card in the employee’s OPF. The HRO notifies the
         HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee’s cancellation of FML coverage/payroll deductions
         using AF Form 2545 within DCPDS. Below are some examples to help you
         determine the appropriate FML cancellation date.
            5.6.1.8.1. The effective date of the FML cancellation is determined by the reason
            for the discontinuance. Examples are: (1) If the employee covered only one
            dependent under FML, and if the covered dependent passed away, the effective
            date of cancellation is the date of death of the family member; or (2) if the
            employee covered only one dependent under FML, and the family member no
            longer meets the dependent definition under the Plan (e.g., divorce, or child
            reached maximum age or is no longer a full-time student), the effective date of
            cancellation is the date of the status change; or (3) if the employee voluntarily
            cancels FML coverage, the effective date of cancellation is the date he/she signs
            the discontinuance card; or (4) if the employee is on leave-without-pay (LWOP)
            and fails to pay required premiums, the effective date of cancellation is the first
            day of the pay period immediately following the pay period in which the
            employee defaulted on his/her group life premiums; or (5) FML ceases on the
            date the employee is no longer covered or eligible under the Plan (e.g., upon
            separating from NAF employment or changing to an ineligible employment
            category). See the SPD for more details.
         5.6.1.9. Reinstating FML Coverage. An employee who previously canceled FML
         coverage may be able to reinstate it, provided the family member meets the
         dependent's definition described in the SPD and the family member also submits
         approved EOI to the Carrier. Follow the instructions for Late Enrollment EOI in this
         AFI (see paragraphs 7.2 through 7.2.6).
         5.6.1.10. Reporting FML Claims to Carrier. The Carrier pays a death benefit to the
         insured employee when it receives written proof that the covered dependent died
         while FML coverage was in force. Report family-member death claims to the Carrier
         using the guidance shown in paragraph 6.2.3 of this AFI. In this case, the Carrier will
         correspond with the insured employee to obtain a certified death certificate and other
         documents needed to pay the FML claim. The HRO will check with the employee to
         determine if he/she has any other eligible dependents covered under FML. If so, the
         employee’s FML coverage should remain in force and payroll deductions should
8                                                                    AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


           continue as normal. Otherwise, if there are no more eligible dependents remaining
           under FML, notify the HQ AFSVA SSC to cancel the employee’s FML coverage and
           payroll deductions as instructed below. Lastly, the HRO should have the employee
           review (and update, if necessary) his/her beneficiary designation information while at
           the HRO.
              5.6.1.10.1. Processing AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to Stop FML Payroll
              Deductions. Follow the discontinuance instructions in paragraphs 6.3.7 through
              6.3.7.1 to notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of an employee’s cancellation of FML
              coverage/payroll deductions using AF Form 2545 in DCPDS.
    5.7. Effective Date of Coverage and Payroll Deductions.
       5.7.1. Regular employees may enroll in the Group Life Plan during the first 30 days after
       their NAF hire date or reclassification to an eligible (regular) employment category.
       Coverage is effective the first day immediately after serving a 30-day waiting period (i.e.,
       on the 31st day after hire or reclassification), provided the employee completes and
       returns an enrollment card during that time to the HRO. Payroll deductions begin with
       the first day of the pay period in which the employee’s coverage is effective.
    5.8. Processing Enrollment Elections. Enroll eligible employees/dependents in the Plan
    according to the guidance below:
       5.8.1. Timely Enrollment – Enrolling During 30-Day Waiting Period. The employee
       must timely request life coverage through the HRO within the 30-day waiting period, i.e.,
       within 30 days of his/her regular appointment or reclassification to an eligible
       employment category:
           5.8.1.1. The employee and HRO must complete an enrollment card and a beneficiary
           designation card. Advise the employee to keep beneficiary designations current
           because the Carrier will pay death benefits to the individual(s) or party(ies) listed on
           the most current beneficiary card. File the two cards in the employee's OPF.
           5.8.1.2. Inform the employee that coverage is effective the first day immediately
           after serving the 30-day waiting period (meaning, on the 31st day after hire or
           reclassification), and that payroll deductions begin in the same pay period coverage
           becomes effective. Also advise the employee that he/she is responsible for accuracy
           of deductions and timely reporting of errors or status changes on his/her LES to the
           HRO for prompt resolution.
           5.8.1.3. Process AF Form 2545 to Start Payroll Deductions. Process an AF Form
           2545 within DCPDS to start payroll deductions for group life premiums effective on
           the 31st day after hire or reclassification; use the applicable plan code provided by the
           HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch. File a copy of the personnel form in the employee's
           OPF.
       5.8.2. Late Enrollment EOI–Enrolling After 30-Day Waiting Period. To enroll an
       eligible employee and/or dependent who requests coverage in the Plan after the 30-day
       waiting period (late entrant), follow the instructions below:
           5.8.2.1. The employee/dependent and the HRO must complete the designated
           sections of the Carrier's EOI form. The HRO submits the completed EOI application
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                      9


         to the Carrier as instructed by the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch and suspenses a
         copy for follow-up in 3 weeks. If a response or decision is not received within this
         period, the HRO checks the status of the EOI form online at the Carrier’s website or
         calls the Carrier directly.
         5.8.2.2. The HRO also instructs the employee to complete an enrollment card and a
         beneficiary designation card, and suspenses both cards with the employee's EOI form
         until the Carrier approves, disapproves, or closes out the request for coverage.
         5.8.2.3. The Carrier will correspond with the employee/dependent directly if it
         suspends the EOI review (application) for any reason. The person(s) must comply
         with the request in order for the Carrier to resume EOI consideration. After the
         Carrier receives the necessary information, it will notify the HRO and EOI
         applicant(s) of its final decision in writing. Otherwise, the Carrier will closeout the
         EOI application for no response/incomplete data.
         5.8.2.4. If the Carrier approves coverage, file the completed enrollment and
         beneficiary cards, the EOI form, and the Carrier decision notice in the employee’s
         OPF. Inform the employee that group coverage is effective only for the individual(s)
         whose EOI is approved by the Carrier as follows: (1) If the EOI is approved on the
         first day of a month, coverage is effective on that day; (2) if the EOI is approved on
         any other day of the month, coverage is effective the first day of the next month. See
         the SPD for more details. NOTE: A dependent’s coverage cannot take effect unless
         the employee’s coverage is also effective.
         5.8.2.5. Process AF Form 2545 to Start or Change Payroll Deductions. Process an
         AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to start, or change, an employee’s payroll deductions for
         group life premiums; use the applicable plan code provided by the HQ AFSVA
         Insurance Branch. Determine the appropriate effective date of coverage using the
         EOI approval rules discussed in paragraph 7.2.4 above. File a copy of the personnel
         form in the employee's OPF.
         5.8.2.6. If the Carrier denies coverage or informs the HRO that the applicant’s EOI
         status is incomplete, notify the employee/dependents they are not covered under the
         Plan and destroy the previously-completed enrollment and beneficiary designation
         cards, as applicable.
      5.8.3. Special Enrollment Instructions Related to Military Furlough. Employees on
      military furlough who either (1) elected to cancel coverage prior to the start of their
      military furlough period or (2) converted to an individual policy with the Carrier when
      their 12-month military furlough (LWOP) period expired, may immediately enroll
      themselves and their dependents in the Plan within 30 days of returning to NAF
      employment status. The effective date of group life coverage is the date the employee
      resumes NAF employment, provided he/she has completed and returned an enrollment
      card to the HRO within the 30-day period. If the employee fails to re-enroll
      himself/herself and eligible dependents in the Plan within 30 days of resuming NAF
      employment, then they will have to submit an EOI application to the Carrier for approval
      before coverage can begin. See additional guidance on military furlough in paragraphs
      14 through 14.2.6. In this AFI.
 10                                                               AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


      5.8.4. Determining Amount of Employee Life Insurance and Corresponding Class Code.
          5.8.4.1. The Carrier uses the basic yearly earnings (BYE) criteria described in the
          SPD to calculate an employee’s life insurance benefit. Active employees fall into two
          basic categories: (1) Employees whose BYE is $48,000 or less; or (2) employees
          whose BYE is more than $48,000. Consequently, the amount of an employee’s life
          insurance depends on which BYE category he/she falls under.
             5.8.4.1.1. For employees whose BYE is $48,000 or less, the amount of life
             insurance is either: the lesser of the BYE, rounded to the next higher $1,000
             multiple (if not already an even multiple thereof), times one and one-half; or
             $50,000. See below example in paragraph 7.4.2.1.
             5.8.4.1.2. For employees whose BYE is more than $48,000, the amount of life
             insurance is one times the BYE, rounded to the next higher $1,000 multiple (if not
             already an even multiple thereof), plus $2,000. See below example in paragraph
             7.4.2.4.
          5.8.4.2. To determine an employee’s life insurance amount, calculate his/her BYE as
          explained in the following EXAMPLES:
             5.8.4.2.1. To calculate the BYE, multiply the employee's first-shift hourly rate by
             2080 (“2080” is the factor used to calculate the amount of work hours annually
             for life insurance purposes) and round the dollar amount up to the next higher
             $1,000 multiple (if not already an even $1,000 multiple thereof), times one and
             one-half.
EXAMPLE: $15.85 x 2080 = $32,968 BYE. Round to next higher $1,000 multiple, or $33,000.
Multiply $33,000 by 1.5 = $49,500. $49,500 = Life insurance amount.
             5.8.4.2.2. If the employee’s BYE results in an even thousand dollar multiple, e.g.,
             $13,000, do not round the amount up to the next higher $1,000 multiple. Instead,
             multiply the resulting even thousand dollar multiple (e.g., $13,000) times one and
             one-half.
EXAMPLE: $6.25 x 2080 = $13,000 BYE. Since $13,000 is an even thousand dollar multiple
already, it is not rounded-up. Instead, multiply $13,000 by 1.5 = $19,500. $19,500 = Life
insurance amount.
             5.8.4.2.3. Employees whose BYE is more than $33,000, but not more than
             $48,000, are automatically covered for $50,000 life insurance.
             5.8.4.2.4. For employees whose BYE is more than $48,000, the amount of life
             insurance is the amount of the BYE rounded to the next higher $1,000 multiple (if
             not already an even $1,000 multiple thereof), plus $2,000.
EXAMPLE: $25.25 x 2080 = $52,520 BYE. Round to next higher $1,000 multiple, or $53,000.
Take $53,000 and add $2,000 = $55,000. $55,000 = Life insurance amount.

                                           OR
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                    11


EXAMPLE: $25.00 x 2080 = $52,000 BYE. Since $52,000 is an even thousand dollar multiple
already, it is not rounded-up. Instead, take $52,000 and add $2,000 = $54,000. $54,000 = Life
insurance amount.
          5.8.4.3. HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch will provide on request and post a copy of the
          BYE salary range/life insurance class codes on the HQAFSVA website for processing
          group life-related AF Forms 2545 in DCPDS.
   5.9. Processing Waivers of Enrollment.
       5.9.1. If an employee initially waives coverage during the 30-day waiting period or when
       first eligible, the employee and HRO must complete a waiver of coverage card.
       Document the waiver on an AF Form 2545 in DCPDS. File the waiver card and a copy
       of the personnel form in the employee’s OPF.
       5.9.2. Should the employee and dependents (if applicable) later desire to enroll in the
       Plan, they must first submit an approved EOI application to the Carrier before coverage
       can take effect. See the appropriate sections in the SPD and paragraphs 7.2 through
       7.2.6. in this AFI for more information about the Late Enrollment EOI process.
   5.10. Processing Cancellations of Coverage.
       5.10.1. HRO will use AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of an
       employee’s cancellation of group life insurance when they request to discontinue
       coverage, terminate or separate from NAF employment, or change to an ineligible
       employment category. An employee does not pay a premium in the pay period during
       which the cancellation of coverage occurs.
          5.10.1.1. Discontinuing Coverage. If the employee elects to cancel all or only a
          portion of his/her group life coverage (e.g., cancel FML only), the employee and
          HRO must complete a discontinuance of coverage card. The HRO files the card in
          the employee's OPF. The effective date for each transaction follows:
          5.10.1.2. For voluntary cancellation of coverage, cancel the insurance effective with
          the date the employee signed the discontinuance card.
          5.10.1.3. For termination/separation from NAF employment or change to an
          ineligible category, cancel coverage effective with either the date of the employee’s
          termination/separation or the date of the category change to flex; whichever is
          applicable.
          5.10.1.4. For cancellations of coverage for employees who are on approved LWOP
          or military furlough, see separate instructions in paragraphs 14 and 15 of this AFI.
   5.11. Processing Name Changes.
       5.11.1. The HRO will use AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of
       employee personal data changes. The HRO will verify name change using applicable
       legal documentation.       The employee and the HRO also must complete new
       enrollment/beneficiary designation cards reflecting the employee’s new name. File the
       legal information/cards in the employee’s OPF.
   5.12. Processing Transfers.
12                                                                AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


     5.12.1. The HRO determines if a transferring employee meets the eligibility criteria to
     continue participation in the Plan at the gaining installation.
         5.12.1.1. Transfers Without A Break In Service. If an enrolled employee transfers
         without a break in service, coverage continues without interruption and the employee
         is not subject to the 30-day waiting period for enrollment purposes. The transfer AF
         Form 2545 should reflect continuing group life coverage if the employee had it at his
         or her previous duty station. The employee does not need to complete new enrollment
         and beneficiary cards at the gaining installation since there is no break in coverage.
         However, the employee may choose to review his/her beneficiary designation
         information to ensure it is still current. Notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of the transfer-in
         enrollment action using AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to start payroll deductions.
         NOTE: The employee may continue in the same type of coverage at the gaining
         installation as he/she had previously at the former installation. For example, if the
         employee had employee-only coverage at the former installation, he/she may
         continue in employee-only coverage at the gaining installation. The employee may
         not change or increase to employee-with-family member coverage at the gaining
         installation unless, at the time of transfer, the employee experienced a change in
         family status (e.g., marriage or birth/adoption of a child), or the dependent(s) was
         newly approved for coverage by the Carrier under EOI.
         5.12.1.2. Transfer Between NAFIs Occurring in Two Different, But Successive Pay
         Periods. If the termination of employment from the losing installation and
         subsequent employment with the gaining installation occur in two different but
         successive pay periods, a full premium payment is made for each pay period at the
         respective installation.
         5.12.1.3. Transfer Between NAFIs Occurring In Same Pay Period. If the termination
         of employment from the losing installation and subsequent employment in the
         gaining installation occur in the same pay period, a full premium payment for the pay
         period is made by the gaining installation. If premiums are deducted by both
         installations, the losing installation will refund the erroneous premium deductions to
         the employee and gaining installation.
         5.12.1.4. Transfers With A Break In Service. If an enrolled employee transfers with
         a break in service of one or more workdays, determine if the employee is still eligible
         for the Plan at the gaining installation. If the employee, including dependents, does
         not meet the eligibility criteria outlined in this AFI and the SPD, they may not enroll
         in the Plan. If the employee is not eligible to continue participation in the Plan, HRO
         will notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of the life insurance cancellation using AF Form
         2545 in DCPDS; this action will stop payroll deductions. File a copy of the personnel
         form in the employee’s OPF. Otherwise, if the employee (and dependents) is eligible
         for participation, follow the appropriate guidance in this AFI for enrolling the
         employee/dependents in the Plan based on their reason for eligibility (e.g., new
         appointment, change to regular category, approved EOI, etc.).
  5.13. Waiver of Premium Due to Total Disability.
     5.13.1. When an employee provides the HRO with written notice of permanent and total
     disability, determine his/her eligibility for waiver of premium for life insurance according
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                     13


      to the SPD. The SPD contains important age criteria, application timelines, and other
      detailed requirements. The waiver of premium benefit does not pertain to AD&D
      coverage or FML coverage, as explained below.
         5.13.1.1. Waiver of Premium Application. Waivers of premium-disability coverage
         are employee-initiated and must be submitted with the appropriate claim
         forms/supporting evidence to the Carrier as instructed by the HQ AFSVA Insurance
         Branch. (Go to the HQ AFSVA website for electronic copies of the waiver of
         premium claim forms or request copies through the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.)
         5.13.1.2. Employee/Employer Premiums During Waiver of Premium Application
         Process. While the waiver of premium application is being considered, the employee
         and employer continue paying biweekly premiums in case the claim is denied (to
         avoid a lapse in coverage). In a few weeks, the Carrier will send notice of approval
         or disapproval to the employee and HRO based on the employee's claim application.
             5.13.1.2.1. If approved, the HRO processes an AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to
             discontinue employee and employer contributions while the employee is disabled,
             and also annotates on the personnel form that the employee is under waiver of
             premium-disability life coverage.
             5.13.1.2.2. If disapproved, the employee and employer continue paying the
             required premiums so coverage will remain in force without interruption.
             5.13.1.2.3. The AD&D portion of the employee's coverage and FML coverage (if
             applicable) will cease while the employee is under the waiver of premium-
             disability coverage. The FML coverage for dependents may be converted to an
             individual policy with the Carrier while the employee is on waiver of premium-
             disability. The AD&D coverage, however, may not be converted and remains
             inactive for the duration that the employee is on waiver of premium. For these
             and other special provisions that apply under waiver of premium, refer to the
             SPD.
             5.13.1.2.4. After the employee is approved for waiver of premium, the Carrier
             will periodically request proof of continued disability. The employee must
             comply with the Carrier’s request in a timely manner; otherwise, waiver of
             premium coverage stops. Waiver of premium coverage also stops if the employee
             is no longer totally disabled or recovers and returns to work.
             5.13.1.2.5. Should the employee pass away while on waiver of premium-
             disability coverage, contact the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch for special
             guidance on e-claim filing procedures.
         5.13.1.3. Disability–Income Replacement Clause.           Other than the waiver of
         premium-disability coverage discussed above, the Plan does not have a disability
         clause which would allow employees to receive payments while out on disability.
         The Plan does not offer an income replacement provision for disability. Instead, in
         place of short or long term disability insurance, employees may use their annual or
         sick leave to be paid during the period of their disability; or if applicable, they may
         request approval through their supervisors and the HRO to be placed on LWOP.
14                                                               AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


         Employees may also go through their supervisors and HRO to solicit leave donations
         from eligible NAF employees to offset time away from duty.
  5.14. Beneficiary Designations/Changes.
     5.14.1. HRO will advise employees to designate their beneficiary(ies) on a beneficiary
     designation card upon enrolling in the Plan. Refer to the SPD and/or check with the HQ
     AFSVA Insurance Branch for acceptable beneficiary designations. If the employee’s
     beneficiary information appears to be valid, file the card in his/her OPF. After initial
     enrollment, employees may update their beneficiary information anytime. Employees
     should keep their beneficiary designation(s) current and update this information at least
     annually or upon a life-changing event. In the event of the employee's death, the Carrier
     will pay the benefit according to the information listed on the most current beneficiary
     designation card.
  5.15. LWOP–Continuation of Insurance Coverage.
     5.15.1. During approved LWOP (or absence-without-pay), an employee may elect to
     continue coverage under the Plan, provided the employee continues to pay the required
     employee share of the premium. Consequently, the employer (NAFI) will continue to
     pay the employer’s share. This LWOP provision for insurance continuation also applies
     to employees placed on Workers’ Compensation for a work-related accident or injury.
     5.15.2. LWOP. The maximum period an employee may remain in the Plan during a
     period of LWOP, for reasons other than illness or injury, is limited to 12 months.
         5.15.2.1. The HRO should counsel the supervisor and employee prior to the LWOP
         period about continuing participation in the Plan and the termination of coverage due
         to nonpayment of premiums, as well as reinstatement of coverage opportunities.
         5.15.2.2. When an employee in LWOP status fails to pay required premiums, the
         HRO cancels group life coverage effective on the first day of the pay period
         following the pay period in which the employee failed to make a premium. Notify
         the HQ AFSVA SSC of the coverage cancellation using AF Form 2545 in DCPDS.
         File a copy of the personnel form in the employee’s OPF.
  5.15.3. Losing Coverage. Any employee losing group coverage due to the nonpayment of
  premiums is not eligible for continuing coverage and may not re-enroll in the Plan until such
  time as EOI is approved by the Carrier. This includes dependents if the employee was
  enrolled in FML coverage at the time of loss.
     5.15.4. LWOP Due to Transfer With Head of Household. Regular employees on LWOP
     due to transfer with head of household are entitled to remain in the Plan for up to 150
     days to avoid a break in service. The HRO should counsel employees prior to departure
     about continuing participation in the Plan while on LWOP, continuing coverage
     programs upon expiration of the LWOP, termination of coverage due to nonpayment of
     premiums, as well as reinstatement of coverage opportunities.
         5.15.4.1. If an employee does not elect to continue participation in the Plan, the
         employee and HRO need to complete a discontinuance of coverage card. The HRO
         notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee’s cancellation of group life coverage
         using AF Form 2545 in DCPDS. The effective date of cancellation is the date the
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                        15


          employee signs the discontinuance card. File the discontinuance card and a copy of
          the personnel form in the employee's OPF.
          5.15.4.2. If an employee elects to continue participation in the Plan, the HRO will
          suspense a copy of the employee’s life enrollment card for 150 days, and follow the
          guidance below.
              5.15.4.2.1. The HRO notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC to separate the employee from
              NAF employment when the employee reaches the end of the 150-day LWOP
              period, unless a gaining installation contacts the losing installation to request the
              employee’s OPF for purposes of continuing his/her life coverage without a break.
              (Contact the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch for special guidance for continuing
              the employee’s coverage at the gaining installation without interruption.)
              Otherwise, upon the expiration of the 150-day LWOP period, process an AF Form
              2545 within DCPDS separating the employee from NAF employment; and at that
              point, coverage ceases effective on the date the employee lost LWOP eligibility.
              File the life enrollment card and a copy of the personnel form in the employee's
              OPF.
              5.15.4.2.2. If the employee fails to pay required premiums during the 150-day
              LWOP period, process an AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to cancel coverage effective
              on the first day of the pay period after the pay period he/she failed to make a
              payment. File the life enrollment card and a copy of the personnel form in the
              employee's OPF.
              5.15.4.2.3. If an employee is rehired in an eligible employment category before
              the expiration of the LWOP, verify with the losing HRO that the employee made
              all required premium payments and that coverage was not terminated.
                 5.15.4.2.3.1. If the employee’s account is current, the gaining HRO requests
                 the employee's OPF from the losing HRO. Since group life coverage will
                 remain in force, the employee is not required to complete new enrollment and
                 beneficiary cards at the gaining installation. However, the employee may
                 choose to review his/her beneficiary designation information to ensure it is
                 still current. The gaining HRO notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC of the
                 employee's continued enrollment using AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to start
                 payroll deductions.
                 5.5.4.2.3.2. If the employee’s account is not current and coverage has not yet
                 been canceled, and if the employee is still eligible to remain in the Plan, the
                 employee must first pay required retroactive premiums to the losing
                 installation. The gaining HRO verifies with the losing HRO that the
                 employee made all the required payments, and then follows the instructions
                 for notifying the HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee's continued enrollment at
                 the gaining installation as discussed in paragraph 14.4.2.3.1 above.
   5.16. Military Furlough. The HRO counsels employees placed on military furlough for
   enlistment, induction, or recall to extended active duty that they and covered dependents may
   continue participating in the Plan for a maximum of 12 months following military activation.
   Under military furlough, the HRO will administer the employee’s continuation of coverage
16                                                                AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


  similarly to LWOP actions with the following EXCEPTION: Prior to starting the military
  furlough period, the employee must elect either to cancel or continue his/her participation in
  the Plan; then the HRO takes action as follows:
     5.16.1. If the employee chooses to cancel group life coverage while on military furlough,
     the employee and HRO must complete a discontinuance of coverage card. Cancel the life
     insurance effective with the date the employee signed the discontinuance card. The HRO
     files the card in the employee's OPF. Use AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify the HQ
     AFSVA SSC of the employee’s cancellation of group life coverage.
         5.16.1.1. Advise the employee/dependents that they may immediately reinstate the
         same coverage they had under the Plan within 30 days of the employee’s return to
         NAF employment with no waiting period. Upon resuming NAF employment, the
         employee and HRO must complete new life enrollment and beneficiary cards; file
         both cards in the employee’s OPF. The effective date of coverage is the date the
         employee returns to NAF employment. Use AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify the
         HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee’s change in insurance coverage (i.e., reinstatement
         of group life coverage) and to start payroll deductions.
         5.16.1.2. If the employee fails to re-enroll in the Plan within 30 days of resuming
         NAF employment, then he/she and dependents will have to submit an approved EOI
         application to the Carrier before coverage can begin. See EOI procedures in
         paragraphs 7.2 through 7.2.6. of this AFI.
     5.16.2. If the employee chooses to continue group life coverage while on military
     furlough, he/she must continue paying the required employee share of the premium.
     Consequently, the employer (NAFI) will continue paying the employer’s share. As long
     as the respective premium shares continue to be paid, the employee’s group life coverage
     remains in force.
         5.16.2.1. The HRO counsels the employee prior to the military furlough period about
         continuing participation in the Plan and the termination of coverage due to
         nonpayment of premiums, as well as reinstatement of coverage opportunities.
         5.16.2.2. If the employee on military furlough fails to pay the required premiums at
         any time during the 12-month continuation period, the HRO must cancel coverage
         due to nonpayment effective with the first day of the pay period following the pay
         period in which the employee defaulted. Process an AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to
         notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee’s cancellation of group life coverage.
         File a copy of the personnel form in the employee’s OPF.
     5.16.3. Losing Coverage. Any employee losing group coverage due to the nonpayment
     of premiums is not eligible for continuing coverage and may not re-enroll in the Plan
     until such time as EOI is approved by the Carrier. This includes dependents if the
     employee was enrolled in FML coverage at the time of loss.
         5.16.3.1. Should the employee continue to be carried in a military furlough status
         beyond the 12month period, his/her group life coverage must cease. Instead, the
         employee/dependents will be given the opportunity to convert their group coverage to
         an individual policy if they meet the requirements below.
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                      17


          5.16.3.2. To be eligible for conversion, the employee/dependents must have
          continued group coverage for the full 12-month military furlough period and paid all
          required premiums. If so, they may apply for a conversion policy by submitting an
          application to the Carrier within 31 days after the 12-month continuation period
          expires. (Go to the HQ AFSVA website for an electronic copy of the conversion
          application form or request a copy through the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.) The
          conversion period may be extended for an additional 60 days if the employee cannot
          meet the initial 31-day deadline due to difficulties related to military deployment. To
          initiate the 60-day extension request, the employee, spouse, or close family member
          must contact the Carrier before the initial 31-day conversion deadline expires. The
          Carrier must receive the employee’s completed conversion application and proof of
          active military service within the 60-day extension period. From that point on, the
          Carrier takes over until such time the employee returns to NAF duty. The employee
          should immediately cancel any conversion policy (if in effect at that time) and re-
          enroll in the AFNAF Group Life and AD&D Plan within 30 days of returning to NAF
          duty.
          5.16.3.3. Since the employee’s group life coverage may not continue beyond the
          maximum 12month continuation period, the HRO must notify the HQ AFSVA SSC
          to cancel it using AF Form 2545 in DCPDS. The effective date of cancellation is the
          last day of the 12-month period. File a copy of the personnel form in the employee’s
          OPF.
          5.16.3.4. If the HRO has to cancel the employee’s group life coverage at the end of
          the 12month period, inform the employee that it may be reinstated immediately upon
          his/her return to NAF employment. Follow the group life enrollment instructions in
          this AFI in paragraphs 15.1.1 through 15.1.2 above.
   5.17. Conversion of Group Life Insurance to an Individual Policy.
      5.17.1. If an employee losing group life insurance does not qualify for continuing
      coverage under any of the retiree life programs, the HRO will inform the employee of the
      conversion privilege as described in the SPD. If the employee also had FML (dependent)
      coverage in effect at the time of loss, he/she may convert it to an individual policy with
      the Carrier as well. Before converting, the HRO verifies the employee (and dependents,
      if applicable) is enrolled in the Plan on the day before losing group eligibility. If the
      employee is interested in converting coverage (including FML) to an individual policy,
      have him/her complete a conversion application and send it along with the initial
      premium to the Carrier within 31 days after loss. (Go to the HQ AFSVA website for a
      conversion application form or request a copy through the HQ AFSVA Insurance
      Branch.) No medical exam will be required if application for conversion is made to the
      Carrier within 31 days.
   5.18. Performing Routine Insurance Audits/Reconciling Reports.
      5.18.1. The HRO will reconcile the biweekly group insurance enrollment/payroll
      deduction report generated by the HQ AFSVA SSC with life insurance-related actions
      submitted on AF Forms 2545, and take corrective action in DCPDS or through the HQ
      AFSVA SSC, as required.
 18                                                               AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


          5.18.1.1. For example, the HRO will verify each pay period that employees’ payroll
          deductions correspond with their coverage elections using a detailed group insurance
          enrollment/deduction report. The payroll report will match the enrollment data in
          DCPDS. The HRO will correct any errors in DCPDS and notify or coordinate with
          the HQ AFSVA SSC for resolution accordingly.
          5.18.1.2. Employee Premium Shortages. The HRO coordinates with the HQ AFSVA
          SSC using whatever means available to immediately inform an employee when pay is
          insufficient to cover his/her group life premiums. In addition, the HRO will:
             5.18.1.2.1. Instruct the employee to pay the shortage by the next pay period
             following the pay period in which the shortage occurred.
             5.18.1.2.2. Notify the HQ AFSVA SSC when the employee failed to timely pay
             the shortage as instructed. The HRO also notifies the employee that coverage is
             canceled due to nonpayment of premiums.
          5.18.1.3. The HRO processes an AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify the HQ AFSVA
          SSC of the employee’s cancellation of group life coverage. The effective date of
          cancellation is the first day of the pay period immediately following the pay period in
          which the shortage occurred. File a copy of the personnel form in the employee’s
          OPF.
             5.18.1.3.1. Losing Coverage. Any employee losing group coverage due to the
             nonpayment of premiums is not eligible for continuing coverage and may not re-
             enroll in the Plan until such time as an EOI application is approved by the Carrier.
             This includes dependents if the employee was enrolled in FML coverage at the
             time of loss.
          5.18.1.4. As long as employees continue to pay their share of the premium, the
          employer (NAFI) continues to pay the employer share. Coverage remains in effect as
          long as the respective shares are paid.
6. HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch announces plan
changes, reviews, sets and implements contribution rates, as applicable, based on Carrier
premiums, claims utilization, and participant demographics.
   6.1. Current Rates. Basic Life and AD&D coverage is contributory; the current cost shares
   are:
      6.1.1. Active employees pay 54% of the total premium, and the cost share for the
      employing Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality (NAFI) is 46% of the total premium.
      The employee pays 100% of the cost of FML coverage.
      6.1.2. Eligible former employees/retirees pay the entire cost of basic life coverage, as
      appropriate, for their class with one EXCEPTION: if an individual qualified for non-
      contributory continuing coverage upon meeting the minimum age/participation
      requirements, basic life coverage is free.
   6.2. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch forwards approved rates to HROs, the HQ AFSVA
   SSC, and other HQ AFSVA functional offices for implementation.
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                      19


      6.2.1. The HQ AFSVA SSC updates tables and processes the approved premium rates
      for active employees.
   6.3. Plan Changes. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch announces any information on
   benefit or plan changes, as required. The HRO handles plan communications for insured
   active employees and their covered dependents. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch
   publicizes plan communications for former employees/retirees enrolled in continuing
   coverage.
   6.4. Providing guidance on accelerated benefits. The Carrier offers an accelerated
   (advanced) death benefit if a participant’s life expectancy is twelve months or less due to a
   terminal condition caused by sickness or accident. (See SPD for more details and any
   restrictions or fees that apply to this benefit.) If the HRO determines that a participant
   potentially qualifies for accelerated benefits, have the attending physician submit written
   proof of the individual’s terminal condition to the Carrier for immediate consideration.
   Contact the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch for the required claim forms and special guidance
   on e-claim filing procedures.
   6.5. Continuing Coverage Programs. Employees losing coverage because of resignation,
   retirement, separation, termination, base closure, business based action (BBA), or
   reclassification to an ineligible employment category, etc., may be eligible to continue
   coverage under the Group Life Plan as described below. Should an employee lose coverage
   due to removal for cause/gross misconduct, contact the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch for
   special instructions and available continuation options.
      6.5.1. Continuing Coverage Under the Group Life Plan. Employees losing eligibility for
      any of the reasons listed above may continue basic life insurance, but not AD&D, under
      either of two retiree programs, if they are enrolled in the Plan at the time coverage ends,
      and they also meet the minimum age/participation criteria, and in some cases, service
      requirements. Under the two retiree programs, the amount of basic life insurance reduces
      at certain age levels. Refer to the SPD for more information on these age-related benefit
      reductions and program eligibility requirements.
          6.5.1.2. Eligibility for Former Employees/Retirees for Non-Contributory Coverage.
          To qualify, former employees/retirees must be enrolled in the Plan on the day before
          loss of coverage, be age 62 and older with at least 15 years (cumulative total) of
          participation in the Plan. Former employees/retirees pay no premium for this
          continuing coverage (100% Non-contributory).
          6.5.1.2. Eligibility for Former Employees/Retirees for Contributory Coverage. To
          qualify, former employees/retirees must be enrolled in the Plan on the day before loss
          of coverage, be age 52 and older with at least 5 years (cumulative total) of
          participation in the Plan; or be age 50 and older with at least 5 years (cumulative
          total) of participation in the Plan and at least 20 years of regular AFNAF service who
          have been involuntarily terminated, other than for cause; or be under age 52 with at
          least 5 years (cumulative total) of participation in the Plan and at least 25 years of
          regular AFNAF service who have been involuntarily terminated, other than for cause.
          Former employees/retirees pay the full premium cost of this continuing coverage
          (100% Contributory).
 20                                                               AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


          6.5.1.3. Required Documentation. If a former employee/retiree qualifies for
          continuing coverage under either the non-contributory or contributory retiree life
          program, send the required documentation using an HRO checklist to the HQ AFSVA
          Insurance Branch within 30 days of the date of eligibility. Go to the HQ AFSVA
          website for an electronic copy of the checklist or request it through the HQ AFSVA
          Insurance Branch.
7. HQ AFSVA Shared Service Center (SSC).
   7.1. Processing Personnel Forms Within Payroll System in the following ways:
      7.1.1. The HQ AFSVA SSC processes transactions through DCPDS that begin, cancel,
      or change the employee and employer payroll deductions for group life coverage.
      7.1.2. For cancellations and terminations, including discontinuance of coverage at an
      employee’s request, do not deduct employee and employer premiums for the last pay
      period that the insurance was in effect.
          7.1.2.1. For enrollments, payroll deductions start in the same pay period that an
          employee’s coverage is effective.
      7.1.3. The HQ AFSVA SSC also processes any other life insurance-related actions based
      upon information received from DCPDS. The effective date of the personnel form
      determines when deductions for coverage start, stop, or change.
          7.1.3.1. For a change that increases coverage (from single to family coverage, or
          from low option to high option FML), payroll deductions for the increased coverage
          begin with the pay period during which the change becomes effective. The effective
          date of the insurance change depends on the event that prompted the employee’s
          opportunity to increase coverage such as a newly eligible dependent due to marriage,
          birth/adoption of a child, or enrollment as a full-time student.
          7.1.3.2. For a change that decreases coverage (from family to single coverage, or
          from high option to low option FML), do not deduct employee and employer
          premiums for family or high option FML for the last pay period such coverage was in
          effect. The effective date of the insurance change depends on the event that prompted
          the employee’s opportunity to decrease coverage such as an ineligible dependent,
          death, divorce, or upon the employee’s request.
   7.2. Performing Routine Insurance Audits/Reconciling Reports.
      7.2.1. The HRO works through DCPDS and the SSC to make corrections as necessary.
      7.2.2. If an insurance correction (refund or deduction) applies to two pay periods or less,
      correct errors through the payroll system using current AFSFMS payroll procedures.
      7.2.3. If an insurance correction is for more than two pay periods, the HQ AFSVA SSC
      in coordination with the HRO, will provide the following information to the HQ AFSVA
      Insurance Branch for review and corrective action.
          7.2.3.1. Explanation of the problem and include the NAFI Cash Management
          Investment Program (CMIP) number and the pay periods involved.
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                                     21


          7.2.3.2. Copies of the AF Form 2545 reflecting the effective date of the ―incorrect‖
          information (group insurance plan code or effective date, etc.) and the AF Form 2545
          reflecting the effective date of the ―correction.‖ Also include copies of supporting
          documents reflecting the employee’s enrollment, change, cancellation, or waiver of
          insurance, as applicable.
          7.2.3.4. Worksheet indicating, by pay period, the amounts actually paid by the
          employee and employer, along with the amounts that should have been paid by both
          parties. (Take into account any rate changes that may have occurred under the Plan.)
          7.2.3.5. Name, social security number, and home address of the employee involved.
   7.3. Corrective Action.
      7.3.1. The HRO will notify the employee of the corrective action, including the related
      refund or retroactive amount due, and the procedures for requesting a waiver of
      indebtedness (AFMAN 34-212, Chapter 2).
   7.4. Contribution Shortages.
      7.4.1. HQ AFSVA SSC will coordinate with the HRO, and review any available
      arrearage/shortage reports generated by the HQ AFSVA SSC, and also initiate some
      method of contact or notice when an employee’s pay is insufficient to cover his/her share
      of the group life premium. This is especially important as premium arrearages/shortages
      typically occur when an employee goes on LWOP (including LWOP related to workers’
      compensation) or furlough.
          7.4.1.1. If the employee pays the shortage no later than the pay period following the
          one in which the shortage occurred, the HQ AFSVA SSC processes the collection for
          the next pay period. Coverage continues without interruption.
          7.4.1.2. If the employee fails to pay the shortage by the pay period following the one
          in which the shortage occurred, the HRO contacts the employee to determine
          payment status. If no resolution occurs, the HRO immediately cancels coverage due
          to nonpayment, as explained below.
             7.4.1.2.1. The effective date of cancellation is the first day of the pay period
             immediately following the default pay period. The HRO will process an
             AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee’s
             cancellation of group life coverage and will file a copy of the personnel form in
             the employee’s OPF.
   7.5. Reviewing Eligibility During LWOP.
      7.5.1. Employees may continue coverage in the Plan during a period of approved LWOP,
      provided they continue to pay their share of the employee premium; consequently, the
      employer NAFI continues to pay the employer’s share. Coverage remains in effect as
      long as the respective shares are paid.
          7.5.1.1. The HRO will coordinate with the HQ AFSVA SSC when an employee on
          LWOP fails to pay the required premiums or reaches the maximum period for
          participation as defined below.
 22                                                             AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


          7.5.1.2. An employee on LWOP (for reasons other than illness or injury) is entitled
          to remain in the Plan for 12 months unless the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch grants
          an extension.
          7.5.1.3. An employee on LWOP due to transfer with head of household is entitled to
          remain in the Plan for a maximum of 150 calendar days.
          7.5.1.4. An employee on LWOP due to military furlough is entitled to remain in the
          Plan for a maximum of 12 months. The HRO monitors the deductions for the
          duration of the military furlough, and follows the processing procedures in
          paragraphs 5.15 of this AFI.

8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

8.1. Prescribed Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

8.2. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 2545, Notification of Personnel Action




                                          RICHARD Y. NEWTON III
                                          Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS, Manpower and Personnel
AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011                                                              23


                                      Attachment 1
                             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES

References
DOD Directive 1400.25, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel System, 21 Jun 2009
AFPD 34-3, Nonappropriated Funds personnel Management and Administration, 10 September
1993
AFMAN 34-212, Control Procedures For Protecting NAF Assets, 01 September 1995
AFMAN 34-310, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel Program Management and Administration
Procedures, 1 December 1995

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD&D—Accidental Death and Dismemberment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIF—Air Force Insurance Fund
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNAF—Air Force Nonappropriated Fund
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSFMS—Air Force Services Financial Management System (Payroll System)
APF—Appropriated Fund
BBA—Business Based Action
BYE—Basic Yearly Earnings
CMIP—Cash Management Investment Program
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
EOI—Evidence of Insurability
FEGLI—Federal Employees Group Life Insurance
FML—Family-Member Life
HQ AFSVA/SVXHI—Headquarters, Air Force Services Agency (HQ AFSVA Insurance
Branch)
HRO—Human Resources Office
LES—Leave and Earnings Statement
LWOP—Leave Without Pay
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality
OPF—Official Personnel Folder
 24                                                   AFI 34-306 27 APRIL 2011


SPD—Summary Plan Description
SSC—HQ AFSVA Shared Service Center (Payroll Branch)
