BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3002
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)                                              Supplement
                                                                          30 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                      Services

                                                                      CASUALTY SERVICES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOFSS/FSFR                                                Certified by: 27 SOMSG/CC
                                                                          (Col David C. Piech)
                                                                                      Pages: 5


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 36-3002, Casualty Services, 22 Feb 2010. This supplement establishes certain
procedures and requirements that govern the Cannon Air Force Base (Cannon AFB)
Casualty Program. It applies to all units assigned, attached, and partner units at Cannon AFB.
It consolidates the individual squadron commanders’ responsibilities concerning casualty
reporting and notification. This publication requires collecting and maintaining information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.),
Sections 1475 through 1489, 2771, and 8013; Title 37, U.S.C., Sections 551 through 559. System
of Records Notice F036 AF PC R, Casualty Files, applies. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s through local publications/forms managers. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1.7.2.1. (Added) The 27th Special Operations Wing, Command Post (27 SOW/CP) will
immediately notify the CAR of the death of any Active Duty (AD) or Reserve Component
(AFRC/ANG) military member or CAFB Civil Service/NAF employee (on or off duty) in which
they are made aware.
 2                                     AFI36-3002_CANNONAFBSUP 30 OCTOBER 2012


1.7.2.1.1. (Added) 27 SOW/CP will notify the CAR within 1 hour of the death of any AD
Family Member ("dependent") or any illness or injury that results in hospitalization to an AD
military member. This includes notifications received of incidents concerning CAFB members
that are TDY or on leave outside the local area.
1.7.2.1.2. (Added) Any individual calling 27 SOW/CP to report a retiree death should be given
the CAR's duty contact information and asked to contact the CAR. The CAR's office and duty
cell phone numbers are releasable to the public. Calls received for the purpose of requesting
funeral honors will continue to be referred directly to the Honor Guard. The CAR's service area
includes Amarillo and Lubbock in TX and Roswell NM.
1.7.2.1.4. (Added) The CAR will provide 27 SOW/CP a Casualty Personnel Roster (AF Form
1075) which provides emergency contact information for the CAR and Alternate CAR. If these
individuals cannot be contacted, the 27th Special Operations Force Support Squadron
Commander (27 SOFSS/CC) should be contacted to notify the Casualty Augmentation Support
Team (CAST).
1.7.2.2.1. (Added) Unit Commanders/First Sergeants (Host and Tennant) will notify the CAR
immediately when they learn of the death or hospitalization of any assigned personnel or the
death of a family member of assigned personnel. Commanders/First Sergeants will seek
guidance from the CAR to complete notification actions detailed in Chapter 3 of AFI 36-3002.
1.7.2.2.2. (Added) Unit Commanders/First Sergeants (Host and Tennant) will notify the CAR
when they determine the status of assigned personnel as Missing or DUSTWUN and will seek
guidance from the CAR to complete notification actions detailed in Chapter 3 of AFI 36-3002.
1.7.2.3. (Added) 27th Special Operations Security Forces Squadron (27 SOSFS) and the Air
Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), Detachment 120, will provide (consistent with
their AFIs) details of incidents involving the death, injury or illness of persons subject to
casualty reporting per AFI 36-3002, including those declared Missing or DUSTWUN. This may
include written documentation as requested by the CAR. The 27 SOSFS, Plans and Programs
Flight (27 SOSFS/S5) will provide the CAR/Assistant CAR assistance with obtaining interim
security clearances as needed.
1.7.2.4. (Added) The CAR will notify the 27th Special Operations Medical Group's (27
SOMDG) Chief of the Medical Staff (SGH), the Nurse Case Manager, and the group
Administrator (SGA) to provide information concerning the death or illness/injury of military
personnel and coordinate requests for Emergency Family Member Travel (EFMT). 27 SOMDG
will provide all information needed to complete casualty reporting per this AFI and will provide
enlisted medical technicians, nurses or medical providers (MD, PA, NP, etc.) to accompany
casualty notification teams within 1.5 hours of being tasked. No specific uniform is required.
1.7.2.5. (Added) The 27th Special Operations Wing Chaplain (27 SOW/HC) will provide
chaplains to accompany casualty notification teams within 1.5 hours of being tasked. Required
uniform is Service Dress.
1.7.2.6. (Added) 27th Special Operations Force Support Squadron, Readiness and Plans27
SOFSS/FSOX) Mortuary Affairs personnel will advise the CAR of any death notifications
received. The CAR and Mortuary Affairs personnel will inform the Family Liaison Officer prior
to visiting the Next-of-Kin (NOK) to ensure a smooth coordination of service delivery.
AFI36-3002_CANNONAFBSUP 30 OCTOBER 2012                                                       3


1.7.2.7. (Added) 27 SOFSS, Civilian Personnel Office (27 SOFSS/FSMC) and NAF
Employment Office (27 SOFSS/FSMH) will inform the CAR of any civilian employee deaths
(on or off duty) and will provide the CAR any personnel records needed to complete casualty
reporting and assistance.
1.7.2.8. (Added) The 27 SOFSS, Airman and Family Readiness Center (27 SOFSS/FSFR):
1.7.2.8.1. (Added) The Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) Chief will appoint, at
their discretion, an 8C000 Readiness NCO or a GS-101 09/11 Community Readiness
Specialist/Consultant as the Alternate CAR/SBP Counselor. To ensure availability and prevent a
conflict of duties, this individual should not be tasked with Emergency Family Assistance Center
(EFAC) duties. The alternate CAR will be initially trained by the CAR will attend the next
scheduled CAR/SBP basic workshop conducted by AFPC/DPWCS. The primary CAR should
be afforded the opportunity to attend the Advanced CAR/SBP Workshop when offered by
AFPC/DPWCS at least once within a 2 year period.
1.7.2.8.2. (Added) CAR/SBP Counselors work directly for the A&FRC Chief. The CAR will
have direct access to command personnel as needed to complete casualty reporting and
notification duties.
1.7.2.8.3. (Added) The A&FRC will provide the CAR a private office to counsel NOK. To
support emergency actions involving relocation, the CAR will be provided a notebook computer,
stand-alone portable printer and stand-alone document scanner. A fax machine, document
shredder and a computer with access to commercial internet service should also be made readily
available to the CAR.
1.7.2.9. (Added) 27th Special Operations Logistics Readiness Squadron (27 SOLRS) will
provide a sedan, mini-van or other government vehicle as determined appropriate by the
Casualty Notification Officer or CAR for use by the Casualty Notification Team and subsequent
casualty assistance visits. Vehicle selection will be determined by the Casualty Notification
Officer/CAR based on vehicle availability, the number of passengers and anticipated weather
conditions. Sedans will be made available regardless of the rank of the Casualty Notification
Officer/CAR.
1.7.2.10. (Added) The 27th Special Operations Communications Squadron (27 SOCS) will
enable the CAR's notebook computer with Virtual Private Network (VPN) and commercial
internet access capability to enable continued casualty reporting in the event of the need to
relocate the CAR during emergencies or exercises. If relocation of the CAR is required to
support emergency or operational requirements, 27 SOCS will expeditiously relocate telephone
and data services to support continued casualty operations.
1.7.2.11. (Added) The 27th Special Operations Wing, Public Affairs Office (27 SOW/PA) will
provide family members of casualties guidance on dealing with the media upon their request and
will release casualty information to the public consistent with applicable AFIs.
1.7.2.12. (Added) The FSS representative at the 27th Special Operations Wing Emergency
Operations Center (27 SOW/EOC), when activated, will coordinate alternate locations for the
CAR/CAST in the event relocation is required. The EOC FSS representative will coordinate
with the MDG and Mortuary Affairs personnel to provide the CAR/CAST information
concerning casualties.
 4                                      AFI36-3002_CANNONAFBSUP 30 OCTOBER 2012


1.7.2.13. (Not Applicable).
1.7.2.14. (Added) The 27th Special Operations Comptroller Squadron (27 SOCPTS) will assist
the CAR in coordinating access to DFAS automated systems including active duty, retiree and
annuitant pay records. Additionally, they will assist as needed in payment of travel advances for
Emergency Family Member Travel (EFMT) travelers, payment of the Death Gratuity and unpaid
pay and allowances to designated beneficiaries, and verification of payment of Servicemembers
Group Life Insurance (SGLI) program premiums.
1.7.2.15. (Added) The 27th Special Operations Support Squadron (27 SOSS) will immediately
provide the CAR a manifest (crew and passenger) for aircraft involved in reportable mishaps as
detailed in AFI 36-3002, Table 1.1, Note 1.
1.7.3.1. (Added) Casualty Reporting. The CAR will coordinate casualty reports with27
SOW/CC (or as delegated) prior to transmission. The CAR may simultaneously coordinate
drafts of reports with AFPC/DPWCS for their approval but these will be annotated: ***DRAFT-
DO NOT DISTRIBUTE***.
1.7.3.2. (Added) The CAR will immediately coordinate with AFPC/DPWCS when
27 SOW/CC elects to perform casualty notifications outside CAFB's assigned notification area.
1.7.3.3. (Added) As needed, CAR will request assistance from other USAF CARs to perform
active-duty casualty assistance visits in the event weather or other factors make travel from
CAFB dangerous or impractical. CAR will coordinate these requests with AFPC/DPWCS. For
retired casualties, CAR may refer the NOK to other assistance locations (Federal, State or
Veteran Service Organizations) if geographically closer and/or agreeable to the NOK. CAR will
monitor referrals with the NOK to ensure service is successfully provided.
1.7.3.4. (Added) All calls concerning requests for casualty assistance information will be
referred to the CAR. This includes inquiries from NOK and other agencies.
1.7.3.5. (Added) Calls from the general public or news media requesting identification of
casualties or information concerning the number of deceased or ill/injured pertaining to casualty
situations (accidents, disasters, etc.) will be referred to 27 SOW/PA.
1.7.3.6. (Added) The CAR will provide casualty reporting and assistance services to AFROTC
Det 820 in Lubbock, TX and other USAF Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) and Operating
Locations (OLs) within the Cannon AFB area of responsibility as determined by AFPC/DPWCS.
GSUs/OLs will quickly provide the CAR circumstance and personal information needed to
complete casualty reports. Non-AFSOC GSUs/OLs may elect to do their own casualty reporting
but must coordinate with AFPC/DPWCS and the Cannon AFB CAR for follow-up casualty
assistance to NOK.
1.7.3.7. (Added) The CAR/Alternate CAR is subject to recall (civilian) or standby (military) on
a 24 hour-a-day/7 day-a-week basis. Civilian employees, when recalled to duty or required to
remain on duty, will be compensated per the terms of the CAFB Collective Bargaining
Agreement and local commander's policies concerning recalling or directing overtime for
civilian employees. The CAR will coordinate leave and other periods of unavailability with the
Chief, A&FRC. 27 SOFSS/CC will determine if supplemental standby personnel are needed
during the absence of the CAR/Alternate CAR or during high-risk events such as air shows,
AFI36-3002_CANNONAFBSUP 30 OCTOBER 2012                                                     5


periods of severe weather or disaster operations. Supplemental standby members will normally
be sourced from the CAST.
1.7.3.8. (Added) The CAR will be provided, at government expense, a communication
instrument capable of voice, text and e-mail to facilitate notification of recall and conduct
casualty operations from outside the office. The device will be used by the Alternate CAR when
the CAR is on leave or otherwise unavailable.
7.3.5.3. (Added) Unit commanders will ensure all military personnel update their Virtual
Record of Emergency Data (vRED) within 14 days of PCS arrival or whenever any vRED data
requires a change.
7.3.5.4. (Added) The CAR will review vRED progress reports monthly and notify unit
commanders of members not having a vRED on file for Cannon AFB. Units will resolve vRED
discrepancies within 14 days.




                                           ALBERT M. ELTON II, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
