BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-703
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              1 AUGUST 1999
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 6 August 2007
                                                                       439TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                 Supplement
                                                                         11 SEPTEMBER 2009
                                                                 Certified Current 21 April 2012
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                   CIVILIAN CONDUCT AND
                                                                          RESPONSIBILITY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFPC/DPIE                                                   Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPI
                                                                           (Col James P. Sturch)
                                                                                       Pages: 9

                                           (439AW)
OPR: 439 MSG/DPCE                                                     Certified by: 439 MSG/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Michael R Mounts)
                                                                                        Pages: 1



This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It
contains information regarding civilian standards of conduct and individual responsibility
applicable to civilian employees. Where appropriate this instruction references the civilian
standards of conduct specified in DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, and Executive Order
12674, Principles of Ethical Conduct for Government Officers and Employees. In the event of a
conflict between this instruction and the Joint Ethics Regulation, the guidance of the Joint
Ethics Regulation is controlling. It applies to U.S. citizen employees of the Air Force who are
paid from appropriated funds. It also applies to civilian employees of the Air National Guard and
Air Force Reserve, except that it does not apply to Air National Guard Technicians administered
by the National Guard Bureau under Title 32, U.S.C. Section 309. It also does not apply to
employees of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service. Records Disposition: Maintain and
dispose of records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in
accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.
2                                             AFI36-703_439AWSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2009


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-703,
Civilian Conduct and Responsibility, 1 August 1999, Incorporating Change 1, 6 August 2007.
This supplement describes 439 AW procedures to be used in conjunction with the basic
instruction and applies to all civilian personnel assigned or attached to Westover Air Reserve
Base (ARB). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439 MSG/DPCE, 100 Lloyd Street Box 51,
Westover ARB, MA 01022-1843.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updates paragraph 7., Civilian Uniform Wear and transfers AFI 36-703 Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) from HQ USAF/DPME to HQ AFPC/DPIEC. A margin bar ( I ) indicates
newly revised material.

Section A——Authorities and Responsibilities

1. HQ USAF. The Civilian Force Management Division, Directorate of Personnel Force
Management, develops policy for civilian standards of conduct for areas not covered in DoD
5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, and provides guidance on the provisions of this AFI.
2. Civilian Personnel Flights. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPFs) should provide copies of this
AFI to all new employees during New Employee Orientation.
3. Managers and Supervisors. Managers and supervisors should ensure that employees
are kept informed of these standards of conduct. They are responsible for taking timely and
appropriate action in accordance with this instruction and related guidelines to ensure employee
standards meet the spirit and intent of Air Force policy on proper conduct.
4. Employees. Air Force employees are required to comply with prescribed standards of
conduct in all official matters. They are expected to maintain high standards of honesty,
responsibility, and accountability as well as adhere to the Air Force Core Values of “Integrity first,
Service before self, and Excellence in all we do.”

Section B——Personal Conduct

5. Selected Standards of Conduct:
    5.1. Furnishing Testimony. Employees may be requested to provide testimony or
    information to the Air Force, Department of Defense, Merit Systems Protection Board, Equal
    Employment Opportunity Commission, Office of Personnel Management, and other
    government agencies on official matters.
       5.1.1. If first warned that a failure to provide answers may subject the employee to
       discipline, including the possibility of removal in appropriate cases, and that any
       statements cannot be used against the employee in a criminal prosecution, a refusal to
       reply to questions during an investigation may be the basis for disciplinary action.
AFI36-703_439AWSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                            3


     Employees who lie or otherwise affirmatively mislead an investigation may be subject to
     discipline, including removal in appropriate cases.
     5.1.2. Under no circumstances should an employee be questioned by management
     officials concerning a suspected criminal offense without the prior approval of the
     servicing legal office. Employees may be questioned by proper law enforcement
     officials, such as Office of Special Investigation (OSI) agents or Federal Bureau of
     Investigation (FBI) agents. The servicing legal office is responsible for ensuring that any
     information or allegation relating to a possible violation of Federal criminal laws is
     reported to the office of the United States Attorney for the district in which the crime
     allegedly occurred before the employee is questioned. The United States Attorney’s
     Office must approve, in advance, all requests to compel the testimony of employees
     suspected of criminal offenses during administrative hearings or investigations.
     5.1.3. Local Staff Judge Advocates and Civilian Personnel Flights should be contacted
     prior to questioning employees to ensure compliance with local contractual requirements,
     if any, regarding statutory rights to union representation.
  5.2. Taking Part in Public or Civic Activities. An employee’s participation in
  demonstrations, petitions, speeches, private organizations, and similar activities is permitted
  in his or her private capacity while not in a duty status as the exercise of the constitutional
  rights of speech, peaceable assembly, and petition to Congress. However, taking part in
  these activities may subject the employee to disciplinary action if it interferes with the
  mission of the armed forces; or interferes with the duty performance of the employee, other
  employees or military members. Employees may also be subject to disciplinary action,
  including removal, if convicted of inciting or taking part in a riot, civil disorder, or any group
  activity that results in damage to property or injury to people. (See AFI 36-704, Discipline
  and Adverse Actions, for guidance on actions to be taken when off duty misconduct is of such
  a nature that the employee is unable to fulfill his or her job responsibilities or there is an
  adverse effect upon the Air Force.)
  5.3. Indebtedness. Consistent with the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the
  Executive Branch at Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 2635, employees shall satisfy,
  in good faith, their just financial obligations, especially those such as Federal, State, or local
  taxes that are imposed by law. A just financial obligation includes any financial obligation
  acknowledged by the employee or reduced to judgment by a court. In good faith means an
  honest intention to fulfill any just financial obligation in a timely manner In the event of a
  dispute between an employee and an alleged creditor, the Air Force does not determine the
  validity or amount of the disputed debt or collect debts on the alleged creditor’s behalf.
  However, where the validity of a private debt is established by court order or admitted, a
  failure to satisfy an obligation can result in disciplinary action under AFI 36-704, Discipline
  and Adverse Actions.
     5.3.1. CPFs should establish procedures for responding to indebtedness complaints
     from creditors. These procedures may require supervisors to forward all indebtedness
     complaints to the CPF for a proper determination and processing or for the CPF to
     provide the supervisor guidance on responding to the complaint. A creditor is a person
     or company to whom a debt is owed. These procedures should not apply to debt
     collectors, or persons or companies who regularly collect or attempt to collect debts
4                                            AFI36-703_439AWSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2009


       owed to another. Requests from creditors should include information about previous
       direct attempts to collect the debt from the employee, and proof that the employee has
       been informed of his/her responsibility. The creditor is entitled to a courteous response
       from the CPF, but this response must clearly state that the Air Force does not collect or
       determine the validity of debts. It must neither admit or imply an admission of an
       employee’s liability, nor report any action taken against an employee as a result of the
       complaint.
       5.3.1. (Added-439AW) Supervisors will forward all indebtedness complaints from
       creditors on civilian employees to the 439 MSG/DPCE.
       5.3.2. When an Air Force employee with a debt has been reassigned to another Air Force
       activity and a creditor seeks locator assistance, the losing CPF must either furnish the
       current duty address to the requester, or send the correspondence to the gaining CPF. If
       the individual is no longer an Air Force employee, the CPF may forward the
       correspondence to the former employee’s last known mailing address. In cases where
       a government agency seeks an address for law enforcement purposes (i.e., a child
       support enforcement agency is attempting to enforce a child support order), the CPF
       may provide the last known mailing address of a current or former employee.
       However, in no instance will the CPF or the Air Force act as an intermediary in private
       matters that concern former employees.
    5.4. Work Performance. All employees are expected to:
       5.4.1. Discharge their assigned duties conscientiously and effectively.
       5.4.2. Be present for duty unless authorized to be absent.
       5.4.3. Follow Air Force Instructions and other directives and comply in a timely way
       with proper instructions or orders given by a competent authority.
       5.4.4. Confer with line management (starting with immediate supervisor) to discuss
       matters/concerns, obtain information, or solve problems that relate to the job.
       5.4.5. Comply with safety and health standards set for the job environment.
    5.5. Canvassing, Soliciting, and Peddling. Canvassing, soliciting, or peddling among
    employees during working hours or in federal facilities is not allowed except for officially
    approved events, e.g. Combined Federal Campaign. However, this does not preclude office
    collections for fellow workers or passive activities such as “For Sale” notices on unit bulletin
    boards. This restriction does not apply to conducting labor organization membership drives
    during lunch periods or after duty hours. For other restrictions that involve commercial
    solicitation and sales to subordinates, refer to the Joint Ethics Regulation.
    5.6. Gambling. Gambling is prohibited on federally owned or leased property or while in a
    duty status regardless of location. Gambling includes participation in “office pools” and the
    joint purchase of lottery tickets by employees. Refer to the Joint Ethics Regulation for
    specific exemptions regarding law enforcement activities, private legal wagers conducted
    entirely within assigned government quarters, and case-by-case exemptions approved by the
    Secretary of the Air Force.
    5.7. Outside Employment. Consistent with the requirements of the Joint Ethics
    Regulation, Air Force employees may be required to report any outside employment or
AFI36-703_439AWSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                          5


   business activity to their supervisor or other locally designated official prior to engaging in
   employment or business activity. Supervisors have the authority to prohibit any outside
   employment or business activity that might detract from readiness or pose a security risk.
   Approval to participate in outside employment or business activity will be documented by
   supervisors on AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Record of Employee. Employees required to
   file financial disclosure reports, SF 450 or SF 278, and those serving as procurement officials
   are subject to additional restrictions regarding outside employment and business activities.
   Employees should address specific questions to their local ethics counselor at their
   servicing legal office.
   5.8. Misuse of Government Property. Employees must refrain from the use of
   government equipment, personnel, or other resources for their personal benefit or benefit of
   friends or relatives unless otherwise authorized. This includes resources such as computers,
   copiers, facsimile machines, telephones, or vehicles. Misuse of Air Force resources is
   misconduct, which may result in corrective disciplinary action against the employee.

Section C——Dress and Appearance

6. Professional Public 1mage. Employees are expected to comply with reasonable dress and
grooming standards based on comfort, productivity, health, safety, and type of position occupied.
Due to the diversity of work functions and locations, appropriate dress standards may vary
significantly. Employee attire will be in good repair, and should not be considered offensive,
disruptive, or unsafe.
   6.1. When clothing such as coats and ties, which are normally considered proper attire,
   creates discomfort during hot weather and in places where cooling is minimized to
   conserve energy, the dress standard should be adjusted. This change should correspond to
   any locally determined military summer uniform period.
   6.2. Any management prohibitions on specific civilian dress must be based on a clear
   showing that the prohibited dress contributes to an unsafe, unhealthy, nonproductive, or
   disruptive work environment. Management disagreement with styles, modes of dress, and
   grooming currently in fashion is not an adequate criterion for making such a determination.
7. Civilian Uniform Wear. Military grooming and appearance standards do not apply to
civilian employees. However, employees standard uniforms, such as those prescribed in AFI
36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees, or medical or food service personnel furnished
uniforms under Table of Allowances 016, may be expected to comply with grooming and
appearance standards for employees in similar occupations employed by other Federal, state, or
municipal governments. Air Reserve Technicians will adhere to the requirements as those
prescribed in AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, when
wearing the military uniform in civilian status.

Section D——Professional Relationships

8. General. Professional relationships are essential to the effective operation of all
organizations and to the efficiency of the service. While personal relationships between Air
Force employees or between Air Force employees and military members are normally matters
6                                          AFI36-703_439AWSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2009


of individual choice and judgment, they become matters of official concern when they violate
existing law or impede the efficiency of the service.
    8.1. Definitions:
       8.1.1. Professional relationships are those that contribute to the effective operation of
       the Air Force, thus promoting the efficiency of the service. The Air Force encourages
       personnel to communicate freely with their superiors regarding their careers,
       performance, duties, and missions. Such communications enhance morale, further the
       Air Force mission, and p r e s e r v e the proper respect between employees, supervisors
       and managers. Participation by employees of all grades in organizational activities and
       unit-sponsored events enhances morale and unit cohesion.
       8.1.2. Unprofessional relationships are those relationships, whether pursued on or off-
       duty, which detract from the authority of supervisors and managers or result in, or
       reasonably create the appearance of, favoritism, misuse of office or position, or the
       abandonment of organizational goals, and adversely affect the efficiency of the service.
       Unprofessional relationships can exist between civilian employees, military officers and
       civilian employees, and military enlisted members and civilian employees.
    8.2. Guidelines for Avoiding Unprofessional Relationships. Experience has shown that
    certain kinds of relationships present a high risk for being or developing into
    unprofessional relationships. While some personal relationships are not in and of
    themselves unprofessional, they may be or become unprofessional when other facts or
    circumstances are taken into consideration.
       8.2.1. Relationships Within Organizations. Unduly familiar relationships between
       individuals in which one person exercises supervisory authority over the other can easily
       be or become unprofessional. The danger of abuse of authority and perception of
       favoritism is always present. The ability of a supervisor or manager to influence,
       directly or indirectly, assignments, promotions, training opportunities, awards, and
       other employment opportunities places both the supervisor or manager and the
       subordinate in a vulnerable position.
       8.2.2. Dating and Close Friendships. Dating and courtship between a supervisor or
       manager and an employee under his or her supervision invariably raises the perception of
       favoritism. Such relationships can adversely affect morale and impede the efficiency of
       the service.
       8.2.3. Other Relationships. Other relationships, not specifically addressed above, can,
       depending on the circumstances, lead to actual or perceived favoritism or preferential
       treatment and must be avoided. Examples of such activities, but by no means inclusive,
       are soliciting or making solicited sales to personnel who are junior in grade or position
       (with specific exceptions as set out in the Joint Ethics Regulation, paragraph 5-409),
       and joint business ventures between supervisors and employees under their supervision.
    8.3. 1ndividual Responsibility to Maintain Professional Relationships. All Air Force
    employees share the responsibility for maintaining professional relationships. However,
    supervisors and managers in personal relationships bear primary responsibility for
    maintaining the professionalism of that relationship. Supervisors and managers are in
AFI36-703_439AWSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                           7


   leadership positions which require the maturity and judgment to avoid relationships which
   impede the efficiency of the service or adversely affect mission performance.
   8.4. Actions in Response to Unprofessional Relationships. When unprofessional
   relationships impede the efficiency of the service or adversely affect mission performance,
   appropriate corrective action in accordance with AFI 36-704 should be taken.

Section E——Related Directives

9. Privacy Rules. AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program, implements the Privacy Act of
1974 and DoD Directive 5400.11, Department of Defense Privacy Program, DoD 5400.11-R,
Department of Defense Privacy Program. Employees who have access to systems of records, or
are involved in developing, operating, or maintaining a personnel record system must be
informed of and comply with all requirements to protect individual privacy.
10. Discipline. AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, prescribes policies and procedures
to use in considering corrective or disciplinary action for violations of this AFI or other
prescribed standards of conduct.
11. Drug and Alcohol Abuse. AFI 36-810, Substance Abuse Prevention and Control, outlines
the Civilian Substance Abuse Prevention and Control Program set up to help maintain
standards of conduct and performance. Civilian employees of the Air Force must refrain from
using illegal drugs whether on or off duty. Use of illegal drugs is inconsistent with the high
standards of performance, military discipline, and military readiness necessary to accomplish the
Air Force mission.
12. Ethical Conduct. DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, delineates standards of ethical
conduct and ethics guidance including direction in the areas of financial and employment
disclosure systems, post-employment rules, enforcement, training, gifts and gratuities, outside
activities. Civilian employees shall become familiar with the provisions of the Joint Ethics
Regulation and ensure their official activities and personal relationships with outside
organizations and outside employment comply with its standards and guidance. Employees
with questions concerning the Joint Ethics Regulation should seek guidance from an appropriate
ethics counselor.
13. Government-1ssued Credit Card. AFI 65-104, Government Charge Card Program,
governs the use of credit cards issued for use in conjunction with official travel. This AFI
directs each cardholder to pay all valid charges when billed. It also states the card is to be used
only for cash advances prior to or during travel and/or for expenses incurred during official
travel.
14. Discrimination and Sexual Harassment. AFPAM 36-2705, Discrimination and Sexual
Harassment, states that the Air Force will conduct its affairs free from unlawful discrimination
and harassment. No amount of discrimination or harassment will be tolerated.

Section F——Other Requirements

15. Other Provisions on Employee Conduct. All restrictions on employee conduct cannot be
specified in an AFI. Therefore, supervisors, managers, and employees who have specific
questions regarding standards of conduct which are not covered in this AFI or the publications
8                                          AFI36-703_439AWSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2009


referenced above, should consult their commander, servicing CPF, or the staff judge advocate for
assistance.
16. Prescribed Forms. No prescribed forms.

17. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief and SF 278, Executive Branch Personnel Public
Financial Disclosure Report.




                                            ROGER A. BRADY, Lt General, USAF
                                            DCS, Manpower and Personnel

                                            (439AW)

                                            ROBERT R. SWAIN, JR., Colonel., USAFR
                                            Commander
AFI36-703_439AWSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2009                                             9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 5400.11, Department of Defense Privacy Program
DoD 5500-7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations AFPAM 36-2705, Discrimination and
Sexual Harassment AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions
AFI 36-810, Substance Abuse Prevention and Control
AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFI 65-104, Government Charge Card Program
