BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3108
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              31 AUGUST 2011
                                                          AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                                           COMMAND
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                                24 APRIL 2012

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                      MEMORIALIZATION PROGRAM AND
                                                                       CEREMONIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFPC/DPSIDR                                                           Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                                      (Brig Gen Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes:   AFI 36-3108, 1 February                                                  Pages: 20
              1999
                                            (AETC)
OPR: HQ AETC/A1KKM                                                 Certified by: HQ AETC/A1K
                                                                      (Lt Col Mark A. Gaubert)
Supersedes:   AFI36-3108_AETCSUP, 10                                                  Pages:12
              November 1999


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-31, Personal Affairs. It outlines Air
Force responsibilities for naming installations, buildings, rooms, facilities (recreational and
medical), or streets, and provides guidance for arranging and conducting ceremonies associated
with memorialization actions. This instruction applies to all Air Force stateside and overseas
activities, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, in the United States and all
territorial area that the United States administers, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
It also applies to bases acquired under the Leased Naval and Air Force Agreement signed 27
March 1941. This instruction does not apply to industrial facilities because those facilities are
under the jurisdiction of their responsible officials. This AFI may be supplemented at any level,
but all supplements that directly implement this instruction must be routed to HQ
AFPC/DPSIDR for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from
 2                                                 AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Major Commands
(MAJCOMs), Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) must send
one copy of their published and or posted supplement to the OPR at HQ AFPC/DPSIDR, 550 C
Street West, Suite 12, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4712. Other organizations send one copy of
each published and or posted supplement to the next higher headquarters. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

When sending nomination packages through e-mail or postal system be vigilant to protect
Privacy Act (PA) and Personal Identifying Information (PII). As a minimum, the following
references should be reviewed to ensure care is taken when forwarding nomination packages
containing PA/PII, sensitive or For Official Use Only (FOUO) information: DoD 5400.11-R,
Department of Defense Privacy Program; AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program; AFI 33-200,
Information Assurance (IA) Management; AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use; and
Directive-Type Memorandum (DTM) 07-015-USD(P&R) - DoD Social Security Number (SSN)
Reduction Plan.

(AETC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI)
36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies. This supplement applies to all Air
Education and Training Command installations, to include Joint Base installations hosted by an
Air Education and Training Command wing, as well as Air Force Reserve and Air National
Guard units located at said installations. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at ttp://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision provides general information and guidance for requesting memorializations for
areas, clarifying the suspense for memorialization requests to arrive at HQ AFPC/DPSIDR, and
forwarding locally-approved (MAJCOM-level and below) memorialization packages to HQ
AFPC/DPSIDR and the installation historian. It also adds attachment 1, Glossary of References
and Supporting Information and Adopted and Prescribed Forms, and renames Table 1 as
Attachment 2, ―Table of Approval Authorities‖.

(AETC) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
supplement provides Air Education and Training Command leaders with command insight on
memorialization policy. It also provides guidance on how to administratively process
memorialization requests originating from Air Education and Training units.
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                                                                            3


Section A—General Information                                                                                                                  4
       1.      Policy and General Information. ............................................................................                    4
       2.      Guide to Selecting a Name. ...................................................................................                  4
       2.      (AETC) Guide to Selecting a Name. .....................................................................                         5

Section B—Naming an Installation                                                                                                               6
       3.      Policy. ....................................................................................................................    6
       4.      Processing Procedures for Naming Installations. ..................................................                              6
       5.      Dedication Ceremonies. .........................................................................................                7

Section C—Naming a Street, Building, Room, Facility, Recreational Facility/Area, or Medical
             Facility                                                                                                                          9
       6.      Policy. ....................................................................................................................    9
       6.      (AETC) Policy. ......................................................................................................           9
       7.      Processing Procedures for Naming Areas, Streets, Rooms, Buildings, and
               Facilities. ................................................................................................................    9
       8.      (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the Memorialization Initiator (Individual,
               Units, Groups, or Wings). ......................................................................................               10
       9.      (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the Base Civil Engineer Squadron. ...............                                             11
       10.     (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the MPS Customer Service. ..........................                                          11
       11.     (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of Group and Squadron Commanders. ..............                                                 12
       12.     (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the Unit Historian. .........................................                                 12
       13.     (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the Wing Commander. ..................................                                        12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORING INFORMATION                                                                                 14

Attachment 2—TABLE OF APPROVAL AUTHORITIES                                                                                                    17

Attachment 3—(Added-AETC) SUGGESTED CRITERIA FOR IDENTIFYING
             DESERVING FACILITIES OR REAL PROPERTIES                                                                                          18

Attachment 4—(Added-AETC) CONTENTS OF A MEMORIALIZATION PACKAGE                                                                               19

Attachment 5—(Added-AETC) SAMPLE STATEMENT OF BUILDING SPECIFICS                                                                              18

Attachment 6—(Added-AETC) SAMPLE COVER MEMORANDUM                                                                                             19

Attachment 7—(Added-AETC) SAMPLE LETTER OF INVITATION TO THE NEXT OF

               KIN OR HONOREE                                                                                                                 20
 4                                                   AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


Section A—General Information

1. Policy and General Information. The intent of the Air Force Memorialization Program is to
provide lasting honor and pay tribute to deceased as well as living Air Force military and civilian
personnel with records of outstanding and honorable service. This program also fosters
favorable relations between the public and the Air Force. All memorializations should be
carefully evaluated to ensure that only the most deserving persons are selected. These selections
should bring honor and goodwill to the Air Force and local communities. Commanders at all
levels are responsible for ensuring and maintaining the integrity of the Air Force
Memorialization Program. Joint base commanders may follow Sister Service policies for
naming facilities and buildings used exclusively by the other Service. All Air Force (to include
Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard) installations, facilities, buildings, rooms, and any
other permanent facilities located on any Air Force-owned installation will be named only in
accordance with this instruction. Facilities include unaccompanied personnel housing, dining
facilities, clubs, libraries, service centers, gymnasiums, and other recreational areas. The
requirements of this instruction are mandatory when considering all memorialization actions,
including any that are not specifically covered in this instruction. Memorialization constitutes a
permanent and lasting honor. Once in effect, the renaming of any installation, street, building, or
facility is prohibited as long as the installation remains active except under unique
circumstances.
     1.1. When an installation closes, all memorializations that were put into effect during the
     history of that installation cease to exist. In unique circumstances, however, reinstating the
     names of certain individuals may be acceptable in order to preserve and continue the Air
     Force’s history and heritage. All requests to reinstate the names of individuals previously
     memorialized at closed installations will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Staff all
     such requests to the appropriate approval authority outlined in Table of Approval Authorities
     (Attachment 2).
     1.2. In cases where a building is condemned, torn down, or is renovated and reused for
     another function, the following actions may be taken: the name may be discontinued when
     no next of kin (NOK) can be located and no opposition is received from the public. If the
     NOK can be located, it is desirable and appropriate to secure favorable reaction to the
     discontinuance from the closest relative in the following order of precedence: spouse,
     children, parents, and then siblings, providing there is no opposition from the public; such
     might be the case where the memorialized individual was a favorite son or daughter and
     prominent in the history of the community. If the discontinuance is not compatible with the
     NOK and/or the public, the installation commander should retain the honoree’s name for the
     redesignated building. In this case, a courtesy letter from the commander to the NOK and/or
     the interested parties, notifying them of the change, is in order. A formal dedication
     ceremony is at the discretion of the commander; however, it is not required.
     1.3. The Air Force does not memorialize facilities that are not yet built or completed nor
     does it support ground-breaking dedications for future memorializations.
2. Guide to Selecting a Name. Consider only Air Force military members, Department of the
Air Force civilians (DAFC), and private sector citizens as outlined in the Table of Approval
Authorities (Attachment 2) when naming any Air Force real estate. Individuals who were
assigned to an air component of the United States Army (Army Air Corps) before the United
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                                5


States Air Force became a separate military service are eligible for memorialization honors if
they had outstanding and honorable records. In unusual circumstances, it may be appropriate to
honor deceased military members other than Air Force personnel (Army, Navy, or Marine
Corps). In such instances, the Air Force Chief of Staff (CSAF) is the approval authority.
2. (AETC)Guide to Selecting a Name. Nominating a living person is highly discouraged and
should be a very rare exception. Therefore, commanders must be very judicious when
recommending a living person and such a nomination must clearly address why a living nominee
merits this distinction instead of a deceased person of equal or greater status.
   2.1. Use only the surname of the individual being honored unless it is a name that might be
   confused or mistaken for another individual; e.g. ―Smith‖ or ―Jones‖. Do not duplicate or
   use names that are already assigned or used on the installation. As an example, if a street is
   named for a particular individual, do not name a building or facility for that same individual.
   When naming a medical facility, use only the names of members or individuals who were
   connected with the Air Force Medical Service.
       2.1.1. The only exception to duplication of a name is if a facility, room, or street is being
       named after the named base (i.e.: Randolph Bowling Center located on Randolph AFB).
       A formal dedication ceremony is at the discretion of the installation commander;
       however, it is not required.
   2.2. Submit all memorialization requests through command channels to the approval
   authority listed in the Table of Approval Authorities (Attachment 2). Include a biography
   on the individual, supporting data reflecting association of the person with the installation or
   real estate that is being named, a base map indicating the real estate that is being considered
   for naming, and a letter signed by the requesting office outlining what is being named, for
   whom, and what connection the person being memorialized has with the installation or real
   estate being considered for naming. Do not make disclosure of nominations prior to
   receiving approval. After receiving approval, but before announcement of a dedication
   ceremony, notify the NOK to ensure the memorialization action meets with their approval.
   In this respect, make no public announcements or other publicity prior to receiving
   concurrence from the memorialized individual or respective NOK.
   2.2. (AETC) All memorialization requests requiring MAJCOM or higher approval must be
   submitted to AETC/A1KKM in the Task Management Tool (TMT). Refer to TMT Tasker
   ID AETC1125713914 for a package template.
   2.3. Select individuals of prominence or those whose careers or actions were important to
   and well known in the locality where memorialized. Conduct quality force reviews or
   background checks to ensure only deserving individuals are being honored. Possible sources
   to review when determining individual’s suitability for memorialization are:
       2.3.1. Military personnel records prior to October 2004 (retired and deceased military
       members) are located at the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC), Air Force
       Reference Branch, 9700 Page Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63132-5100. Military personnel
       records after October 2004 (active duty, retired and deceased military members) are
       located at HQ AFPC/DPSIRP, 550 C Street West, Ste 19, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-
       4723.
 6                                                     AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


        2.3.2. Civilian personnel records (retired and deceased DAFC), which are located at the
        NPRC, Civilian Personnel Records Branch, 111 Winnebago Street, St. Louis, MO 63118
        or at the NPRC Annex, 1411 Boulder Boulevard, Valmeyer IL 62295.
        2.3.3. Public libraries for archived newspaper articles.
        2.3.4. Local newspapers.
        2.3.5. Local courthouse records.
        2.3.6. Local Air Force Office of Special Investigations or Security Police.
        2.3.7. Family members, friends, acquaintances, and co-workers.

Section B—Naming an Installation

3. Policy. When naming an Air Force installation, ensure that only the most deserving
individuals are selected for memorialization actions. Selections should bring honor to the Air
Force and reflect the goodwill of the local community. Only a few major installations remain
unnamed. It is not possible to commemorate all Air Force heroes or persons who might be
eligible. Therefore, local civic groups and citizens should not be encouraged to advance names
for memorialization. Consider individuals in the following order of precedence when naming an
installation:
     3.1. National military heroes; that is, those who displayed conspicuous gallantry or heroism
     at the risk of life above and beyond the call of duty such as Medal of Honor recipients, and so
     forth.
     3.2. Individuals who performed highly responsible duties in an outstanding manner for the
     Air Force.
     3.3. Those individuals that have made a major contribution to the development or mission of
     the Air Force.
4. Processing Procedures for Naming Installations. Some Air Force installations continue to
retain their geographical identity. The geographical name may be used indefinitely or until a
suitable name is approved for public acceptance. If a proposal is made to rename such an
installation, the installation commander takes the following actions:
     4.1. From all names that are recommended, the wing commander advises, in writing, of the
     contemplated renaming action and the name being considered to:
        4.1.1. State and local government officials.
        4.1.2. City or town councils or similar organizations.
        4.1.3. Chambers of Commerce.
        4.1.4. Local postal officials.
     4.2. After obtaining the written concurrence from organizations listed above, the wing
     commander or vice commander sends the recommended name and supporting documentation
     to the Major Command (MAJCOM) Director of Manpower, Personnel and Services (A1).
     The MAJCOM/A1 forwards the proposal, with recommendations and supporting
     documentation, through the MAJCOM commander (CC), vice commander (CV), or staff
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                          7


   director (CD) to HQ AFPC/DPSIDR for administrative review and consideration by the
   CSAF and the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF). The recommendation must be staffed
   well in advance (usually six months) of a desired ceremony date to allow for processing,
   approval, and any other actions.
   4.2. (AETC) All memorialization requests requiring MAJCOM or higher approval must be
   submitted to AETC/A1KKM in the Task Management Tool (TMT). Refer to TMT Tasker
   ID AETC1125713914 for a package template.
   4.3. AFPC's Recognition Programs Section (AFPC/DPSIDR) notifies the MAJCOM/CC
   whether the proposal is approved or disapproved. The MAJCOM, in turn, informs the wing
   commander, who obtains the concurrence of the NOK. If the NOK nonconcur, inform the
   appropriate offices in the chain of command and discontinue the memorialization action.
   4.4. If approved, the wing commander refers the approved name to the Secretary of the Air
   Force Office of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) so they may advise interested congressional
   delegations and other citizens of national prominence so invitations may be extended for
   them to attend or take part in the dedication or memorialization ceremony. The wing
   commander also advises the Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) via
   its MAJCOM so that public announcements may be made.
5. Dedication Ceremonies. MAJCOMs should assist the installation in carrying out dedication
ceremonies for installations under their purview. After the SECAF approves the naming of an
installation, the MAJCOM commander, vice commander, or their designee:
   5.1. Sends a letter to the Air Force Real Estate Agency (AFREA/MI), 112 Luke Avenue,
   Room 104, Bolling AFB DC 20332-8020, and to HQ USAF Deputy Chief of Staff for
   Installations and Logistics, Bases, and Units (AF/A4/7), 1030 Air Force Pentagon,
   Washington DC 20330-1030, advising of the base’s name change.
   5.2. Coordinates directly with SAF/PA on a date for the ceremony. The effective date is
   usually set for 3 months after the date the Secretary of the Air Force approves the
   memorialization request.
   5.3. Sends a completed AF Form 1192, USAF Installations Characteristics Report, to HQ
   AFREA/MI, as shown in AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting.
   5.4. Sends a completed AF Form 532, Programming Actions Involving Units, Installation
   and Unit Equipment, to HQ USAF/A4/7, 1030 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-
   1030, as shown in AFI 16-403, Updating the USAF Program Installations, Units, and
   Priorities and Movement of Air Force Units.
   5.5. Appoints a project officer for the ceremony.      In conjunction with the MAJCOM
   protocol office, the project officer:
       5.5.1. Coordinates all arrangements for the dedication ceremony.
       5.5.2. Consults with the guest of honor or NOK, and according to existing policies,
       strives to satisfy their wishes regarding the ceremony.
       5.5.3. Ensures an escort or aide is appointed to the guest of honor or NOK on matters
       pertaining to the ceremony.
8                                                AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


    5.5.4. Coordinates with the host wing commander to ensure transportation for the guest
    of honor and NOK (see paragraph 5.5.5.4.5).
    5.5.5. Invites interested congressional delegations to attend or take part in the
    ceremonies. Citizens of national prominence may also be invited. Discretion and good
    judgment are critical when extending invitations. The wing commander is required to
    advise SAF/LL when planning to invite members of Congress to a ceremony or official
    function. SAF/LL advises the members of Congress of the ceremony      before it is
    publicly announced. Specifically, the wing commander:
       5.5.5.1. Prepares a written invitation with reply requested to each member of an
       interested congressional delegation. Refer to AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with
       Congress, for additional guidance in extending invitations. Send the invitations
       directly to SAF/LL, 1160 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1160, for
       approval and dispatch at least 60 days before the ceremony.
       5.5.5.1. (AETC) Send the notification through Public Affairs (HQ AETC/PA) at
       least 75 days before the ceremony.
       5.5.5.2. After approval is received from SAF/LL, makes public announcement about
       the ceremony.
       5.5.5.3. Advises SAF/PA when planning a ceremony or other official function to
       which citizens of national prominence, such as elected representatives, senior federal
       officials, Presidential appointees, state officials, and so forth, will be invited.
       5.5.5.3. (AETC) Send the proposed guest list through HQ AETC/PA at least 75
       days before the ceremony.
       5.5.5.4. The host (wing) commander:
           5.5.5.4.1. Sends the proposed guest list directly to SAF/PA at least 60 days
           before the ceremony.
           5.5.5.4.2. Holds all the invitations until SAF/PA has approved the proposed guest
           list.
           5.5.5.4.3. Sends an invitation to each guest after SAF/PA approves the proposed
           guest list.
           5.5.5.4.4. After these persons have been invited, makes a public announcement
           about the ceremony.
           5.5.5.4.5. Arranges transport for the honoree (if living) and one member of the
           honoree’s immediate NOK (surviving spouse, if not remarried), eldest child,
           mother and/or father (in this order), eldest sibling, or other beneficiary, if no close
           relatives are available. Refer to Joint Travel Regulation, Volume II, paragraphs
           C6000 and C6002-F, and AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders, for guidance on
           preparing invitational travel orders. Other guests desiring to attend the ceremony
           must travel at their own expense.
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                                   9


Section C—Naming a Street, Building, Room, Facility, Recreational Facility/Area, or Medical
Facility

6. Policy. CSAF, MAJCOM, and wing CCs or CVs have the authority to name areas, streets,
buildings, rooms and facilities in accordance with the Table of Approval Authorities
(Attachment 2). When naming areas, streets, buildings, or facilities, do not duplicate or use
names that are already in use on the installation or in the local community. When naming any
medical facility, use only the names of medical service personnel. All requests to name medical
facilities must be staffed to the CSAF for approval.
6. (AETC)Policy. Avoid unnecessary changes to street names because of the numerous
expenses associated with such a change (for example, maps, letterhead, etc.). It is best to
memorialize streets currently unnamed, newly constructed, or projected for construction. Rooms
within a memorialized facility or real property may also be memorialized.
7. Processing Procedures for Naming Areas, Streets, Rooms, Buildings, and Facilities.
   7.1. Wing and MAJCOM CCs or CVs will ensure all memorialization requests are staffed
   and approved to the appropriate approval authority before obtaining the concurrence of either
   the NOK or the individual being considered for memorialization.
   7.2. Include in all memorialization requests, a letter signed by the wing CC or CV, stating
   what sources were reviewed to verify the individual’s background and that no derogatory
   information was found which would preclude the individual’s selection for memorialization
   honors.
   7.3. Staff the proposed memorialization action through the FSS/CC before sending it to the
   MAJCOM/CC or CV (if the approval authority lies at MAJCOM or CSAF level, as outlined
   in the Table of Approval Authorities (Attachment 2).
   7.3. (AETC) All memorialization requests requiring MAJCOM or higher approval must be
   submitted to AETC/A1KKM in the Task Management Tool (TMT). Refer to TMT Tasker
   ID AETC1125713914 for a package template.
       7.3.1. For those memorialization actions requiring CSAF approval, staff the proposal
       though the MAJCOM commander or vice commander. The MAJCOM A1 staffs the
       request to AFPC's Recognition Programs Section (AFPC/DPSIDR), who staffs the
       request through Air Staff channels to the CSAF. Include in the request recommendation
       letters signed by the wing and MAJCOM commander or vice commander stating the
       achievements or contributions and association the individual had with the real estate
       contemplated for naming, and a biography on the individual.
       7.3.2. The recommendation must be staffed well in advance (usually six months) of a
       desired ceremony date to allow for processing, approval, and any other actions.
   7.4. After approval, a dedication ceremony may be conducted. Make arrangements for the
   dedication ceremony at least 3 months before the planned date. Requests for non-local travel
   authorization by commercial or government transportation may be authorized for the honoree
   (if living) and one member of the honoree’s immediate NOK (surviving spouse, if not
   remarried), eldest child, mother or father (in this order), eldest sibling, or other beneficiary, if
   no close relatives are available, to attend the dedication ceremony. Refer to paragraph
 10                                                AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


   5.5.5.4.5 for guidance on preparing invitational travel orders. Other guests who desire to
   attend the ceremony will travel at their own expense.
   7.5. If inviting members of Congress notify SAF/LL at least 60 days before the ceremony
   (see paragraph 5.5.5).
   7.5. (AETC) Send the notification through HQ AETC/PA at least 75 days before the
   ceremony.
   7.6. When inviting citizens of national prominence (Cabinet members, heads of federal
   agencies and departments, Presidential appointees, and state governors), forward the
   proposed guest list to SAF/PA at least 60 days before the ceremony (see paragraph 5.5.5).
   7.6. (AETC) Send the proposed guest list through HQ AETC/PA at least 75 days before the
   ceremony.
   7.7. Do not make public announcement until SAF/LL and SAF/PA notify interested parties.
   7.8. Place a metal plaque identifying the person memorialized at the entrance of the building,
   facility, or room named. Refer to Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-120-01, Air Force Sign
   Standard, for standardization of sign material, color, style, and placement. An electronic
   copy of UFC 3-120-01 can be found at the Whole Building Design Guide website
   (http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/DOD/UFC/ufc_3_120_01.pdf).
   7.9. Send a letter to the installation historian and to HQ AFPC/DPSIDR, 550 C. Street West,
   Suite 12, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4714, within 30 days after the approval date of the
   memorialization.
   7.9. (AETC) In addition, send a copy of the notification to Military Personnel Programs
   (HQ AETC/A1KKM) within 30 days after the ceremony.
8. (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the Memorialization Initiator (Individual, Units,
Groups, or Wings). The memorialization initiator will:
   8.1. (Added-AETC) Identify the extraordinary individual for memorialization.
   8.2. (Added-AETC) Identify what sources were reviewed to determine the candidate's
   background did not contain derogatory information that would prohibit memorialization
   honors.
   8.3. (Added-AETC) Identify the facility and (or) real property for memorialization. See
   Attachment 2 (Added)(AETC), this supplement, for suggested criteria.
   8.4. (Added-AETC) Determine if the selected facility or real property is deserving of
   memorialization. See Attachment 2 (Added)(AETC), this supplement.
   8.5. (Added-AETC) Notify the Military Personnel Section (MPS) customer service of
   memorialization intentions. See Attachment 3 (Added)(AETC), this supplement, for package
   requirements.
      8.5.1. (Added-AETC) Review AFI 36-3108 to determine approval authority.
   8.6. (Added-AETC) Contact the base civil engineer to determine if facility and (or) real
   property is already memorialized.
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                            11


      8.6.1. (Added-AETC) Ask the base civil engineer to help determine the square footage
      of the facility or real property.
   8.7. (Added-AETC) Assemble the memorialization package according to Attachment 3
   (Added). In addition, a Task Management Tool (TMT) template can be found at TMT
   Tasker ID AETC1125713914.
   8.8. (Added-AETC) Coordinate the memorialization package through the MPS customer
   service and up the chain of command.
   8.9. (Added-AETC) After approval of the package, make all arrangements and conduct the
   memorialization ceremony. Coordinate with the base public affairs office so the appropriate
   internal and external media coverage and community relations activities can be arranged.
   8.10. (Added-AETC) Accomplish follow-up with and provide documents to the MPS
   customer service, base civil engineer, and historian.
9. (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the Base Civil Engineer Squadron. Squadron
responsibilities include having the:
   9.1. (Added-AETC) Community Planner assist in the sighting of memorials and selection
   of appropriate facilities for memorialization.
   9.2. (Added-AETC) Programs Flight provide cost estimates and ensures installation and
   maintenance costs are reasonable and appropriate.
   9.3. (Added-AETC) Real Estate Office maintain a current listing of all facilities and real
   properties that have been memorialized.
   9.4. (Added-AETC) Real Estate Office provide details of the size, etc., of existing facilities
   nominated for memorialization. See the sample statement in Attachment 4 (Added)(AETC),
   this supplement.
10. (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the MPS Customer Service. This function will:
   10.1. (Added-AETC) Act as base OPR for the memorialization program.
   10.2. (Added-AETC) Conduct ongoing publicity for the memorialization program.
   10.3. (Added-AETC) Document who is initiating the memorialization and which facility or
   real property is being memorialized.
   10.4. (Added-AETC) Advise the memorialization initiator of content requirements for the
   memorialization package according to Attachment 3 (Added)(AETC), this supplement.
   10.5. (Added-AETC) Conduct a review of the memorialization package.
   10.6. (Added-AETC) Coordinate the memorialization package through the chain of
   command up to and including wing level. Packages requiring MAJCOM or higher level
   approval must be forwarded to AETC/A1KKM in the Task Management Tool (TMT) for
   review and forwarding to the AETC Commander. A TMT template can be found at TMT
   Tasker ID AETC1125713914.
   10.7. (Added-AETC) Follow up with and provide documents to higher headquarters, real
   property office, and wing historian.
 12                                               AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


   10.8. (Added-AETC) Obtain a current list of memorialized facilities and real properties
   annually from the real property office.
11. (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of Group and Squadron Commanders. The group or
squadron commander will:
   11.1. (Added-AETC) Recommend the individual who is the focus of the memorialization.
   11.2. (Added-AETC) Recommend the facility or real property to                 receive   the
   memorialization according to Attachment 2 (Added)(AETC), this supplement.
   11.3. (Added-AETC) Review and coordinate the memorialization package.
   11.4. (Added-AETC) Ensure all details for an appropriate memorialization ceremony are
   arranged and carried out.
12. (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the Unit Historian. The historian will assist in
identifying worthy individuals for memorialization and will update records, files, etc, in the
History Office archive.
13. (Added-AETC) Responsibilities of the Wing Commander. The wing commander will:
   13.1. (Added-AETC) Recommend the individual for memorialization. See Attachment 5
   (Added)(AETC), this supplement.
   13.2. (Added-AETC) Recommend the facility or real property for memorialization
   according to Attachment 2 Added)(AETC), this supplement.
   13.3. (Added-AETC) Review and coordinate on the memorialization package.
   13.4. (Added-AETC) Approve or disapprove the memorialization request according to the
   basic AFI and this supplement.
   13.5. (Added-AETC) Provide an endorsement memorandum for each memorialization
   package going to higher headquarters. See the sample in Attachment 5 (Added)(AETC), this
   supplement.
   13.6. (Added-AETC) Ensure packages requiring MAJCOM or higher approval are
   submitted to AETC/A1KKM in the Task Management Tool (TMT) for review and
   forwarding to the AETC Commander. A Task Management Tool (TMT) template can be
   found at TMT Tasker ID AETC1125713914
   13.7. (Added-AETC) Ensure the details for an appropriate memorialization ceremony are
   arranged and carried out.
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                 13


  13.8. (Added-AETC) After approval is final, invite the next of kin or honoree to the
  memorialization ceremony. See Attachment 6 (Added)(AETC), this supplement, for a
  sample letter of invitation.




                                      DARRELL D. JONES
                                      Lieutenant General, USAF
                                      DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services

                                      (AETC)

                                      MICHAEL D. BRICE, Colonel, USAF
                                      Director of Manpower, Personnel & Services
 14                                                  AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


                                          Attachment 1
           GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORING INFORMATION

References
(Added-AETC) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
(Added-AETC) AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies, 31 August 2011
AFPD 36-31, Personal Affairs, 27 September 1993
AFI 16-403, Updating the USAF Program Installations, Units, and Priorities and Movement of
Air Force Units, 25 January 2011
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting, 14 August 2008
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 28 December 2008
AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders, 16 January 2007
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 35-105, Community Relations, 26 January 2010
AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with Congress, 1 July 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Directive 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 8 May 2007
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard, 6 February 2003
Joint Travel Regulation, Volume II, 1 June 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 532, Programming Actions Involving Units, Installation and Unit Equipment
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1192, USAF Installations Characteristics Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CSAF—Air Force Chief of Staff
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DTM—Directive-Type Memorandum
FOA—Field Operating Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
PA—Privacy Act
(Added-AETC) RDSTMT—Records Disposition ScheduleTask Management Tool
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                           15


                                         Attachment 2
                            TABLE OF APPROVAL AUTHORITIES

Table A2.1. Table of Approval Authorities.
    Area, Facility, Building,    The person being memorialized is:         Approval Authority:
    Street, Room to be
    named:

1   Installation                 Living or deceased military or civilian   SECAF
2   Medical facility (any        Living or deceased medical service        Chief of Staff, USAF
    size)                        member (medical facilities are named
                                 for medical service members only)
3   Area or Building (any        Living Air Force member                   Chief of Staff, USAF
    size)                        Living Department of the Air Force
                                 civilian (DAFC)
                                 Living or deceased private sector
                                 individual
4   Area, building or facility   Deceased Air Force member                 MAJCOM/CC or CV
    – 3,000 square feet or       Deceased DAFC
    larger
5   Area, building or facility   Deceased Air Force member                 Wing/CC or CV
    – less than 3,000 square     Deceased DAFC
    feet
6   Streets                      Living Air Force member                   Chief of Staff, USAF
                                 Living DAFC
                                 Living or deceased private sector
                                 individual
                                 Deceased Air Force member                 Wing/CC or CV
                                 Deceased DAFC
7   Rooms                        Living Air Force member                   MAJCOM/CC or CV
                                 Living DAFC
                                 Living or deceased private sector
                                 individual
                                 Deceased Air Force member                 Wing/CC or CV
                                 Deceased DAFC
 16                                                AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


                               Attachment 3 (Added-AETC)
 SUGGESTED CRITERIA FOR IDENTIFYING DESERVING FACILITIES OR REAL
                           PROPERTIES

A3.1. (AETC) General. Memorializations provide a lasting honor to deceased and living Air
Force military personnel, Department of the Air Force civilians, and private sector personnel.
Consider the following criteria to determine if memorialization of the recommended facility or
real property is appropriate:
   A3.1.1. (AETC) Condition of the facility or real property.
   A3.1.2. (AETC) Location of the facility or real property.
   A3.1.3. (AETC) Frequency of use of the facility or real property.
   A3.1.4. (AETC) Sense of pride attached to the facility or real property.
   A3.1.5. (AETC) Primary purpose or use of the facility or real property.
   A3.1.6. (AETC) Architecture or nature of the construction of the facility or real property.
   A3.1.7. (AETC) Aesthetic appeal of the facility or real property.
   A3.1.8. (AETC) History or heritage currently attached to the facility or real property.
   A3.1.9. (AETC) Future use of the facility or real property.
   A3.1.10. (AETC) Is the facility or real property slated for destruction or renovation?
   A3.1.11. (AETC) Are operations in the facility or on the real property slated for relocation?
   A3.1.12. (AETC) Nature and contributions of the individual being memorialized.
   A3.1.13. (AETC) Nominee's relationship, if any, to the facility or real property.
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                             17


                                Attachment 4 (Added-AETC)
                   CONTENTS OF A MEMORIALIZATION PACKAGE

A4.1. (AETC) Obtaining Approval of a Memorialization Package. Packages requiring
MAJCOM or higher approval will be forwarded to HQ AETC/A1KKM in TMT for processing
to the AETC Commander. NOTE: In order to avoid potential embarrassment and unnecessary
explanations, obtain final approval from the proper channels before seeking concurrence from
the next of kin or honoree.
A4.2. (AETC) Package Contents. Ensure each package includes:
   A4.2.1. (AETC) Installation civil engineer, historian and FSS commander coordination.
   A4.2.2. (AETC) A cover memorandum from the wing commander requesting
   memorialization. This memorandum must include the honoree's specific accomplishments or
   contributions to the Air Force in general or to a particular functional area. In addition,
   include a statement indicating why the chosen honoree should receive memorialization and
   what sources were reviewed to determine the honoree's background did not contain
   derogatory information that would prohibit memorialization honors. See the sample
   memorandum in Attachment 5 (Added)(AETC), this supplement.
A4.2.3. (AETC) A statement describing the nature, purpose, and size of the building, facility or
real property being memorialized. If available, include a photograph or an artist's drawing of the
building, facility or real property. See Attachment 4 (Added)(AETC) for a sample statement.
   A4.2.4. (AETC) A biography of the honoree, to include his or her relationship (if any) to
   the installation. Indicate whether the individual is living or deceased. NOTE: Only under
   very unique circumstances should a living person be honored.
   A4.2.5. (AETC) A description of the actual memorial/plaque, to include pictures, logos,
   wording, etc.
   A4.2.6. (AETC) A map or diagram showing the location of the facility or real property in
   relation to surrounding properties.
A4.3. (AETC) Format:
   A4.3.1. (AETC) Create text documents in Microsoft Word, 12-point font, with 1-inch
   margins.
   A4.3.2. (AETC) Photocopies from books, magazines, microfiche, journals, etc., are
   permitted. Copies must be clean, without smudges, etc.
 18                                                AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


                                Attachment 5 (Added-AETC)
                   SAMPLE STATEMENT OF BUILDING SPECIFICS

Building 2001 is 150,000 square feet. Its primary purpose supports the training of aircraft
armament systems apprentices in the loading and unloading, maintenance, inspection, repair, and
checkout of multiple aircraft armament release, launch, and monitoring systems.


(If available, a photograph or an artist's drawing of the facility or real property may be placed
here.)
AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012                                                                      19


                                   Attachment 6 (Added-AETC)
                               SAMPLE COVER MEMORANDUM

                                        (Appropriate Letterhead)


MEMORANDUM FOR AETC/CV

FROM:      82 TRW/CC
           419 G Avenue, Suite 1
           Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2941

SUBJECT: Memorialization of Building 2001, Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas

1. Request Building 2001, Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas, be memorialized as Arnold Hall, under
provisions of AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies, in the memory of General Hap
Arnold (deceased). This building houses the Aircraft Armament Systems Training Flight and staff offices
of the 363d Training Squadron, Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas.

2. (In three to four sentences, say what the honoree did and his or her impact on the Air Force. Don't be
too wordy. The contents of the package must support the memorialization request.) General Arnold was
the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces from June 1941 through February 1946. He is
considered the architect of air power. His ideas and principles laid the foundation for using air power in
modern warfare. Even today, his ideas continue to shape how the Air Force conducts air operations.

3. IAW AFI 36-1004, paragraphs 2.3 and 7.2, the following actions were accomplished to ensure General
Arnold is deserving of this honor, and no information was found that would bring discredit to the United
States Air Force: (List actions accomplished. For example, ―AFOSI background check, conducted 15
January 2001; military personnel records review, conducted 2 February 2011; criminal background check
by 80th SFS, conducted 13 February 2011.‖

4. Please contact my POC, Lt Col Pamela Mason, DSN 736-2984, for further assistance with this project.




PETER B. MARSHALL, Brigadier General, USAF
Commander (Installation Wing CC or CV must sign this letter)
 20                                                       AFI36-3108_AETCSUP_I 24 APRIL 2012


                                    Attachment 7 (Added-AETC)
      SAMPLE LETTER OF INVITATION TO THE NEXT OF KIN OR HONOREE

                                          (Appropriate Letterhead)

Brigadier General Peter B. Marshall
Commander, 82d Training Wing
419 G Avenue, Suite 1
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2941

Mrs. Eula J. Peoples
1600 White House Lane
Rittman OH 44270-7000

Dear Mrs. Peoples

It is with great pleasure I write you this letter. The 82d Training Wing at Sheppard AFB has chosen your
(husband, father, sister, etc.), Major General Peoples, as a special honoree.

The Air Force has a unique memorialization program which identifies exemplary leaders for special
recognition. This recognition results from an individual's outstanding contributions to the Air Force
throughout his or her career.

This wing has selected your (husband, father, sister, etc.) to receive such recognition for the great strides
(he/she) has made in quality of life improvements for Sheppard Air Force Base personnel.

A new state-of-the-art maintenance training facility is to be dedicated in your (husband's, father's, etc.)
name. In conjunction with this, we will place a beautiful granite stone engraved with the honoree's name
onsite as a reminder of (his, her) lasting contributions to our Air Force heritage.

This letter seeks your approval and invites you at Air Force expense to attend the dedication ceremony on
23 November 1999. A second copy of this letter is attached for approval purposes. Please circle your
response, sign your name, and return the second copy to me as soon as possible.

Please contact (Lt Col Martin at (817) 676-7777) to discuss your travel and accommodations. In addition
you may ask (him, her) any questions regarding this memorialization project.

Sincerely

PETER B. MARSHALL, Brigadier General, USAF
Attachment:
Copy of Letter

NOTE: Send a second copy of this letter with a simple approval/disapproval line and signature block to
the honoree or next of kin. See the basic AFI for guidance about transportation of the honoree. Your
actual letter should not be a verbatim copy of this sample letter; make yours an original.
