BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-219
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)
                                                                    LUKE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               Supplement

                                                                             10 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                       Services

                                                      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at ww.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 FSS/FSV                                                        Certified by: 56 FSS/CC
Supersedes: AFI 34-                                                 (Lt Col Rodney H. Nichols)
            219_LUKEAFBSUP1,                                                            Pages: 7
             8 February 2008


Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-219, is supplemented as follows. This supplement applies to
56th Fighter Wing and also applies to the U. S. Air Force Reserve (AFRC) and to Air National
Guard (ANG) Units and members attached or assigned to Luke AFB. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated paragraph 1.3.4. Changed on paragraph 1.5.1.; (Deleted) (Enlisted and Officers’
Clubs); (Added) (Collocated Club), Table 1.1., Table 2.1., and (Added) Attachment 1, Glossary
of References and Supporting Information.
1.3.1. The minimum drinking age for purchasing, possessing, or drinking alcoholic beverages on
Luke Air Force Base (AFB) is 21 years of age. The sale, dispensing, possession, or consumption
of alcoholic or malt beverages on base, except as provided by AFI 34-219 and this supplement,
are expressly prohibited. The minimum age for serving or selling of alcoholic beverages on
Luke AFB is 19 years of age. Military members who are 21 years of age or older may purchase
 2                                                    AFI34-219_LUKEAFBSUP1 10 AUGUST


beer and light wine at the base package store or bulk beer for take-out at the Club Five Six
Harlow’s Lounge or Zemke’s Den, Bowling Center, Golf Course, Fort Tuthill, Base Exchange,
and Lodging.
1.3.4. The Air Force may punish, under Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), a
military member who violates the restrictions set forth in paragraphs 1.3.4. of AFI 34-219 as
amended by this supplement.
1.5.1. Community Services and Sustainment Services Flight activities, i.e., Club Five Six, the
Bowling Center, and Golf Course, will develop an operating instruction (OI), which will be
reviewed and approved by the 56th Force Support Squadron Commander (56 FSS/CC). The
lodging manager will develop an OI for lodging personnel which will also be approved by the
56 FSS/CC. Each Force Support activity that serves and/or sells alcoholic beverages will write
and establish an OI that designates Dram Shop responsibilities for the activity. All Force
Support OIs will be reviewed and approved by the 56 FSS/CC.
1.5.1.1. Any individual who sells, handles or serves alcoholic beverages on Luke AFB will be
required to receive Dram Shop training which will include, but is not limited to, reading
applicable OIs and approved training material prior to commencing work. For nonappropriated
fund (NAF) personnel, training will be documented on the AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee
Brief, and at a minimum refresher training will be conducted semiannually. Dram Shop training
for military personnel or appropriated fund (APF) employees will be documented through the
Training and Education Measurements System (TEMS) or other organizations authorized
methods.
2.1. The following activities on Luke AFB in Table 1.1. are permitted to sell alcoholic
beverages, beer, or light wine during established operating hours:

Table 1.1. (Added) Permitted Luke AFB Activities to Sell Alcoholic Beverages, Beer or
Light Wine
 1. Club Five Six
 2. Base Exchange Package Store/Sales Outlets
 3. Golf Course, Pro Shop, and Snack Bar
 4. Bowling Center Snack Bar
 5. Community Activities Center
 6. Lodging: Distilled spirit miniatures or, if not available, 200 milliliter sizes; wine coolers
 and other premixed, commercially packaged alcoholic beverages with less than 7 percent
 alcoholic content by volume (not to exceed 375 milliliters), wine (not to exceed one liter
 containers), and beer (by the bottle or can).

 7. Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) activities

2.1.4. Authority has been delegated to the 56th Mission Support Group Commander
(56 MSG/CC), to approve or deny requests to serve alcoholic beverages in areas not listed in
para 2.1.6. as supplemented. Requests to serve alcoholic beverages in these areas will be
submitted through 56 FSS/CC to 56 MSG/CC in writing. Each request will, at a minimum,
AFI34-219_LUKEAFBSUP1 10 AUGUST                                                                3


contain the proposed location of the activity, person or group sponsoring the event, purpose of
the event, proposed date(s) and time(s), type(s) of alcoholic beverage(s) to be served (only beer
and light wine), and measures to be taken to prevent excessive consumption and driving under
the influence of alcohol. Alcoholic beverages must be purchased from a base facility, i.e., Club
Five Six or AAFES. Serving alcoholic beverages in other areas is prohibited unless approved in
writing, in advance, by the 56 MSG/CC.
2.1.6. Consumption and possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages are prohibited on
Luke AFB except in the following locations (See [NO LABEL MAPPING for "Table"! 2.1):

Table 2.1. (Added) Approved Locations for Consumption and Possession of Open
Containers of Alcoholic Beverages
 1. Club Five Six Lounges, Barcelona Room, ballroom, and patios of building 161
 2. Golf Course Club House/Course, and Snack Bar
 3. Outdoor Recreation swimming pools (Only during supervised pool parties. No
 swimming is permitted by those who consume alcoholic beverages. The individual who
 arranges is responsible for the party and must complete Dram Shop training prior to the
 event.) -- beer and light wine only.

 4. Family Housing (except playgrounds and ball fields)
 5. Lodging
 6. Enlisted Dormitories
 7. Picnic areas--beer and light wine only
 8. Fowler Park
 9. Community Activities Center
 10. Bowling Center
 11. Ball fields (except at Youth Activities)--beer and light wine only
 12. Riding Stables--beer and light wine only
 13. Fort Tuthill
 14. AAFES Food Court

2.1.6.1. (Added) Consumption of alcoholic beverages is only permitted within specified areas
of a squadron facility as designated in writing by the squadron commander and approved through
the group commander to 56 FW/CC. Squadron commanders will ensure alcoholic beverages are
not consumed by anyone under the age of 21, food and nonalcoholic beverages are available, and
there are designated drivers, if needed. Excessive drinking and drinking contests are prohibited.
In no instances shall any individual or organization engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages in
these areas.
 4                                                  AFI34-219_LUKEAFBSUP1 10 AUGUST


2.1.6.2. (Added) Group commanders will establish guidelines for consumption of alcoholic
beverages within their squadrons’ facilities which comply with AFI 34-219 and this supplement,
the Dram Shop theory of liability, and local, State and Federal laws.
2.1.6.3. (Added) The squadron commander of the unit desiring to consume alcoholic beverages
in the work place for organizational parties or functions will request such authorizations through
56 FSS/CC to 56 MSG/CC, IN TURN, at least 5 days before the function. This request will state
the date, time, location, name and rank of the project officer, that the OPR ensures alcoholic
beverages are not consumed by anyone under the age of 21, that food and nonalcoholic
beverages are available, and there are designated drivers if needed. (Attachment 2)
2.5. Individuals may not bring personal supplies of alcoholic beverages into buildings or on
grounds where Force Support activities sell or serve alcohol.
3.2. Club Five Six on Luke AFB may sell beer, wine, and other commercially packaged
alcoholic beverages with less than 7 percent alcohol content by volume for off-premise
consumption when AAFES operated outlets are closed. Fort Tuthill resale outlet may sell beer,
wine, and miniature distilled spirits. Prices will be no less than AAFES prices for the same item.
Packaged sales of beer and wine products incidental to party contracts or take-out food and
beverage operations are exempt from this restriction.




                                             JERRY D. HARRIS, JR.,Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
AFI34-219_LUKEAFBSUP1 10 AUGUST                              5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Program, 17 October 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES— Army & Air Force Exchange Service
AF—- Air Force
AFB—- Air Force Base
AFI—- Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—- Air Force Manual
AFRC—- Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—- Air National Guard
APF—- appropriated fund
FSS/CC—- Force Support Squadron Commander
FW/CC—- Fighter Wing Commander
MSG/CC—- Mission Support Group Commander
O I—-operating instruction
TEMS—- Training and Education Measurements System
UCMJ—- Uniform Code of Military Justice
 6                                                   AFI34-219_LUKEAFBSUP1 10 AUGUST


                                          Attachment 2
     REQUEST TO CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR A UNIT FUNCTION
                             (SAMPLE)

MEMORANDUM FOR 56 FSS/CC                                                            Date:

FROM: 56 XXX/CC

SUBJECT: Request to Consume Alcoholic Beverages for a Unit Function

1. Request permission to allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages during a unit function
that will be held in a location not identified in AFI 34-219/Luke AFB Sup 1, as a location
approved for the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Specific information regarding this
request is as follows:

     a. Location of Event: (building name, number and room)
     b. Date and Time of Event: (include start and ending times)
     c. Project Officer: (name, rank, organization and duty phone)

2. I understand this permission is only for the period of time indicated above. I certify there are
provisions in place to ensure alcoholic beverages are not served to any person under the age of
21; that food and non-alcoholic beverages will be available and designated drivers will be
available if necessary. I also understand it is my obligation to ensure alcoholic beverages are not
served to individuals who appear to be intoxicated and I have reviewed and understand the Dram
Shop Liability and the Drunk and Drugged Driving Program sections of AFI 34-219, para 1.3
and 1.4. I also understand we cannot engage in the sale of any alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic
beverages to be sold must be sold by a Luke Force Support activity.




                                                   XXXXXXXX, Maj/Lt Col, USAF
                                                   Commander, XXXXXXX Squadron

1st Ind, 56 FSS/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 56 MSG/CC

Recommend approval/disapproval.




                                              XXXXXXXX, Maj/Lt Col, USAF
                                              Commander, 56th Force Support Squadron
2d Ind to 56 XXX/CC, date, Request to Consume Alcoholic Beverages for a Unit Function
AFI34-219_LUKEAFBSUP1 10 AUGUST                                           7



56 MSG/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 56 XXX/CC

Approved/Disapproved.




                                  XXXXXXXXXXXXX, Col, USAF
                                  Commander, 56th Mission Support Group
