BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1044
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                       29 MAY 2013

                                                                                  Civil Engineering

                                                          VISUAL AIR NAVIGATION SYSTEMS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the ePublishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFCESA/CO                                                       Certified by: HQ AF/A7CO
                                                                                  (Col Derek Sanks)
                                                                                          Pages: 11
Supersedes:    AFI32-1044, 4 March 1994


This instruction implements Air Force policy directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities. It defines requirements and establishes standards for all visual air navigation facilities
at U.S. Air Force facilities within the continental United States (CONUS) and at overseas
locations supporting Air Force flight operations. The airfield lighting systems engineer at Air
Force Civil Engineer Center, Operations Directorate (AFCEC/CO), is the final interpretation
authority for definitions and guidance contained within this instruction. Use this instruction
when programming, designing, constructing, and installing visual air navigation systems and
related facilities. Consult Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-535-01, Visual Air Navigation
Facilities, for detailed information on standard configurations and equipment. This instruction
applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. This
instruction may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) for coordination prior to certification and approval. Send
comments and suggested changes on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through major commands (MAJCOM) and AFCEC, 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1,
Tyndall AFB, FL 32403-5319, to HQ USAF/A7C, 1260 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, D.C.,
20330-1260. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this instruction
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                                    AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include requirements incorporated from UFC 3-535-01, organizational changes, and
technological updates.
1. Purpose. This instruction defines requirements for all visual air navigation systems at Air
Force facilities. See UFC 3-535-01 for standard configurations and approved equipment
characteristics.
2. Background.
     2.1. The term “visual air navigation systems” refers to lights, signs, symbols, and other
     devices and/or systems located on and in the vicinity of an airfield that provide visual
     reference and guidance to pilots when operating aircraft on the ground and in the air. They
     supplement the guidance provided by markings and electronic aids such as tactical air
     navigation (TACAN), precision approach radar (PAR), and instrument landing system (ILS)
     for operating aircraft.
     2.2. Visual air navigation systems must be standardized for operational safety.
     Standardization requires lights with the same intended use to be identical in color and
     configuration at each airfield (refer to UFC 3-535-01 for specific requirements) to enable
     pilots to interpret the guidance readily, with assurance of accuracy and minimal distraction.
3. Application. Use this instruction and its complement, UFC 3-535-01, for planning, design,
construction, sustainment, restoration, and modernization of new visual air navigation systems at
Air Force installations, fields, ranges, and expeditionary locations. Do not install visual air
navigation equipment or configurations not covered in this instruction and UFC 3-535-01
without an appropriate waiver (see paragraph 8). Exceptions to the waiver requirement include
locations where:
     3.1. International military standards apply (see paragraph 5).
     3.2. International agreements apply (see paragraph 6).
     3.3. Existing facilities configured to prior standards and criteria continue to provide
     satisfactory service (see paragraph 9).
4. Federal Aviation Administration Standards. The Air Force generally follows Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) standards, primarily published as advisory circulars (AC),
handbooks, engineering briefs and specifications. However, when FAA standards conflict with
requirements in this instruction or UFC 3-535-01, or where FAA standards are for a specific
purpose related to general aviation only, requirements of this instruction and UFC 3535-01 take
precedence.
5. International Military Standards.
     5.1. This instruction and UFC 3-535-01 satisfy requirements of international military
     standards as closely as possible. Compliance exclusions arise from:
        5.1.1. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Standardization Agreements
        (STANAG), promulgated by the NATO Military Agency for Standardization (MAS).
AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013                                                                          3


       5.1.2. Air and Space Interoperability Council (ASIC) Air Standards (AIR STD),
       promulgated by representatives of the military air forces of Australia, Canada, New
       Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
   5.2. Applicable international military standards take precedence over the standards in this
   instruction and UFC 3-535-01 as follows:
       5.2.1. NATO STANAG apply at (a) Air Force installations in NATO theater countries
       with the exception of the United States and Canada, or (b) wherever NATO funding is
       provided for the work, regardless of location.
       5.2.2. ASIC AIR STD apply at Air Force facilities in New Zealand and Australia.
6. Base Rights. When the United States constructs an airfield in a foreign country, the United
States and the host nation enter into an international agreement as defined in Department of
Defense Directive (DODD) 5530.3, International Agreements. This agreement may take the
form of a Defense Cooperation Agreement, a Base Rights Agreement, an Implementing
Agreement, a Host Nation Funded (Construction) Agreement (HNFA), a Bilateral Infrastructure
Agreement (BIA), or an agreement by a different title. Provisions of these agreements must be
observed, including instances where construction does not conform to international standards or
standards of the host nation. Many of these agreements require the United States to consult with
and/or obtain approval from the host nation before beginning construction. An HNFA allocates
the responsibilities for construction funding between the United States and the host nation.
NATO members execute BIAs, which are financed by mutual agreement among the parties to
the BIA.
7. Visual and Electronic Aids.
   7.1. Use visual air navigation aids and associated electronic aids for operational categories
   listed in Tables 1 and 2. Except for visual flight rule (VFR) operations and contingency
   operations, electronic aids are needed to provide initial positioning and directional
   information to approaching aircraft. Visual aids ensure a timely and safe transition from the
   instrument phase to the visual phase of an approach. Inadequate visual aids partially negate
   the utility of the electronic systems; but unnecessary visual aids waste valuable resources and
   offer little operational advantage. Do not add or upgrade visual aids to support higher levels
   of operations unless the runway, taxiway, or helipad is approved for that purpose and
   appropriate electronic aids have been or are programmed to be installed. Waivers are
   required for deviations from visual aids requirements in these tables (see paragraph 8).
  4                                                                        AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013


 Table 1. Visual Landing Aids Requirements for Airfields. Note: This table does not apply to
 expeditionary or contingency airfield lighting systems.
                                                                    Operational Category
Facility                                                   Night      Non-
                                                           VMC      Precision    I      II          III
   APPROACH AIDS
High Intensity Approach Light System (ALSF-1)               NA      NA           R(1)    NA       NA
High Intensity Approach Light System (ALSF-2)               NA      NA           NA      R        R
Short Approach Lighting (SALS)                              NA      OPT          NA      NA       NA
Simplified Short Approach Lighting (SSALR)                  NA      OPT          OPT     NA       NA
Medium Intensity Approach Light System (MALSR)              NA      NA           OPT     NA       NA
Runway End Identifier Lights (REIL)                         OPT     OPT          OPT     NA       NA
Precision Approach Path Indicator (PAPI)                    R(2)    R(2)         OPT     NA       NA
   RUNWAY AIDS
High Intensity Runway Edge Lights (HIRL)(8)                 R       R            R       R        R
Medium Intensity Runway Edge Lights (MIRL) (9)              OPT     OPT          OPT     NA       NA
Threshold Lights                                            R       R            R       R        R
Runway End Lights                                           R       R            R       R        R
Runway Distance Markers (RDM)                               R       R            R       R        R
Runway Centerline Lights (RCL)                              NA      NA           NA      R        R
Touchdown Zone Lights (TDZL)                                NA      NA           NA      R        R
   TAXIWAY AIDS
Taxiway Edge Lights                                         R       R            R       R        R
Taxiway Centerline Lights                                   NA      NA           NA      OPT      R
Taxiway Clearance Bar (Hold Point)                          NA      NA           NA      OPT      OPT
Runway Guard Lights – Elevated, FAA Type L-804              OPT     OPT          OPT     R        R
Runway Guard Lights – Inset, FAA Type L-852G                OPT     OPT          OPT     OPT      R
Runway Exit Lights                                          OPT     OPT          OPT     OPT      R
Runway Stop Bar                                             OPT     OPT          OPT     OPT      R
Guidance Signs (Information)(6)                             R       R            R       R        R
Guidance Signs (Mandatory)(6)                               R       R            R       R        R
   MISCELLANEOUS AIDS
Airfield Rotating Beacons                                   R       R            R       R        R
Wind Cones                                                  OPT     OPT          OPT     NA       NA
Obstruction Lights(7)                                       R       R            R       R        R
Emergency Power (3)                                         R       R            R       R        R
Apron Area Flood Lighting (5)                               R       R            R       R        R
Apron Edge Lights                                           R       R            R       R        R
Legend:
R       Required.
OPT      Option as recommended by the wing commander and approved by the MAJCOM.
NA       Not applicable. Not appropriate for this application.
(1)      MAJCOM approval is required to substitute MALSR for an ALSF-1.
(2)      Required only on primary runways.
(3)      Emergency power required for all “R” equipment.
(4)      Wind direction indicators are required to meet ICAO Annex 14 (para. 5.1.1.1)
(5)      Flood lighting is not required for night operations (refueling, loading, maintenance, etc.).
(6)      All guidance signs are internally lighted.
(7)      LED Obstruction Lights are not approved for use on Air Force installations
(8)      High intensity LED Runway Edge Lights are not approved for use on AF installations
(9)      Medium intensity LED Runway Edge Lights require AF approval prior to project programming and
         installation.
 AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013                                                                             5


                                                                      Operational Category
Facility                                                   Night        Non-
                                                           VMC        Precision    I      II       III
NOTE:      Backup power must be provided for visual landing aid listed as (R) Required.

 Table 2. Visual Landing Aids Requirements for Helipads.
                                                        Helipad                           Helicopter
                                         VMC                            IMC                Runway
 FACILITY                         Day       Night                Non-      Precision       Precision
                                 Non-        No-               Precision Instrument       Instrument
                              Instrument Instrument           Instrument Category I       Category I
 Perimeter Lights                 NA          R                    -           -               -
 Approach Direction               NA        OPT
         Lights                                              -                     -           -
 Landing Direction Lights        NA           OPT            -                     -           -
 Approach Lights Category        NA            NA
         I                                                   -                     -           -
 Floodlights                     NA           OPT            -                     -           -
 Visual Glide Slope              NA           OPT
     Indicator System                                        -                     -           -
 Obstruction Lighting             R             R            -                     -           -
 Identification Beacon            R             R            -                     -           -
 Apron Flood Lighting            NA           OPT            -                     -           -
 Apron Edge Lighting             NA           OPT            -                     -           -
 Wind Direction Indicator        R(1)           R            -                     -           -
 Emergency Power (2)             NA             R            -                     -           -
 Legend:
 R           Required
 OPT         Optional
 NA          Not applicable
 (1)         Not lighted for DAY VMC.
 (2)         Emergency power required for all “R” equipment.
    7.2. Determination of need for items designated as optional (OPT) must be made by the
    operating authority having jurisdiction (AHJ) at the location and for the specific items in
    question. AHJ is typically the wing commander. Special circumstances that must be
    considered include landing patterns, physical restrictions, weather patterns and anomalies,
    and pilot and aircraft capabilities.
 8. Waivers. The MAJCOM commander or MAJCOM vice commander may waive
 requirements of this instruction if compliance is not practical or feasible. In exercising this
 waiver authority, the MAJCOM commander or vice commander must not adversely impact the
 effectiveness or safety of operations for any aircraft which may use the airfield. Under normal
 circumstances, funding or budgetary constraints are not adequate justification for granting a
 waiver. Each MAJCOM must establish and document procedures for processing waivers.
 MAJCOMs may use existing documented procedures, provided they include requirements of
 paragraphs 8.1 through 8.6 of this instruction.
    8.1. Authority to approve waivers may be delegated to the MAJCOM/A7, but must not be
    re-delegated.
 6                                                                   AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013


     8.2. Coordinate waiver requests with the operations/airfield management and wing safety
     offices at base level and at MAJCOM-level civil engineer operations and safety divisions. In
     accordance with AFI 13-213, Airfield Management, and AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control,
     Airspace, Airfield, and Range Management, the operations/airfield management offices must
     coordinate as necessary with local wings and air traffic control agencies (e.g., FAA)
     providing terminal instrument procedures (TERPS) services for the affected locations.
     8.3. Notify the FAA of waiver requests involving facilities at joint-use airfields subject to
     provisions of Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 77, Safe, Efficient Use and
     Preservation of the Navigable Airspace. Contact the regional FAA Airports Division having
     jurisdiction over the airfield for requirements and coordination process. For contact
     information,                                                                         consult
     http://www.faa.gov/about/office_org/headquarters_offices/arc/ro_center/                  and
     http://www.faa.gov/airports/news_information/contact_info/regional/. Contact telephone
     numbers may also be found in the local phone directory’s U.S. Government listings.
     8.4. Document approved waivers and incorporate them into the permanent facility records so
     they are available for examination during facility inspections.
     8.5. Forward copies of completed documentation for each approved waiver with detailed
     justification to:
        8.5.1. AFCEC/COSM, 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319,
        afcec.coa.workflow@tyndall.af.mil.
        8.5.2. AF/A3O-AOA, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1480,
        afa3ooa.workflow@pentagon.af.mil.
        8.5.3. HQ AFSEC/SEFF, 9700 G Avenue, South East, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5367,
        afsec.seff@kirtland.af.mil.
        8.5.4. HQ AFFSA/A3A, 6500 South MacArthur Blvd, Bldg 4, Rm 240, Oklahoma City,
        OK 73169, hqaffsa.a3a@tinker.af.mil.
        8.5.5. ANG NGB/A7AD, 3500 Fetchett Ave, Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762 (for Air
        National Guard installations only).
     8.6. A waiver is not required where existing visual air navigation aids meet prior standards
     and continue to give satisfactory service (See Paragraph 9).
9. Existing Facilities. Do not use this instruction as the sole basis for advancing standards of
existing visual air navigation aids and equipment, except where necessary for a minimum
acceptable level of safety, quality, and performance. Support to existing systems with equipment
meeting the original specifications may be continued until the system is upgraded. Co-mingling
newer equipment with older equipment may be permitted only where system performance is not
degraded.
10. Alternative Equipment. Alternative equipment implementing new technology must:
(1) be approved by Air Force Civil Engineer Center, East; (2) satisfy requirements of this
instruction and UFC 3535-01; (3) not compromise cost-effectiveness, reliability, availability,
maintainability, safety, and service life; and (4) be maintainable with adequate training and
logistic support without the requirement for proprietary maintenance. Effects of the alternative
AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013                                                                         7


equipment and new technology on the entire system must be considered and analyzed prior to
solicitation, installation, or use. Waiver requirements of paragraph 8 apply.
11. Emergency Substitution. In emergency situations where facility restoration would be
significantly delayed by non-availability of replacement parts, equipment that does not comply
with the intent of this instruction and/or UFC 3-535-01 may be substituted. Base civil engineers
(BCE), airfield operations, and flying safety offices must coordinate on these substitutions, and
the MAJCOM/A7O, or equivalent, must be notified by the BCE. The substitute equipment must
be removed from service and replaced with approved equipment as soon approved equipment
becomes available.
12. Metrication of Dimensions. International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard
measurements, either English or metric equivalents, may be used. Metric dimensions may be
rounded off (for example, 30 meters equals 100 feet) even though they do not represent exact
conversions. No changes in standard dimensions, tolerances, or performance specifications are
needed if applied consistently. Note: Contract documents must incorporate measurements
expressed in English units, each followed immediately by the appropriate metric equivalent
displayed in parentheses.
13. Acceptance Tests. Thoroughly inspect and test new systems before placing them into
service. New systems must be constructed as designed, must be documented with as-built
drawings, and must operate in accordance with industry, Air Force, and manufacturers’
standards. Commissioning flight inspections must be arranged for all lighting systems covered
by AFMAN 11-225_IP, United States Standard Flight Inspection Manual.




                                            JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            DCS/Installations, Logistics, & Mission Support
 8                                                                 AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
14 CFR Part 77, Safe, Efficient Use, and Preservation of the Navigable Airspace, 21 July 2010
DODD 5530.3, International Agreements, 11 June 1987
AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic, Airfield, Airspace, and Range Management, 7 August 2007
AFI 13-213, Airfield Management, 29 January 2008
AFMAN 11-225_IP, United States Standard Flight Inspection Manual, 1 October 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
UFC 3-535-01, Visual Air Navigation Facilities, 17 November 2005
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
None.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—advisory circular
AF/A3O—AOA—Director of Operations, Air Force Operations Group
AF/A7CA—The Civil Engineer, Asset Management
AFCEC/CO—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Operations Directorate
AFFSA/A3A—Air Force Flight Standards Agency, Airspace Ranges and Airfield Operations
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSEC/SEFF—Air Force Safety Center Aviation Safety Branch
AHJ—Authority Having Jurisdiction
AIR STD—Air and Space Interoperability Council Air Standard
ALSF—1—Approach Lighting System with Sequenced Flashing Lights for Category I
Meteorological Conditions
ALSF—2—Approach Lighting System with Sequenced Flashing Lights for Category II
Meteorological Conditions
AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013                                                           9


ANG—Air National Guard
ANG NGB/A7AD—Air National Guard, National Guard Bureau, Program Development Branch
ASIC—Air and Space Interoperability Council
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BIA—Bilateral Infrastructure Agreement
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CONUS—continental United States
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
HAPI—helicopter approach path indicator
HIRL—high intensity runway edge lights
HNFA—Host Nation Funded (Construction) Agreement
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
IAW—in accordance with
ILS—instrument landing system
IMC—instrument meteorological conditions
IP—Interservice Publication
LED—light-emitting diode
MAJCOM—Major Command
MALSR—medium intensity approach light system
MAS—Military Agency for Standardization
MIRL—medium intensity runway edge lights
MLS—microwave landing system
NA—not applicable
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPT—optional
PAPI—precision approach path indicator
PAR—precision approach radar
R—required
RCL—runway centerline lights
RDM—runway distance markers (or distance remaining markers (DRM))
 10                                                                 AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013


REIL—runway end identifier lights
RVR—runway visual range
SALS—short approach lighting system
SSALR—simplified short approach system
STANAG—Standardization Agreement
TACAN—tactical air navigation
TDZL—touchdown zone lights
TERPS—terminal instrument procedures
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
VFR—visual flight rules
VMC—visual meteorological conditions
VORTAC—Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Range with TACAN

Terms
Bilateral Infrastructure Agreement (BIA)—An agreement relative to infrastructure which
concerns two NATO members and is financed by mutual agreement between them (e.g.,
facilities required for the use of forces of one NATO member in the territory of another).
Host Nation Funded Construction Agreement (HNFA)—An agreement between the United
States and its host nation that outlines the responsibilities for funding construction on that
installation.
Instrument Runway—A runway served by non-visual aids giving directional guidance
adequate for a straight-in approach. It may be further classified as:
Category I Precision Approach Runway—A runway served by an ILS, a Microwave Landing
System (MLS), or a precision approach radar (PAR) and visual aids intended for operations
down to 60 meters (200 feet) decision height, and down to a runway visual range (RVR) on the
order of 720 meters (2400 feet). These criteria also apply to visual lighting aids supporting Air
Force PAR approaches down to a decision height of 30 meters (100 feet) and an RVR on the
order of 360 meters (1200 feet).
Category II Precision Approach Runway—A runway served by an ILS or a MLS, or a PAR
and visual aids intended for operations down to 30 meters (100 feet) decision height and down to
an RVR on the order of 360 meters (1200 feet).
Category III Precision Approach Runway—A runway served by ILS or MLS (no decision
height being applicable) and:
        Category IIIa—By visual aids intended for operations down to an RVR on the order of
        210 meters (700 feet).
        Category IIIb—By visual aids intended for operations down to an RVR on the order of
        45 meters (150 feet).
        Category IIIc—Intended for operations without reliance on external visual reference.
AFI32-1044 29 MAY 2013                                                                      11


Nonprecision Instrument Approach Runway—A runway served by a nonprecision aid (such
as TACAN or Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Range with TACAN [VORTAC])
providing directional guidance adequate for a straight-in approach.
Joint—use Airfields—Military airfields that allow general aviation use or airfields for which a
joint use agreement granting equal privileges has been executed by both parties.
