BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-262
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING
(AETC)                                                         KEESLER AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                       11 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                      Services

                                                          SERVICES PROGRAMS AND USE
                                                                         ELIGIBILITY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 81 FSS/FSMP                                                      Certified by: 81 FSS/CC
                                                                        (Maj John W. Ponton)
Supersedes:   AFI 34-262/Keesler AFB                                                   Pages: 7
              Sup 1, 21 May 03


AFI 34-262, 27 June 2002, is supplemented as follows.

This supplement implements and extends the guidance in AFI 34-262, Services Programs and
Use Eligibility.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records        Disposition      Schedule      (RDS)          located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Attachment 1 is a glossary of references
and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Responsibility changed to 81 FSS. Removed attachment 10, KEESLERAFB Form 166,
Commissary-Exchange Entry/Purchase Authorization Tracking, Sample.                 Disposition
instructions included. This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely
reviewed.
 2                                     AFI34-262_KEESLERAFBSUP 11 SEPTEMBER 2012


3.2.2. (Added) 81st Force Support Squadron establishes procedures for determining eligibility
and the issuing of KEESLERAFB Form 5- Commissary-Exchange Entry/Purchase
Authorization, for use of the Base Exchange and Commissary as a designated agent. The agent
card is used to allow otherwise ineligible persons to assist active duty, retired, dependent, or
authorized veteran personnel with their shopping in the Commissary and/or Base Exchange. The
requester is the person who needs assistance shopping. The agent is the person who will be
assisting the requester.
3.2.3. (Added) Eligibility. While each case must be reviewed individually, the following is a
basic guideline for determining eligibility:
3.2.3.1. (Added) Active duty personnel with TDY or unaccompanied PCS orders. Single
parents or military married to military, may have an adult with a power of attorney for dependent
children issued an agent card for the period of TDY or PCS, not to exceed one year, a new
memorandum may be issued providing the power of attorney is still current. Mark these cards
“designated agent.”
3.2.3.2. (Added) Dependent Children. Non-military custodial parent with no authorization to
shop in the Commissary or Base Exchange can be issued a memorandum for Exchange only.
Individual must have proof of custody (a copy of the divorce decree or other legal documentation
that states the requester has legal custody and shows a court signature or seal). Be aware that
some dependent children will not have Commissary privileges, as per AFI 36-3026V1_IP,
Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Eligible Family Members,
and Other Eligible Personnel, Attachment 2, 17 June 2009. These cards are marked “designated
agent.” An agent card will not be authorized once a dependent child has reached their 18th
birthday, unless there is a medical reason. If there is a medical reason for continuing the agent,
then the requirements for persons with a medical disability will apply.
3.2.3.3. (Added) Children Born Out of Wedlock. In the case of a dependent child whose birth
parents have not married and is living with the non-military parent, a DD Form 1172,
Application for Uniformed Services Identification Card DEERS Enrollment, generated by
FSS/FSMPS is the only justification required. This printout will show whether Commissary
privileges are authorized.
3.2.3.4. (Added) Persons with a Medical Disability. If a person with a medical disability
requires assistance with their shopping, a statement from their physician is required. The
statement should give the reason for the required assistance (i.e., visually impaired, recent
surgery, etc.) and the expected duration of the patient’s disability. If the disability is permanent,
the physician should state this fact on their letter. A legibly handwritten note on a prescription
pad is acceptable; but a typed letter is preferred. Issue the agent card for the duration of the
requester’s disability or one year, whichever is sooner. If the disability is certified as permanent
by the physician, the memorandum must be renewed annually. These cards are marked
“accompany patron,” unless the physician specifically states the member is incapacitated and
needs someone to shop for them.
3.2.3.5. (Added) Foreign Exchange Students. Military families are eligible and authorized to
sponsor foreign exchange students. These students live with the military families for
approximately one year; however, they are not afforded the same privileges that foster children
are authorized. To assist the sponsor in making the student feel a part of the family, a
memorandum may be issued. The military member will need to bring the student along with
AFI34-262_KEESLERAFBSUP 11 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                          3


their visa or passport and the documentation signed by the student’s parents that authorizes the
military member power of attorney. These cards are marked “accompany patron.”
3.2.4. (Added) Proper Identification. Before issuing an agent card, ensure that:
3.2.4.1. (Added) The person who is receiving an agent card has a picture ID and Social
Security Number. A state driver’s license is preferred but not required. Ensure that the ID card
or driver’s license has not expired.
3.2.4.2. (Added) The requester has a current military ID card, i.e., DD Form 2A for retired or
active duty, Armed Forces of the United States – Geneva Conventions Identification Card
(Active), DD Form 1173, Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card, for dependents.
If the requester is not present, their designee/representative needs to have the requester's ID card,
a power of attorney (durable or specific) for the requester, and a driver's license or another form
of photo ID of themselves.
3.2.5. (Added) Justification. Justification for an agent card can be:
3.2.5.1. (Added) PCS/TDY orders with a power of attorney for guardianship.
3.2.5.2. (Added) A copy of the medical letter or statement from the requester’s doctor that
clearly states whether assistance or designation is needed.
3.2.5.3. (Added) A divorce decree or judicial decree of paternity that clearly states non-
military parent is primary custodial parent.
3.2.6. (Added)    Issuing the Agent Card.
3.2.6.1. (Added) All information on the agent card must be typewritten. The first five blocks
are self-explanatory. The block for the requester should be the name and SSAN of requester's or
sponsor’s name, rank, branch of service, and SSAN. The first block on the back of the card is
where the agent/requester signs. The issuing official then fills in the organizational address, their
name and grade, and signature on the last three sections remaining on the card, and also ensures
that the appropriate information is filled in on the KEESLERAFB Form 5- Commissary-
Exchange Entry/Purchase Authorization.
3.2.6.2. (Added) Before the agent and requester leave the office, ensure both understand the
program and what can and cannot be purchased. Express the fact that liquor and cigarettes are
not part of the authorized purchases. Have agent sign a copy of the privileges memorandum
(Attachment 9) and give them a copy to keep. Keep original for file. Complete KEESLERAFB
Form 5- Commissary-Exchange Entry/Purchase Authorization.
3.2.6.3. (Added) No more than two agents per requester are authorized. If a new agent is
required, return the old memorandum agent card(s).
3.2.7. (Added) Renewal Agent Cards. To renew an agent card, paragraphs 3.2.3. still applies.
Ensure that justification, i.e., power of attorney, has not expired. Renew medical statements
every year. If a person comes in for a renewal agent card without proper justification, they are
given a temporary agent card not to exceed 30 days. Inform them of what is needed to receive a
agent card. When extending the temporary agent card, the agent must be present with the proper
ID as specified in Paragraph 3.2.4. Do not issue or renew agent card through the mail.
3.2.8. (Added) Lost or Stolen Agent Cards. In the event of a lost or stolen agent card, send a
memorandum of the incident to the Base Exchange, Commissary, and the Security Forces.
 4                                   AFI34-262_KEESLERAFBSUP 11 SEPTEMBER 2012


Include in the notification the agent card control number, expiration date, and who the requester
and the agent are. Also, include when the card was reported lost or stolen and by whom.
3.2.9. (Added) Commissary and Exchange Responsibilities. To ensure requester and their
agent(s) comply with the guidelines and requirements of the Agent Card Program, the
Commissary and Exchange Managers will ensure that cashiers check for expiration dates of
agent card whether it is for unlimited or limited privileges and if they are authorized as
designated agent or to accompany patron. When an agent accompanies the requester, they
should go through the line together. When the agent has the approval to shop for the requester,
they must have both the requester’s ID card and the agent card. If the agent has violated any of
the above requirements, then confiscate and return the agent card to 81 FSS/FSMPS (Customer
Support). If the violation warrants, detain the sponsor and agent and contact Security Forces.
5.6.4. (Added)        KEESLERAFB Form 5 - Commissary-Exchange Entry/Purchase
Authorization. Cards marked “designated agent” are maintained by the designated agent and
those marked “accompany patron” are maintained by the individual requesting assistance with
shopping accepted in the Commissary or Base Exchange. They may be destroyed and discarded
by the possessor or brought to the Customer Service Office for destruction.




                                            RENE F. ROMERO, Colonel, USAF
                                            Vice Commander, 81st Training Wing
AFI34-262_KEESLERAFBSUP 11 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                  5


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility, 27 June 2002
AFI 36-3026V1_IP, Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Eligible
Family Members, and Other Eligible Personnel, Attachment 2, 17 June 2009.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
KEESLERAFB Form 5 - Commissary-Exchange Entry/Purchase Authorization
KEESLERAFB Form166, Commissary-Exchange Entry/Purchase Authorization Tracking
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2A, Armed Forces of the United States – Geneva Conventions Identification Card
(Active),
DD Form 1172, Application for Uniformed Services Identification Card DEERS Enrollment
DD Form 1173, Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card,
 6                                     AFI34-262_KEESLERAFBSUP 11 SEPTEMBER 2012


(Added) ATTACHMENT 9
PRIVILEGES MEMORANDUM, Sample
MEMORANDUM FOR DESIGNATED AGENT
FROM: 81 FSS/FSMPS
500 FISHER ST STE 125
KEESLER AFB MS 39534-2563
SUBJECT: Privileges Request for the Agent Card Program
1. As an agent, you are authorized to make purchases for (or accompany) the requester to the
Base Exchange and/or Commissary. You agree to show additional identification when
requested.
2. You and the requester are advised that established federal laws and regulations govern
purchases made in all military exchanges and commissaries. You are authorized to make
purchases for the personal use of the requester. Failure to comply will necessitate suspension of
the agent letter and possibly the requester’s privileges and legal action will be taken.
3. You are prohibited from purchasing goods for the purpose of making any sale, using these
goods for your own personal use, exchanging purchased goods with unauthorized personnel, or
transferring purchases to unauthorized personnel. Alcohol and tobacco products cannot be
purchased by “designated agents” even if the requester uses these items. “Designated agents”
who accompany the patron may assist the requester to purchase these items.
4. If your status as an agent changes, you must surrender your agent documentation which you
obtained through the Customer Support office. This may be accomplished by coming in during
business hours (0800-1600, Monday through Thursday and 0800-1500 on business Fridays) or
by mailing it to us at the address provided at the top of this memorandum. Application for the
renewal of the agent letter(s) requires a personal visit to this office. You are required to produce
supporting documentation to justify the request.
5. I understand and acknowledge the above instructions.
________________________                     __________________
Agent Signature                Date
AFI34-262_KEESLERAFBSUP 11 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                   7



A2.5. 1 (Added) Patrons described in Table A2.2. are authorized access to the following 81 FSS
services activities: Collocated Club, Community Center, Outdoor Recreation, Bowling Center,
Golf Course, Fitness Center, Library, Arts and Crafts Center, Auto Hobby Shop, base Veterinary
clinic, Lodging, and Airman and Family Readiness.
