BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2908
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              1 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                                        FAMILY CARE PLANS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1SR                                           Certified by: AF/A1 (Robert E. Corsi, Jr.)
                                                                                      Pages: 19
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2908, 1 October 2000


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-29, Military
Standards. This instruction applies to Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air National
Guard (ANG) members. In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the
Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower,
Personnel and Services (AF/A1) develops policy for Family Care Plans (FCP). This publication
may be supplemented at any level; all MAJCOM-level supplements must be approved by the
Human Resource Strategic Board (HSB) prior to certification and approval. The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the publication Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for
non-tiered compliance items. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s through appropriate channels to AFPC/DPSIM,
Special Programs, 550 C Street West, Suite 37, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4733 or via
afpc.dpdxi.pubfmmgt@randolph.af.mil.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the
Air Force Records Information Management System. This publication requires the collection
and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C.
8013, Secretary of the Air Force; and E.O. 9397 (SSN), as amended. The applicable SORN(s)
F036 AF PC C, Military Personnel Records System is available at:
 2                                                                                       AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx. The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 affects
this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The revision
defines commander/first sergeant responsibilities, and clarifies program elements. These
changes are necessary to comply with DoD Instruction 1342.19. This revision identifies Tier
waiver authorities for unit-level compliance items IAW AFI 33-360.

Chapter 1—PROGRAM ELEMENTS                                                                                                            3
       1.1.   Family Care Plan (FCP). ........................................................................................        3
       1.2.   Who Must Document Their FCP on the AF Form 357. .........................................                               3
       1.3.   When To Implement The FCP. ..............................................................................               3
       1.4.   Duty Deferments. ...................................................................................................    3

Chapter 2—FUNCTIONAL AREA RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                            5
       2.1.   The Installation Commander (Note: ......................................................................                5
       2.2.   The Commander or First Sergeant: ........................................................................               5
       2.3.   Military Personnel Section (MPS). ........................................................................              8
       2.4.   Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC). .................................................                           8
       2.5.   Air Reserve Components. ......................................................................................          8
       2.6.   Recruiting Organizations. ......................................................................................        8
       2.7.   Military Training Centers. .....................................................................................        8
       2.8.   Members Who Must Develop A FCP Will: ...........................................................                        9
       2.9.   Immediate Supervisors Will: .................................................................................          11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       12

Attachment 2—FAMILY CARE PLAN CHECKLIST                                                                                              16
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       3



                                           Chapter 1

                                  PROGRAM ELEMENTS

1.1. Family Care Plan (FCP). All Air Force members with dependent family members will
have family care arrangements that reasonably cover all situations, both short-term and long-
term. Only personnel addressed in paragraph 1.2 are required to develop a written plan (AF
Form 357, Family Care Certification) to be maintained by the commander or first sergeant. It
will detail and provide a smooth, rapid transfer of responsibilities to designees during the
absence of the member. Contingency operations requiring temporary duty (TDY), along with
overseas assignments to family-restricted areas and other duties require members to be separated
from their family and require unique family care arrangements. Each Air Force member is
responsible for the care of family members during these circumstances.
1.2. Who Must Document Their FCP on the AF Form 357. Air Force members to included
DoD Civilian Expeditionary Workforce (CEW) members who meet the following criteria will
develop and maintain an FCP:
   1.2.1. Single parents who have custody of a child and bear sole or joint responsibility for the
   care of children under the age of 19 or others unable to care for themselves in the absence of
   the member. (T-0).
   1.2.2. Dual-military couples with dependents. (T-0).
   1.2.3. Married Service members with custody or joint custody of a child whose non-
   custodial biological or adoptive parent is not the current spouse of the Member, or who
   otherwise bear sole responsibility for the care of children under the age of 19 or for other
   unable to care for themselves in the absence of the member. (T-0). EXAMPLE: The
   military member had a child with, or adopted a child with a previous spouse and then they
   divorced or separated. Then the military member gained full or partial custody of the child.
   1.2.4. Members primarily responsible for dependent family members and meet one or more
   other criteria under par. 1.2. (T-0).
   1.2.5. Civilian and contractor personnel in emergency essential positions are strongly
   encouraged to establish family care plans consistent with this instruction. Civilian and
   contractor personnel should also avail themselves and their caregivers of the information,
   support, and resources provided by the Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) and
   social service organizations within legal constraints.
1.3. When To Implement The FCP. Air Force members will implement their family care plan
when required to be absent from their family members. (T-0). This includes single parents or
military couples assigned to a family-member-restricted area and activation of noncombatant
evacuation operations (NEO) or other emergency evacuation situations if assigned overseas with
family members.
1.4. Duty Deferments. To assist Air Force military members in the development of family care
plans and establishing a pattern of childcare, Service members shall receive the following
deferments from duty:
4                                                            AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


    1.4.1. Military mothers of newborns receive a 4-month deferment from duty away from the
    home station for the period immediately following the birth of a child. (T-0).
    1.4.2. Single service members, or one member of a dual-military couple who adopts, receive
    a 4 month deferment from duty away from the home station from the date the child is placed
    in the home as part of the formal adoption process. (T-0).
    1.4.3. Reserve Component members who are mothers of newborns, single Reserve
    Component members who adopt, and one member of a dual-military couple in the Reserve
    Component who adopts shall receive a 4-month deferment from involuntary call to active
    duty immediately following the child’s birth or placement in the home. (T-0).
    1.4.4. Air Force military members, who may be deployed in an area for which imminent
    danger pay is authorized, may request a deferment of deployment due to unforeseen family
    circumstances IAW DoDI 1342.19. (T-0).
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        5


                                           Chapter 2

                        FUNCTIONAL AREA RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. The Installation Commander (Note: If at a joint base and the AF does not have lead then
the senior and/or designated AF commander, normally the deputy installation commander is
responsible:
   2.1.1. Requires unit commanders, first sergeants and MPS Customer Service personnel to
   establish procedures to maintain and update information in MILPDS identifying all personnel
   requiring FCPs. (T-2).
   2.1.2. Establishes procedures for caregivers/designees to enter the base and use the base
   exchange and commissary on behalf of the military member when the family care plan is in
   effect. (T-0).
   2.1.3. Appoints a FCP Program Advisor to evaluate the effectiveness of unit Family Care
   Programs to ensure compliance with this instruction and recommend possible improvement
   areas. The program advisor should work closely with the Military Personnel Section (MPS)
   and A&FRC to ensure all base resources are used to their maximum. (T-2).
       2.1.3.1. Recommend the FCP Program Advisor be located within the MPS customer
       service section with specifically defined duties to include working with unit commanders
       and first sergeants to maintain and update Military Personnel Data System (MILPDS).
       Based on installation configuration, the FCP Program Advisor may reside in another
       location but the responsibility of working with unit commanders and first sergeants to
       maintain and update MILPDS will be required. (T-2).
   2.1.4. Ensures all units include family care plans in unit self-inspection programs and test the
   use of plans during inspections and exercises. (T-2).
   2.1.5. Will ensure periodic testing (a locally established percentage) of family care plans
   using a representative sample of the units (based on installation population and number of
   FCPs) and follow-up on discrepancies within 90 days. (T-1).
2.2. The Commander or First Sergeant:
   2.2.1. Counsels all personnel with family members on family care responsibilities during in-
   processing and on an annual basis. Commanders/first sergeants should work closely with the
   A&FRC in developing their unit FCP Program. Commanders bear ultimate responsibility for
   the creation of and adequacy of their Service members family care plans. ARC commanders
   will designate, in writing, a full-time support personnel (Active Guard Reserve, Air Reserve
   Technician or civilian employee) to monitor the Family Care Program during the
   commander’s and first sergeant’s absence between unit training assemblies. (T-0).
   2.2.2. Ensures those who need written family care certification receive a copy of this
   instruction with an AF Form 357 to complete and return within 60 days of date notified of
   requirement (90 days for non-active duty). Commanders or first sergeants may grant the
   member an additional 30 days to submit an acceptable family care plan. Further extensions
   are not authorized. (T-2).
6                                                               AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


    2.2.3. Reviews and certifies the workability of the member's family care arrangement. (T-
    0).
    2.2.4. Establishes procedures to maintain AF Form 357 for all unit personnel requiring
    written family care plans. (T-0). For military married to military, who are in the same
    organization, maintains one AF Form 357 covering all family members. For dual military
    couples assigned to different organizations at the same location, coordinates with the other
    commander to ensure uniformity. At the discretion of the commander/first sergeant, one unit
    may maintain a photocopy of the original AF Form 357. If a photocopy is maintained,
    annotates in the top margin of page 1 with “Original AF Form 357 maintained in XXXXXX”
    with XXXXXX being the other parent’s organization (i.e., 325 MSS). At least annually, the
    commander or first sergeant maintaining the photocopy coordinates with the other
    commander to ensure uniformity and accuracy. Record this coordination by placing the
    initials of the commander or first sergeant and date in the top margin of the form. The
    commander/first sergeant may still require the member to submit and maintain an original
    AF Form 357 in the case of dual military couples assigned to different organizations at the
    same location.
    2.2.5. Ensures the Financial Services Office (FSO) and/or the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA)
    office reviews the arrangements in cases where there is doubt. (T-0).
    2.2.6. Will not delegate the authority to counsel members and certify the AF Form 357.
    EXCEPTION: Will delegate, in writing, to detachment and operating location (DET/OL)
    chiefs to counsel members and certify the AF Form 357 for those who are geographically
    separated from commander or first sergeant’s location. (T-1). DET/OL will file the original
    AF Form 357 in the DET/OL administrative office and send a copy to the commander for
    review and filing. (T-1).
    2.2.7. Ensures completed AF Forms 357 and copies of powers of attorney are kept, in the
    Commander’s Support Staff (CSS), first sergeant's, or commander's office. Maintains the
    form until superseded, the member is reassigned, or the member is no longer required to have
    an AF Form 357. Treats the completed form "For Official Use Only" and releases it only
    with commander or first sergeant approval. Faxed copies may be maintained while awaiting
    return of signed original through normal mailing. Establishes procedures to ensure original is
    received in a timely manner. (T-1).
    2.2.8. Ensures military members requiring a documented FCP provide additional
    information in the remarks section of the AF Form 357. This remarks section should include
    the following types of information and is to assist the caregiver and dependents with the
    transition of care and to deal with the absence of the parent. (T-1).
       2.2.8.1. Full name, date of birth (DOB), sex, school grade, name and address of school,
       school phone number, after-school care facility or routine care provider (if not school
       age) point of contact (POC) and phone number for all dependents. (T-0).
       2.2.8.2. Indicate if any family members are part of Exceptional Family Member Program
       (EFMP) or have any special needs (favorite toys, foods, etc.). (T-1).
       2.2.8.3. Identify any special medical needs, language limitations, or other unique
       situations (attention disorder, speech impediments, medications, phobias, etc.) a caregiver
       should be aware of for all dependents they will be responsible for. (T-1).
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014                                                                      7


     2.2.8.4. Directions to residence, schools, churches, routine care provider, and any other
     facilities the caregiver will need to be familiar with to take custody of dependents or to
     provide for them while under his/her care. (T-1).
  2.2.9. Reviews all AF Forms 357 annually and documents it. Coordinate with unit personnel
  and the MPS to ensure all members who require a FCP have one on hand. (T-1).
  2.2.10. Annually briefs all members in the organization on family care responsibilities and
  documents it. (T-1).
  2.2.11. Annually briefs each person who requires an AF Form 357 to determine the
  workability of their FCP. Signs the AF Form 357 each time the plan is reviewed and
  certified. Has the member sign and date AF Form 357 to document the briefing was done.
  (T-1).
  2.2.12. Takes disciplinary or other action according to AFI 36-3208, Administrative
  Separation of Airmen, or AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for
  Commissioned Officers, or for Air Reserve Component personnel, AFI 36-3209, Retirement
  and Separation Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members, if a
  member fails to make adequate and acceptable family care arrangements. (T-1).
  Commanders will inform the member he or she may be subject to disciplinary action and
  may be separated from the Service for failure to have a care plan. (T-0).
  2.2.13. Counsels members on family care responsibilities when they receive assignments
  overseas. (T-1).
  2.2.14. Has the member complete the appropriate section of AF Form 357 before final out-
  processing from the unit if the assignment is not to a family member-restricted area. (T-1).
  2.2.15. Directs single parents and dual military couples assigned to a family member-
  restricted area to implement their family care arrangements. (T-1).
  2.2.16. Includes FCPs in unit self-inspection programs and tests the use of plans during
  inspections and exercises. (T-1).
  2.2.17. Completes FCP Checklist (Attachment 2) on each member requiring a FCP. (T-1).
  2.2.18. Advise members of the risks involved if they are unable or unwilling to contact or
  gain the consent of the non-custodial biological or adoptive parent if the FCP would leave the
  child in the custody of a third party. Strongly encourage them to obtain legal advice as far in
  advance of the absence as is practical about the implications of failing to include the non-
  custodial biological or adoptive parent in the FCP process. Emphasize that the failure to
  involve, or at least inform the non-custodial biological or adoptive parent of custody
  arrangements in anticipation of an absence can undermine, or even render useless, the FCP.
  (T-0).
  2.2.19. Considers and responds promptly to Air Force military member’s request for a
  deferment of deployment due to unforeseen circumstances IAW paragraph 1.5.4
  2.2.20. Strongly advises the military member to include dependent’s non-custodial
  biological or adoptive parent in the creation of the FCP. (T-0).
  2.2.21. Advises Air Force military members that their ability to serve and be available for
  worldwide assignment and deployments cannot be negatively impacted by their parental
 8                                                              AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


     responsibilities. Air Force military members must be informed that their failure to meet
     military obligations can result in their separation from the Air Force. (T-0).
2.3. Military Personnel Section (MPS).
     2.3.1. Indoctrinates unit commanders, first sergeants, and DET/OL chiefs on Family Care
     Program objectives, their responsibilities under this program, and the importance of proper
     counseling and certification. (T-2).
     2.3.2. Publicizes information on the Family Care Program. (T-2).
     2.3.3. Works with unit commanders and first sergeants to establish procedures to
     maintain and update information in MILPDS identifying all personnel requiring FCPs. (T-
     0).
2.4. Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC). The A&FRC serves as one of the
commander’s primary resources in making family care arrangements and developing FCPs.
They provide an excellent source of assistance in matters of financial planning/financial
assistance, life-skills development, personal and family readiness, information and referral to on
and off-base agencies, employment assistance, and relocation and transition assistance.
2.5. Air Reserve Components.
     2.5.1. HQ ARPC/DPAM Informs IRR members of their responsibility to make family care
     arrangements during annual screenings and survey mailings. (T-1).
     2.5.2. ARC MPSs will perform annual staff assistance visits to all units. Follow-up visits
     will be performed within 90 days if discrepancies are noted. (T-1).
2.6. Recruiting Organizations. Organizations responsible for recruiting personnel (i.e., United
States Air Force Recruiting Service, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps, National Guard
Bureau, Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command) will:
     2.6.1. Ensure officer and enlisted candidates are counseled on family care responsibilities
     before they obligate themselves to the Air Force. (T-1).
     2.6.2. Ensure applicants realize the unique demands of military service, the necessity for
     making and maintaining family care arrangements, and that failure to make such
     arrangements will subject the applicant to disciplinary action or involuntary separation. (T-
     1).
     2.6.3. Candidates requiring a written FCP must work with the appropriate recruiting
     organization for completion of the AF Form 357 prior to entry into the Air Force. (T-1).
2.7. Military Training Centers. Military training centers (i.e., Officer Training School,
Academy of Military Science, Basic Military Training School, and technical training wings) will:
     2.7.1. Counsel or brief all members on family care responsibilities. Students who meet
     criteria in paragraph 1.2 must complete an AF Form 357 to be maintained in the
     Commander’s Support Staff (CSS), first sergeant's, or commander's office of the training
     center having administrative responsibility for the student. (T-1).
     2.7.2. Ensure members complete a new AF Form 357 if the current FCP arrangements are
     insufficient. (T-1).
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       9


2.8. Members Who Must Develop A FCP Will:
   2.8.1. Notify the commander or first sergeant immediately, or within 30 days (60 days for
   Selected Reserve) if changes in personal status or family circumstances require completion of
   an AF Form 357. (T-0). These may include:
      2.8.1.1. Birth or adoption of a child. (T-0).
      2.8.1.2. Loss of a spouse through death, separation, or divorce. (T-0).
      2.8.1.3. Enlistment or commissioning in the military (active duty or Reserve component)
      when the member and spouse become a dual military couple with family members. (T-
      0).
      2.8.1.4. Assumption of sole care for an elderly or disabled family member. (T-0).
      2.8.1.5. Absence of a spouse through career or job commitments or other personal
      reasons. (T-0).
   2.8.2. Designate an individual or individuals to care for family members when member is
   absent due to fulfilling a military obligation. (T-0). Member will:
      2.8.2.1. Consult with the SJA, MPS Customer Service Element, FSO, Chaplain,
      A&FRC, Child Care Center, and other offices to obtain guidance and support in
      developing FCPs. (T-0).
      2.8.2.2. Designate a primary (long-term) caregiver (on the AF Form 357) to care for
      family members during member’s absence. The primary caregiver must be able to care
      for family members for any length of time the Air Force may require the military member
      to be absent from family members. (T-0).
      2.8.2.3. Make arrangements for designee(s)/caregiver(s) to have access to adequate funds
      to support family members during member’s absence and provide for logistical
      movement of the family or caregiver. (T-0).
      2.8.2.4. Consult an attorney prior to designating a non-custodial parent as the short- or
      long-term designee/caregiver. (T-0).
          2.8.2.4.1. Attempt, to the greatest extent possible, to inform the non-custodial
          biological or adoptive parent of his or her children, as applicable, and as far in
          advance as practical, of his or her impending absence due to military orders. (T-0).
          2.8.2.4.2. Attempt, to the greatest extent possible, to obtain the consent of the non-
          custodial biological or adoptive parent to any FCP that would leave his or her child in
          the custody of a third party. (T-0).
          2.8.2.4.3. Document the name of any non-custodial biological or adoptive parent not
          named as the caregiver, along with that person’s consent to the FCP. If this
          individual does not consent, the member should explain the absence of such consent
          in writing and acknowledge the availability of legal counsel to discuss the associated
          risks and the best possible course of action (including the possibility of incorporating
          the FCP into a temporary order by a court of competent jurisdiction). (T-0).
      2.8.2.5. Ensure appropriate steps are taken so the designee(s)/caregiver(s) can use the
      base exchange and commissary on the military member’s behalf in caring for family
10                                                           AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


     members during periods of absence. If the designee(s)/caregiver(s) reside closer to
     another installation and will be using those facilities, coordination with the Military
     Personnel Section of the distant installation may be required to ensure the
     designee(s)/caregiver(s) can use that installation’s facilities. (T-0).
     2.8.2.6. Document additional information in the remarks section of the AF Form 357.
     (T-1). The additional information is meant to assist the caregiver and dependents with the
     transition of care and to deal with the absence of the parent. This additional form should
     include the following types of information:
        2.8.2.6.1. Full name, DOB, sex, school grade, name and address of school, school
        phone number, after-school care facility or routine care provider (if not school age)
        POC and phone number for all dependents. (T-0).
        2.8.2.6.2. Indicate if any family members are part of EFMP or have any special needs
        (favorite toys, foods, etc.). (T-1).
        2.8.2.6.3. Identify any special medical needs, language limitations, or other unique
        situations (attention disorder, speech impediments, medications, phobias, etc.) a
        caregiver should be aware of for all dependents they will be responsible for. (T-1).
        2.8.2.6.4. Directions to residence, schools, churches, routine care provider, and any
        other facilities the caregiver will need to be familiar with to take custody of
        dependents or to provide for them while under his/her care. (T-1).
     2.8.2.7. Ensure the designee(s)/caregiver(s) know(s) about behavioral changes that can
     be expected from family members during a long-term separation. (T-1).
     2.8.2.8. Ensure all applicable family members’ schools or other normal care providing
     organizations are aware when the member needs to execute a FCP. This will ensure
     designee will be allowed to pick up family members. Additionally if the parent
     homeschools their child they will need to determine the legality and
     willingness/qualification of the designee/caregiver to continue the homeschool instruction
     or the option of enrolling the child in another school. (T-1).
     2.8.2.9. Execute a power of attorney for all designees/caregivers to allow for medical
     care, enrollment in school, and any other actions which may be necessary to ensure the
     proper care of family members (unless designee has these legal rights, i.e., ex-spouse).
     Consider a power of attorney to act in loco parentis, as it may be required in some states.
     Acceptability of a power of attorney differs for each state. Consult with the base SJA
     office to ensure appropriate action is taken. (T-0).
     2.8.2.10. Include a copy of each power of attorney with the AF Form 357 for filing in the
     Commander’s Support Staff (CSS), first sergeant's, or commander's office. (T-1).
     2.8.2.11. Retain the original and give it to the designee/caregiver upon assumption of
     custody of your family members. (T-1).
     2.8.2.12. Designate an individual (short-term caregiver) on the AF Form 357 to assume
     temporary care of family members if your principal (long-term) caregiver won't be
     immediately available or if the commander/first sergeant determine a short-term
     caregiver is essential to ensure the workability of the plan. (T-0). The Short-term
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014                                                                   11


      caregiver must reside in the local vicinity. The commander/first sergeant determines
      local vicinity and documents it.
      2.8.2.13. Designate a temporary custodian (on the AF Form 357), in the event of your
      death or incapacity, to assume temporary custody of children until member’s Will can be
      executed or a court can appoint a legal guardian if member has not completed a will.
      This individual must reside in the local vicinity to ensure immediate control of family
      members can be assumed. This temporary custodian may be a military member. (T-0).
      2.8.2.14. Make arrangements for designated individuals (on the AF Form 357) to
      evacuate and care for family members if member is accompanied and serving in an
      overseas location covered by a Noncombatant Evacuation Operation (NEO) plan. (T-1).
      2.8.2.15. Complete, revise, or recertify the AF Form 357 upon arrival at a new unit,
      before reenlisting or extending enlistment, on notification of assignment, when personal
      status or family circumstances change, or during the annual recertification/briefing. (T-
      1).
      2.8.2.16. Complete the AF Form 357 before departure and hand carry it to the new
      commander if reassigned overseas. (T-1).
      2.8.2.17. In the case of a stepparent (military married to military) with step children
      residing in the household, annotate this on the AF Form 357. (T-1).
2.9. Immediate Supervisors Will: .
   2.9.1. Refer the member to the commander or first sergeant if the completion of an FCP is
   appropriate. (T-2).
   2.9.2. Be aware of the requirements in this instruction and inform their commander or first
   sergeant immediately but no later than 30 days (60 days for Selected Reserve), when the
   family situation changes. (T-2).
   2.9.3. Assist first sergeants during FCP establishment, periodic reviews, and annual
   validation of family care plans. (T-2).



                                           DANIEL R. SITTERLY
                                            Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
                                           (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
 12                                                         AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1342.19, Family Care Plans, 7 May 2010
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 2004
AFI 36-3209, Retirement and Separation Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve Members, 14 April 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Form
AF Form 357, Family Care Certification
Adopted Forms
AF Form 857, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data, and DD Form 1172, Application for Uniformed
Services Identification Card DEERS Enrollment
DD Form 1172, Application for Uniformed Services Identification Card DEERS Enrollment

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&FRC—Airman and Family Readiness Center
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CEW—Civilian Expeditionary Workforce
CSS—Commander’s Support Staff
DEERS—Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
DET/OL—Detachment/Operating Location
DOB—Date of Birth
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        13


DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FSO—Financial Services Office
IAW—In Accordance With
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
IRR—Individual Ready Reserve
MPS—Military Personnel Section
NEO—Noncombatant Evacuation Operation
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POC—Point of Contact
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Caregiver/Designee—An individual who is not a member of the Armed Forces or a member of
a Reserve component, is at least 21 years of age, is capable of self-care, and capable of caring for
children or other family members who are incapable of self-care. This individual must agree in
writing to care for family members during the military member's absence to ensure the member
is available for worldwide duties. NOTE: Temporary custodian/designee in the case of death or
incapacity may be a military member.
Dual Military Couple—Active duty or Reserve component members married to each other who
have joint responsibility and physical custody for the care of children under 19 years of age or
family members for whom the member bears medical, legal, financial, and/or logistical
responsibility.
Emergency Essential (E-E) Civilian Position—A civilian position that is located overseas or
would be transferred overseas during a crisis situation. The position is required to ensure the
success of combat operations or to support combat-essential systems subsequent to mobilization
and/or an evacuation order. The position cannot be converted to a military position because it
requires uninterrupted performance to provide immediate and continuing support for combat
operations and/or support maintenance and repair of combat-essential systems.
Emergency Essential (E-E) Employee—An employee who occupies an E-E civilian position
and who has signed a “DoD Civilian Employee Overseas Emergency-Essential Position
Agreement.”
Family Care Plan—AF Form 357 outlines the person(s) who will provide care for the military
member’s family members in their absence due to military duty. The plan outlines the legal,
medical, logistical (e.g., housing, food, transportation), educational, monetary, and religious
arrangements for the care of the military member’s family members. The plan must include all
reasonably foreseeable situations and be sufficiently detailed and systematic to provide for a
smooth, rapid transfer of responsibilities to the designee/caregiver.
Family Care Planning—The advance process of planning for the care of family members. The
planning is the initiative taken by the member to use all available military and private sector
 14                                                             AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


resources to ensure covered family members receive adequate care, support, and supervision
during the member's absence.
Family Member—For the purpose of this instruction, any person with any of the following
relationships with the military member: An unmarried child under 19 years of age; an unmarried
child 19 years of age or older incapable of self-care; a parent or another person related by blood
or marriage who depends on the member or members for over half of his or her support, is
incapable of self-care, and resides in the household with member or members; a person living in
the same overseas area as the member or members, who bears the relationship specified above,
regardless of place of residence (no requirement to live in the same household).
Family Member Restricted Area—An area where the member is not authorized to take family
members.
Household—A principal residence of the military member, usually located at or within the
vicinity of the permanent duty station.
Local Vicinity—Located at or within the vicinity of the member's permanent duty station. This
will be further defined by the member's immediate commander based on mission requirements;
e.g., response time to recalls, response to deployment requirements, etc. For non-EAD reservists
or Air National Guard personnel who do not reside at or near their permanent duty station, their
immediate commander will define the local area in writing.
Married Service Member—A member who has custody of a child whose parent is not the
current spouse of the Service member and otherwise bears sole or joint responsibility for the care
of children under the age of 19 or others unable to care for themselves in the absence of the
member or E-E employee.
Member—Includes any member of a military service on active duty or in the Ready Reserve.
This includes members of the Coast Guard when it is operating as military service in the Navy.
The term active duty member when used refers to Regular component members and Reserve
component members on active duty in excess of 30 consecutive days.
Ready Reserve—Military members of the Air National Guard and Reserve organized in units,
or as individuals, liable for recall to active duty to augment the active components in time of war
or national emergency. The Ready Reserve consists of two major subdivisions the Selected
Reserve and the Individual Ready Reserve (IRR). The Selected Reserve and IRR are liable for
active duty as prescribed by law (Title 10, U.S.C., Sections 268, 672, and 673).
Separated—The status of a married member who is legally separated from his or her spouse
under a court order or other legally recognized decree or agreement, or customarily resides apart
from his or her spouse.
Single Parent—A member who has no spouse or who is separated or otherwise apart from his or
her spouse, but has physical custody of or financial responsibility for family member(s).
Step-parent—A member married to another military member who is the parent or legal
guardian of one or more family members who reside in the household of the military couple.
Unique Family Situation—Where a member has a civilian spouse or other adult family member
who is not capable of providing care for family members or for themselves. Examples are a
spouse with limited English language ability, illness, disability, handicap, or absence from local
area, or marital separation.
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014                                                                 15


Worldwide Available—Ready for the immediate performance of the full scope of military
duties including, but not limited to, Permanent Change of Station (PCS), permanent change of
assignment, unaccompanied tours, TDY to include short-notice or no-notice deployment, alerts,
recalls, extended duty hours, shift work, and similar military obligations.
 16                                                     AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


                                    Attachment 2
                           FAMILY CARE PLAN CHECKLIST

Table A2.1. Family Care Plan Checklist
          Item                Yes                  No                  N/A
1. Are qualified
caregiver(s)
designated and
Family Care Plan
established for:
a. Short-term absences
(for example, duty
hours, recalls, training
exercises, formal
training) (para
2.8.2.12)
b. Long-term absences
(for example,
deployments,
dependent-restricted
PCS) (para 2.8.2.2)
2. Does the Family
Care Plan contain
provisions for:
a. Financial well-being
of family members (for
example, power(s) of
attorney, allotments, or
other appropriate
means to ensure the
self-sufficiency and
financial security of
family members) (para
2.8.2.3)
b. Movement of family
members and/or
caregiver(s) to include
financial, medical, and
legal support
arrangements which
may be required (para
2.8.2.3)
c. Non-military escort
for family members in
overseas locations
covered by a
Noncombatant
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014   17


Evacuation Operation
(NEO) plan needing
assistance such as
infants, children,
elderly, and disabled
adults (para 2.8.2.14)
d. School arrangements
(para 2.8.2.6.1)
e. Unique Situations
(for example, language
limitations) (para
2.2.8.3)
f. Use of government
services (for example,
commissary, base
exchange, etc.) (para
2.8.2.5) (see note 1)
3. Does the Family
Care Plan contain
well-being
arrangements for:
a. Special needs (for
example, attention
disorder, speech
impediments,
medication, phobias)
(para 2.2.8.3)
b. Routine care
provider (for example,
names/location of
medical/dental
providers) (para
2.8.2.6.4)
c. Arrangements to
relocate, if necessary,
the caregiver or family
to a new location,
financial, medical and
legal support necessary
to ensure continuity of
care and support of
family members during
the movement in
overseas locations
covered by a
Noncombatant
Evacuation Operation
(NEO) plan. (para
 18                         AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014


2.8.2.14)
e. A valid will that
designates guardians
for permanent care of
their family members
(Optional; however,
strongly encouraged)
(para 2.8.2.13)
f. Current power of
attorney (para 2.8.2.9)
g. Person who will
assume temporary
responsibility for
minor child(ren) in the
event of death or
incapacity of the
service member (para
2.8.2.13)
4. Caregiver(s)
briefed by member
on:
a. Responsibilities
under the Family Care
Plan; to care for one or
more family members
during the member's
absence for indefinite
periods to ensure the
member is available for
worldwide duties. (para
1.1)
b. Logistical, financial,
medical and legal
arrangements (see note
2)
c. Child
care/behavioral
changes (para 2.8.2.7)
(see note 2)
d. Consult with the
SJA, MPS Customer
Service Element,
Financial Services
Office (FSO),
Chaplain, A&FRC,
Child Care Center, and
other offices to obtain
guidance and support
AFI36-2908 1 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     19


in developing family
care plans.” (para
2.4.1) (see note 2)
e. Chain of Command
point of contacts (see
note 2)
NOTES:
1. Contact MPS Customer Service for assistance with an Agent Letter for Authorized Patrons.
2. Included as an attachment to the AF Form 357, as necessary.
