BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-9005
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING VANCE
AIR FORCE BASE                                                     VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               Supplement

                                                                         21 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                REAL PROPERTY ACCOUNTABILITY AND
                                                                      REPORTING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 LRS/CE (Lewis D. Hollis)                          Certified by: 71 MSG/CC (Maj Jon T.
                                                                                   Robinson)
                                                                                    Pages: 2


This supplement to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and
Reporting, establishes local procedures for identifying, updating, and recording changes to
facilities, plants, systems and utilization necessitated as a result of facility inventories. It
establishes a local form, local formats, and documents changes required to update Real Property
Records. This applies to all personnel responsible for inventory of Real Property facilities. It
does not apply to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to the
Air        Force       Records       Disposition       Schedule       (RDS)        located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm .             Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from
the field through the VAFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on
filling out the form.)

5.1. Introduction: Real estate personnel will conduct facility inventories as required by AFI 32-
9005. A physical inventory will be performed on all facilities coded with an Inventory Code of
“A”, “B”, and “X”. After the initial inventory, a progressive physical inventory is completed
every five years on those items with the appropriate Inventory Control Code. Facilities will also
be considered inventoried at the completion of any major repair or renovation project. Shop
 2                                          AFI32-9005_VANCEAFBSUP 21 September 2011


personnel can be used to verify size and quantity of various plants and systems. Inspections will
be coordinated with building managers.
5.1. 1 (Added) Space Utilization: During facility inspections, the real property personnel will
review space utilization in the facility to see if real property records match actual usage. If there
is a question as to what organization occupies a specific portion of the facility, the facility
manager will forward appropriate information to real property personnel. If changes to real
property records are required, the organization will provide appropriate information to real estate
personnel, (see VAFBI 32-9001, Facility Manager Program, paragraph 2.4) for a space change
request to the Facility Board. Facility Board approval will be required when a category code
change is necessary.
5.3. Inventory Schedule: An inventory schedule will be accomplished in accordance with the
Performance Work Statement provided by the Air Force. Real Property personnel will contact
the facility manager and set up a time for a joint inspection of the facility. A review of space
usage will be accomplished so the inspector will be able to identify organizational occupation of
the facility. The Vance Form 48 will be used during the inspection to identify systems, building
materials and utilities in the facility. Real Property personnel will verify facility utilization by
comparing actual space usage versus Automated Civil Engineer System-Real Property (ACES-
RP) recorded usage. The facility manager folder will be reviewed during the inspection for
compliance with VAFBI 32-9001, Facility Manager Program, paragraph 2.5.
5.3.1. ACES-RP records will be updated to reflect completion of the inventory. The facility
inspection/inventory worksheet will be filed in the facility folder in the Real Property office.
5.9. Installation Boundary Inspections: Boundary inspections of both Vance and Kegelman will
be conducted once per year to identify and eliminate any encroachments. Boundary inspections
may be „virtual‟ rather than physical when it is not feasible to drive the boundary or when
required for no-drop bomb ranges.
7.1. Prescribed Forms: Vance AFB Form 48 Facility Inspection and Inventory Worksheet
7.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                              MICHAEL B. MCDANIEL, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 71st Mission Support Group
