BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-206
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                    AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                       Supplement
                                                                                          10 MARCH 2003
                                                                           Certified Current 20 March 2014

                                                                                                     Security

                                                                                  SECURITY FORCES
                                                                          INVESTIGATIONS PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFRC/SFO                                                                Certified by: HQ AFRC/SF
                                                                                  (Col Michael E. Swaney)
Supersedes AFI 31-206/AFRC Sup, 13 June 1997                                                      Pages: 2

The OPR for this supplement is HQ AFRC/SFO (MSgt David M. McElligott). This supplement imple-
ments and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-206, 1 August 2001. The AFI is pub-
lished word-for-word without editorial review. Air Force Reserve Command supplementary material is
indicated by (AFRC) in boldface type. This supplement describes Air Force Reserve Command proce-
dures to be used in conjunction with the basic instruction. Upon receipt of this integrated supplement, dis-
card the Air Force basic.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision aligns the AFRC supplement with the basic AFI 31-206, 1 August 2001; identifies the CSF
to appoint individuals to perform investigative duties as an additional duty (paragraph 1.4.); outlines civil-
ian police officers with 5 years of civilian police experience to act as an investigator only when approved
by the CSF (paragraph 2.2.1.); outlines credentials issued may be for full or part time status (paragraph
2.2.2.); outlines credentials may only be used as a form of identification when necessary to identify one-
self (paragraph 2.2.3.); identifies the security forces as the collection point for recovered property during
non-duty hours (paragraph 2.7.); outlines field tests are authorized to test for cocaine (paragraph 2.10.);
outlines new guidance on sending Reports of Investigation (ROI) to HQ AFRC/SFI (paragraph 2.14.);
and expands guidance on investigations involving sexual incidents (paragraph 2.21.). A “|” indicates
revised material since the last edition.
1.4. Chiefs of Security Forces (CSF) may appoint or establish individuals in the GS-080, 083, 085, or 086
series to perform investigative duties as an additional duty, if they do not have the manpower to establish
an investigative section. The investigator should coordinate closely with the installation’s servicing
AFOSI detachment.
2                                                             AFI31-206_AFRCSUP 10 MARCH 2003


2.2.1. Civilian police officers with 5 years of civilian police experience, with at least 2 of those as an
investigator, are considered to have equivalent qualification training, if the CSF approves their records as
proof of investigative training, education, and technical expertise.
2.2.2. Individuals issued credentials may be in full-time or part-time investigative status according to
their core personnel document; however, when functioning in the capacity of an investigator, investigators
must report findings and related information directly to the CSF or his/her designated representative.
2.2.3. Investigative credentials may only be used as a form of identification when necessary to identify
oneself as an Air Force Security Forces Investigator.
2.7. During non-duty hours, Security Forces is the collection point for recovered property. Installation
commanders, in coordination with the CSF, develop a system for acceptance, temporary storage, and dis-
position of recovered property. Security Forces shall not be required to maintain property longer than 72
hours.
2.10. AFRC security forces may field test for cocaine with the written concurrence of their servicing
AFOSI detachment. Use the procedures, methodology, and test kits specified by the servicing AFOSI
detachment.
2.14. Send ROIs to HQ AFRC/SFI for review. Investigators use the criteria identified in paragraph 2.14.1
when mailing reports.
2.21. AFRC investigators will not conduct any investigation involving sexual incidents without first
being briefed by Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) on policies applicable to such areas. If, during the course of
the investigation or interview, the investigator has any doubts on whether policies or rights of the individ-
ual may be violated, the investigation or interview will cease. The SJA or AFOSI will then be contacted
for guidance. Guidance or information received will be recorded and placed in the ROI.



                                                JAMES E. SHERRARD III, Lt General, USAF
                                                Commander
