BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-141
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   23 DECEMBER 2008


                                                                       Communications and Information

                                                AIR FORCE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                                    PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT AND IT INVESTMENT REVIEW


            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
OPR: SAF/XCPR                                                              Certified by: SAF-XCP-2
                                                            (Brigadier General Ronnie D. Hawkins)
                                                                                           Pages: 20

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources
Management. It establishes the guidelines, policies, and procedures for approving and managing Air
Force Information Technology (IT) including National Security Systems (NSS), and implements
guidance from Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission and
Execution of the Budget; OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources;
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 8410.01, Warfighting Mission Area
Information Technology Portfolio Management and Net-Centric Data Sharing; Department of Defense
Directive (DoDD) 5134.3, Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E;) Department of
Defense Directive (DoDD) 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management; Department of
Defense (DoD) 7000.14-R, Volume 2B, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
(FMR); and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management
Implementation. Send recommended changes or comments to Headquarters Air Force Communications
Agency (HQ AFCA/EASD), 203 W. Losey St., Room 1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222, through
appropriate channels, using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
with an information copy to Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/XCPR), 1800 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1800. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363 and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

Information Technology Portfolio Management has three main goals: maximize the value of the
portfolio against the objectives of DOD; balance the portfolio; link the portfolio to strategy. To
maximize the value of the portfolio, DOD will use financial analysis and scoring to prioritize the
systems and initiatives in the DOD portfolio. By taking the approach of balancing the portfolio, DOD
will look at the benefit vs. risk. Linking to DOD strategy is vital in order to correlate the dod strategic
fit to resource allocation. The Portfolio Management process consists of binning, criteria determination,
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                         2

analysis, selection, control, and evaluation. These processes will result in recommendations that are
carried out in JCIDS, the Defense Acquisition System and Planning, Programming, Budgeting &
Execution (PPBE).
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                                3


                                                Chapter 1

        AIR FORCE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT

1.1. Background
1.1.1. Information Technology (IT) investments shall be managed as portfolios to: ensure IT
investments support the Air Force’s vision, mission, and goals; ensure efficient and effective delivery of
capabilities to the Warfighter; and maximize return on investment to the Enterprise. Most of the
portfolio shall be managed using the Global Information Grid (GIG) architecture, plans, risk
management techniques, capability goals and objectives, and performance measures. In addition, some
Research, Development, Testing and Evaluation (RDT&E) activities will be conducted on the Defense
Research & Engineering Network (DREN), in a stand alone environment, or in non-.mil network
enclaves.
1.1.2. Portfolios shall be binned and integrated at the DoD Mission Area and Functional levels.
Functional portfolios are defined by their functional area such as logistics, personnel, and training.
Mission Area and Functional portfolios may be divided into subportfolios (e.g., domains) or capability
areas that represent common collections of related, or highly dependent, system capabilities and
services. Specifically, the SAF/XC Mission Area portfolios are defined as Warfighting, Business,
Infrastructure, Force Development and Cyber Transformation.
1.1.3. Portfolios shall be used as a management tool in each of the Air Force’s decision support systems
including: Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), DAS, Capabilities Risk
Review Assessment (CRAA) and PPBE. Mission Area leads shall provide portfolio recommendations
to the appropriate officials (Designated Approval Authorities) for consideration in the Air Force’s
decision support systems.
1.1.4. All authorities addressed in the Roles and Responsibilities Section of this document or
instruction shall manage their portfolios by performing the following core functions:
1.1.4.1. Analysis. Links portfolio objectives to DoD/Air Force Enterprise vision, mission, goals,
objectives, and priorities; develops quantifiable outcome-based performance measures; identifies
capability gaps, opportunities, and redundancies; identifies risks; and provides for continuous process
improvement.
1.1.4.2. Selection. Identifies and selects the best mix of IT investments to strengthen and achieve
capability goals and objectives for the portfolio to ensure efficient and effective delivery of capabilities
to the Warfighter, and to maximize return on investment to the Enterprise and demonstrates the impact
of alternative IT investment strategies and funding levels.
1.1.4.3. Control. Ensures a portfolio is managed and monitored using established program
management principles and quantifiable outcome-based performance measures. Portfolios are
monitored and evaluated against portfolio performance measures to determine whether to recommend
continuation, modification, or termination of individual investments within the portfolio.
1.1.4.4. Evaluation. Measures actual contributions of the portfolio and its individual investments
against established outcome-based performance measures to determine that capability has improved or
to support adjustments to the mix of portfolio investments, as necessary
1.1.5. Governance forums shall be leveraged or established to manage portfolios, subportfolios, or
capability areas at the Mission Area and Functional levels including hierarchically accountable
subordinate levels of the portfolios at MAJCOMS, Agencies or Centers.
1.1.5.1. EITDR. Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR) will be used as the
governance tool for the AF CIO.
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                            4



1.2. General:
1.2.1. This instruction implements policy and assigns responsibilities for the management of Air Force
IT investments, including National Security System (NSS), and its associated resources as portfolios
within the Air Force Enterprise that focus on improving Air Force and DoD capabilities and mission
outcomes. It provides fundamental concepts for managing a portfolio of IT resources and defines
processes for complying with external and internal statutory and regulatory requirements.
1.2.2. This instruction establishes a management framework to develop IT portfolios in each major
command (MAJCOM), within Combatant Commands in which the Air Force expends IT resources,
across the Headquarters Air Force (HAF), and the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) functional staffs
(see Attachment 2). This instruction also provides guidance on how the content of these portfolios will
be documented to support the Air Force IT Portfolio Management (PfM) and decision-making processes
in the Office of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (CIO), corporate structure,
MAJCOM, Combatant Commands, HAF and SAF functional areas, and within the General Officer
Steering Groups (GOSGs).
1.2.3. This instruction outlines requirements for identifying and registering IT resources (initiatives,
systems, programs, projects, organizations, payments, and families of systems) within the Air Force
EITDR. Guidelines for using the repository are included along with responsibilities for updating and
maintaining the data stored therein. Roles and responsibilities for maintaining the repository,
promulgating policy, defining and satisfying user requirements, and accounting for funding are also
established.

1.3. Applicability and Scope. This instruction applies to all Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air
Force Reserve IT resources (as defined in the definition section in the end of this instruction).
Adherence is mandatory, except when statutory requirements, DoD or Joint Staff directives override.
Refer specific interpretation queries to SAF/XCP.

1.4. Governance:
1.4.1. DoD policy directs the nesting and integration of portfolios at the Enterprise, Mission Area, and
Component levels. The DoD Enterprise portfolio is divided into Mission Area portfolios, defined as
Warfighting Mission Area (WMA), Business Mission Area (BMA), DoD portion of Intelligence
Mission Area (DIMA), and Enterprise Information Environment Mission Area (EIEMA). Mission Area
and Component portfolios may be divided into subportfolios (e.g., domains) or capability areas that
represent common collections of related, or highly dependent, information capabilities and services.
Figure 1.1 depicts the governance structure and Enterprise and Mission Area authorities to perform
portfolio management in DoD and/or to define subportfolios or Component portfolios.
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                           5


Figure 1.1. DoD IT PfM Governance Structure with Those Identified in 1.4.2.




1.4.2. The Air Force established GOSGs as the governing bodies for three of the sub-enterprise
portfolios that align with the DoD Mission Areas. The GOSG is the decision body providing guidance
and direction to the sub-enterprise portfolio. It provides the forums where MAJCOM Vice-commanders
and Numbered Air Force commanders come to discuss solutions to key issues in all areas within these
portfolios. Figure 1.2 depicts the governance structure with Authorities for these three sub-enterprise
portfolios. Specifically, SAF/XC has established five mission areas in order to align with DoD policy
and DoD enterprise portfolios. Those mission areas: Warfighter Networking, Business Capabilities and
Agile Combat Support, Infrastructure, Cyber Transformation, and Force Development each correspond
with the mission areas identified in Figure 1.1 minus the Cyber Transformation and Force Development
mission areas which are SAF/XC specific.
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                          6


Figure 1.2. Governance Structure with Authorities for Air Force Sub-Enterprise Portfolio.




1.4.2.1. Within each GOSG, a similar organizational structure will be utilized. Each GOSG will
establish an Integrated Process Team (IPT) to maintain oversight of the resources associated with the
portfolio. For example, SAF/XCP will act as a representative on the "Resources" IPT and will work
closely with the other SAF/XC divisions with direct interaction with the GOSG structure. SAF/XCD
will be a key player in the development and oversight of the Infrastructure architecture. SAF/XCD will
ensure that programs within the Infrastructure portfolio are properly documented and aligned with the
architecture. Likewise, SAF/XCT will do the same for the Business & Agile Combat Support (ACS)
portfolio.

1.5. Roles and Responsibilities
1.5.1. SAF/XC is the Air Force CIO (AF CIO) and provides oversight, policy, and guidance for the Air
Force IT Portfolio management community. The AF CIO serves as the Air Force IT enterprise portfolio
manager for the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), with oversight responsibility for all Air Force IT
in accordance with Public Law (PL) 104-106, Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996. SAF/XC ensures Air Force
compliance with all regulatory and statutory directives and reporting requirements, and serves as the
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                             7

focal point and release authority for all Air Force IT reporting. The SAF/XC also serves as the chair or
co-chair on each of the GOSGs.
1.5.2. SAF/XCP (Policy, Planning, and Resources). SAF/XCP implements strategy, plans, policy,
governance, architectures, standards, resources, and investment strategy guidance based on an enterprise
IT portfolio.
1.5.2.1. The SAF/XCP staff will act as Policy, Planning, & Resources Subject Matter Experts (SME) in
support of the GOSGs as appropriate. The staff plans, oversees, and coordinates Air Force IT Portfolio
management data-collection activities, and provides training and direction as appropriate. Additionally,
the staff develops Air Force IT portfolio management policy, serves as Air Force liaison to OSD
Networks and Information, Integration (OSD NII) on IT portfolio management topics and disseminates
guidance and policy received from DoD and other external agencies to IT portfolio managers.
1.5.3. IT Portfolio Owners. MAJCOM Commanders & their associated Direct Reporting Units
(DRUs), Combatant Commanders, and SECAF and CSAF organizational lead their respective IT
portfolios. Portfolio owners have oversight responsibility for IT initiatives and systems for which they
have lead funding responsibility. However, it is not necessarily the case that all IT portfolio resources
fall within the portfolio owner’s organizational budget. Air Force IT portfolio owners are required to
certify to SAF/XC, annually, that the IT Portfolio management information they provide is complete,
accurate, and in accordance with current Air Force IT Portfolio management direction as provided in
budgetary documents (policy, Annual Planning and Programming Guidance, Program Objective
Memorandum Preparation Instructions, etc.).
1.5.4. IT Functional Portfolio Managers. MAJCOM, Combatant Command, SAF, HAF DRUs and
HAF functional area CIOs (or equivalents) serve as their respective organizational portfolio manager,
and support Air Force IT portfolio management data collection and reporting activities. The HAF and
HAF DRUs CIO(s) or equivalents act as the IT Functional Portfolio Manager for initiatives within the
HAF portfolio that are owned by HAF/IM (Director, Information Management for Headquarters Air
Force and Headquarters Air Force Chief Information Officer). IT Functional Portfolio Managers advise
and assist the IT Portfolio Owners in establishing and executing processes and procedures to meet all
Air Force IT portfolio management requirements.
1.5.4.1. IT Functional Portfolio Managers must continue to support and interact with the HAF
organizations that have functional oversight responsibilities. Portfolio management processes and
information must be integrated with existing functional area responsibilities. This instruction does not
preclude HAF functional area direction and guidance.
1.5.5. IT Portfolio Management Points of Contact (POCs). Each IT Functional Portfolio Manager will
designate an IT Portfolio Management POC(s) for their respective organization. IT Portfolio
Management POCs are responsible for communicating SAF/XC and SAF/AQ guidance and direction to
their IT program/project managers, organizational Information System Security Officer (ISSO),
financial program/project managers, and others responsible for IT portfolio management data collection
and maintenance and partnering with them to collect and manage IT portfolio management data to
support Air Force IT portfolio management and other processes.
1.5.5.1. Within their IT portfolio, each IT Portfolio Management POC(s) supports data review and
validation, oversees and administers organizational IT portfolio management data collection and
submission, and provides supplemental policy and guidance as required. IT Portfolio Management
POCs review, validate, and coordinate all proposed initiative and system registration changes
(additions, archivals, transfers between portfolios, or other significant modifications). IT Portfolio
Management POCs are the approval authority for submitting any validated data updates and/or change
requests to SAF/XC and SAF/AQ. In this role, IT Portfolio Management POCs shall coordinate these
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                               8

changes closely with their associated IT Functional Portfolio Manager, Information Assurance (IA)
POCs and other stakeholders as necessary.
1.5.6. Program Managers review and correct all budget and PM detail and maintain supporting
documentations. Periodically review EITDR data for accuracy and completeness.

1.6. Air Force IT Portfolio Management Processes
1.6.1. IT portfolio management encompasses many processes based on executive, legislative, DoD and
Air Force requirements. Lead responsibilities for these portfolio management processes and functions
are distributed throughout the SAF/XC organization. For example: Federal Information Security
Management Act of 2002 (FISMA) reporting is managed by SAF/XCPP; IT Lean Reengineering is
managed by SAF/XCPP, Ronald Regan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) certification is
managed by SAF/XCPP, IT budget exhibit reporting is managed by SAF/XCPR.
1.6.2. For portfolio management and reporting purposes, each IT portfolio within each of the sub-
enterprise portfolios, is subdivided by IT Portfolio Owner. The IT Functional Portfolio Managers serve
as the portfolio managers for these portfolios. The MAJCOM Vice Commanders (CVs) and functional
representatives to the GOSG act as the IT portfolio owner’s representatives for their respective
portfolios.
1.6.3. Each Air Force IT investment shall be mapped to an initiative in the Air Force enterprise IT
portfolio. Except for defense business system, initiatives may include more than one system, or may
include a combination of system and non-system resources. Non-system resources include labor and
other funds supporting Air Force IT efforts. If not mapped to an Air Force initiative, the system must
indicate the Federal initiative that identifies the resources used for this system in the Federal Budget
provided to OMB per OMB Circular A-11 guidance or the exception budget identification number
associated with resources that are generally exempted from IT reporting per DoD Financial
Management Regulation, Volume 2B, Chapter 18.
1.6.3.1. IT initiatives represent only Air Force Total Obligation Authority as mandated by OMB
Circular A-11 and DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 2B. All initiatives are placed into one of the three Sub-
enterprise portfolios based on mission area domain assignment. Within the IT Portfolio of each sub-
enterprise portfolio, the initiative is assigned to the MAJCOM or functional IT portfolio correlated to its
funding Organizational Account Code (OAC). Where two or more MAJCOM, Combatant Commands,
or HAF functional areas allocate funds, initiatives are assigned to the lead command, agency, or
organization.
1.6.3.1.1. Initiatives within the Air Force IT portfolio are categorized into the following types: system,
program, project, organization, payment, or family of systems.
1.6.3.1.1.1. System – A set of information resources organized for the collection, storage, processing,
maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of information.
1.6.3.1.1.2. Program – An approved and funded effort.
1.6.3.1.1.3. Project – An IT effort focused on a specific product or result with a more distinct end state.
1.6.3.1.1.4. Organization – Cost of operating an organization whose primary function is IT.
1.6.3.1.1.5. Payment – A payment for IT services, such as payment to DISA.
1.6.4. Given the large amount of the data collection, management, analysis, and reporting requirements
associated with IT portfolio management, a single data repository should be used to preclude repetitious
entry of identical data into multiple databases while eliminating potential confusion over the primacy of
conflicting data. EITDR is the Air Force IT Portfolio Management system of record. EITDR is
accessible through the Air Force Portal. EITDR contains a current inventory of initiatives, systems, and
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                              9

system-related data and is used for internal management and oversight as well as to provide information
to external sources to satisfy statutory and regulatory requirements.
1.6.4.1. A subset of the data residing in the EITDR will be uploaded quarterly to the DoD IT Portfolio
Repository (DITPR) in compliance with the annual DITPR guidance. This process is used to satisfy
several DoD reporting requirements. Accordingly, IT Functional Portfolio Managers are responsible to
ensure the currency, completeness and accuracy of all data within their portfolios to preserve the
integrity of Air Force reporting.
1.6.4.2. All IT initiative core information, as identified in the EITDR, must be updated at least
semiannually in conjunction with semiannual budget cycle data submissions.
1.6.5. IT Registration. All Air Force IT should be registered in the appropriate Air Force and DoD
registries.
1.6.5.1. System registration consists of core data, as identified in EITDR. Core data includes, but is not
limited to, name, acronym, description, GIG and mission domain alignment. SAF/XCP will coordinate
new system registrations with OSD. IT systems shall be registered and their information maintained in
the EITDR or an Intelligence Community Registry. To facilitate IT portfolio management, all systems
must map to a specific initiative. IT system registration complements the IT portfolio management
process and supports other essential Air Force processes.
1.6.5.2. IT initiatives form the framework of the individual MAJCOM, Combatant Command, and HAF
functional IT portfolios. IT initiative core information modification, including new submissions,
requests for archiving, and requests for transfers between portfolios, must be submitted by the
MAJCOM, Combatant Command, DRU, HAF or HAF functional IT Portfolio Management POC to
SAF/XCPR. SAF/XCPR will coordinate core initiative information with OSD. OSD must review and
approve all initiative requests (additions, modifications, and archivals). Transfers between portfolios
must be approved in advance by both IT Portfolio Management POCs.
1.6.6. IT Budget Reporting. The instructions below apply to all IT portfolios. Additional budgetary
reporting requirements will be provided within appropriate PPBE guidance, and supplemented with
additional guidance documents as necessary through the budget cycle.
1.6.6.1. Budget submissions include two types of information: resource data and business case data.
Both sets of data must be updated each budget cycle to reflect the official organizational position at the
time of submission.
1.6.6.2. Resource Data. The resource data includes financial data for the entire Future Years Defense
Program (FYDP). All initiatives must report this information even if other business case information is
not required through the FYDP. Prior budget year funding information is required even if the initiative
will not be requesting funding in the budget cycle.
1.6.6.3. Business Cases. Business case data collection during the budget cycle supports multiple
internal and external analyses and reporting requirements. At a minimum, business case data elements
must meet external source (OMB, Congress, OSD, etc.) data element requirements.
1.6.6.3.1. Capital Investment Report (CIR). CIRs are used by OSD to meet OMB Circular A-11,
Exhibit 300, reporting requirements. SAF/XCPRP will oversee the transfer of the required initiative
CIRs between the MAJCOM, Combatant Command, DRU, HAF and HAF functional IT portfolios to
OSD and OMB. These specific reporting requirements are subject to change annually by the OMB.
1.6.6.3.2. Selected CIR (SCIR). SCIRs are used by OSD to meet PL 108-136, National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003, reporting requirements. SAF/XCPRP will oversee the transfer
of the required SCIRs between the MAJCOM, Combatant Command, DRU, HAF and HAF functional
IT portfolios to OSD and Congress based on the annual request from OSD and Congress. This
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                            10

additional data will be collected and reported via the EITDR as soon as annual reporting requirements
are published.
1.6.6.4. Statement of Compliance. During each budget reporting cycle, the MAJCOM, Combatant
Command, DRU, HAF and HAF functional IT portfolio managers and corresponding Chief Financial
Officers (or equivalent) must provide a Statement of Compliance to the AF CIO. Statement of
compliance must be coordinated with the organizational plans and programs directorates and/or
directorates of requirements (or equivalent).       The statement validates the budget submission is
complete, accurately aligned with primary budget, program and/or acquisition materials; and is
consistent with the Division E, PL 104-106, OMB Circular A-11, and documented exceptions to the
Circular, DoD CIO budget guidance memorandum, and other applicable acts. The statement should
also include explanations for initiatives that do not conform. The MAJCOMs statement must be
provided before 30 days of closure of the official budget submission. The overall Air Force letter is due
within 30 days.
1.6.7. Security. The importance of network security has grown rapidly in recent years and IT systems
are subjected to greater scrutiny. IA is no longer the province of technical experts, but now touches
everyone who develops or uses IT. The majority of IA data collection and reporting requirements stem
from the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA). Additional requirements can be
found in AFI 33-202, Volume 1, Network and Computer Security. A summary of major data collection
requirements follows.
1.6.7.1. In accordance with DoDI 8510.01, Defense Information Assurance Certification and
Accreditation Process, all IT systems, including stand-alone systems, require a security vulnerability
assessment, and all IT systems (to include those with an IT platform interconnection) must have and
maintain a Certification and Accreditation (C&A), in accordance with the DoDI 8510.01, to operate on
the Air Force enterprise network. Due to the nature of EITDR and the requirements for all systems to
be registered in EITDR, we recognize that it has classified and unclassified systems registered in the
database. Classified systems are only required to input basic information and complete their process
through other means. C&A data is collected in the EITDR and reported annually as part of the FISMA
report. Systems without a current C&A (or with an Interim Approval to Operate) are also required to
submit a Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) for obtaining a C&A (or an Approval to Operate
(ATO)). Current POA&M dates are reflected in the EITDR on the PfM side.1.6.7.2. Additional data
elements, such as contingency and security control test dates, are collected and reported as part of
FISMA. These specific reporting requirements are subject to change annually by the OMB. This
additional data will be collected and reported via the EITDR as soon as annual reporting requirements
are published.
1.6.8. IT Lean Reengineering in accordance with AFI 63-101. The IT Lean process applies to programs
in acquisition or sustainment including upgrades or modernizations (see Information Technology Lean
Reengineering CoP for details). The IT Lean Process uses the EITDR to store, manage, and assess
derived Security, Interoperability, Supportability, Sustainability, and Usability (SISSU) information for
Air Force IT programs.
1.6.9. Ronald Reagan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Certification. Fiscal Year (FY)
2005 NDAA states that funds appropriated under the DoD may not be obligated for a defense business
system modernization that will have a total cost in excess of $1M unless it is certified by the designated
approval authority as necessary to achieve a critical national security capability or address a critical
requirement in an area such as security or safety; or is necessary to prevent a significant adverse effect
on a project that is needed to achieve an essential capability, taking into consideration alternative
solutions.
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                             11

1.6.9.1. SAF/XC is the pre-certification authority (PCA) for Air Force business systems and certifies
systems based on recommendation from the Senior Working Group (SWG). OSD Investment Review
Boards (IRBs) are the certification authority (CA) for defense business systems.
1.6.9.2. The NDAA Certification process includes the certification review and the annual review.
SAF/XCP is the lead for NDAA Certification and is responsible for distributing guidance and suspense
dates. Air Force IT Investment Review guide and reference materials, providing detail instructions on
the Air Force certification and annual review processes, are located in the AF IT Investment
Compliance Review Community of Practice (COP) accessible from the Air Force Portal.
1.6.10. Others Processes. Other individuals or organizations may provide action and/or information as
needed to facilitate the IT portfolio management process.
1.6.11. IT Compliance Process.
1.6.11.1. CCA Compliance. Any space program, non-space program or business system must be in
compliance with the requirements of the Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) as amended by Public Law 104-106
and DoDI 5000.2. Confirmation of compliance can be provided by DoD CIO, AF CIO, or SAF/XCP.
1.6.11.2. Privacy. The Privacy Act of 1974 As Amended places the responsibility on the U.S.
Government to inform the public that a Privacy Act system of records is being established. The
eGovernment Act of 2002 requires the U.S. Government to assess how the public's Personally
Identifiable Information (PII) is being protected in an IT system/service. OMB Memorandum M-07-16,
released May 22, 2007, encourages Federal agencies to reduce the use of personally identifiable
information, especially Social Security Numbers.
1.6.11.3. Section 508 Compliance. PL 105-220, Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act as amended
requires that Federal departments and agencies developing, procuring, maintaining, or using Electronic
and Information Technology (E&IT) ensures that Federal employees and members of the public with
disabilities have access to and use of information and data, comparable to that of Federal employees and
members of the public without disabilities.
1.6.11.4 DoD and Air Force Enterprise Architect Compliance. DoD and Air Force architectures
capture information reflecting the organizations’ current state, desired future state, transition strategy,
and implementation guidance and standards necessary to ensure that all IT/NSS capabilities are
implemented in such a way to enable the desired future state. Both federal and DoD guidance require
the use of architecture to guide IT/NSS modernization. As a result, all IT National Security System
(NDAA) must conform to the standards and guidance reflected in published DoD and Air Force
architectures. Both DoD and Air Force will publish architecture compliance criteria which will be used
to assess whether IT/NSS systems are being implemented correctly. The evidence that IT/NSS systems
provide to support their assertions of compliance will, in turn, be used to support operational and
technical testing of the systems. Additional requirements can be found in AFI 33-401, Implementing
Air Force Architectures.
1.6.11.5. EITDR is the database for ensuring compliance and serves as the official record for monitoring
compliance with other standing and ad hoc requirements.
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                              12


                                                Chapter 2

                                   AF IT INVESTMENT REVIEW

2.1 Background. The DoD Mission Areas (MAs) provide life cycle oversight to applicable DoD
Component and Combatant Commander IT investments (systems or initiative/systems – IT and/or
National Security System (NSS)). IT Lean is required for all IT investments less than $15 million. MA
IT systems investments support and enhance the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff’s joint
warfighting priorities. They also support actions to create a net-centric distributed force, capable of full
spectrum dominance through decision and information superiority.

2.2. Ronald Reagan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Certification Requirement. The
FY 2005 NDAA established the Defense Business Systems Management Committee (DBSMC) and the
Approval Authority (AA) structure. Starting 1 October 2005, program managers must obtain DBSMC-
approved certification prior to obligating funds on a defense business system modernization that has a
total system modernization cost in excess of $1M, for all appropriations including operations and
maintenance (O&M) through the FYDP. For O&M, only those funds used to modernize the system
should be included. Those used to operate and sustain the system should not be included. Per the FY05
NDAA, failure to obtain DBSMC approval may result in an Anti-Deficiency Act violation. Air Force
implementation of the NDAA certification and annual review processes are documented in the Air
Force IT Investment Review Guide.

2.3. Portfolio Investment Review. Per DoDI 8115.02, the DoD IT Portfolio management process
continues the evolution from an emphasis on individual systems to overall mission capability.
Consistent with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Capital Planning and Investment Control
guidance, the Air Force will use four continuous integrated activities to manage its portfolios - analysis,
selection, control, and evaluation. The overall process is iterative, with results being fed back into the
process to guide future decisions. Air Force implementation of the portfolio investment process is
documented in the Air Force IT Investment Review Guide.

2.4. Information Collections, Records, and Forms.
2.4.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
2.4.2. Records. No records are created by this publication.
2.4.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
2.4.3.1. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
2.4.3.2. Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed by this publication.



                                              MICHAEL W. PETERSON, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                               Chief Information Officer
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                       13


                                           Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 40, U.S.C., Sections 11101-11704, Information Technology Management (40 U.S.C. 11101-
11704) (Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (CCA))
PL 108-136, National Defense Authorization Act
CJCSI 3170.01E, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
CJCSI 6212.01C, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National Security
Systems
CJCSI 8410.01, Warfighting Mission Area Information Technology Portfolio Management and Net-
Centric Data Sharing
DoDD 4630.5, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National
Security Systems (NSS)
DoDD 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System
DoDD 8500.1, Information Assurance (IA)
DoDD 8115.01, Information Technology Portfolio Management
DoDI 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management Implementation
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 2B, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRS)
DoD 8510.01p, DoD guidance on Information Assurance
DoDI 8510.01 DIACAP
DoD Architecture Framework, latest revision
OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission and Execution of the Budget
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources
AFDD 2-4, Combat Support
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management
AFPD 33-3, Information Management
AFPD 33-4, Enterprise Architecture
AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development
AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing
AFI 33-202, Volume 1, Network and Computer Security
AFI 63-101, Operations of Capabilities Based Acquisition System
AFI 63-1101, Modification Management
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFRIMS RDS, https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACS⎯Agile Combat Support
AF⎯Air Force
AF CIO⎯Air Force Chief Information Officer
AFDD⎯Air Force Doctrine Document
AFI⎯Air Force Instruction
AFMAN⎯Air Force Manual
AFPD⎯Air Force Policy Directive
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                       14


AFRIMS⎯Air Force Records Information Management System
AIS⎯Automated Information System
AO⎯Action Officer
ATO—Authority to Operate
BMA—Business Mission Area
BTA—Business Transformation Agency
C&A⎯Certification and Accreditation
CBM⎯Core Business Mission
CCA⎯The Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996
CIO⎯Chief Information Officer
CIR⎯Capital Investment Report
CoP— Community of Practice (AF IT Investment Compliance Review)
DAA⎯Designated Approval Authority
DAS—Defense Acquisition System
DBSMC—Defense Business Systems Management Committee
DITPR—DoD Information Technology Portfolio Repository
DoD⎯Department of Defense
DoDD⎯Department of Defense directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EA⎯Enterprise Architecture
EIE—Enterprise Information Environment
EIEMA—Enterprise Information Environment Mission Area
EITDR⎯Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository
ETP—Enterprise Transition Plan
FISMA⎯Federal Information Security Management Act
FMR- Financial Management Regulation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FPfM—Functional Portfolio Manager
FY⎯Fiscal Year
FYDP⎯Future Years Defense Program
GIG—Global Information Grid
HAF⎯Headquarters Air Force
HQ AFCA⎯Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency
HQ USAF⎯Headquarters United States Air Force
IA⎯Information Assurance
IRB—Investment Review Board
IS—Information System
IT⎯information technology
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
MAIS⎯Major Automated Information System
MAJCOM⎯Major Command
MDAP—Major Defense Acquisition Program
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
NSS⎯National Security System
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                          15


O&M⎯Operations and Maintenance
OMB⎯Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD⎯Office of the Secretary of Defense
PCA—Pre-Certification Authority
PfM⎯Portfolio Management/Portfolio Manager
PL⎯Public Law
POA&M⎯Plan of Action and Milestones
POC⎯Point of Contact
PPBE⎯Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
RDS⎯Records Disposition Schedule
SAF⎯Secretary of the Air Force
SCIR⎯Selected CIR
SECAF⎯Secretary of the Air Force
SISSU⎯Security, Interoperability, Supportability, Sustainability, Usability
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SWG—Senior Working Group
U.S.C.—United States Code
WMA—Warfighting Mission Area

Terms

Accreditation - Formal declaration by a Designated Approval Authority (DAA) that an information
system is approved to operate in a particular security mode at an acceptable level of risk, based on the
implementation of an approved set of technical, managerial, and procedural safeguards. Source: AFI
33-202V1.
Air Force IT Resources - All Air Forces resources (financial, manpower, hardware, software, etc.)
used for the development, acquisition, operation, maintenance, sustainment, or modification of IT.

Application - A software program that performs a specific function directly for a user and can be
executed without access to system control, monitoring or administrative privileges. Source: DoDD
8500.1.

Architecture - The structure of components, their relationships and the principles and guidelines
governing their design and evolution over time. Source: DoDD 4630.5.

Automated Information System (AIS) Application - For DoD information assurance purposes, an
AIS application is the product or deliverable of an acquisition program, such as those described in
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003. An
AIS application performs clearly defined functions for which there are readily identifiable security
considerations and needs that are addressed as part of the acquisition. An AIS application may be a
single software application; multiple software applications that are related to a single mission; or a
combination of software and hardware performing a specific support function across a range of
missions. AIS applications are deployed to enclaves for operations, and have their operational security
needs assumed by the enclave. Note that an AIS application is analogous to a “major application” as
defined in OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, Transmittal 4,
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                           16

November 30, 2000; however, this term is not used in order to avoid confusion with the DoD
acquisition category of Major Automated Information System (MAIS). Source: DoDD 8500.1.

Business Mission Area—BMA’s objective is to ensure the right capabilities, resources and materiel are
reliably delivered to our warfighters: what they need, where they need it, when they need it, anywhere
in the world. In order to cost-effectively meet these requirements, DoD’s current business and financial
management infrastructure – processes, systems, and data standards – are being transformed to ensure
better support to the warfighter and improve accountability to the taxpayer. Integration of business
transformation for the DoD business enterprise is led by the Deputy Secretary of Defense in his role as
Chief Operating Officer of the DoD. The Focused Logistics domain owner works closely with the
BMA IRBs. (DoDI 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management (PfM) Implementation)

Certification - Comprehensive evaluation of the technical and non-technical security features and
countermeasures of an information system to establish the extent to which a particular design and
implementation meet a set of specified security requirements. Source: AFI 33-202V1.

Defense Business System—‘Defense Business System’ means an information system, other than a
national security system, operated by, for, or on behalf of the Department of Defense, including
financial systems, mixed systems, financial data feeder systems, and information technology and
information assurance infrastructure, used to support business activities, such as acquisition, financial
management, logistics, strategic planning and budgeting, installations and environment, and human
resource management. ( FY2005 NDAA)

Defense Business System Development/Modernization (Dev/Mod)—Also referred to as
development/modernization/enhancement. Any change or modification to an existing Information
System (IS), program, and/or initiative that results in improved capability or performance of the
baseline activity. Improved capability or performance achieved as a by-product of the replacement of
broken IT equipment to continue an operation at the current service levels is not categorized as
Development/Modernization. Development/Modernization includes: (1) program costs for new
applications and infrastructure capabilities that are planned or under development; (2) any change or
modification to existing applications and infrastructure capabilities which is intended to result in
improved capability or performance of the activity. These changes include (a) all modifications to
existing operational software (other than corrective software maintenance); and (b) expansion of
existing capabilities to new users; (3) changes mandated by Congress or the Office of the Secretary of
Defense; (4) personnel costs for Project Management. (DoD Financial Management Regulation, Chapter
18)

Enclave - A collection of computing environments connected by one or more internal networks under
the control of a single authority and security policy, including personnel and physical security.
Enclaves always assume the highest mission assurance category and security classification of the AIS
applications or outsourced IT-based processes they support, and derive their security needs from those
systems. They provide standard IA capabilities such as boundary defense, incident detection and
response, and key management, and also deliver common applications such as office automation and
electronic mail. Enclaves are analogous to general support systems as defined in OMB Circular A-130,
Management of Federal Information Resources, Transmittal 4, November 30, 2000. Enclaves may be
specific to an organization or a mission, and the computing environments may be organized by physical
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                           17

proximity or by function independent of location. Examples of enclaves include local area networks
and the applications they host, backbone networks, and data processing centers. Source: DoDD 8500.1.

Enterprise Information Environment Mission Area—EIEMA represents common, integrated
information computing and communications environment of the Global Information Grid (GIG). The
Enterprise Information Environment (EIE) is composed of GIG assets that operate as, provide transport
for and/or assure local area networks, campus area networks, tactical, operational and strategic
networks, metropolitan area networks, and wide area networks. EIE includes computing infrastructure
for the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, control, and display of data or
information, with a primary emphasis on DoD enterprise hardware, software operating systems, and
hardware/software support that enable the GIG enterprise. The EIE also includes a common set of
enterprise services, called Core Enterprise Services, which provide awareness of, access to, and delivery
of information on the GIG. The Net-centric and Command and Control domain owners work closely
with the EIEMA IRBs. (DoDI 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management
Implementation)

Family of Systems - A set or arrangement of independent systems that can be arranged or
interconnected in various ways to provide different capabilities. Source: DoD Architecture Framework,
Version 1

Information Assurance (IA) - Measures that protect and defend information and information systems
by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation. This
includes providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating protection, detection, and
reaction capabilities. Source: DoDD 8500.1.

Information System (IS)—A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information. (DoDD 8000.1,
Management of DoD Information Resources and Information Technology). Or a discrete set of
information resources organized for collection, storage, processing, maintenance, use, sharing,
dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of information. (Note: Includes automated
information system (AIS) applications, enclaves, outsourced IT-based processes, and platform IT
interconnections.) (DoDD 8500.01)

Information Technology (IT)—Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment
used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display,
switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. This includes equipment used
by the executive agency directly or used by a contractor under a contract with the executive agency,
which (i) requires the use of such equipment, or (ii) requires the use, to a significant extent, of such
equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. The term “IT” includes
computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware, and similar procedures, services (including support
services), and related resources. Notwithstanding the preceding, the term "IT” does not include any
equipment that is required by a federal contractor incident to a federal contract. The term “IT” includes
National Security Systems (NSS), and is synonymous with the term "information system" (IS). (DoDD
4630.5, DoDD 8000.1, 40 U.S.C. 11101(6))
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                            18

Initiative - A collection of resources focused on a single IT project. Initiatives include both new starts
and ongoing efforts, and that a single initiative, in the IT budget reporting construct, may equate to a
program/project (either acquisition or sustainment/legacy), a collection of related programs/projects, or
a collection of related programs and activities focused on IT

IT Investment⎯The development and sustainment resources needed in support of IT or IT-related
initiatives. These resources include, but are not limited to: research, development, test, and evaluation
appropriations; procurement appropriations; military personnel appropriations; operations and
maintenance appropriations; and Defense Working Capital Fund (DoDD 8115.01, Information
Technology Portfolio Management). WMA IT investments recommendations will focus on whether
acquisition programs, IT systems, and budget initiatives should be initiated, modified, continued, or
terminated. Specific financial and/or budget information will support program, system, and initiative
recommendations. (CJCSI 8410.01, Warfighting Mission Area Information Technology Portfolio
Management and Net-Centric Data Sharing)

IT Portfolio - A grouping of IT initiatives by capability to accomplish a specific functional goal,
objective, or mission outcome. Source: DoDD 8115.01

IT Portfolio Management (Portfolio management) - The management of selected groupings of IT
resources using strategic planning, architectures, and outcome-based performance measures to achieve a
mission capability (CJCSI 8410.01, Warfighting Mission Area Information Technology Portfolio
Management and Net-Centric Data Sharing). Source: DoDD 8115.01

Mission Area⎯A defined area of responsibility with functions and processes that contribute to mission
accomplishment. (CJCSI 8410.01, Warfighting Mission Area Information Technology Portfolio
Management and Net-Centric Data Sharing)

National Security System (NSS) - Any telecommunications or information system operated by the
United States Government , the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities,
cryptologic activities related to national security, command and control of military forces, equipment
that is an integral part of a weapons system, or is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or
intelligence missions. Such a system is not NSS if it is to be used for routine administrative and
business applications (including payroll, finance, logistics and personnel management applications).
Source: CJCSI 6212.01C

SISSU Checklist - A consolidated list of SISSU requirements (i.e., non-functional requirements) that is
used to guide the requirements sponsor and program manager through the process to ensure that all
SISSU needs are met when developing and fielding a system. The SISSU Checklist is a tool that
stakeholders use to ensure that SISSU needs are communicated early, from requirements generation
forward. The SISSU Checklist specifies in which phase in the IT Lean Process (i.e., define need,
design, build and test, and release and support) the requirements must be fulfilled. Source: AFI 63-101.

Warfighting Mission Area⎯WMA is one of four DoD IT mission areas contributing to DoD IT (to
include NSS) investment management. WMA includes eight IT Domains that will provide oversight to
applicable DoD component and Combatant Commander IT Programs. WMA IT investments
(programs, systems, and initiatives) support and enhance the Chairman’s joint warfighting abilities
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                         19

while supporting actions to create a net-centric distributed force, capable of full spectrum dominance
through decision and information superiority. WMA IT investments ensure Combatant Commands can
meet the Chairman’s strategic challenges to win the war on terrorism; accelerate transformation; and
strengthen joint warfighting. WMA IT investments provide organizational agility, action and decision
speed, collaboration and outreach. (CJCSI 8410.01, Warfighting Mission Area Information Technology
Portfolio Management and Net-Centric Data Sharing)

WMA IT Domain⎯Subset of the warfighting mission area representing a common collection of
related, or highly dependent, information capabilities and services. Managing these related information
capabilities and services within domains improves coordination, collaboration, integration, and
consistency of processes and interfaces for information sharing. IT Domains are the basic organization
established in WMA to conduct IT Portfolio Management and COI oversight. WMA IT Domains are
aligned to the JCIDS FCBs. (CJCSI 8410.01, Warfighting Mission Area Information Technology
Portfolio Management and Net-Centric Data Sharing)
AFI 33-141 23 DECEMBER 2008                                                                    20


                                          Attachment 2

       AIR FORCE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) PORTFOLIO OWNER LIST

Air Combat Command (ACC)
Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
Air Force Space Command (AFSPC)
Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC)
Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC)
Air Force District of Washington (AFDW)
Air Mobility Command (AMC)
Air National Guard (ANG)
Air Force Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG)
Deputy Chief of Staff, Information, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (HQ USAF/A2)
Deputy Chief of Staff, Air and Space Operations (HQ USAF/A3)
Deputy Chief of Staff, Installations and Logistics (HQ USAF/A4)
Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel (HQ USAF/A1)
Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Programs (HQ USAF/A8)
Deputy Chief of Staff, Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (HQ USAF/A9)
Director, Information Management for Headquarters Air Force and Headquarters Air Force Chief
Information Officer (HAF/IM)
Pacific Air Forces (PACAF)
Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ)
Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management & Comptroller (SAF/FM)
Secretary of the Air Force, Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/XC)
United States Air Force Academy (USAFA)
United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE)
United States Air Force Cyber Command (USAFCYBER)
U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM)
U.S. Northern Command (NORTHCOM)
U.S. Joint Forces Command (JFCOM)
U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM)
U.S. Strategic Command (STRATCOM)
U.S. Transportation Command (TRANSCOM)
