BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2225
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                      AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                           SUPPLEMENT

                                                                                01 OCTOBER 2010

                                                                                          Personnel

                                                      SECURITY FORCES TRAINING AND
                                             STANDARDIZATION EVALUATIONS PROGRAMS

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A7SOT                                                  Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A7S
                                                                             (Col Lynden P. Skinner)
                                                                                          Pages: 16
This supplement describes AFGSC’s procedures for use in conjunction with the basic Air Force
Instruction. This Supplement applies to all wings within AFGSC. This supplement applies to the Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) personnel when performing AF
duties in support of AFGSC assets, units or missions. Records Management: Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF
Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication requires the collection and or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and
or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 10 United States Code, Section 8013,
Title 5 United States Code, Section 552a and Executive Order 9397. Forms affected by the PA have
an appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System Notice(s) is available online at:
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf/.



2.3.4.8. (Added) Appoints A7SOT as the MAJCOM Functional Training Manager.
   2                                                AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



2.3.5. Defense Force Commander (DFC) title will be used in this supplement in lieu of CSF/SF Unit
Commander. For the purpose of this Supplement, the 91 SFG/CC will fulfill the duties of the DFC for
the 91 SFG personnel.

2.3.5.3.1. (Added) This includes the unit’s live fire proficiency/sustainment training program
mandated by AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, paragraph 2.4. The DFC
will ensure a sufficient number of unit personnel are appointed and task qualified by the Combat
Arms NCOIC to operate small arms ranges in support of the unit’s live fire proficiency/sustainment
training program. Security Forces Training and Stan-Eval sections will have an appropriate number
of task certified individuals to meet Duty Position Evaluation (DPE) and training requirements IAW
AFI 10-249, Security Forces Combat Readiness Program.

2.3.5.3.2. (Added) Duty position rank requirements. The DFC, or designee, will publish a list of duty
positions and minimum rank requirements for those positions requiring DPEs. Document occurrences
when minimum rank requirements were not met and/or waived. The DFC, or designee, will approve
deviations from established minimum rank requirements.

2.3.5.4. The MTP will contain, as a minimum, the following items:

2.3.5.4.1. (Added) Training items from DoD 5210.41M/AFMAN 31-108, The Air Force Nuclear
Security Manual, and applicable supplements will be given priority. Other training items will be
prioritized as required to meet mission objectives.

2.3.5.4.2. (Added) All Combat Readiness Tasks listed in AFI 10-249, Security Forces Combat
Readiness Program, Attachment 2.

2.3.5.4.3. (Added) All ID training items listed in AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, Paragraphs 1.5.1.1.
through 1.5.1.16.

2.3.5.4.4. (Added) DFC selected tasks from AFI 36-2225, Attachment 6, that are essential to
executing the home station mission.

2.3.5.4.5. (Added) Live fire proficiency/sustainment training for assigned personnel on their primary
duty weapon IAW AFI 31-207, paragraphs 1.8. and 2.4.

2.3.5.4.6. (Added) Any other local training items deemed necessary by the DFC to support mission
requirements.

2.3.7.3. (Added) Work centers prepare a master Job Qualification Standard (JQS) using AFH 36-
2235, Volume 2, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems; Application to Unit Training
and AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program on the Job Training Administration, for
both standard and unique duty positions (flight or staff). Indicate on the JQS how tasks are evaluated.
You may use written examinations (W), oral response to verbally spoken questions (O), or
performance evaluation (P), as codes to indicate evaluation needs. Coordinate the JQS within the unit
   3                                                 AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



(operations, training, Stan-Eval, flight, etc) to ensure all personnel have the same standards
established. A JQS is developed for those positions that require DPE as indicated by the DFC.

2.3.7.4. (Added) Local JQS. Develop an AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/
Command JQS, or locally developed JQS with certification letter for required tasks not covered by
the Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) such as flight armorer, flight sergeant, etc.
Include additional duties and wartime or special mission tasks. Use action verbs describing the task.
Identify the technical reference for the task.

2.3.8. Notify HQ AFGSC/A7SOT if any individual is unable to attend formal school training, or if
there is a change in personnel attending the training, at least 10 duty days prior to class start date.
Squadron SFM approval is required for all changes occurring under 10 duty days prior to class start
date. (Not applicable to ANG or AFRC personnel.)

2.3.9.2. Supervisors/trainers will ensure trainees are entered into the Air Force Training Records
(AFTR) system to avoid delays and documentation errors.

2.3.9.4.2. Extensions for Phase II are validated and approved by the Operations Superintendent as a
minimum. Extensions will not exceed 15 duty days. All extensions/removals will be documented.

2.5.8. Phase I training will include Nuclear Surety, initial Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
training and any local requirements directed by the DFC.

2.5.9.1. (Added) S-3/Training will monitor initial Phase II training timelines. S-3/Training will
maintain a current Phase II tracking log containing the following: rank/name, duty position individual
is training for, applicable dates (e.g., training start date, scheduled completion date), any existing
extensions/removal (if applicable), and a suspense system to ensure initial Phase II training is
completed in a timely manner.

2.5.9.2. (Added) Develop local procedures to approve Phase II training, delays, removals and
extensions. The number of days granted for a delay and extension will be the minimum necessary for
completion of the training. The number of days granted will be based on each individual’s specific
training requirements. A generalized number of days for extensions will not be used (example:
everyone gets a 15 day extension). Extensions will not exceed 15 duty days.

2.5.20. UTMs will transfer departing member’s AFTR records during their final out-processing so the
gaining unit UTM can access the member’s AFTR records. This action will be included in the unit’s
out-processing checklist.

2.7. Combat Arms Specialist Training. Specific requirements are listed in AFI 36-2226, Combat
Arms Program, Chapter 3.

2.11.4.3. Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), 90 GCTS, Camp Guernsey WY. No program
name at this time.
   4                                                  AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010




3.2.3. The e-TTPG website is:
https://afsfmil.lackland.af.mil/Organization/AFSFC/SFW/org_afsfc_sfxt_tngref.htm.

3.3.3. (Added) Guidance for the use of dye-marking cartridges for proficiency/sustainment, use of
force, force on force or other training scenarios is located at URL:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/DocMan/DocMain.asp?FolderID=OO-SF-AC-48-
9&Tab=0&Filter=OO-SF-AC-48.

4.3. Stan/Eval Section. Feedback to sections, teams, and individuals being evaluated is extremely
important. Evaluator feedback is immediate and all efforts should be made to accomplish feedback
with supervisors or trainers present.

4.4. Qualifications for Stan/Eval Section Personnel. Stan-Eval sections will develop a
comprehensive training plan for evaluator task qualifications. This training process will be outlined in
their work center MTL IAW AFI 36-2201, V3, Air Force Training Program On The Job Training
Administration (Chapter 6 Notes).

4.5.1.4. Any locally developed checklists will also be used to evaluate the functional area or work
center, in addition to HAF and/or MAJCOM checklists.

4.5.3.2. Tests for Critical/Non-Critical duty positions will be at least 25 questions.

Note: (Added) Training aids and simulated explosive devices (SEDs) must be labeled with a control
item number and inventoried annually. Local procedures will be established to ensure personnel who
may find and respond to a training aid or SED are familiar with all local training aids and SEDs.

4.5.4. Missile Wing Critical positions include: Convoy Commander, Convoy Flight Chief, Shift
Commanders, Flight Leader, Flight Chiefs, Missile Security Control (MSC), Keys and Codes Control
Center (KCCC), Flight Security Controller.

4.5.4.1.5. (Added) The DFC determines the status (critical/non-critical) of all other duty positions.

4.5.4.3.1. Annually, at least 10% of unit personnel possessing a critical duty position certification will
receive no-notice evaluations. The number evaluated will be determined by taking 10% of the number
of personnel possessing critical certifications. As this number does fluctuate, take a “snap-shot” count
of personnel subject to critical DPEs during the current year to calculate the appropriate number of
no-notice evaluations.

4.5.4.4. Use current and qualified SMEs to augment Stan/Eval when an evaluator is not available that
is current and qualified, or does not possess the required experience/subject knowledge applicable to
the DPE being conducted. For example, if a Tactical Response Force (TRF) Assaulter position is to
be evaluated, but none of the evaluators are current and qualified in that position, a current and
qualified TRF Assaulter (SME) may augment the evaluation team.
   5                                                 AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010




4.5.4.8. DFC, or designee, may approve duty position certification extensions for persons having
fewer than 90 days remaining until discharge, retirement, retraining on a case-by-case basis to meet
mission needs. Approvals must be in writing and maintained by Standardization Evaluation Section.

4.6.2.6. (Added) The decertification process is reserved for those instances of critical deficiencies
that occurred during times other than evaluations. Local procedures will be established outlining
decertification process. The DFC will designate the decertification authority.

4.6.3. (Added) SFGs/Units will develop a localized scoring system utilizing Task Performance
Checklists (TPCs).

4.7.1. The supervisor will document the results in the trainee’s AFTR (AF Form 623a, On-the-Job
Training Record Continuation Sheet) within 7 duty days of the evaluation.

4.8. Trend Analysis Report. Adjustments made to either the training program or DPE process must
be documented via a memorandum and maintained with the associated Trend Analysis Report.

4.9. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

4.9.1. Forms Prescribed.

This publication does not prescribe any forms.

4.9.2. Forms Adopted.

AF Form 340, Sensor Alarm Data
AFCOMSEC Form 16, COMSEC Account Daily-Shift Inventory
AFGSC Form 246, Multiple Dispatch/Pre Dispatch/Approved Dispatch Notification




                                                        ANN L. MITCHELL, SES-2, DAF
                                                        Director of Installations, Logistics
                                                        and Mission Support
  6                                     AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



Attachment 1
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

DFC (Added) – Defense Force Commander
TRF (Added) – Tactical Response Force
   7                                                  AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



                                        Attachment 7 (Added)

                          CRITICAL & MAJOR ERROR IDENTIFIERS

Note: DFC may add other Critical Errors applicable to their unit.

A7.1. Critical Errors. Critical errors apply when trainee or evaluatee actions result in, or could
reasonably be determined to result in, a failure of the operational or security mission. Any error listed
under the critical portion of this instruction will result in a No-Go rating regardless of the task being
evaluated during a DPE. Decertification results in cases when a DPE is not in progress and critical
errors occurred. Each item below identifies critical errors that may be further defined in the specific
TPC. As further defined in the TPC, the task must be performed correctly by the trainee/evaluatee
during the performance phase of their training session or DPE. Failure to correctly complete the task
is a "No-Go" and results in the individual being decertified for the duty position being evaluated.
Upon failure, the member will not perform duties with another uncertified member until successful
completion of the necessary training and reaccomplishment of the DPE.

A7.1.1. Critical errors applicable to all.

A7.1.1.1. Failure to control, secure, safeguard, or destroy, or allowing unauthorized access of
classified material, or Controlled Cryptographic Items; for which they have assumed responsibility.

A7.1.1.2. Failure to detect or challenge unauthorized personnel in an exclusion area and/or limited
area.

A7.1.1.3. Failure to assess or dispatch required forces to provide physical security measures.

A7.1.1.4. Failure to respond with required weapon and/or ammunition.

A7.1.1.5. Failure to properly prioritize response.

A7.1.1.6. Failure to implement adequate compensatory measures for the known or detected security
deficiencies.

A7.1.1.7. Failure to correctly configure a security system to include igloo locks, “A” circuit, and any
other devices necessary for adequate security of resource.

A7.1.1.8. Failure to detect, react, and/or sound the alarm when duress is indicated.

A7.1.1.9. Failure to locate a simulated explosive device(s) in areas of responsibilities or in areas
searched/inspected.

A7.1.1.10. Failure to properly establish 360-degree security and/or Restricted Area during on-base
convoy stoppages.
   8                                                 AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010




A7.1.1.11. Failure to annotate Personal Reliability Program (PRP) documents/records for an
individual suspended, temporarily decertified or permanently decertified.

A7.1.1.12. Failure to identify and appropriately respond to a two-person concept violation.

A7.1.1.13. Failure to meet response times listed in DoD 5210.41M for teams responding to a situation
where weather and terrain are not a factor.

A7.1.1.14. Failure to apply appropriate DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Standards to delay/
deny or failure to take immediate action to conduct recapture and/or recovery operations IAW DoD
5210.41M/AFMAN 31-108.

A7.1.1.15. Failure to maintain required security posting for nuclear resources.

A7.1.1.16. Failure to report a Communications Security (COMSEC) violation.

A7.1.1.17. Failure to locate a weapon or items inherently dangerous to others, i.e., gun, knife,
explosive device, etc, during an individual search.

A7.1.1.18. Commencing a weapons movement without proper approval.

A7.1.1.19. Allowing unauthorized entry into a limited or exclusion area.

A7.1.2. Critical errors applicable to missile field duties.

A7.1.2.1. Failure to meet launch facility (LF) guarding requirements IAW DoD 5210.41M/AFMAN
31-108.

A7.1.2.2. Failure to maintain appropriate security at an open launcher or penetrated LF.

A7.1.2.3. Allowing a team to depart an LF prior to proper site security system reset (no other team on
site) when not authorized.

A7.1.2.4. Failure to use a Personal Alarm System IAW appropriate governing directives.

A7.1.2.5. Failure to properly establish 360-degree security and/or National Defense Area (NDA)
during convoy stoppages.

A7.1.3. Critical errors applicable to weapons storage area duties.

A7.1.3.1. Failure to conduct Routine Verification when required (Remote Display Area Operator
(RDAO) and/or Local Display Area Operator (LDAO).
   9                                                  AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



A7.1.3.2. Failure to initiate compensatory measures for alarm failures.

A7.1.3.3. Failure of the RDAO to assume operational control of the annunciation system when
required.

A7.1.3.4. Failure of the RDAO/LDAO to identify affected sensors for Communication Failure.

A7.1.3.5. Failure of the RDAO to identify Alarm Monitor Access Alarm (AMAA)/Alarm Monitor
Operator Status (AMOS) situations.

A7.1.3.6. Failure to update, change or post a Weapons Storage Area Authorization Listing.

A7.1.3.7. Failure to conduct a purge of the hot igloo/facility prior to closing.

A7.2. Major and Minor Errors.

A7.2.1. Major errors apply when the trainee or evaluatee actions result in, or could reasonably be
determined to result in, degradation to operational or security mission.

A7.2.2. Minor errors are other errors that do not fit into critical or major error categories and could
potentially detract from overall mission accomplishment.

A7.2.3. The DFC may further define Major and Minor Errors on applicable duty position TPCs for
the purpose of determining overall performance evaluation grading criteria. Major and Minor Errors
may be identified on TPCs and should be included in local operating instructions.
   10                                                 AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010




                                         Attachment 8 (Added)

                                     ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE

A8.1. Tactical Response Force (TRF):

A8.1.1. Tactical Response Force (TRF) Position Certifications. TRF members will be required to
locally certify as a TRF Assaulter or TRF Flight Commander/Chief. Initial and annual certification
will be conducted by current and qualified SMEs to augment DPE evaluators when an evaluator is
not available that is current and qualified in the special duty certification. For example, if a Tactical
Response Force (TRF) Assaulter position is to be evaluated, but none of the evaluators are current
and qualified in that position, a current and qualified TRF Assaulter (SME) may augment the
evaluation team. If the Stan-Eval section does not have an evaluator meeting this requirement, the
TRF Commander will appoint a subject matter expert to oversee evaluations. Additionally, it is
highly encouraged that 1-2 TRF members be part of the base Exercise Evaluation Team.

A8.1.2. TRF Flight Commander/Chief (critical). Annually trained and evaluated utilizing the
MAJCOM or Numbered Air Force (NAF) approved JQS for that duty position.

A8.1.3. TRF Assaulter (non-critical). Annually trained and evaluated utilizing the MAJCOM or NAF
approved JQS for that duty position.

A8.1.4. Minimum practical evaluations. The following items are the minimum requirements for the
practical portion of the evaluation. S3 is strongly encouraged to develop additional requirements.

A8.1.4.1. TRF Flight Commander/Chief: Launch facility recapture and guardmount.

A8.1.4.2. TRF Assaulter: Respond to mission call and occupancy control.

A8.1.5. TRF Individual/Team Qualification Training: The Assault, Close Precision Engagement,
Security Over-Watch, and Explosive Breacher Courses will be trained by the 90th Ground Combat
Training Squadron cadre or other MAJCOM/AF approved courses. Team certification will be IAW
applicable MAJCOM or NAF guidance.

A8.1.5.1. Utilize the applicable MAJCOM or NAF approved TRF JQS to document this training.

A8.1.5.2. Recurring training will be conducted by trainers selected by the TRF Commander. TRF
specific training will be documented using applicable MAJCOM or NAF approved forms. TRF
trainers appointed by the TRF/CC may conduct additional annual SF training requirements upon
approval of the DFC.

A8.1.5.3. Team Certification: A local tracking program will be established to track certified team
members by date certified as part of a team.
   11                                               AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010




A8.2. Simulators.

A8.2.1. AFGSC recommends simulators for the training/certification of personnel for the following
duty positions: FSC, Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) and MSC. Simulators should meet the
following configuration/control standards. See Table A8.1.

Table A8.1. Simulator Configuration.
FSC Simulators:                 MSC Simulators:                     BDOC simulators:
Desk                            Desk                                Desk
Computer                        Computer                            Computer
Phone                           Phone                               Phone
Intercom (to simulate radio     Intercom (to simulate radio         Intercom (to simulate radio
communication)                  communication)                      communication)
Video recording equipment       Video recording equipment           Video recording equipment
Checklists                      Checklists                          Checklists
AFIs                            AFIs                                AFIs
Flight area maps                Missile field maps                  WSA/surrounding area maps
Plotting board                  Plotting board                      Plotting board
Locking door (to simulate       Locking door (to simulate           Locking door (to simulate
entry control into the Security entry control into MSC)             entry control into BDOC area)
Control Center)
Fax machine                     Covered Wagon Log                   Covered Wagon Log
Training AFGSC Form 246         RVA System
Missile Electronic Encryption
Device (MEED) training
equipment
Training COMSEC material
Remote Visual Assessment
(RVA) System
Missile Alert Facility (MAF)
CCTV System

A8.3. Firing Ranges. Full distance training is the preferred method for initial and recurring machine
gun and automatic rifle training. 10-meter qualifications will only be used when filling short notice,
30 days or less, deployment/contingency requirements and a full distance range is not available or
when full distance ranges are more than two hours away (one way) and the DFC has determined its
use as logistically impractical.

A8.4. Fire Arms Training Simulator/Squad Engagement Training Simulator/EST
2000/BEAMHIT or other suitable system. Consider establishing scenarios specific to WSA, MAF
and LF settings and situations to include all weather and terrain configurations for that unit.
   12                                                AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



A8.5. Missile Convoy Commander Certification.

A8.5.1. The SF Squadron commander must certify the qualification training.

A8.5.2. Verbal and written exam will be conducted by a Stan-Eval member with convoy experience.
Stan-Eval personnel, when conducting the performance evaluation, will be accompanied by the senior
convoy commander or operations officer.

A8.5.3. Upon successfully completing the evaluation, the convoy commander, hand-carrying his/her
training record will brief the Wing CC (may be delegated to the CV only in the absence of the CC) on
the certification process, convoy commander responsibilities, use of force to include deadly force, and
convoy operational procedures, as a minimum. Documentation of this briefing will become a
permanent part of the convoy commander’s training record. Following this briefing, upon Wing CC
approval, the DFC will designate the convoy commander in writing as per AFGSCI 31-108.

A8.6. Minimum Practical Evaluations. Duty positions will have the following minimum practical
evaluation requirements that must be met during an individual’s DPE:

A8.6.1. Flight Commander/Flight Chief: Conduct formal guardmount and perform command and
control functions during flight level exercises.

A8.6.1.1. Missile Security: Conduct Launch Facility recapture/recovery and compliance inspection.

A8.6.1.2. Installation Security: Conduct multiple event exercise (i.e., WSA structure alarm followed
by a MARE).

A8.6.2. Missile Wings: Convoy Commander/Convoy Flight Chief/Convoy Element Sergeant:
Conduct an actual convoy (without a real world resource), convoy recapture (table top), and pre-
departure briefing. SF Operations Officer or certified Convoy Commander will accompany Stan-Eval
personnel during this practical evaluation.

A8.6.3. Support Flight Chief /Security Escort Team (SET)/Fire Teams: LF recapture, guardmount
and Personal Alarm System (PAS).

A8.6.4. Area Supervisor (AS): Weapons Storage Area recapture, sensor test on the perimeter or a
structure sensor, multiple alarms involving structure and perimeter sensors, end of day check, facility
closure (e.g., IMF/ALCMS), and exercise requiring implementation of appropriate compensatory
measures for various sensor failures.

A8.6.5. MSC: Up-channel reporting, dispatch for a recapture exercise, changeover.

A8.6.6. FSC: Missile Alert Facility and Launch Facility (manned and unmanned) entry, Launch
Control Center entry, response to a security situation, “A” circuit change, site security status change,
   13                                               AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



receiving AFGSC Form 246, Multiple Dispatch/Pre Dispatch/Approved Dispatch Notification,
loading USYAK 23/4 A and USKAK 55, issue of KL-85A Hand-Held Unit (HHU).

Note: Initial FSC certifications require either missile Response Force Leader (RFL)/Security
Response Team (SRT) leader certification if not currently certified. Subsequent annual FSC
certifications do not require missile RFL/SRT leader certification. FSC maintains missile RFL/SRT
leader certification. Additionally, E-6s may accomplish initial Flight Chief and initial FSC
concurrently.

A8.6.7. Keys and Codes Controller (KCCC): COMSEC accountability, PRP suspension and
temporary/permanent decertification, AFGSC Form 246 procedures, EAL procedures, issue/receipt of
MECS/MEED material, loading and destruction of key tape segments.

A8.6.8. Installation Entry Controller (IEC): Determined Locally.

A8.6.9. WSA Entry Controller (EC): Attempted penetration, utilize Entry Authority Listings, PRP
suspension and temporary/permanent decertification, changeover (including badge accountability for
units employing exchange badge system), escorted and unescorted entry.

A8.6.10. Local Display Area Operator (LDAO)/Remote Display Area Operator (RDAO): Response
Force exercise, opening/closing AS & I facilities, sensor test on the perimeter or a structure sensor,
COMM Failure, AMOS or AMAA (RDAO).

A8.6.11. Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC): Up-channel reporting, conduct command and
control operations during MARE, recapture exercise, cordon establishment, changeover.

A8.6.12. Installation Patrol (IP): Determined Locally.

A8.6.13. RFL/SRT/MFT/SET/CAT (Leader/Member): This position can be combined into one
position or separated individually, to be determined locally.

A8.6.13.1. Missile Security: Challenging, searching and handcuffing, security response exercise, mis-
authentication, response to a security situation, “A” circuit combination. SET Leader will include
PAS.

A8.6.13.2. Installation Security: Challenging, searching and handcuffing, security response exercise.

A8.6.14. Close-In Security Sentry: Determined Locally.

A8.6.15. On-Base Convoy Commander: Determined Locally.
   14                                              AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010




Attachment 9 (Added)
SENSOR TRAINING SYLLABUS

A9.1. Standardized Sensor Training. The goal is to standardize and create the most efficient and
effective sensor training program for key duty positions assigned to the Weapons Storage Area
(WSA) in direct support of nuclear weapon security. To meet this objective, the following training
must be targeted for those duty positions and their expected level of knowledge, see Table A9.1.

Table A9.1. Sensor Training.
Training Subjects/Topics                      RFM/      LDA/      Area    Minimum
                                              RFL       RDA       Sup     Training Time
Electronic Security Systems Concepts and                X                     4 Hours
Principles
Identify basic facts/general principles of    X         X         X         RFM/RFL= 2
sensors utilized in the base alarm system                                      Hours
(Must cover characteristics and limitations                                 AS= 4 Hours
of the system)                                                              LDA/RDA=
                                                                              8 Hours
Identify basic facts/general principles of              X                     2 Hours
PSSCCTV (Must cover characteristics and
limitations of the system)
Characteristics and Limitations of         X            X         X           2 Hours
Assessment Devices
Associated Forms, Checklist and Operating               X         X           6 Hours
Instructions (OIs)
Annunciator/Operating System concepts and               X         X           8 Hours
principles
Annunciator/Operating System Hands-On                   X                     10 Hours
operations
Annunciator/Operating System Progress                   X                     10 Hours
Checks/Practical Evaluations
RTES concepts and principles (If WSA is                 X         X           4 Hours
equipped with or in process of security
enhancement)
RTES Hands-On operations/Progress                       X                     8 Hours
Checks
Highly recommended SF members are given X               X         X            1 Hour
a written evaluation covering areas of
instruction.
   15                                             AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



A9.2. Training Time and Recurrence. Sufficient training time will be utilized to accomplish desired
levels of learning. Table A9.2. depicts an example class schedule.

Table A9.2. Example Class Schedule.
Day of Training (DOT) Subject                                          Remarks
DOT #1                       WSA Security Review Test
                             Electronic Security Systems (ESS)
                               Lesson Plan/Slide Show
DOT #2                       Electronic Security Systems (ESS)
                               Lesson Plan/Slide Show
DOT #3                       ESS Test
                             Intro to required Documentation,
                               Paperwork & Blotters
                             OIs and Checklist Review
DOT #4                       Intro to paperwork (Cont)
                             Predator Lesson Plan/Slide Show
DOT #5                       Predator Lesson Plan/Slide Show
                               (Cont)
                             Predator Hands-On Operation/Test
DOT #6                       Predator Hands-On Operation/Test
                               (Cont)
DOT #7                       Predator Test/Operational Progress
                               Check
DOT #8                       RTES Lesson Plan/Slide Show              *If base WSA is
                             RTES Hands-On Operations                 equipped.
DOT #9                       RTES Test/Operational Progress           *If base WSA is
                               Check                                   equipped
                             Predator ELITE Lesson Plan/Slide
                               Show
DOT #10                      Predator ELITE Lesson Plan/Slide
                               Show
                             Predator ELITE Hands-On
                               Operation
                             COMPLETION

A9.2.1. The Sensor NCO and Training Section will develop a plan to deliver Characteristics and
Limitations of Assessment Devices training annually. It is recommended that Characteristics and
Limitations of Assessment Devices training be given twice a year.

A9.3. S3/Operations and Testing. The Sensor NCO and Training section will work closely with the
S3/Operations staff to develop applicable measurable testing standards in an effort to validate
learning occurred. Testing methods will be established.
   16                                               AFI36-2225_AFGSCSUP 01 OCTOBER 2010



A9.3.1. All personnel will be evaluated on the Response Force Member/Response Force Leader
(RFM/RFL) sensor training subjects/topics identified in Table A9.1. prior to assignment to flight or
first tour of duty via written objective test.

A9.3.2. All objective tests must be given utilizing a “Pass/Fail” standard. Minimum passing score is
80% on all written examinations.

A9.3.3. Those personnel not achieving a minimum passing score of 80% will be retested after
remedial training. Personnel failing to reach a passing score of 80% will be re-entered into sensor
training during the class or course date.
