BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-2006
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               29 AUGUST 2013

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                  UNIFORM AND GROOMING STANDARDS
                                                       FOR CIVILIAN FIRE EMERGENCY
                                                                SERVICES PERSONNEL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFCEC/CXF                                                            Certified by: AF/A7CX
                                                                           (Col Darren P. Gibbs)
                                                                                        Pages: 15


This Instruction implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1400.25, Volume 591,
DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Uniform Allowance Rates for DoD Civilian
Employees, Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20 Fire Emergency Services and Air Force
Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs,
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001 Fire Emergency Services (FES) Program and other Air
Force Instructions, by establishing standards and conditions for furnishing uniforms or paying
uniform allowances to direct hire Air Force Fire Emergency Services (FES) personnel paid from
appropriated funds, including Title 5 United States Code (U.S.C.) FES personnel of the Air
Reserve Components. This instruction applies to all Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air
Force Reserve Fire Emergency Services (FES) civilian employees who occupy positions
classified under the GS-0081, Fire Protection and Prevention Series. These requirements also
apply to GS-2151 Emergency Communications Center (ECC) operators assigned to the FES
flight. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and
approval. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be
routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Use AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, to submit any recommended changes, clarification requests, or command
supplements to this Instruction to the Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC/CXF), 139
Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall Air Force Base FL, 32403-5319. Forms may be electronically
forwarded to AFCEC/CXF Corporate Mailbox, AFCEC.CXF.WORKFLOW@us.af.mil.
 2                                                                AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013



                                             Chapter 1

      WEARING OF UNIFORMS AND ESTABLISHING UNIFORM ALLOWANCES

1.1. Application:
     1.1.1. These requirements apply to all Air Force Fire Emergency Services (FES) civilian
     employees who occupy positions classified under the GS-0081, Fire Protection and
     Prevention Series. These requirements also apply to Emergency Communications Center
     (ECC) operators managed by FES flights, regardless of series, and contract FES personnel.
     These personnel are referred to as “FES personnel” throughout this Instruction. Under the
     authority of this Instruction, the Louis F. Garland Fire Academy, Goodfellow AFB, Texas
     will develop a local standard for dress and appearance and work/safety uniforms for civilian
     instructors regardless of their GS series. Underwear that is not visible when in uniform is not
     regulated in this Instruction. At the local level, Installation Fire Chiefs (IFCs) must satisfy
     their impact and implementation bargaining obligations with their applicable labor union
     before implementing this instruction.
     1.1.2. United States (U.S.) citizen FES personnel in overseas areas (or FES personnel being
     deployed to overseas areas) are required to wear uniforms when on duty unless the theater
     commander prohibits the wear.
     1.1.3. FES personnel who are not U.S. citizens at overseas locations must wear uniforms
     unless the theater commander determines that a uniform is prohibited.
     1.1.4. Requirements in this Instruction related to the required uniform items are effective
     when the uniform is replaced, not to exceed three years from the date of this publication. The
     annual uniform allowance does not fund optional, unique uniform items. The organization
     directing the wear of optional, unique items will fund those items.
     1.1.5. The uniform allowance is based on national average (Figures 1.1. and 1.2.) costs for
     the uniform items. Therefore, the allowance may not cover the entire cost of the item. The
     IFC should reduce the number of uniform items required when the uniform allowance is
     insufficient.

Figure 1.1. Basis For Initial Uniform Allowance.

Work/Station Uniform                                                      Quantity
Work Shirt*                                                              3
Work Pants*                                                              4
Work T-Shirt                                                             3
Work Coat                                                                1
Belt                                                                     1
Formal Uniform
Dress Coat                                                               1
Dress Pants                                                              2
Dress Shirt                                                              2
Dress Shoes                                                              1
AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013                                                                 3


Service Cap                                                                   1
Tie                                                                           1
Metal Badge                                                                   2
Miscellaneous Items
Patches**                                                                     18
Name Tags***                                                                  4
Tie Clip                                                                      1
Tie Bar                                                                       1
Weather Gear                                                                  1
Sweatshirt                                                                    2
Sweatpants                                                                    2
Rank Insignia***                                                              4
Baseball Cap                                                                  2
* NFPA 1975 Compliant
**Includes base patch, rank, flag, Emergency Medical Technician (EMT), etc.
***Metal on dress uniform and cloth on station/work uniform


Figure 1.2. Basis For Annual Uniform Allowance.
Work/Station Uniform                                                           Quantity
Work Shirt*                                                                   2
Work Pants*                                                                   2
Work T-Shirt                                                                  2
Work Coat                                                                     0.25
Belt                                                                          1
Formal ("Class A") Uniform
Dress Coat                                                                    0.25
Dress Pants                                                                   0.5
Dress Shirt                                                                   1
Dress Shoes                                                                   0.5
Service Cap                                                                   0.25
Dress Tie                                                                     0.5
Metal Badge                                                                   1
Miscellaneous Items
Patches**                                                                     9
Name Tags***                                                                  2
Tie Clip                                                                      1
Tie Bar                                                                       1
Weather Gear                                                                  0.25
Sweatshirt                                                                    1
Sweatpants                                                                    1
Rank Insignia***                                                              2
Baseball Cap                                                                  2
* NFPA 1975 Compliant
**Includes base patch, rank, flag, EMT, etc.
***Metal on dress uniform and cloth on station/work uniform

1.2. Responsibilities:
 4                                                                AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013


     1.2.1. The authority is delegated to The Air Force Fire Chief (AFCEC/CXF) to:
        1.2.1.1. Identify the FES personnel who must wear uniforms.
        1.2.1.2. Identify the mandatory items of uniforms required for FES personnel.
        1.2.1.3. Establish requirements for maintaining uniforms.
        1.2.1.4. Approve waivers and exceptions to the requirements of this Instruction.
        1.2.1.5. In consultation with Command Fire Chiefs, conduct annual reviews of uniform
        allowances for any necessary revisions. Initiate changes to uniform allowances when
        appropriate.
     1.2.2. The IFC shall:
        1.2.2.1. Identify the uniform required for each duty position and requests the appropriate
        uniform allowance (initial/annual) or provides the appropriate uniform.
        1.2.2.2. Ensure standardization within the flight when it is required in this Instruction or
        where options are permitted. This includes all portions of the apparel such as undershirts,
        gym clothes, socks, hats, etc., that are visible while fully dressed or when the shirt is
        removed during in-station activities.
        1.2.2.3. Inform employees regarding the risks associated with the material performance
        of unregulated items, such as undergarments, worn beneath personal protective
        equipment (PPE) IAW the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 1500,
        Fire Department Occupational Safety and Health Program. Because unanticipated
        exposure to flame, flash, sparks, or hot substances can occur, it is very important that
        wearers of the compliant uniform understand hazards of fabrics that more easily melt,
        drip, burn, shrink, or transmit heat rapidly and cause burns to the wearer. Advise
        employees that fabrics constructed of inherently flame resistive fibers are a much safer
        choice.
     1.2.3. Supervisors shall:
        1.2.3.1. Ensure subordinates wear the prescribed uniform.
        1.2.3.2. Determine when FES personnel must replace uniform items.
        1.2.3.3. Ensure FES personnel purchased items meet requirements in this Instruction and
        are standard within the flight.
1.3. Furnishing Uniforms:
     1.3.1. The Air Force must either furnish a uniform or provide a uniform allowance to all
     civilian FES personnel required to wear uniforms. When providing a uniform, the cost must
     not exceed the maximum uniform allowance but may be less.
     1.3.2. For safety reasons, the IFC arranges for the cleaning of contaminated or potentially
     contaminated NFPA compliant/non-compliant uniforms. This may be accomplished by
     providing laundry equipment in the fire station (self-service) or by arranging for commercial
     cleaning.
     1.3.3. Uniforms are procured locally IAW established Air Force supply procedures.
AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013                                                                       5


   1.3.4. Figures 1.1. and 1.2. are the uniform items and their quantity on which the initial and
   annual uniform allowance is based. These quantities are based on average costs and may be
   adjusted to account for high/low cost areas or environmental conditions and avoid exceeding
   the maximum allowed amount.
1.4. Establishing Uniform Allowances:
   1.4.1. A uniform allowance helps FES personnel pay for the uniform. It must not exceed the
   maximum authorized under Title 10 United States Code Section 1593. The Air Force does
   not categorize uniform allowances paid under this Instruction as pay, salary, or
   compensation.
   1.4.2. To establish an allowance, consider the quality of each uniform item that FES
   personnel needs to maintain a satisfactory standard of appearance.
   1.4.3. The initial allowance is effective as of the date FES personnel must first wear a
   uniform and covers a 3-year period from that date. Do not provide the initial allowance to
   current or former FES personnel who leave employment before an authorized uniform
   allowance is paid.
   1.4.4. An annual allowance is provided to maintain the uniform. The estimated replacement
   intervals for uniform items are in Figure 1.2. Based on local conditions, the estimated
   replacement interval may not be appropriate and the IFC may adjust the replacement
   intervals. FES personnel must replace uniform items as required to maintain the uniform in
   serviceable condition.
   1.4.5. In areas where the initial or annual uniform allowances are insufficient to cover the
   full cost of the required uniform items, IFCs may adjust the quantities required.
1.5. Uniform Allowances for Promoted, Reemployed or Transferred FES Personnel:
   1.5.1. Transferred or rehired FES personnel that were provided a uniform allowance do not
   receive a new allowance for an identical uniform after a break in service of less than one
   year.
   1.5.2. FES personnel promoted, transferred to or rehired in a position different from the one
   they left may receive a partial initial uniform allowance to cover the cost for additional or
   new items of the required uniform before the next scheduled annual allowance.
   1.5.3. FES personnel who leave a position and are later rehired in or transferred to a position
   with identical or similar uniform requirements may receive an initial uniform allowance if at
   least one full year has passed since the end of the period covered by the last uniform
   allowance payment.
 6                                                               AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013


                                               Chapter 2

                           UNIFORM COMPOSITION AND WEAR

2.1. Uniforms:
     2.1.1. FES is a traditional uniformed service. As such, FES personnel wear distinctive
     uniforms consisting of clothing and insignia as a condition of employment. Uniforms
     prescribed in this Instruction provide for the safety of FES personnel by regulating material
     performance. Additionally, the uniform identifies the authority of FES personnel essential
     during emergency operations and other official duties such as fire inspection. Uniforms will
     be as economical as possible to achieve the desired quality and professional appearance.
2.2. Items Regulated but Not Part of the Uniform:
     2.2.1. When these items are required, they will be provided by the Air Force.
     2.2.2. Work clothing such as coveralls.
     2.2.3. PPE.
     2.2.4. Physical fitness clothing.
2.3. Wearing Uniforms:
     2.3.1. FES personnel must wear uniforms while on duty. They may also wear the uniform
     while traveling to and from official duty stations.
     2.3.2. FES personnel must keep all uniform items clean and neat and must replace items that
     are no longer serviceable.
     2.3.3. FES personnel must wear the dress uniform or formal uniform during functions when
     they are representing the department at on- or off-base ceremonial (funerals, retirements,
     etc.) events.
     2.3.4. Unique clothing may be developed and worn during competitions or other events that
     do not involve fire fighting. Such ensembles must be in good taste and approved by the IFC
     even when the wearers are off duty. This requirement applies to competitions or other events
     that are conducted on government property or where the firefighter is attending an event as a
     representative of the Air Force even when the firefighter is not on duty. Materials of such
     uniforms are not required to comply with NFPA 1975, Standard on Station/Work Uniform
     for Fire and Emergency Services, and may not be worn beneath firefighter PPE.
     2.3.5. When uniform items or specifications change and a partial uniform allowance to cover
     the cost of the changed uniform items is not provided, FES personnel subject to the new
     requirements may continue to wear their current uniform if it does not pose a safety risk or
     hazard to the firefighter until the item is no longer serviceable or until the next annual
     clothing allowance is provided.
2.4. Waivers and Exceptions:
     2.4.1. The Air Force Fire Chief is the approval authority for waivers and exceptions to this
     Instruction. Requests must be approved by the appropriate Command Fire Chief and
AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013                                                                  7


  forwarded to The Air Force Fire Chief for final consideration. Personal preference or local
  customs are not adequate justification for exceptions to this Instruction.
 8                                                                 AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013


                                             Chapter 3

                                        REQUIREMENTS

3.1. Requirements:
     3.1.1. The concern for firefighter safety necessitates careful control of items of clothing that
     may adversely impact health and safety. Uniforms also serve to identify the decision-making
     authority at the emergency scene. Additionally, FES personnel need to present a positive and
     professional image to the public. Consequently, more stringent appearance standards are
     necessary for FES personnel than for most other employees.
3.2. Material Performance:
     3.2.1. Compliant uniforms conform to NFPA 1975.
3.3. Station/Work Uniforms:
     3.3.1. There are two types of station/work uniforms, identical in appearance, available to
     FES personnel:
     3.3.2. Compliant Station/Work Uniforms. These uniforms must be worn by all FES
     personnel whose primary or secondary duties include fire fighting.
     3.3.3. Non-Compliant Station/Work Uniforms. These uniforms may be worn by FES
     personnel whose primary/secondary duties do not include fire fighting. To the extent
     practical, the uniform must be identical in appearance to the compliant uniform but is not
     required to comply with NFPA 1975.
3.4. Components of Compliant and Non-Compliant Uniforms:
     3.4.1. T-shirt. The color of undershirts (T-shirts) is regulated when it is visible while
     wearing the uniform. Such T-shirts will be standard crew-neck or V-neck style (no tank tops)
     with the style and color (black, blue to match the color of the trousers or white), standardized
     within the flight. With approval of the IFC, undershirts may be worn without the uniform
     shirt; however, the undershirt becomes part of the uniform and must be constructed of
     inherently flame resistive fibers and meet the performance standards of NFPA 1975 when the
     wearer is required to wear the compliant uniform. Graphic designs, slogans, etc., will be
     standardized within the flight. For bargaining unit FES personnel, it is acceptable to include
     union logos on the front left breast area no larger than 4 inches by 4 inches when approved
     by the IFC and purchased by the union. Conformance with the standard color and markings
     adopted for the flight is required.
     3.4.2. Uniform Shirt. The uniform shirt must be uniform-type with epaulets, two flap
     pockets, and banded collar with collar stays. When worn with the compliant or non-
     compliant uniform, it is worn with an open collar. The IFC approves the sleeve length, type,
     and weight of material based on the local environment. Where gold color is specified in
     paragraph 3.4.3.4. white shirts are worn. Black, light/dark blue shirts are required when silver
     color is specified in paragraph 3.4.3.4. The IFC establishes the color for duty positions not
     specified in paragraph 3.4.3.4. Shirts will be NFPA 1975 compliant when the wearer is
     required to wear the compliant uniform. As an option, the IFC may approve the wear of a
AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013                                                                    9


  polo style shirt instead of the uniform shirt. If worn by FES personnel required to wear the
  compliant uniform, the polo style shirt must comply with NFPA 1975.
  3.4.3. Accoutrements.
     3.4.3.1. Intent. The intent of this Instruction is to prevent any metal on the compliant
     uniform. Metal may present a safety risk for FES personnel operating on a fire ground or
     during routine duties.
     3.4.3.2. Name Tag. The name tag must be silver or gold background (matching the
     collar insignia) and black indented lettering, block type in 3/8 inch centered block type.
     The metal name tag is worn centered immediately above the flap on the right breast
     pocket and is not permitted on the compliant uniform.
     3.4.3.3. Name Patch. The name patch, or monogram is worn centered immediately
     above the flap on the right breast pocket. The last name may be on a name cloth tape. The
     background color of name tags matches the shirt color with contrasting colors for the
     letters. Instead of a name tag or tape, the last name may be monogrammed directly on the
     uniform shirt in the same location. With approval of the IFC, the full name may be used.
     3.4.3.4. Fire Protection Badge. The Air Force Fire Protection Badge (or full color
     cloth) patch will be worn on all station/work uniforms centered on or immediately above
     the left breast pocket. The metal Fire Protection Badge shown in Figures 3.1. to 3.4. are
     not authorized on the compliant uniform as the intent is not to have any metal on this
     uniform.

                              Figure 3.1. Fire Chief Badge.




                          Figure 3.2. Deputy Fire Chief Badge.
10                                                              AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013


                          Figure 3.3. Assistant Fire Chief Badge.




                               Figure 3.4. Firefighter Badge.




     3.4.3.5. Rank and Duty Insignia. The rank and duty position of FES personnel are
     reflected by the number of trumpets and their color in collar insignia. In general, the color
     is in relationship to the color of the uniform shirt. Gold colored rank insignia is restricted
     to chief officers. All others wear silver colored insignia. Standardized titles and insignia
     are based on fire fighting duties and do not reflect parenthetical duties.
        3.4.3.5.1. Firefighter – silver fire department scramble with one trumpet.
        3.4.3.5.2. Firefighter/Driver Operator – one silver trumpet.
        3.4.3.5.3. Lead Firefighter – two parallel silver trumpets.
        3.4.3.5.4. Fire Inspector – two parallel silver trumpets.
        3.4.3.5.5. Station/District Chief – two crossed gold trumpets.
        3.4.3.5.6. Assistant Chief – three crossed gold trumpets.
        3.4.3.5.7. Deputy Chief – four crossed gold trumpets.
        3.4.3.5.8. Fire Chief – five crossed gold trumpets.
        3.4.3.5.9. Other duty titles – The IFC determines the appropriate insignia to use for
        duty positions not specified above.
     3.4.3.6. Collar Insignia or Cloth Shoulder Boards. Collar insignia or cloth shoulder
     boards are required on all uniform shirts. Collar insignia must be cloth patches on the
     compliant uniform (no metal). Position the insignia ½ to ¾ inch from the collar’s lower
     edge and the same distance from the vertical edge. The type and size of insignia/shoulder
     board is standardized within the flight.
AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013                                                                       11


      3.4.3.7. Patches. Except the U.S. flag patch, the IFC determines the wear and location
      of patches. The U.S. Flag patch, when worn, must always be located centered one inch
      below the shoulder seam on the wearer’s right or left side with the blue field nearest the
      heart and stripes trailing. A maximum of two patches is permitted per sleeve. In addition
      to the FES flight patch, one additional patch is permitted on the front of the shirt, jacket
      or coat.
   3.4.4. Trousers. Trousers must be of conventional or cargo style, without cuffs, matching
   the work coat and jacket in color (navy blue or black). Trousers will be NFPA 1975
   compliant when the wearer is required to wear the compliant uniform.
   3.4.5. Belt. The belt will be black with a conservative buckle or velcro attachment and must
   be standardized within the flight.
   3.4.6. Socks. Exposed parts of socks will be black. See paragraph 1.2.2.3 for additional
   information.
   3.4.7. Shoes. The IFC, in coordination with the Ground Safety Office, determines the need
   for safety shoes. If safety shoes are not required, black shoes or boots with a shine are
   required.
   3.4.8. Service Cap. Service caps and other headgear are not worn with the compliant
   uniform. For other uniforms the color is white, for FES personnel that wear a white shirt (see
   paragraph 3.4.2.) and match the color of the uniform pants for all others. The style of the
   service cap is determined by the IFC. Gold insignia is worn by FES personnel who wear the
   white shirt. All others wear the silver colored rank insignia. The service cap insignia must not
   exceed 1½ inches in diameter.
   3.4.9. Necktie. The tie must be straight and solid black/dark blue, without design and is not
   worn beneath PPE. The tie tack/tie bar will be centered in the middle.
   3.4.10. Inclement Weather Gear. Specialized clothing such as raincoats, parkas, stocking
   caps, etc., may be worn with the uniform. The IFC must develop a local policy to standardize
   the wear of this gear.
3.5. Options for the Compliant Station/Work Uniforms and Non-Compliant Uniforms:
   3.5.1. Sweatshirts and Sweatpants. The IFC may permit the wear of sweatshirts and
   sweatpants during on-duty standby time. The fabric for these items must be constructed of
   inherently flame resistive fibers and meet the material performance requirements of NFPA
   1975 and be standard within the flight.
   3.5.2. Jacket/Coat. The color matches the uniform trouser color and is not worn beneath
   PPE. A maximum of four patches, two on each sleeve, centered 1-inch below the shoulder
   seams, may be worn. The IFC determines which patches may be worn. See paragraph
   3.4.3.7. for wear instructions for the U.S. flag patch. The jacket/coat will not be worn under
   firefighter protective clothing.
   3.5.3. Sweater. A pull-over or button-down sweater may be worn in and adjacent to the fire
   station and other locations designated by the IFC. The color will match the uniform trouser
   color and is not worn beneath PPE. Button-down sweaters have no insignia, patches or other
   markings. A badge and shoulder epaulets will be worn on pull-over sweaters. The sweater
   will not be worn under firefighter protective clothing.
 12                                                               AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013


   3.5.4. Baseball Cap. Personnel may wear a baseball-type cap outdoors during daily work
   conditions as prescribed by the IFC. Baseball style caps will be used with standardized
   insignia and color. Caps will be worn with the bill facing forward.
   3.5.5. Skirts. Female personnel with fire fighting duties will not wear skirts while on shift
   duty. Those assigned to fire prevention, administrative, or ECC duties may wear skirts
   instead of trousers at the IFC’s discretion. When skirts are authorized for wear, the length
   will not extend below the bottom of the center of the knee cap or higher than two inches
   above the center of the knee cap when standing. Color must match that specified for trousers
   above. Skirts must be plain without designs or variations in color or length, not include
   ruffles or other embellishments.
3.6. Dress Uniform. The dress uniform consists of the compliant or non-compliant uniform
with the addition of a necktie (see paragraph 3.4.) and is required for all uniformed personnel.
Non-compliant uniforms will not be worn underneath fire fighting protective clothing.
3.7. Formal Uniform. A formal uniform is required for all individuals. The formal uniform
will be dark blue or black and consists of a single or double-breasted uniform coat and matching
trousers, white shirt, black tie, appropriate patches and metal insignia, black shoes and socks, and
a service cap. Baseball caps may not be worn with the formal uniform but a service cap is
normally required when outdoors. The IFC may specify areas/circumstances when the service
cap is not required outdoors. This uniform does not conform to NFPA 1975 requirements and it
is not worn beneath PPE. All components of the formal uniform must be standardized within the
flight.
   3.7.1. Optional Sleeve Insignia. Designate the length of service with one Maltese Cross or
   hash insignia for each five years of service. Designate the duty position with stripes on both
   sleeves matching the color and number of trumpets authorized (see paragraph 3.4.3.4.). GS-
   0081 personnel in staff positions (major command, HQ USAF, AFCEC) normally wear
   appropriate business attire determined locally. When a uniform is worn, an additional stripe
   is required for Command Fire Chiefs and two additional stripes are required for The Air
   Force Fire Chief’s uniform. When a uniform is worn by other GS-0081 personnel in staff
   positions, the standard formal uniform will be worn with 4 stripes.
   3.7.2. Personnel must wear the appropriate Air Force fire protection badge (metal) (see
   Figures 3.1. to 3.4.) centered on the left breast pocket and a name tag (appropriate color)
   centered ¼ inch above the right breast pocket.
3.8. Physical Fitness Clothing:
   3.8.1. FES personnel may don appropriate physical fitness clothing during periods of
   physical fitness activities designated by the IFC. The fitness clothing shall not be designated
   as the station/work uniform when worn, but must be constructed of inherently flame resistive
   fibers and meet the material performance requirements specified in NFPA 1975.
3.9. Personal Appearance and Grooming:
   3.9.1. Hair. Hair (to include braids/dreadlocks) must be clean and neat in appearance and
   must not extend below the bottom edge of the collar when the uniform shirt is buttoned. Hair
   styles must be modest (no unnatural colors; Mohawks, or similar cuts) and not interfere with
   wearing safety equipment or the service cap or cap. Facial hair including the small patch of
AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013                                                                       13


  hair referred to as a mouche must be clean and neatly trimmed. It must not come between the
  sealing surface of the self-contained breathing apparatus face piece and the face, and must
  not otherwise interfere with the operation or use of the face piece. Sideburns, if worn, must
  be neatly trimmed, even in width, and no longer than the lowest part of the ear.
  3.9.2. Tattoos and Other Body Art. If visible while in uniform tattoos/brands/body
  markings anywhere on the body that are obscene, commonly associated with gangs,
  extremist, and/or supremacist organizations, or that advocate sexual, racial, ethnic, or
  religious discrimination are prohibited. Such markings are prejudicial to good order and
  discipline or the content is of a nature that is inconsistent with a professional appearance, and
  may bring discredit upon the Air Force and the fire service.
  3.9.3. Clothing. Uniform and clothing must be neat, clean, properly fit and be in good
  condition. It must also be zipped, snapped or buttoned.
  3.9.4. Eyeglasses and Sunglasses. Glasses must be free of ornamentation on the frames
  except for small conservative manufacturer logos. Sunglasses will not be worn indoors or in
  formation.
  3.9.5. Mourning Bands. Mourning bands, when appropriate, may be worn at the discretion
  of the IFC.
  3.9.6. Jewelry. Jewelry is permitted as long as it does not create an unfavorable image or
  safety risk to the wearer.
     3.9.6.1. Watches, Bracelets and Similar Jewelry. For individuals wearing a compliant
     uniform, jewelry must be of the type that will break from the wearer’s wrist or neck if
     binding occurs. For individuals not required to wear a compliant uniform, any modest
     style of jewelry is permitted.
     3.9.6.2. Rings. Rings present safety risks because they can get caught on equipment and
     may cause injury. Therefore, firefighters are encouraged not to wear rings when in a
     compliant uniform.
     3.9.6.3. Necklaces. When in uniform, necklaces and chains must not be visible.
     3.9.6.4. Ear Gauges, Nose, Tongue, and Other Body Piercing Jewelry. When in
     uniform, ear gauges, nose, tongue, and other body piercing jewelry are not allowed to be
     worn.




                                            JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
 14                                                         AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 21 Jun 2012
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, 10 Feb 2009
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 Sep 2008
AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowances for Air Force Personnel, 22 May 2007
AFI 65-601v1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 Aug 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
DoDI 1400.25, Volume 591, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Uniform Allowance
Rates for DoD Civilian Employees, 12 Mar 2009
NFPA 1500, Fire Department Occupational Safety and Health Program, Current Edition
NFPA 1975, Standard on Station/Work Uniforms for Emergency Services, Current Edition
Title 10 United States Code Section 1593
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
ECC—Emergency Communications Center
EMT—Emergency Medical Technician
FES—Fire Emergency Services
IAW—In Accordance With
IFC—Installation Fire Chief
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
U.S.—United States
U.S.C.—United States Code
AFI32-2006 29 AUGUST 2013                                                                    15


Terms
Ear Gauge—Circular ear jewelry used to stretch the ear lobe to a certain measurement, size or
dimension based on the gauge.
Mouche—A small patch of facial hair just below the lower lip and above the chin.
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)—A national organization, recognized as the
authority for all matters involving fire emergencies that publishes national consensus standards
and the National Fire Codes.
