BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION31-
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                                  501_AFSPCSUP


                                                            AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                  6 JUNE 2012
                                                               Certified Current on 9 May 2013
                                                                                       Security

                                                       PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM
                                                                     MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSPC/IP                                                          Certified by: AFSPC/IP
                                                                         (Mr. James M. Krall)
Supersedes:   AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP, 16                                                 Pages: 9
              June 2008


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 31-501, Personnel Security
Program Management, 27 January 2005. This supplement describes AFSPC’s procedures for
use in conjunction with the basic AFI. This supplement applies to all AFSPC personnel and
tenant units on AFSPC installations. This supplement applies to Air Force Reserve Command
units tenant on AFSPC installations and participating under program oversight. This supplement
does not apply to Air National Guard units. This supplement provides a baseline requirement for
managing the Personnel Security Program. Deviations to this supplement must be approved by
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to implementation. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Provide copies of base supplements to AFI 31-501
and this supplement to HQ AFSPC/IP. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition    Schedule     (RDS)       located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                       AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP 6 JUNE 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include removal of instructions for the submission of waivers through IP channels, instructions
clarifying when Access National Agency Check with Written Inquiries and Credit Check
submissions are required for new civilian personnel, requirement to submit periodic
reinvestigations on personnel occupying non-critical positions who do not access classified
information, requirement for the Servicing Security Activity (SSA) to review unit personnel
security programs during information security program reviews, instructions to use www.sss.gov
to obtain selective service numbers, specifications of what constitutes a local files check, and the
requirement that the local files check not exceed 30 days from the date of first signature. In
addition, instructions for the delivery of Statement of Reasons were modified (paragraph
8.6.1.1.). Further revisions are made for clarity and currency.
2.4. Types and Scope of Personnel Security Investigations. Electronic Questionnaire for
Investigation Processing (e-QIP) replaces Electronic Personnel Security Questionnaire (EPSQ)
as used throughout the basic AFI.
     3.11. Interim Security Clearances. Security managers will coordinate interim clearances
     with the SSA prior to the commander granting the interim clearance. The SSA will ensure
     all interim security clearance requirements have been met and any potentially derogatory
     information is identified for the commander’s review. The SSA may make recommendations
     to the subject’s commander about whether an interim clearance should be granted. The
     subject’s commander will determine what is considered to be “favorable” when determining
     whether to grant an interim security clearance. The commander will use the sample
     memorandum at Attachment 27 (Added) or similar memorandum to grant interim clearances.
     The security manager will maintain the signed memorandum, the AF Form 2583, Request for
     Personnel Security Action, and all coordination for the life of the interim clearance. When
     interim security clearances are terminated for cause, an AF Form 2587, Security Termination
     Statement, must be accomplished.
            3.11.1.3. If a copy of the submitted personnel security questionnaire (PSQ) is not
            available for review, the subject will complete a hardcopy Standard Form (SF) 86,
            Questionnaire for National Security Positions, for the commander’s review.
        3.11.3. The SSA will maintain a memorandum for record (MFR) documenting NAC
        results provided by the Air Force Central Adjudication Facility (AFCAF) until the
        investigation is adjudicated. Provide a copy of the MFR to the individual’s security
        manager.
            3.11.4.1. If a copy of the submitted PSQ is not available for review, the subject will
            complete a hardcopy SF 86 for the commander’s review.
            3.14.2.1. (Added) Commanders will ensure consultants working for their
            organization who require access to classified information prepare and submit the
            appropriate security clearance application to the SSA through the unit security
            manager. The interim security clearance provisions in paragraph 3.11. apply.
        3.15.1. (Added) Coordinate one time access with the SSA. The approval authority will
        document access on AF Form 2583. The unit security manager will maintain the AF
AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP 6 JUNE 2012                                                               3


     Form 2583 until access is no longer required. Execute AF Form 2587 upon termination
     of access.
  3.30. (Added) Contractor Suitability Determinations.        Unit commanders will make
  suitability determinations for contractors assigned to their unit who require a favorable
  background investigation for contract performance. All unfavorable determinations must be
  approved by the installation commander. The installation commander’s decision is final.
     3.30.1. (Added) The installation commander will make suitability determinations for
     contractors assigned to an on-base cleared facility requiring a favorable background
     investigation. This authority may be delegated to another government activity.
     5.1.1. Security managers will also support contractors requiring favorable background
     investigations for contract performance.
     5.2.2. SSAs will forward all additions (include name, rank, Social Security number, DSN
     number, and office symbol) and deletions for authorized callers to HQ AFSPC/IP. SSAs
     will annotate on authorized caller addition letters those personnel who require Central
     Adjudication Security Personnel Repository (CASPR) accounts. HQ AFSPC/IP will
     provide a consolidated authorized caller list for the command to the AFCAF.
  5.7. Dual Citizenship. Interim security clearances will not be granted to dual citizens until
  the provisions of the basic instruction have been met.
         7.1.2.1. The SSA will forward the change request to the servicing manpower office.
         7.4.2.5. Contractors providing collateral security support may be given level 7 or
         level 10 Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) accounts. Access to levels 4, 5,
         or 6 will not be granted to contractors.
             7.4.2.6.5. SSAs submit access request forms for level 5/account manager access
             to HQ AFSPC/IP for approval. Geographically separated units (GSUs) will route
             their requests to their parent wing.
     7.6.5. Additional/new/upgrade SSBI requests will be routed through the wing
     commander to the NAF/CC or SMC/CC. AFSPC/CV is the approval authority for
     headquarters elements. All requests must include detailed justification to ensure only
     those positions having a valid need-to-know are upgraded. Use the sample memorandum
     at Attachment 28 (Added). SSAs will maintain a copy of the approval until the
     investigation is adjudicated.
     7.9.3. Collateral level (levels 4, 5, 6, 7, and 10) account management access is restricted
     to HQ AFSPC/IP and SSA staff members. The SSA will designate account managers to
     HQ AFSPC/IP. SSAs will maintain a signed access request form for each user for the
     life of the account and will conduct an annual review of all subordinate accounts to
     ensure all accounts are valid. JPAS users found abusing their JPAS access (i.e., account
     sharing, use for other than government purposes, failing to protect information in
     accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, or any other actions deemed inappropriate) will
     have their access removed. The installation commander must approve request for
     reinstatement.
             7.9.5.3.1. (Added) Level 4 access is limited to HQ AFSPC/IP staff.
4                                                   AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP 6 JUNE 2012


          7.9.5.4.1. (Added) Level 5 access is limited to SSA staff.
          7.9.5.5.1. (Added) Level 6 accounts are restricted to appointed unit security
          managers and Civilian Personnel staff (for e-QIP purposes only). Installation
          Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) managers may be given level 6 accounts as
          necessary to perform their duties. Other personnel who justify a need to the SSA
          for a JPAS account may be given a level 7 or 10 account.
    7.9.6. (Added) Security managers must maintain a JPAS account. Security managers
    will manage JPAS for their unit by performing the following functions:
       7.9.6.1. (Added) Maintaining the PSM Net by in-processing and out-processing all
       unit personnel. Security managers will “own” all permanently assigned personnel,
       and they will “service” all contractors assigned to integrated visitor groups supporting
       their unit.
       7.9.6.2. (Added) Recording and removing applicable accesses using the
       “indoctrinate” link. Personnel will be indoctrinated for the level of access required
       for the position.
       7.9.6.3. (Added) Annotating SF 312, Classified Information Non-Disclosure
       Agreement, and verbal attestation dates using the “indoctrinate” link.
       7.9.6.4. (Added) Sending, receiving, and managing visit notifications as required.
       7.9.6.5. (Added) Monitoring and acting on system notifications.
    7.9.7. (Added) SSAs will maintain the installation PSM Net by “servicing” assigned
    personnel.
              8.2.1.3.1.2. SSAs will recommend establishing a security information file
              (SIF) with access suspension for personnel who fail to submit their periodic
              reinvestigation on time. Top Secret PRs are considered to be overdue 5 years
              and 1 day after the previous investigation closed. Secret PRs are considered
              to be overdue 10 years and 1 day after the previous investigation closed.
          8.2.1.4.1. (Added) If access is suspended, an AF Form 2587 must be
          accomplished and included in the SIF.
          8.2.2.1.1. (Added) A personnel security representative from the SSA will attend
          the installation “Cops and Robbers” (or equivalent) meeting. The representative
          will take appropriate personnel security action (see paragraph 8.2.2.1.2.) based on
          information discovered during the meeting.
          8.2.2.1.2. (Added) When the SSA becomes aware of potentially derogatory
          information, the SSA will use the sample memorandum at Attachment 11 of the
          basic instruction or a similar memorandum to notify the individual’s commander
          to consider SIF establishment. If the individual is Sensitive Compartmented
          Information (SCI)-indoctrinated, notify the servicing Special Security Office
          (SSO), who will in turn notify the individual’s commander.
       8.6.1.1. (Added) Statements of reason (SOR) are sent to the subject’s commander
       through the SSA. Upon receipt, the SSA will deliver the SOR to the subject’s
       commander and will thoroughly explain the SOR. This cannot be delegated.
AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP 6 JUNE 2012                                                                5


     8.6.2. Submit appeals through the SSA.
         8.6.3.1. (Added) Since SORs are sensitive in nature, careful consideration must be
         given in the selection of the designated point of contact (POC). The POC must be an
         individual responsible for handling sensitive personnel issues, such as first sergeants,
         supervisors, deputy commanders/directors, etc.
     8.6.4. Submit response through the SSA. The SSA will provide any assistance necessary
     to the designated POC and the subject in responding to the SOR. The SSA will update
     the “SOR Update” screen in JPAS with each action for tracking purposes.
  8.7. Security Clearance Reinstatement. Submit requests through the SSA.
  10.4. (Added) File Copy Personnel Security Questionnaires (PSQ). File copy PSQs
  must remain under the control of the authorized requester. If it becomes necessary for files
  (hard copy or electronic) to be removed from the authorized requester’s file plan for
  inspections, etc., each file will be receipted and accounted for. Copies of files will not be
  made for convenience purposes. Personnel security investigation (PSI) subjects are
  encouraged to maintain a personal copy of their completed PSQ. Security managers will not
  maintain PSQ copies for unit personnel.




                                           JAMES E. MOREE JR., GS-15, DAF
                                           Director of Information Protection
 6                                                     AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP 6 JUNE 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
This supplement does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action
AF Form 2587, Security Termination Statement
SF 86, Questionnaire for National Security Positions
SF 312, Classified Information Non-Disclosure Agreement
AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP 6 JUNE 2012                                                                 7


                                         Attachment 2
                                 REQUEST PROCEDURES

A2.2. 2.2. E-QIP will be utilized to submit PSI requests.
       A2.2.2.5. Utilize instructions in OPM Federal Investigative Services INV 15 for
       submission requirements.
       A2.2.2.9. Electronic suspense copies may be maintained on a secure server in an
       approved electronic file plan. Access will be limited to SSA staff members.
       A2.7.2.1. (Added) Security managers will request e-QIP initiation so the SSA can
       initiate the reinvestigation 60 days prior to the anniversary date of the current
       investigation. EXCEPTION: For deployed members, e-QIP will be initiated
       immediately upon their return to home station duty.
           A2.7.2.1.1. (Added) Subjects will complete their e-QIP within 30 days of initiation.
           If the subject fails to complete their e-QIP within the allotted time, the individual’s
           commander must request re-initiation of the e-QIP. If the subject fails to complete
           their e-QIP within 30 days of re-initiation, the commander will consider establishing
           a SIF.
       A2.7.3.1. (Added) Security managers will request e-QIP initiation so the SAA can
       initiate the reinvestigation 60 days prior to the anniversary date of the current
       investigation. EXCEPTION: For deployed members, e-QIP will be initiated
       immediately upon their return to home station duty.
           A2.7.3.1.1. (Added) Subjects will complete their e-QIP within 30 days of initiation.
           If the subject fails to complete their e-QIP within the allotted time, the individual’s
           commander must request re-initiation of the e-QIP. If the subject fails to complete
           their e-QIP within 30 days of re-initiation, the commander will consider establishing
           a SIF.
 8                                                      AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP 6 JUNE 2012


                                    Attachment 27 (Added)
         SAMPLE INTERIM SECURITY CLEARANCE APPROVAL LETTER

                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

                                AIR FORCE UNIT HEADING


MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

FROM: UNIT COMMANDER

SUBJECT: Interim Clearance, Amn John Doe, SSN:

1. I have favorably reviewed subject’s SF 86 and AF Form 2583 and hereby grant an interim
Secret/Top Secret clearance.

2. Direct any questions to the unit security manager.



                                               Commander’s Signature Block
AFI 31-501_AFSPCSUP 6 JUNE 2012                                                                   9


                                    Attachment 28 (Added)
          SAMPLE POSITION CODE 5 UPGRADE REQUEST MEMORANDUM

                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

                                 AIR FORCE UNIT HEADING


MEMORANDUM FOR NAF/CC or SMC/CC

FROM: (Organizational Commander)

SUBJECT: Position Code 5 Upgrade Request

1. Request NAF/CC (or SMC/CC) approval for an upgraded Single Scope Background
Investigation (SSBI) requirement of the manning position(s) identified below:

   a.   (Unit, organization, and office symbol for the position)
   b.   (Unit manning document position number)
   c.   (Position Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) or civilian career field series number)
   d.   (Position rank/grade)
   e.   (Position Title)

2. Justification. (Provide complete justification why the new or current position should be
changed to an SSBI requirement, to include specific duties and responsibilities warranting
routine and regular access to Top Secret information. State whether SCI access is required.)

3. Mission Impact. (Provide complete assessment on the impact to the mission if this request is
not approved.)

4. POC for this request is (grade, name, organization/office symbol, and DSN).



                                               Commander’s Signature Block
