BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2811
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           28 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                  CHAPLAIN CORPS AWARDS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/HCX                                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/HC
                                                        (Ch, Major General Howard D. Stendahl)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2811, 1 February                                                Pages: 13
               2006


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs. It describes
Chaplain Corps awards presented to individuals and teams in recognition of their outstanding
service or contributions to the Chaplain Corps. It explains award eligibility, nomination criteria,
and procedures for nomination and winner selection. This instruction applies to Regular Air
Force (RegAF), Air Reserve Component (ARC), and civilian personnel. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to AF/HCX, 1380 Air
Force Pentagon, Room 4D286, Washington, DC 20330-1380, using Air Force Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct
supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification
or approval. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include updating “Chaplain Service” to “Chaplain Corps.” In addition, an Outstanding
Religious Support Team (RST) award has been added as well as changes to major headings in
team award categories.
 2                                                          AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014


1. Description of Awards. This awards program is for Air Force Chief of Chaplains-level
awards and is designed to foster morale, incentive and esprit-de-corps. Teams and individuals
receiving awards under this program must clearly demonstrate sustained and superior
performance. All teams and individuals submitted who meet the selection criteria will be
considered. Award categories and suspenses for award nominations are listed in Table 1.
     1.1. Team Awards: (Award Period is 1 January – 31 December)
        1.1.1. Outstanding Large Chapel Team (Charles I. Carpenter Award). This award
        honors the late Chaplain, Major General Charles I. Carpenter, USAF (Retired), the first
        Air Force Chief of Chaplains. Eligible candidates are wing/installation chapel teams with
        10 or more RegAF military and General Schedule (GS) civilian employees authorized on
        the wing/installation unit manning document.
        1.1.2. Outstanding Medium Chapel Team (Terence P. Finnegan Award). This
        award honors the late Chaplain, Major General Terence P. Finnegan, USAF (Retired), the
        second Air Force Chief of Chaplains. Eligible candidates are wing/installation chapel
        teams with five to nine RegAF military and GS civilian employees authorized on the
        wing/installation unit manning document.
        1.1.3. Outstanding Small Chapel Team (Robert P. Taylor Award). This award
        honors the late Chaplain, Major General Robert P. Taylor, USAF (Retired), the third Air
        Force Chief of Chaplains. Eligible candidates are wing/installation chapel teams with
        two to four RegAF military and GS civilian employees authorized on the
        wing/installation unit manning document.
        1.1.4. Outstanding Religious Support Team (RST Award. Eligible RSTs include one
        active duty chaplain and chaplain assistant team that delivers exemplary performance
        providing spiritual care at the tactical level. RST nominees must meet Air Force
        standards and be paired as an RST as part of the wing ministry plan.
        1.1.5. The team award winners are selected based on the following strategic priorities
        (AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award headings): Focus on Warrior Care, Advisement
        to Leadership, and Care for Chaplain Corps Caregivers. Joint base chapel teams are
        eligible to be nominated for outstanding large, medium or small chapel team awards;
        however, they must meet the requirements listed in the above paragraphs. See para.
        1.3.1.1. for criteria for civilian employees.
     1.2. Regular Air Force Individual Awards: (Award Period is 1 January – 31
     December)
        1.2.1. Outstanding Company Grade Chaplain (Edwin R. Chess Award). This
        award honors the late Chaplain, Major General Edwin R. Chess, USAF (Retired), the
        fourth Air Force Chief of Chaplains. Eligible candidates must meet Air Force standards
        and serve in the grade of O-3 or below as of 31 December during the respective award
        period.
        1.2.2. Outstanding Chaplain Assistant Senior Noncommissioned Officer (Gerrald
        Cullins Award). This award honors the late Chief Master Sergeant Gerrald Cullins,
        USAF (Retired), the first Chaplain Assistant Career Field Manager of the Air Force
AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                       3


     Chaplain Corps. Eligible candidates must meet Air Force standards and serve in the
     grade of E-7 or E-8 as of 31 December during the respective award period.
     1.2.3. Outstanding Chaplain Assistant Noncommissioned Officer (Charles R. Meier
     Award). This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Charles R. Meier, USAF (Retired),
     the second Chaplain Assistant Career Field Manager of the Air Force Chaplain Corps.
     Eligible candidates must meet Air Force standards and serve in the grade of E-5 or E-6 as
     of 31 December during the respective award period.
     1.2.4. Outstanding Chaplain Assistant Airman (Richard C. Schneider Award).
     This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Richard C. Schneider, USAF (Retired), the
     third Chaplain Assistant Career Field Manager of the Air Force Chaplain Corps. Eligible
     candidates must meet Air Force standards and serve in the grade of E-4 or below as of 31
     December during the respective award period.
     1.2.5. The individual award winners must be Regular Air Force members and are
     selected based on the following three categories (AF Form 1206 headings): Leadership
     and Job Performance, Significant Self-Improvement, and Base and/or Community
     Involvement.
  1.3. Civilian Award: (Award Period is 1 January – 31 December)
     1.3.1. Air Force Chaplain Corps Civilian. This award is presented annually to
     recognize an outstanding civilian employed in the Air Force Chaplain Corps.
        1.3.1.1. Eligible candidates are all civilian (GS, Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF), or
        Local National (LN)) Chaplain Corps employees.
        1.3.1.2. Selection is based on the following three categories (AF Form 1206
        headings): Leadership and Job Performance, Significant Self-Improvement, and
        Contributing to Civic, Cultural, or Professional Activities in the Military or Civilian
        community.
  1.4. Air Reserve Component Awards: (Award Period is 1 January – 31 December)
     1.4.1. Outstanding Reserve Chaplain (Thoralf T. Thielen Award). This award
     honors the late Chaplain, Major General Thoralf T. Thielen, USAFR (Retired) who was
     the first Air Force Reserve chaplain to obtain general officer rank.
        1.4.1.1. Eligible candidates must meet Air Force standards and are Category A or
        Category B chaplains serving in the Air Reserve.
        1.4.1.2. The annual winner is an officer selected as the outstanding reserve chaplain
        based on training accomplishments or contributions to mission support; exhibition of
        leadership in contributing to civic, cultural, or professional activities in the military or
        civilian community; and enrollment in off-duty programs of professional self-
        improvement.
     1.4.2. Outstanding Reserve Chaplain Assistant (Citizen Airman Award). This
     award is presented to an enlisted member of the Category A or Category B Air Reserve.
        1.4.2.1. Eligible candidates must meet Air Force standards and are Category A or
        Category B chaplain assistants serving in the Air Reserve.
4                                                             AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014


          1.4.2.2. The annual winner is a chaplain assistant selected as the outstanding reserve
          chaplain assistant based on demonstrated superior initiative, technical skill, training
          accomplishments or contribution to mission support; exhibition of leadership qualities
          in contributing to civic, cultural, or professional activities in the military or civilian
          community; and enrollment in off-duty programs of professional self-improvement.
       1.4.3. Outstanding Air National Guard (ANG) Chaplain (Samuel Stone
       Award). This award honors Chaplain Samuel Stone who was the first recorded chaplain
       to serve in the militia of colonial America.
          1.4.3.1. Eligible candidates must meet Air Force standards and are chaplains serving
          in the ANG.
          1.4.3.2. The annual winner is an officer selected as the outstanding ANG chaplain
          based on training accomplishments or contributions to mission support; exhibition of
          leadership in contributing to civic, cultural, or professional activities in the military or
          civilian community; and enrollment in off-duty programs of professional self-
          improvement.
       1.4.4. Outstanding Air National Guard Chaplain Assistant (Minuteman
       Award). This award is presented annually to a member of the ANG selected as the
       outstanding chaplain assistant of the year.
          1.4.4.1. Eligible candidates must meet Air Force standards and are chaplain assistants
          serving in the ANG.
          1.4.4.2. The annual winner is a chaplain assistant selected as the outstanding ANG
          chaplain assistant based on demonstrated superior initiative, technical skill, training
          accomplishments or contribution to mission support; exhibition of leadership qualities
          in contributing to civic, cultural, or professional activities in the military or civilian
          community; and enrollment in off-duty programs of professional self-improvement.
    1.5. Special Service Award: (No Specific Award Period)
       1.5.1. Spirit of the Four Chaplains. This award, honoring the Four Chaplains of the
       WWII USAT Dorchester, encourages service before self and celebrates the Air Force’s
       religious diversity. This award is presented annually and recognizes those in the
       Chaplain Corps community who have given of themselves to enhance the spiritual lives
       of others.
          1.5.1.1. Eligible candidates are Air Force chaplains, chaplain assistants, GS civilian
          employees (defined in para. 1.3.1.1.), and Chaplain Corps volunteers.
          1.5.1.2. Any Air Force member may submit a nomination for this award. There are
          no limits to the number of nominations, however, the below guidance applies to
          nominations:
              1.5.1.2.1. Individuals may not submit their current supervisor.
              1.5.1.2.2. Nominations shall be no longer than one page and follow the example
              in Attachment 5.
AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                  5


Table 1. Eligibility and Suspenses by Award.
    TITLE OF AWARD                     ELIGIBILITY                MAJCOM       AF/HCX
                                                                  SUSPENSE    SUSPENSE
  Charles I. Carpenter Award         Team of ten or more            15 Jan      15 Feb
                                  military/civilian members
     Terrence P. Finnegan            Team of five to nine          15 Jan        15 Feb
            Award                 military/civilian members
    Robert P. Taylor Award           Team of two to four           15 Jan        15 Feb
                                  military/civilian members
   Outstanding RST Award           Active duty chaplain and        15 Jan        15 Feb
                                 chaplain assistant team at the
                                         tactical level
   Edwin R. Chess Award           Company Grade Chaplain           15 Jan        15 Feb
    Gerrald Cullins Award         SNCO Chaplain Assistant          15 Jan        15 Feb
   Charles R. Meier Award          NCO Chaplain Assistant          15 Jan        15 Feb
    Richard C. Schneider           Amn Chaplain Assistant          15 Jan        15 Feb
            Award
  Civilian of the Year Award      Any wing/installation-level      15 Jan        15 Feb
                                 Chaplain Corps GS, NAF, or
                                             LN
  Spirit of the Four Chaplains   Any Chaplain Corps military        N/A          15 Feb
              Award              member or civilian employee
                                         or volunteer
   Thoralf T. Thielen Award         Any Category A or B            15 Jan        15 Feb
                                      Reserve Chaplain
    Citizen Airman Award            Any Category A or B            15 Jan        15 Feb
                                 Reserve Chaplain Assistant
     Samuel Stone Award              Any ANG Chaplain              15 Jan        15 Feb
      Minuteman Award                Any ANG Chaplain              15 Jan        15 Feb
                                          Assistant
2. Nomination Process.
   2.1. Wings/installations will prepare a nomination package for each award category for
   which they are submitting a nomination.
      2.1.1. All award packages (except the Spirit of the Four Chaplains Award; see
      Attachment 5 for template) must include the following:
          2.1.1.1. Signed endorsement memo from the wing/installation commander.
          2.1.1.2. Biographical sketch (Individual, Civilian and Air Reserve Component
          Award categories only). See Attachment 4 for a sample biographical sketch.
          2.1.1.3. Completed AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award.
              2.1.1.3.1. For all awards use only the front side of the form. The back side will
              be used for acronyms and non-frequently used abbreviations (listed
              alphabetically).
6                                                            AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014


              2.1.1.3.2. Category headings will be in all capital letters.
              2.1.1.3.3. Type the rank and name of the wing/installation commander, or
              equivalent, in the block titled “Rank/Name of Unit Commander.”
              2.1.1.3.4. For all team award categories (including the Outstanding RST Award),
              limit accomplishments to 20 bullets; 15 bullets under Warrior Care, 3 bullets
              under Advisement to Leadership, and 2 bullets under Care for Chaplain Corps
              Caregivers. See Attachment 2 for template.
              2.1.1.3.5. For all individual award categories, limit accomplishments to 10
              bullets; 5 bullets under Leadership and Job Performance, 3 bullets under
              Significant Self-Improvement and 2 bullets under Base and/or Community
              Involvement. A statement must follow the bullets certifying that the individual
              meets Air Force physical fitness standards. It must read: “I certify the nominee
              for this award meets Air Force physical fitness standards.” See Attachment 3 for
              a template.
              2.1.1.3.6. For the civilian award category, limit accomplishments to 10 bullets; 5
              bullets under Leadership and Job Performance, 3 bullets under Significant Self-
              Improvement and 2 bullets under Contributing to Civic, Cultural or Professional
              Activities in the Military or Civilian Community.
              2.1.1.3.7. Active duty wings/installations submit nominations to their respective
              MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/HC by 15 January in accordance with MAJCOM-FOA-
              DRU/HC procedures.
                 2.1.1.3.7.1. MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/HC will establish procedures for selecting
                 respective MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/HC award winners.
                 2.1.1.3.7.2. MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/HC will forward winners’ packages to
                 respective MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/CC, notifying them of their winners.
                 2.1.1.3.7.3. MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/HC will submit MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/HC
                 award winners’ packages electronically to HQ USAF/HCX at
                 usaf.pentagon.af-hc.mbx.af-hcx-workflow@mail.mil by 15 February for
                 nomination for Air Force Chief of Chaplains-level awards.
    2.2. Air Force Reserve nomination packages will be submitted directly to HQ AFRC/HC
    from the wing/installation chapel or MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/HC via email at
    afrc.hcx@us.af.mil and afrc.hcc@us.af.mil by 15 January. HQ AFRC/HC will select their
    annual award winners and forward winner names to HQ USAF/HCX at usaf.pentagon.af-
    hc.mbx.af-hcx-workflow@mail.mil by 15 February.
    2.3. Air National Guard nomination packages will be sent through the individual’s state
    headquarters to the NGB/HC, via email at angrc.ngbhchcchaplaincorps@ang.af.mil by 15
    November. The Director, NGB/HC will select their award winners and forward award
    winner names to HQ USAF/HCX at usaf.pentagon.af-hc.mbx.af-hcx-workflow@mail.mil
    by 15 February.
    2.4. Do not send nominations for the Spirit of the Four Chaplains Award through
    MAJCOM-FOA-DRU/HC offices. Send directly to HQ USAF/HCX at usaf.pentagon.af-
    hc.mbx.af-hcx-workflow@mail.mil.
AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                     7


3. Selection Process.
   3.1. A board comprised of individuals outside the Chaplain Corps will select Air Force Chief
   of Chaplains-level winners. AF/HCX will coordinate the board each year and will serve in a
   non-voting capacity as the board proctor and board recorder.
   3.2. Names of selected winners will be forwarded to AF/HC. AF/HC will announce winners
   via email no later than 1 April.
4. Award Winner Recognition.
   4.1. Award winners in all categories will be recognized and presented their respective award
   by AF/HC in a manner determined by the Air Force Chief of Chaplains. Local components
   and commanders may verbally acknowledge the award winners at events such as
   commanders’ calls and conferences.
   4.2. Respective Air Reserve Component headquarters must work with the commanders of
   Air Reserve Component award winners to determine if unit funding is available that will
   allow winner(s) to be recognized and presented their awards at the date and location
   determined by AF/HC.
   4.3. In the event award winners are not available to be recognized and presented their award,
   AF/HC will coordinate the presentation of the Air Force Chief of Chaplains-level award at
   the unit-level.
   4.4. Refer to AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, AFI 36-2805, Special
   Trophies and Awards, paras 1.4. and 1.7., and, with regard to installations located outside the
   United States, any and all pertinent Status of Forces Agreements (SOFAs) or other
   supplementary Departmental guidance pertaining to official interactions with local national
   employees, for further guidance regarding funding for award elements.
       4.4.1. Awards must be of nominal value.
       4.4.2. Awards may not be redeemable for cash, merchandise, or services.
       4.4.3. The cost of awards will be commensurate with the significance of the achievement
       being recognized.
       4.4.4. Prior to providing any award possessing intrinsic value to a local national
       employee or volunteer, the local Chaplain will consult with the servicing Staff Judge
       Advocate to ensure compliance with local basing and other agreements, as well as
       applicable laws and regulations.
 8                                                           AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014


5. Air Force Recognition Ribbon.
     5.1. Recipients of Air Force Chief of Chaplains-level individual and the Spirit of the Four
     Chaplains awards are authorized to wear the Air Force Recognition ribbon in accordance
     with AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, paragraph 1.8.1.2.
6. Withdrawal of an Award. The Air Force Chief of Chaplains may withdraw an award after
the selection and prior to its presentation if determined that the award winner’s actions discredit
themselves and bring dishonor to the Air Force Chaplain Corps.




                                             HOWARD D. STENDAHL
                                             Chaplain, Major General, USAF
                                             Chief of Chaplains
AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                    9


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 9 May 2014
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 14 March 2013
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GS—General Schedule
RegAF—Regular Air Force
LN—Local National
MAJCOM—Major Command
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NAF—Non-appropriated Fund
RST—Religious Support Team
 10                                                 AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014


                                   Attachment 2
             SAMPLE NOMINATION PACKAGE FOR TEAM AWARDS

Figure A2.1. SAMPLE NOMINATION PACKAGE FOR TEAM AWARDS

The following are example entries for the AF Form 1206:
AWARD. Name of the Award (e.g., Charles I. Carpenter Award)
CATEGORY. Outstanding Large Chapel, Outstanding Medium Chapel, Outstanding Small
Chapel, Outstanding RST
AWARD PERIOD. 1 January-31 December (Year)
RANK/NAME OF NOMINEE. Name of Chapel
MAJCOM, FOA, DRU. Self-explanatory
DAFSC/DUTY TITLE. Leave blank
NOMINEE’S TELEPHONE through RANK/NAME OF UNIT COMMANDER. Self-
explanatory
SPECIFIC ACCOMPLISHMENTS. Use bullet-format under the following categories.
FOCUS ON WARRIOR CARE
ADVISEMENT TO LEADERSHIP
CARE FOR CHAPLAIN CORPS CAREGIVERS
AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                                   11


                                                 Attachment 3
             SAMPLE NOMINATION PACKAGE FOR INDIVIDUAL AWARDS

Figure A3.1. SAMPLE NOMINATION PACKAGE FOR INDIVIDUAL AWARDS

The following are example entries for AF Form 1206:
AWARD. Name of individual award (e.g., Richard C. Schneider Award)
CATEGORY. Chaplain, SNCO, NCO, Airman, Civilian
AWARD PERIOD. 1 January-31 December (Year)
RANK/NAME OF NOMINEE through RANK/NAME OF UNIT COMMANDER. Self-
explanatory
SPECIFIC ACCOMPLISHMENTS. Use bullet format under the following categories.
LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE
SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT
BASE OR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS
I certify the nominee for this award meets Air Force physical fitness standards (for military members only)
 12                                                        AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014


                                         Attachment 4
                                   SAMPLE BIOGRAPHY

Figure A4.1. SAMPLE BIOGRAPHY

                                         JOHN Q. DOE
                                AFSC: 5R051, Chaplain Assistant
Senior Airman John Q. Doe is a Chaplain Assistant assigned to 123 AW/HC, Jones Air Force
Base, Texas. Upon graduation and completion of his technical training school at Fort Jackson,
South Carolina, he was assigned to his present duty station, arriving in January 2014. Since
arriving at Jones AFB, he has served in a variety of positions including chapel facility manager
and Individual Mobilization Augmentee training monitor. Airman Doe is an active member of
the Big Brothers Association and assisted in the base annual Thanksgiving dinner to feed the
homeless this past year. His military awards include the National Defense Service Medal and the
Air Force Training Ribbon. He attends Lucas College in Smith, Texas and is working toward a
Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration.
NOTE: Single-space the narrative portion of the biography. Double-space between name and
AFSC.
AFI36-2811 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                    13


                                         Attachment 5
        SAMPLE FORMAT FOR SPIRIT OF THE FOUR CHAPLAINS AWARD

Figure A5.1. SAMPLE FORMAT FOR SPIRIT OF THE FOUR CHAPLAINS AWARD
(APPROPRIATE OFFICIAL LETTERHEAD)



                                                                                             Date

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ USAF/HC

FROM: Your Unit/Address

SUBJECT: Spirit of the Four Chaplains Award Nomination

      I nominate (name, unit address or mailing address if not active duty) for the Spirit of the
Four Chaplains award.

        Begin paragraph by explaining why you are nominating this individual, a specific event
that made this individual special to you and how he/she has influenced your life through their
selfless and sacrificial service. Include a closing line expressing gratitude for this individual.

        EXAMPLE: When I was assigned to Base X as a brand new airman basic I, like many
others, had no sense of direction in my life. Soon after arriving at the base, I went to see a
chaplain who got me and others involved with the singles ministry…there were several airmen
who were struggling with the challenges of military life who found encouragement and help
there. Chaplain XXXXX's commitment to our growth went beyond the base chapel. He mentored
me as a Christian, an Airman, and later helped me recognize a calling to the ministry and with
his encouragement I had the confidence to return to seminary.

       Thank you XXXXX for taking the time to notice me when so many others did not. Thank
you for looking deeper into my life and into the lives of so many others and seeing what God
could do. Thank you for the great love and commitment you gave all of us through your career. I
thank God for you and only hope I can follow your example.




                                                  Your Signature Block

                                     NOTE: Limit nomination to no more than one typed page
