BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-207
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               29 JANUARY 2009
                                                   AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                                     18 MAY 2012

                                                                                           Security

                                                       ARMING AND USE OF FORCE BY AIR
                                                                    FORCE PERSONNEL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSFC/SFOP                                           Certified by: AFSFC/CC (Col Steven
                                                                                     Robinette)
Supersedes:    AFI 31-207, 1 September                                                Pages: 40
               1999
                                             (AFDW)
OPR: AFDW/A&SO                                               Certified by: AFDW/A4/7 (Mr. Mark
                                                                                        Allen)
                                                                                       Pages:4


This instruction implements Department of Defense Directive 5210.56, Use of Deadly Force and
the Carrying of Firearms by DoD Personnel Engaged in Law Enforcement and Security Duties,
Chairman Joint Chief of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3121.01B, Standing Rules of
Engagement/Standing Rules for the Use of Force for US Forces, Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 31-2, Air Provost Operations, and AFPD 16-8, Arming of Aircrew, Mobility, and
Oversea Personnel. It gives war and peacetime requirements for arming USAF personnel and
the use of deadly force. It applies to military, civilian, Air Reserve Command, Air National
Guard, and contract personnel as well as military personnel from other US military branches
assigned or attached to Air Force units. This instruction frequently refers to „officer‟ or „sentry‟
who is defined as: any officer, noncommissioned officer, Airman, civilian or contract employee
performing security, law enforcement, military police, or guard duties under Air Force control.
This Directive sets forth policies regarding arming and use of force by Air Force civilian and
military personnel, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. Failure to observe
prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this directive in paragraphs 2.1, 2.5.3, 2.1.12, 2.12.4,
2.13, and 2.14 by military personnel is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military
 2                                                     AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


Justice (UCMJ). Violations may result in administrative disciplinary action without regard to
otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Field activities
must send implementing publications to the higher headquarters functional Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) for review and coordination before publishing. The OPR determines that
if waivers may be granted for any part of this publication. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional‟s chain of command. Any
organization may supplement this instruction. This publication requires the collection and or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect
and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 5 United States Code, Section
552 a (d) and Executive Order 12958. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force. Records Disposition: Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force (AF) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

THIS PUBLICATION CONTAINS COPYRIGHTED MATERIAL

(AFDW) AFI 31-207, 29 January 2009, is supplemented as follows, and will be used in
conjunction with DoDD 5210.56, Use of Deadly Force and the Carrying of Firearms by DoD
Personnel in Law Enforcement and Security Duties, Chairman Joint Chief of Staff Instruction
(CJCSI) 3121.01B, Standing Rules of Engagement/Standing Rules for the Use of Force for US
Forces, Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-2, Air Provost Operations, and AFPD 16-8,
Arming of Aircrew, Mobility, and Oversea Personnel. This publication does not apply to the Air
National Guard (ANG) or the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Send comments and
suggested improvements to this supplement on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through channels, to HW AFDW/A7SO, 1500 West Perimeter Road, Suite 5700,
Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762-7001. This supplement is numbered to match the AFI. The
word “ADDED” indicates addition of new paragraphs, tables, or attachments not listed in the
basic AFI. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records       Disposition        Schedule         (RDS)        located         at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/arfims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
corrects administrative and typographical errors throughout the text. In this revision, the prior
Use of Force Model has been replaced with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
(FLETC) Use of Force Model and has been moved to Air Force Manual 31-222, Use of Force
Manual. It changes the term “Threat Condition (THREATCON)” to “Force Protection
Condition (FPCON)” and associated terms throughout the instruction in accordance with (IAW)
DoDI 2000.16, "DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Standards", 10/2/2006 and AFI 10-245, AF
Antiterrorism Standards. It supersedes the terms “Priority A, B, and C restricted areas” with
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                                                                            3


modern terminology IAW AFI 31-101, The AF Installation Security Program. It updates
guidance on use of deadly force where deadly force is authorized IAW CJCSI 3121.01B. It
provides more detailed guidance on domestic violence IAW the Gun Control Act of 1968,
Lautenberg Amendment, clarifying the intent and requirements of the amendment. It adds an
exception to policy authorizing launch facilities (LFs) to store shotguns used for defense of LFs
with rounds in the magazine. It clarifies firearms qualification requirements for training,
exercises, and deployments. It clarifies arming of senior military and civilian officials for
personal protection and provides information on handguns for Air Force general officers. It
establishes program management policy for non-lethal weapons. It makes practical use of force
training scenarios mandatory for all personnel performing law enforcement and security duties as
part of use of force training.

(AFDW) The supplement has been updated to authorize, per AFI 31-207 paragraph 2.1.3.4,
811th Security Forces Squadron (SFS) Special Mission personnel to carry concealed weapons
while on missions in civilian clothing. It also updates verbiage due to joint basing at Andrews
and Anacostia-Bolling, as well as the transition of the 316th Security Forces Squadron to the
11th Security Forces Group (SFG). Next, this supplement authorizes transport of up to two
Category II, III, or IV firearms in a privately owned vehicle (POV) to or from the installation, to
or from the firing range or place of duty. Finally, it updates reporting of non-lethal weapon
utilization and Oleoresin Capsicum (OC) Spray accountability.

Chapter 1—PROGRAM POLICY                                                                                                                    5
       1.1.    Overview. ...............................................................................................................    5
       1.2.    USAF Use of Force Policy. ...................................................................................                5
       1.3.    Objective Reasonableness and Totality of Circumstances. ....................................                                 6
       1.4.    Using Force. ...........................................................................................................     7
       1.5.    Use of Deadly Force. .............................................................................................           8
       1.6.    Special Considerations for the Use of Firearms and Deadly Force. ......................                                      9
       1.7.    Use of Non-Lethal Force. ......................................................................................              9
       1.8.    Use of Force Training. ...........................................................................................           9

Chapter 2—PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                                                                                               11
       2.1.    Overview. ...............................................................................................................   11
       2.2.    Duty Assignment. ..................................................................................................         12
       2.3.    Suitability to Bear Firearms. ..................................................................................            13
       2.4.    Training Requirements. .........................................................................................            16
       2.5.    Documenting Authorization To Bear Firearms. ....................................................                            16
       2.6.    Arming Plans. ........................................................................................................      18
       2.7.    Arming Senior Military and Civilian Officials. .....................................................                        19
       2.8.    Transporting Firearms. ...........................................................................................          20
4                                                                          AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


     2.9.    Carrying Firearms as a Passenger Aboard Aircraft. ..............................................                         20
     2.10.   Carrying Firearms in a US Air Force Medical Facility. ........................................                           21
     2.11.   Firearms Qualification Extensions. ........................................................................              21
     2.12.   Firearms Safety. .....................................................................................................   22
     2.13.   Firearms as Signaling Devices. ..............................................................................            25
     2.14.   Peacetime Firearms Discharges. ............................................................................              25
     2.15.   Non-Lethal Force. ..................................................................................................     26
     2.16.   Non-Lethal Techniques and Weapons Training. ...................................................                          26
     2.17.   Prescribed Forms. ..................................................................................................     28
     2.18.   Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................     29

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        30

Attachment 2—PERSONALITY AND BEHAVIOR FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT
             SUITABILITY TO BEAR FIREARMS                                                                                             34

Attachment 3—EMERGENCY RESPONSES WITH FIREARMS                                                                                        38

Attachment 4—PEACETIME GOVERNMENT FIREARMS DISCHARGE REPORT                                                                           39
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                                 5



                                           Chapter 1

                                    PROGRAM POLICY

1.1. Overview. This instruction establishes USAF Standing Rule for the Use of Force (SRUF)
policy and procedures consistent with CJCSI 3121.01B, Standing Rule of Engagement/Standing
Rules for the Use of Force for US Forces, and DoD Directive 5210.56, Use of Deadly Force and
the Carrying of Firearms by DoD Personnel Engaged in Law Enforcement and Security Details.
This instruction governs actions taken by all USAF personnel performing civil support missions
(e.g., military assistance to civil authorities and military support for civilian law enforcement
agencies), routine Service functions (including anti-terrorism and force protection duties),
homeland defense missions occurring within US territory, and law enforcement and security
duties at all DoD installations and off installation while conducting security functions. The
guidance contained in paragraph 1.4 provides amplifying guidance applicable primarily to
personnel performing law enforcement or security duties. The program management guidance in
Chapter 2 applies to all USAF personnel regardless of duty assignment or location.
   1.1.1. Notwithstanding the guidance in this instruction, host nation laws and international
   agreements may limit the means available for accomplishing law enforcement or security
   duties.
   1.1.2. Commanders at all levels must teach and train their personnel how and when to use
   both non-deadly and deadly force in self-defense.
   1.1.3. USAF personnel detailed to other US Government lead Federal Agencies (LFA) (e.g.,
   support to US Border Patrol) will operate under common mission-specific Rules for the Use
   of Force (RUF) approved by the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) and the LFA. DoD forces
   always retain the right of self-defense, IAW Standing RUF.
   1.1.4. USAF forces, under DoD control (and using DoD SRUF and applicable mission-
   specific RUF), but operating in coordination with other LFA security forces, will coordinate
   with on-scene LFA personnel to ensure common understanding of DoD and Air Force RUF.
1.2. USAF Use of Force Policy. USAF personnel, to include military, civilian, and contractor
personnel, will use only that force which is reasonably necessary to accomplish their duties in
conformity with the Constitution of the United States, federal statutes, and DoD policy.
   1.2.1. Reasonable force may be used by USAF personnel while conducting authorized
   missions or official duties to obtain compliance from an individual or individuals to meet
   lawful objectives or mission requirements. These lawful objectives include, but are not
   limited to, reasonable searches, seizures, and apprehensions; defense of assets vital to
   national security or inherently dangerous; preventing a person from self-injury, conducting
   protective detail operations; preventing prisoner escapes; dissolving riots and other forms of
   civil unrest when directed by proper authority; maintaining good order and discipline; and
   overcoming resistance to lawful orders.
   1.2.2. Unit commanders always retain the inherent right and obligation to exercise unit self-
   defense in response to a hostile act or demonstrated hostile intent. Unit self-defense includes
   the defense of other DoD forces in the vicinity.
 6                                                       AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


     1.2.3. Air Force personnel may exercise self-defense in response to a hostile act or hostile
     intent, unless lawfully directed otherwise by their unit commander.
     1.2.4. The Use of Force does not apply solely to firearms and deadly force confrontations
     but all applications of lethal and non-lethal force.
1.3. Objective Reasonableness and Totality of Circumstances. Normally, force is to be used
only as a last resort, and the force used should be the minimum necessary. When time and
circumstances permit, a threatening force should be warned and given the opportunity to
withdraw or cease threatening actions, as appropriate and consistent with the lawful objectives or
mission requirements of the officer/sentry. Law enforcement or security personnel may have an
obligation to apprehend rather than permit an individual to withdraw. Deadly force is to be used
only when all lesser means have failed or cannot reasonably be employed. In some
circumstances, force, including deadly force, may be the only option available to respond to a
hostile act or hostile intent. The use of force must be reasonable in intensity, duration, and
magnitude based on the totality of the circumstances to counter the threat.
     1.3.1. In Graham v. Connor, 490 U.S. 386 (1989), the US Supreme Court established the
     Fourth Amendment standard of “objective reasonableness” as the appropriate standard for
     assessing the use of force in the context of making an arrest or other seizure of a person. The
     Court explained its application in these terms: “The reasonableness of a particular use of
     force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene, rather than
     with the 20/20 vision of hindsight. … [T]he „reasonableness‟ inquiry…is an objective one:
     the question is whether the officers‟ actions are „objectively reasonable‟ in light of the facts
     and circumstances confronting them….”
     1.3.2. The Supreme Court recognized in Graham v. Connor that law enforcement and
     security personnel have to make “split-second judgments” concerning the use of force under
     “circumstances that are tense, uncertain and rapidly evolving...” The US Supreme Court has
     held that reasonableness under the Fourth Amendment does not require the least intrusive
     force alternative be applied, only a reasonable one. In effecting a seizure, individuals
     performing law enforcement or security duties draw from a reservoir of options, ranging
     from simple displays of authority, to the application of various levels of non-lethal force, to
     the use of deadly force itself. Facts dictate the appropriate response, and those facts--as well
     as the choice of response--are subject to close scrutiny.
     1.3.3. In search, seizure, or apprehension situations, an officer/sentry must look at the
     totality of the circumstances when determining the reasonable amount of force necessary. In
     Graham v. Connor, the Supreme Court emphasized four factors affecting the use of force in a
     particular situation. These four factors are the severity of the crime, whether the person
     poses an immediate threat to the safety of the officer or others, whether the person is actively
     resisting, or whether the person is attempting to evade apprehension by flight. Additional
     factors courts use in applying the standard of Graham v. Connor include the number of
     subjects involved, size, age, and condition of the subject versus the officer/sentry, duration of
     the subject‟s actions, whether or not the force applied resulted in injury, previous known
     violent history of the subject, use of alcohol or drugs by the subject, subject‟s known mental
     or psychiatric history, the presence of innocent bystanders who could be harmed if force is
     not used, and the availability of appropriate non-lethal weapons.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                                  7


1.4. Using Force. The decision by an officer/sentry to employ reasonable force is based on the
officer/sentry‟s perception of the subject‟s actions and the totality of circumstances. This
guidance is applicable to personnel conducting, law enforcement, military police, security, or
guard duties under Air Force control.
   1.4.1. Officer Perception. The Fourth Amendment standard of “reasonableness” does not
   lend itself to a “precise definition or mechanical application,” however the principle of
   objective reasonableness can be simplified into three basic elements to promote
   understanding of the standard (the elements, however, are not a standard of law). Each
   element is linked to the others; all three elements must be analyzed to establish the basis of
   reasonableness in use of force. The elements of reasonableness apply to all uses of force and
   not just those where the officer or sentry is in jeopardy. The concept of the elements of
   reasonableness assists the officer/sentry in determining whether or not to employ force. The
   officer/sentry must remember that no element of reasonableness can stand-alone or be the
   sole basis for the use of force. All three elements must be perceived in determining the
   reasonableness of an officer‟s action to employ or escalate force in order to obtain
   compliance. The three elements are:
       1.4.1.1. Ability-Capability. This element addresses the ability-capability of the subject
       to carry out a threatened action. The officer or sentry must perceive the person proposing
       the action or threat is capable of performing the action.
       1.4.1.2. Opportunity. This element indicates the action or threat the officer or sentry
       perceives is imminent but not necessarily instantaneous. The subject must be in a
       position where he/she can carry out the act or threat.
       1.4.1.3. Intent. This is the mental state initiating an overt act (words or deeds) in the
       furtherance of a threat, action, or crime.
   1.4.2. Subject Action. The officer/sentry‟s perception of the subject‟s capability,
   opportunity, and intent indicate what degree of force is required, if any, by the officer/sentry
   to achieve his/her objective. As in the elements of reasonableness, subject actions cannot be
   defined mechanically, but can be structured into behavioral categories to promote
   understanding of the concept.
       1.4.2.1. Compliant (Cooperative). The subject complies with officer/sentry‟s objective.
       1.4.2.2. Resistant (Passive). The subject exhibits the preliminary level of noncompliance
       and requires some degree of physical contact in order to obtain compliance.
       1.4.2.3. Resistant (Active). The subject exhibits physical or mechanical defiance to the
       officer/sentry‟s control.
       1.4.2.4. Assaultive (Serious Bodily Harm). The subject exhibits intent, opportunity and
       capability of physical aggression that the officer perceives is not lethal to him or others.
       1.4.2.5. Assaultive (Grievous Bodily Harm/Death). The subject exhibits the intent,
       opportunity and capability to inflict death or Serious Bodily Harm to the officer/sentry,
       unit, or others.
   1.4.3. Officer Response. In perceiving the subject‟s actions, the officer/sentry responds to
   obtain subject compliance and achieve his/her objective in accordance with the standards of
   objective reasonableness and totality of circumstances. The officer/sentry response may
 8                                                        AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


     employ tactics which include verbal or physical controls, non-lethal weapons and techniques,
     deadly force, or all of the above. “Reasonableness” does not require officers to select the
     least intrusive or minimum force available, only a reasonable one.
1.5. Use of Deadly Force. The use of deadly force must meet the “objective reasonableness”
standard. Deadly force, when reasonable, should be used only when all lesser means of force
have failed or cannot reasonably be employed. It must be noted that when deadly force is used,
the officer/sentry must be able to articulate objective reasonableness based on his/her perception
of the threat and the totality of the circumstances. Deadly force is authorized under the following
circumstances as set forth in CJCSI 3121.01B, Enclosure L.
     1.5.1. Inherent Right of Self-Defense. Applies when an individual reasonably believes
     he/she is in imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm. Deadly force is authorized
     when individuals reasonably believe that a person poses an imminent threat of death or
     serious bodily harm to DoD forces. Unit self-defense includes the defense of other DoD
     forces in the vicinity.
     1.5.2. Defense of Others. When an officer/sentry reasonably believes others are in
     imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm. Deadly force is authorized in defense of
     non-DoD persons in the vicinity, when directly related to the assigned mission.
     1.5.3. Assets Vital to National Security. Deadly force is authorized when deadly force
     reasonably appears to be necessary to prevent the actual theft or sabotage of assets vital to
     national security. The DoD designates its assets as "vital to national security" only when
     their loss, damage, or compromise would seriously jeopardize the fulfillment of a national
     defense mission. Installation commanders must identify these resources specifically
     designated as assets vital to national security, and the procedures they will use to inform
     armed personnel of such specifically designated property in their installation security
     instruction. NOTE: Refer to DoD C-5210.41-M, Nuclear Weapons Security Manual for
     additional guidance on the use of force in defense of assets vital to national security.
     1.5.4. Inherently Dangerous Property. Deadly force is authorized when it reasonably
     appears to be necessary to prevent the actual theft or sabotage of inherently dangerous
     property. Property is considered inherently dangerous if its theft or sabotage would present a
     substantial danger of death or serious bodily harm to others. This includes weapons,
     ammunition, missiles, rockets, explosives, chemical agents, and special nuclear material.
     Installation commanders must identify resources specifically designated as inherently
     dangerous to others and procedures they will use to inform armed personnel of such
     specifically designated property in their installation security instruction.
     1.5.5. National Critical Infrastructure. Deadly force is authorized when deadly force
     reasonably appears to be necessary to prevent the sabotage of national critical infrastructure.
     This includes the destruction of public utilities or similar critical infrastructure vital to public
     health or safety, the damage of which would create an imminent danger of death or serious
     bodily harm.
     1.5.6. Serious Offenses Against Persons. Deadly force is authorized when deadly force
     reasonably appears to be necessary to prevent the commission of a serious offense that
     involves imminent threat of death or serious bodily harm (for example, setting fire to an
     inhabited dwelling or encountering a sniper), including the defense of other persons, where
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                                9


   deadly force is directed against the person threatening to commit the offense. Examples
   include murder, armed robbery and aggravated assault.
   1.5.7. Escape. Deadly force is authorized when it reasonably appears to be necessary to
   prevent the escape of a prisoner, provided there is probable cause to believe such person(s)
   have committed or attempted to commit a serious offense, that is, one that involves imminent
   threat of death or serious bodily harm, and would pose an imminent threat of death or serious
   bodily harm to DoD forces or others in the vicinity.
   1.5.8. Arrest or Apprehension. Deadly force is authorized when deadly force reasonably
   appears necessary to arrest or apprehend a person who, there is probable cause to believe, has
   committed a serious offense (as indicated in paragraphs 1.5.1, 1.5.2, 1.5.3, 1.5.4, 1.5.5,
   1.5.6, and 1.5.7).
1.6. Special Considerations for the Use of Firearms and Deadly Force. When possible, an
order to “HALT” will be given before discharging a firearm. Show due regard for the safety of
innocent bystanders when using deadly force. NOTE: Shots will not be fired as a warning to
suspects unless specifically authorized in overseas theater directives.
   1.6.1. CBRNE Operations. During protection and recovery operations involving nuclear
   weapons or lethal chemical agents, the presence of innocent bystanders or hostages must not
   deter individuals or commanders from stopping the attack through all means necessary.
   1.6.2. Local, Host Nation, and SOFA Laws. Commanders may impose further restrictions
   on the use of deadly force to comply with local or host-nation laws and Status of Forces
   Agreements (SOFA). Such restrictions must not unduly compromise United States national
   security interests, and must be published in local installation instructions.
1.7. Use of Non-Lethal Force. Non-lethal force is subject to the same standards of objective
reasonableness and totality of circumstances as deadly force. If force is required, non-lethal
force techniques and weapons are authorized IAW DoDD 3000.3, Policy for Non-Lethal
Weapons, this publication, and AFMAN 31-222 may be used to obtain compliance, when doing
so is reasonable under the circumstances.
1.8. Use of Force Training.
   1.8.1. Arming Group A personnel will be trained once every 12 months on use of force (see
   para 2.1.1 for discussion of Arming Groups). Commanders will ensure Group B personnel
   are provided use of force training prior to authorizing them to be armed and then annually
   thereafter as long as continued arming is required. Training for all groups will be IAW Air
   Force Manual (AFMAN) 31-222, Use of Force Manual. In conjunction with the annual and
   recurring qualification training, personnel will receive Use of Force and Rules of
   Engagement (ROE) Training. Use of Force and ROE training do not replace any other
   training requirements. Use of Force training for deployment is good for 12 months or the
   entire length of the deployment, regardless of duration. This is specifically designed as an
   additional training event.
   1.8.2. Annual use of force training, for Security Forces, both classroom and practical, will
   address deadly (firearms) and non-lethal force options. Annual use of force training for
   Group A will include performance based practical training incorporating decision-making
   scenarios. Annual (not to exceed 12 months) deadly force and use of force training for
10                                                  AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


  Group A personnel should include USAF approved simulated firearms systems. The use of
  dye and man marking cartridge systems is preferred and strongly encouraged. USAF
  approved virtual training simulators and integrated laser based weapons training devices are
  acceptable. Providing practical use of force training immediately following weapons live fire
  qualification training is strongly encouraged.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                              11


                                          Chapter 2

                               PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

2.1. Overview. Firearms are an instrument of deadly force. Commanders will only issue
firearms to support missions and contingencies in which deadly force may be authorized. USAF
personnel eligible to bear firearms must belong to one of the two arming groups below.
Additionally, authorizations may be issued to bear firearms openly, concealed, and in overseas
locations. Authority to bear firearms will be based on consideration of duty assignment
(paragraph 2.2), suitability rules (paragraph 2.3), possible consequences of accidental or
indiscriminate use of firearms, and confirmation that training requirements in paragraph 2.4
have been met. USAF personnel may not bear privately owned firearms while performing
official military duty, except as authorized in paragraph 2.5.4.2.
   2.1.1. Arming Groups. USAF personnel eligible to bear firearms belong to one of the
   following two arming groups. Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFM) may mandate
   further requirements based upon specific Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSFC). NOTE: If
   further requirements are needed, AFCFMs will coordinate with HQAFSFC/SFXW for
   approval of personnel in their Air Force Specialty Codes that have specific arming group
   changes.
       2.1.1.1. Group A. consists of DoD military, civilian and contract personnel performing
       law enforcement, security or force protection duties or personnel serving in an AFSC that
       specifies qualification to bear firearms as a mandatory requirement IAW AFI 36-2226
       Combat Arms Program or as identified in the Air Force Officer Classification Directory
       (AFOCD) ; or Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). Group A also
       consists of DoD military, civilian and contract personnel from any AFSFC who are
       required to be armed as part of their official in-garrison or peace-time duties.
       2.1.1.2. Group B. consists of members other than those in Group A who are required to
       be armed as designated by deployment orders to meet Air Force War and Mobilization
       Plan or Air Expeditionary Force Unit Type Code deployment requirements and have no
       in-garrison or peace-time arming requirement.
   2.1.2. Bearing and Using Firearms Openly. The following individuals may authorize
   assigned personnel to openly bear and use firearms. NOTE: This responsibility may be
   delegated to vice or deputy commanders or directors.
       2.1.2.1. Installation, center, squadron, numbered flight commanders, and directors,
       including geographically separated unit (GSU) commanders.
          2.1.2.1.1. (Added-AFDW) Wing commanders may delegate to group commanders
          the authority to authorize assigned individuals to openly bear and use firearms.
       2.1.2.2. Numbered Air Force (NAF) or, Major Command (MAJCOM) directors,
       directors and wing commanders.
       2.1.2.3. Principal appointees of squadron, installation, GSU, wing, NAF, MAJCOM,
       division, and center commanders/directors when specifically authorized in their
       respective MAJCOM supplements to this instruction.
 12                                                   AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


      2.1.2.4. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) commanders and special
      agents in charge (SAC) according to AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and
      Counterintelligence.
      2.1.2.5. (Added-AFDW) The AFDW Commander and Vice Commander may grant
      authority to openly bear and use firearms to personnel under their command or direction.
   2.1.3. Bearing and Using Concealed Firearms. The following individuals may authorize
   assigned personnel to bear and use concealed firearms. NOTE: This responsibility may be
   delegated to vice or deputy commanders.
      2.1.3.1. Installation commanders (or equivalents), a higher authority, or their designated
      representatives, may authorize personnel to bear and use concealed firearms.
      2.1.3.2. AFOSI commanders and SAC‟s, according to AFPD 71-1.
      2.1.3.3. Assigned or gained flying squadron commanders of aircrews armed specifically
      for preventing hijacks.
      2.1.3.4. Security Forces commanders may authorize Security Forces personnel to bear
      concealed firearms to meet certain mission requirements such as support of AFOSI
      operations, SF investigations, protection of distinguished visitors, etc.
      2.1.3.4. (AFDW) 1 (Added) The 11 SFG and 811 SFS Commanders may authorize 811
      SFS Special Mission personnel to carry concealed weapons while on missions in civilian
      clothing.
   2.1.4. Bearing and Using Firearms in Overseas Locations. Only Air Force MAJCOM
   and combatant commanders may authorize personnel to bear firearms in any foreign country
   for other than routine law enforcement and security duties. Commanders may impose
   restrictions not contained in this instruction based on host-nation laws. MAJCOMs list any
   additional restrictions in supplements to this instruction or in a foreign clearance guide
   (FCG) when a supplement is not feasible. In some overseas locations authorization to bear
   firearms must be stated in the FCG or specifically approved by the US EMBASSY. NOTE:
   This responsibility may be delegated to vice commanders.
2.2. Duty Assignment. All Airmen with a valid arming requirement, as deemed by their
authorizing official, are authorized to bear and use firearms. The following categories of
personnel are specifically authorized to bear and use firearms:
   2.2.1. Military, civilian, and contract Security Forces members armed with government-
   owned or contractor-owned firearms assigned to US Air Force units.
   2.2.2. AFOSI special agents.
   2.2.3. Military aircrews armed to prevent hijacks, when required by their duties.
   2.2.4. Pararescue personnel required to carry firearms in support of anti-hijacking missions
   and operational deployments.
   2.2.5. Military command post and operations center controllers.
   2.2.6. Military missile combat crews.
   2.2.7. Military munitions maintenance personnel.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                              13


   2.2.8. Military augmentation duty program security forces augmentees.
   2.2.9. All personnel assigned to a Tactical Air Control Party (TACP) or Air Support
   Operations Center Unit (ASOC) type code in support of field training exercises and
   operational deployments.
2.3. Suitability to Bear Firearms. Commanders must continually monitor suitability of
personnel for armed duty and withdraw the authority to bear firearms when necessary.
   2.3.1. Behavioral Signs of Unsuitability. Everyone has a special responsibility to stay alert
   for behavioral signs that an individual should not be armed. If you have information or
   evidence of impairment of a member's mental or physical ability to bear firearms, notify that
   person's commander immediately.
      2.3.1.1. Commanders must evaluate available information and if necessary take
      immediate action to temporarily withdraw the affected person's authority to bear a
      firearm. If warranted, commanders must also deny the person access to any government-
      owned or privately owned firearm and associated ammunition stored in a government
      firearm storage facility. Commanders must follow the procedures in AFI 44-109, Mental
      Health, Confidentiality and Military Law, in referring individuals for a mental health
      evaluation.
          2.3.1.1.1. (Added-AFDW) When a commander determines it is unsafe for a
          member to possess firearms in on-base family quarters, the commander may direct
          storage of privately owned firearms and associated ammunition in the security forces
          armory. Commanders may prohibit the withdrawal of privately owned firearms from
          the storage facility by a person under their command, if they believe it is unsafe for
          the person to possess a firearm, or believe the firearm will be used for unlawful
          purposes.
      2.3.1.2. Commanders must not deny assignments, promotions, and reenlistment solely
      because of the temporary withdrawal of the person's authorization to bear a firearm.
   2.3.2. Gun Control Act. Commanders are responsible for ensuring compliance with the
   Gun Control Act of 1968 (18 U.S.C. § 922(d)(9) and (g)(9)/Lautenberg Amendment). The
   Gun Control Act prohibits military personnel, civilians and contractors with a qualifying
   conviction of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence from shipping or transporting in
   interstate or foreign commerce, or possessing in or affecting commerce, any firearm or
   ammunition; or receiving any firearm or ammunition which has been shipped or transported
   in interstate or foreign commerce. Furthermore, it is a felony for any person to sell or
   otherwise dispose of firearms or ammunition to any person whom he or she knows or has
   reasonable cause to believe has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic
   violence.
      2.3.2.1. This law applies to qualifying convictions of domestic violence. A qualifying
      conviction includes a conviction for a crime of domestic violence tried by general or
      special court-martial that otherwise meets the definition of a misdemeanor crime of
      domestic violence. Conviction for an offense meeting the definition of a felony crime of
      domestic violence adjudged on or after the date the law was enacted is also considered a
      qualifying conviction. NOTE: A qualifying conviction does not include summary court-
      martial convictions, non-judicial punishment imposed under Article 15, Uniform Code of
14                                                   AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


     Military Justice (UCMJ), or deferred prosecutions or similar alternative dispositions in
     civilian courts.
     2.3.2.2. Commander‟s are responsible for briefing their personnel on the Gun Control
     Act and Lautenberg Amendment, and its consequences, annually. Commanders also
     ensure personnel complete a DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or
     Ammunition, annually if they regularly handle firearms or ammunition, upon PCS, PCA,
     or when TDY assignments will require use of firearms or ammunition. The DD Form
     2760 must be re-accomplished every time a military member or civilian employee is
     assigned to duties requiring the use of firearm, destructive device, or ammunition. Forms
     are then filed in individual personnel information files (PIF) and may be added to
     mobility folders. Further, commanders will take appropriate measures to ensure
     government-owned and privately-owned firearms or ammunition are not issued to anyone
     they have reasonable cause to believe has a qualifying conviction under this law.
     Additionally, commanders will initiate an appropriate investigation to confirm suspected
     convictions of domestic violence. Commander are also responsible for providing
     constructive notice about the Lautenberg Amendment by posting information in all
     facilities in which government firearms or ammunition are stored, issued, disposed of, or
     transported.
     2.3.2.3. For personnel found to have a qualifying conviction, the commander will
     immediately retrieve all issued firearms and ammunition, permanently withdraw their
     authority to possess firearms or ammunition, and advise them to dispose of any privately-
     owned firearms and ammunition they possess. Military members with AFSC requiring
     qualification to bear arms will have AFSC withdrawn IAW AFI 36-2101, para 4.1.6. If a
     qualifying AFSC is withdrawn and the military member is not administratively separated,
     the member will be reassigned/retrained into another AFSC. Members with qualifying
     convictions will be awarded a “T” assignment limitation code (ALC). “T” ALC states
     member is not qualified to ship, transport, possess, receive firearms, and or ammunition.
         2.3.2.3.1. (Added-AFDW) Document in local operating instructions how firearms
         and ammunition will be retrieved for personnel found to have qualifying convictions.
  2.3.3. Temporary Withdrawal. Commanders may temporarily withdraw authority to bear
  firearms for less than 72 hours by verbal notification to the affected person and the servicing
  armory. Servicing armories will take appropriate action to ensure a weapon is not issued to a
  person whose authority has been withdrawn. For periods greater than 72 hours, commanders
  must make verbal notification to the servicing armory, then notify the individual in writing
  and provide a brief synopsis of circumstances that form the basis for withdrawal. Individuals
  must acknowledge withdrawal action by endorsement on the notification letter, and be given
  a copy of the withdrawal action. An updated Do-Not-Arm roster/memorandum will be
  provided to the servicing armory. Commanders in consultation with proper medical
  authorities, must review the temporary status every 180-calendar days to either reaffirm that
  status or take other appropriate action. Commanders may file extensions on a case-by-case
  basis and normally only when their investigation is incomplete, or the member is undergoing
  medical treatment. File all correspondence dealing with temporary withdrawal in the
  individual‟s unit PIF for 12 months or until the affected person transfers, retrains, separates,
  or retires, whichever occurs first. Commanders will temporarily withdraw authority to bear
  firearms from personnel for the following reasons:
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                                  15


     2.3.3.1. Identified substance abusers.
     2.3.3.2. Emotionally unstable or behavior suggests they are incapable of using firearms
     with care (See Attachment 2).
     2.3.3.3. Determined by medical authority to be suffering from alcohol abuse (K2) or
     dependence (K3).
     2.3.3.4. Taking prescription medication that impairs their ability to use firearms. Use of
     prescription medication does not always mean persons cannot bear firearms. However,
     commanders must consult with the responsible physician when medication that impairs
     the ability to handle firearms is prescribed. If commanders, in consultation with
     servicing physicians, determine individuals should not have access to firearms, document
     this IAW AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, Volume I – General
     Provisions.
     2.3.3.5. Relieved of duty for disciplinary reasons.
  2.3.4. Permanent Withdrawal. If unit commanders or equivalent authority believes it is
  appropriate to permanently withdraw a member's authorization to bear firearms, they must
  first review the person's duty performance and medical and disciplinary records to ensure this
  decision is warranted. They should also consult their chief of personnel, staff judge
  advocate, proper medical authorities, and Chief of Security Forces (CSF) before taking this
  action. Commander must then document permanent withdrawal or reinstatement via AF
  Form 590, Withdrawal/Reinstatement of Authority to Bear Firearms IAW AFI 36-2608,
  Military Personnel Records System.
     2.3.4.1. When the person's AFSC specialty description in AFOCD, or AFECD, requires
     qualification to bear firearms, commanders must take action according to AFI 36-2101,
     Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted) or AFI 36-704, Discipline and
     Adverse Actions.
     2.3.4.2. When issuing the permanent withdrawal of authority to bear firearms to a
     military member, commanders submit a copy of the written withdrawal action to the
     military personnel flight along with those documents withdrawing the affected person's
     AFSC. File all correspondence dealing with permanent withdrawal in the individual‟s
     unit PIF for 12 months or until the affected person transfers, retrains, separates, or retires,
     whichever occurs first.
     2.3.4.3. The decision to withdraw a person's authority to bear firearms does not solely
     justify an administrative separation. However, the affected person may need to undergo
     retraining if he or she no longer meets the AFSC requirements outlined in AFOCD, or
     AFECD. Commanders review the reason for the withdrawal to determine whether to take
     disciplinary or administrative action.
  2.3.5. Reinstatement of Authority to Bear Firearms. Unit commanders may reinstate a
  person's authorization upon receiving a favorable report of a completed investigation,
  corrective action, or medical evaluation. The individual will be notified in writing of the
  reinstatement and an updated Do-Not-Arm roster/memorandum will be provided to servicing
  armory no later than 24 hours after reinstatement. File all correspondence dealing with
  reinstatement in the individual‟s unit personnel information file for 12 months or until the
 16                                                    AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


   affected person transfers, retrains, separates, or retires, whichever occurs first. The
   administrative process to document and notify military personnel flight of the reinstatement
   are the same as to execute the withdrawal (see para 2.3.4.2). NOTE: Personnel whose
   authority to bear firearms has been permanently withdrawn may bear firearms in wartime or
   situations requiring immediate action to protect life or property. Commanders must weigh
   the benefits against possible adverse effects of arming such personnel.
   2.3.6. (Added-AFDW) Government and privately owned firearms assigned to an individual
   whose authority to bear firearms has been withdrawn will be tagged “DO NOT ISSUE” and
   “Authority withdrawn by Commander.”
2.4. Training Requirements. AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program, contains specific training
requirements for each arming group, personnel selected for overseas assignments, and personnel
assigned to fill a UTC that must be met prior to authorizing personnel to bear firearms. AFCFMs
may impose additional firearms proficiency or sustainment training policies once personnel are
weapons qualified in accordance with AFI 36-2226. Only personnel task-certified through
combat arms sections are authorized to conduct live-fire proficiency/sustainment training; refer
to AFI 36-2226 for proficiency training requirements. Unit commanders must ensure the
following training is completed. EXCEPTION: MAJCOMs may authorize aircrew members to
remain qualified for 24 months, as necessary to coincide with the ground training cycle. For
these personnel, periodic weapons familiarization is highly recommended, such as dry firing
drills, computer-based training, and use of firearms simulator systems.
   2.4.1. Group A. Individuals in Arming Group A must successfully complete the appropriate
   weapons qualification course once every 12 months. Additionally, Group A individuals must
   complete unit level proficiency/sustainment training on their primary weapon 5 to 7 months
   after each 12 month qualification. AFCFMs may waive this requirement or require more
   frequent proficiency/sustainment training as deemed necessary to meet mission requirements.
   2.4.2. Group B. Individuals in Arming Group B must successfully complete the appropriate
   weapons qualification course during pre-deployment Just-in-Time training, as outlined in
   AFI 36-2226. Qualification training for deployment is good for 12 months or the entire
   length of the deployment, regardless of duration. Use of Force basics training will be
   completed in conjunction with weapons qualification. NOTE: Each unit will be responsible
   for conducting use of force training for assigned personnel per paragraph 1.8, once task
   certified by Combat Arms personnel.
   2.4.3. Overseas Assignments. All MAJCOM-identified Air Force personnel must receive
   small arms weapons training IAW AFI 36-2226 and use of force training IAW paragraph
   1.8 of this instruction before being stationed overseas.
   2.4.4. Mobility Forces. All personnel assigned to fill a UTC receive small arms and use of
   force training as prescribed for the qualification group to which they belong.
2.5. Documenting Authorization To Bear Firearms. The authorizing official must provide
written authorization for assigned personnel to carry firearms. NOTE: Authorizing officials
must ensure weapons qualification and use of force training has been successfully completed
prior to authorizing an individual to bear firearms and the individual is fit IAW Chapter 2 of this
instruction.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                               17


  2.5.1. Uniformed Personnel. Written authorizations can be issued as single multiple-listing
  memorandums, computerized rosters, aircrew orders, or other group document.
  Authorizations must identify the individual by name, last four digits of the social security
  number, firearm type, and qualification expiration date for the weapon(s) carried. The
  original written authorization will be provided to the organization's servicing arms room or
  armory. For individuals other than Security Forces, the armorer must verify the arming
  authorization of each person requesting a firearm through review of a signed written
  authorization prior to issuing firearms. Security forces units may use the following
  procedures in lieu of the requirement for the armorer to review written authorization from the
  authorizing official.
     2.5.1.1. Security Forces commanders may develop local policy that allows the signature
     of an “authentication official” on AF 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt, to serve as
     verification of authority to bear firearms. Local policies must clearly state in writing the
     source document authorizing officials to sign, where the source documents are
     maintained, procedures for updating source documents must meet requirements in
     paragraph 2.5.1, and identify the authentication officials authorized to sign the AF 629.
     NOTE: Authenticating officials‟ name must be clearly printed or typed on the AF 629
     and the armory must maintain a document showing who is authorized to sign the AF 629.
     2.5.1.2. If these procedures are implemented, authentication officials verify authority to
     bear firearms prior to issuing AF 629. The armorer must confirm each individual‟s
     authorization to bear firearms through review of daily duty rosters and ensure personnel
     being armed possess a valid AF 629 prior to issuing firearms. Additionally, the armorer
     must ensure the member is not currently listed on the “Do Not Arm List.”
  2.5.2. Personnel Not in Uniform. Besides having written authorization as stated in
  paragraph 2.5.1, personnel not in uniform who openly bear firearms while performing
  official military duties must comply with the following:
     2.5.2.1. Obtain an AF 523, USAF Authorization To Bear Firearms. Form can be ordered
     from the AF publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
     2.5.2.2. Carry AF 523 when armed.
     2.5.2.3. Surrender the form to authorizing officials when duties requiring firearms are
     complete.
  2.5.3. Carrying Concealed Firearms. The Air Force prohibits all military, civilian, and
  contract employees from carrying concealed firearms on duty except when specifically
  authorized in writing by an authorizing official as stated in paragraph 2.5.1 and 2.5.2, and
  only while performing an official military duty. Military members who violate this provision
  are subject to administrative or disciplinary proceedings under Article 92, UCMJ. Civilian
  employees who violate this provision are subject to administrative or disciplinary action
  without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
  laws. Personnel carrying concealed weapons must comply with the following. NOTE:
  Official aircrew orders, specifying the USAF members carry a concealed firearm, satisfy the
  written authorization requirement.
     2.5.3.1. Except when circumstances compromise the mission, always carry an AF 523
     while bearing concealed firearms. In those cases where a mission could be compromised,
 18                                                  AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


       the authorizing official retains the form. The permit number on AF 523 includes the
       heading "CONCEALED." NOTE: These procedures help ensure compatibility between
       US Air Force authorizations to bear concealed firearms and other jurisdictional
       requirements.
       2.5.3.2. MAJCOMs, including Air National Guard, may authorize personnel to retain an
       AF 523 when missions require those members to bear a concealed firearm on a regular
       basis.
          2.5.3.2.1. (Added-AFDW) Personnel may retain the AF Form 523 until it expires.
       2.5.3.3. Authorized armed drivers for designated senior Air Force leaders must meet all
       qualification and training requirements established by AFOSI, Arming Group A, and
       comply with all provisions of this instruction. All drivers will inform the installation
       Security Forces, AFOSI detachment, and appropriate local civil authorities of their
       arming authorization. AFOSI is the single point of contact for all protective service
       operations, protecting senior US, DoD, Air Force, and Allied officials. NOTE:
       Authorization for armed drivers must be IAW DoD Instruction 2000.22, Designation and
       Physical Protection of DoD High Risk Personnel.
   2.5.4. Exceptions. Written authorization to bear firearms is not required in the following
   situations and circumstances.
       2.5.4.1. Uniformed military members performing an operational mission in a combat or
       hostile-fire zone or in situations requiring immediate action to protect life or property.
       2.5.4.2. Civilian contract guards may bear privately-owned firearms meeting the USAF
       Statement of Work specifications according to their USAF contract. Contract
       requirements must ensure weapons model and munitions comply with DoD/AF and local
       guidelines.
       2.5.4.3. Personnel performing honor guard duties who use firearms for ceremonial
       purposes (i.e., no live ammunition) need only to comply with paragraphs 2.8 and 2.9 of
       this instruction and with handling instructions for their weapon found in AFMAN 31-
       229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual.
       2.5.4.4. AFOSI special agent‟s badge and credentials serve as authority to carry firearms
       openly or concealed in lieu of written authorization and an AF 523.
   2.5.5. AF FORM 523 Requirements. Standardize AF 523 permit numbers. For example,
   37SFS 980012 refers to the 12th permit 37th Security Forces Squadron at Lackland AFB,
   Texas issued in 1998. Additionally, AF 523 issued for off-base operations require full face
   photographs. All others contain the statement "VALID ON (INSTALLATION NAME)
   ONLY."
2.6. Arming Plans. Commanders must develop plans that specifically identify who may bear
firearms and under what circumstances they will be armed. Installation commanders must
incorporate these plans into existing programs for integrated defense, addressing personnel
arming requirements during defense readiness condition (DEFCON) changes, force protection
condition (FPCON) changes, and other military contingencies.
   2.6.1. Normal Operations. Commanders develop plans for arming personnel consistent
   with the requirements of this instruction and DoD Directive 5210.56, Use of Deadly Force
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                              19


   and the Carrying of Firearms by DoD Personnel Engaged in Law Enforcement and Security
   Duties. Additionally, installation arming plans must include local laws for carrying firearms
   and use of deadly force by contract Security Forces if appropriate.
   2.6.2. Mobility Forces. Commanders may arm deployable forces to support contingency,
   wartime, or training operations. A command contingency plan or tasking message provides
   the arming requirements for deploying personnel.
       2.6.2.1. The contingency plan or tasking message describes the type of firearms required,
       the arming mission, the anticipated tasks armed members will perform, and the command
       and control elements.
       2.6.2.2. Supported commands develop guidance and procedures on selectively arming
       and using these personnel.
   2.6.3. (Added-AFDW) Incorporate these plans into the installation security plan (ISP).
   2.6.4. (Added-AFDW) Security Forces (SF) personnel and augmentees must be posted in
   military uniform ONLY. Civilian clothing is not authorized. The only exception applies to
   investigators and 811 SFS Special Mission personnel, and they are to have approval by the
   11 SFG or 811 SFS commander, in writing, on a case-by-case basis.
2.7. Arming Senior Military and Civilian Officials. MAJCOM and Combatant Commander,
or their designees, may authorize senior military and civilian officials to carry firearms for
personal protection in high-threat overseas areas where US government or other legitimate
intelligence analysis identifies a credible threat against US personnel. MAJCOM and Combatant
commanders issue this authorization on a case-by-case basis for a specified assignment and must
ensure compliance with host-nation law and applicable SOFAs. This responsibility may be
delegated to vice or deputy commanders. NOTE: Senior military and civilian officials may not
bear government-owned firearms for personal protection within the United States without written
approval of either the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense. Information regarding
handguns issued to Air Force general officers is contained in the Air Force General Officer
Handbook.
   2.7.1. Considerations. Before issuing authorizations to carry firearms for personal
   protection, commanders must consider the following.
       2.7.1.1. The likelihood of the threat in a particular location.
       2.7.1.2. The adequacies of DoD protective personnel support.
       2.7.1.3. The adequacy of host-nation protection.
       2.7.1.4. The effectiveness of other means to avoid personal attacks.
       2.7.1.5. The Department of State Threat Criminal levels.
       2.7.1.6. The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Intelligence, Political and Terrorism
       threat levels.
       2.7.1.7. DoD Defense Threat Assessments (DTA).
       2.7.1.8. Local Threat Assessment (LTA).
 20                                                   AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


   2.7.2. Firearms Qualification. Individuals authorized to carry a weapon for personal
   protection must complete weapons qualification and use of force training before carrying
   their firearm.
2.8. Transporting Firearms. Individuals may transport their assigned weapons in their
privately-owned vehicle to on- or off-base firing ranges, consistent with DoDIs, AFIs, local laws,
and host-nation law and status-of-forces agreements governing transportation and carrying of
weapons.
   2.8.1. (Added-AFDW) USAF personnel on military orders may transport up to two
   Category II, III, or IV firearms and associated ammunition from Joint Base Andrews or Joint
   Base Anacostia-Bolling to local airports in the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia
   (to include Norfolk Naval Air Station) in a POV. Movement of weapons/ammunition will be
   directly from the base to the airport, or vice versa. Such items must be moved under constant
   surveillance and serial numbers of the arms identified in the military orders.
       2.8.1.1. (Added-AFDW) Weapons will not be loaded. Weapons will be placed in a
       locked container and, if possible, transported in trunk of the vehicle.
       2.8.1.2. (Added-AFDW) Ammunition, if transported, will be placed in a separate
       locked container.
       2.8.1.3. (Added-AFDW) Personnel carrying weapons will pick-up their weapon(s) on
       the day of their deployment from the installation or security forces armory. Weapons
       should be picked up during normal duty hours. If this is not possible, personnel must
       contact armory personnel during normal duty hours at least one day prior and provide
       them with an estimated time of arrival. At no time will a weapon or ammunition be taken
       to a residence.
       2.8.1.4. (Added-AFDW) Upon return from deployment, personnel carrying weapons
       must go directly to the installation or security forces armory to turn in their weapon(s)
       from the airport. If unable to return weapons during normal duty hours, armory
       personnel must be contacted ahead of time with an estimated time of arrival. At no time
       will a weapon or ammunition be taken to a residence.
   2.8.2. (Added-AFDW) Individuals may also transport their assigned weapons to the
   flightline and/or their place of duty in a POV. Movement of weapons/ammunition will be
   directly from the armory to the duty location, or vice versa. Such items must be moved
   under constant surveillance.
2.9. Carrying Firearms as a Passenger Aboard Aircraft. US Air Force military, civilian, and
contract personnel may bear government firearms aboard military or commercial aircraft while
performing official military duties if the mission requires the member to carry a firearm during
the flight. NOTE: See DoDD 5210.56 for additional requirements.
   2.9.1. Requirements. Personnel carrying firearms aboard commercial aircraft will comply
   with Transportation Security Administration (TSA) guidelines and requirements.
   Additionally, personnel carrying firearms aboard military aircraft will notify the aircraft
   commander prior to flight.
   2.9.2. Authorization. Personnel carrying firearms aboard an aircraft must possess written
   authorization to carry firearms, that is, a memorandum of authorization, credentials, etc.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                               21


   NOTE: Official aircrew orders, along with a current AF 523, will suffice to meet the written
   authorization requirements for aircrew personnel aboard military aircraft. When flying on
   commercial aircraft, check with your airline or travel agent to see if firearms and ammunition
   are permitted, and ask about limitations and fees, if any, that apply.
2.10. Carrying Firearms in a US Air Force Medical Facility. Only personnel performing
official military duties requiring them to be armed (e.g. on-duty Security Forces personnel
responding to an alarm or call for assistance, AFOSI special agents attending autopsies,
interviewing victims or witnesses, etc) may bear a firearm in an Air Force medical treatment
facility.
2.11. Firearms Qualification Extensions. Qualification extensions significantly decrease an
individual‟s required minimum skill proficiency level and should only be granted when
absolutely necessary to meet mission requirements.
   2.11.1. Squadron Commander Extensions. The authorizing official for the unit may grant
   one-time qualification extensions of up to 120 calendar days. Unit training sections ensure
   qualification extensions are posted on the individual‟s AF IMT 522, USAF Ground Weapons
   Training Data, and provide installation Security Forces commanders with a courtesy copy of
   the extension letter.
   2.11.2. Installation Level Extensions. Installation commanders and senior-level US Air
   Force Reserve (USAFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) commanders may grant one-time
   qualification extensions of up to 12 continuous months for their affected Airmen. Notify the
   Security Forces commander when qualification extensions are approved for installation
   personnel. The granting authority informs each unit of the types of firearms, courses of
   training, duration of extensions, and authorizing documents. Each unit training section
   ensures qualification extensions are posted on the individual's AF IMT 522. The below items
   should be considered before granting lengthy extensions. NOTE: Squadron commander and
   installation level extensions may not exceed a total of 12 continuous months when combined.
       2.11.2.1. Impact on the force protection mission.
       2.11.2.2. The number of individuals requiring extension, the extension effects, and what
       their specific arming requirements are (e.g., peacetime or contingency arming).
       2.11.2.3. The reason for the extension, corrective action, compensatory measures, and
       get well date.
   2.11.3. MAJCOM Extensions. MAJCOM authorizing officials may approve qualification
   extensions of more than 12 continuous months. Document these extensions in memorandum
   format, ensuring the type(s) of firearm(s), courses of training, and duration of extension are
   listed in the memorandum. NOTE: Extensions of more than 12 months should only be
   approved in dire circumstances where no other option is available.
       2.11.3.1. (Added-AFDW) All requests for qualification extensions of more than 12
       continuous months will be routed through AFDW/A7SO and may only be approved by
       the AFDW Commander or Vice Commander. Document these extensions by letter
       format, ensuring the type(s) of firearm(s), courses of training, and duration of extension
       are listed on the letter.
 22                                                  AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


   2.11.4. Contingency Operation Extensions. Weapons qualifications do not expire during
   contingency operations, therefore no extensions are needed. NOTE: Theater specifics and
   pre-deployment messages may have more stringent requirements.
2.12. Firearms Safety. Firearms will only be drawn when the lawful use of deadly force
reasonably appears necessary; as a signaling device as authorized in paragraph 2.13; or during
weapons clearing/turn-in. Military members who violate this prohibition are subject to
administrative or disciplinary proceedings under Article 92, UCMJ. Civilian employees who
violate this provision are subject to administrative or disciplinary action without regard to
otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. EXCEPTION:
AFOSI special agents follow the guidance set forth by their functional managers.
   2.12.1. Responding to Incidents. Personnel responding to an actual incident who could
   reasonably expect to meet an armed adversary, respond with firearms “ready” according to
   Attachment 3. Any decision to chamber a round of ammunition in a firearm that is not
   normally carried with a round chambered, or draw a pistol from the holster, will be based on
   the circumstances encountered and the threat presented. EXCEPTION: AFOSI special
   agents follow the guidance set forth by their functional managers.
   2.12.2. Tactical Exercises. Personnel participating in tactical exercises or force-on-force
   training using integrated laser based weapons training devices or blank ammunition do not
   have to be qualified on the firearm they are armed with and are exempt from the provisions
   of paragraph 2.4. However, they must be familiar with all safety requirements, have a
   working knowledge of the weapon, and be able to distinguish between live and blank
   ammunition. Personnel conducting training with simulated marking cartridges, where the
   upper receiver of the issued weapon has been changed, (e.g., Dye Marking Cartridge) must
   be qualified on the weapon. NOTE: Unit commanders must develop and implement written
   guidance for firearms safety tailored specifically to exercises and training IAW AFMAN 31-
   229.
       2.12.2.1. (Added-AFDW) The exercise controller, desk sergeant, or other competent
       authority must instruct on-duty security forces that they are responding to an exercise
       early enough to prevent the inadvertent use of deadly force.
       2.12.2.2. (Added-AFDW) Store blank ammunition/dye-marking cartridges in separate
       containers from live ammunition. To ensure appropriate segregation and storage, blank
       ammunition/dye-marking cartridges and live ammunition will not be stored side-by-side.
          2.12.2.2.1. (Added-AFDW) Blank ammunition/dye-marking                cartridge   storage
          containers will be clearly marked with blue or yellow letter tape.
       2.12.2.3. (Added-AFDW) Prior to handling blank ammunition/dye-marking cartridges,
       all live ammunition will be stored in live ammunition containers.
       2.12.2.4. (Added-AFDW) During any exercise where blank ammunition/dye-marking
       cartridges are used, an officer and/or noncommissioned officer will:
          2.12.2.4.1. (Added-AFDW) Physically inspect all exercise participants to ensure
          they are not carrying live ammunition.
          2.12.2.4.2. (Added-AFDW) Inspect ammunition and magazines to ensure only
          blank ammunition/dye-marking cartridges are employed.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                              23


        2.12.2.4.3. (Added-AFDW) Brief all exercise participants that weapons loaded with
        blanks/dye-marking cartridges are not to be pointed and fired at any individual who is
        within 20 feet of the shooter.
        2.12.2.4.4. (Added-AFDW) Account for and collect all unused blank ammunition at
        the end of the exercise.
     2.12.2.5. (Added-AFDW) During exercises, facsimile weapons are used to evaluate
     search procedures only. The Chief, Security Forces ensures the facsimile weapon is
     painted, or otherwise changed, to alter its authentic or realistic appearance and color.
     Mark and store all facsimile weapons as training aids. If problems occur during the
     scenario, the evaluator, subject, and responding security forces will immediately
     terminate the exercise. The exercise evaluator will:
        2.12.2.5.1. (Added-AFDW) Broadcast, over appropriate media, that the scenario is
        an exercise.
        2.12.2.5.2. (Added-AFDW) Carefully select each perpetrator. If facsimile weapons
        are used, brief the perpetrator on their use.
        2.12.2.5.3. (Added-AFDW) Place the facsimile weapons on the perpetrator prior to
        the scenario.
        2.12.2.5.4. (Added-AFDW) Never allow the perpetrator to brandish (show, take
        out, or point) the facsimile weapon.
        2.12.2.5.5. (Added-AFDW) Never allow perpetrators to act on their own or deviate
        from the scenario.
        2.12.2.5.6. (Added-AFDW) Control all facsimile weapons if discovered during a
        search.
     2.12.2.6. (Added-AFDW) Installation Chief, Security Forces (CSF) will develop and
     implement written guidelines for firearms safety tailored specifically to Security Forces
     exercises/training that involves live and/or blank ammunition. In doing so, they must, at a
     minimum:
        2.12.2.6.1. (Added-AFDW) Establish        local   procedures     for    conducting
        exercises/training with blank ammunition and dye-marking cartridges with or without
        Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System (MILES) equipment attached.
        2.12.2.6.2. (Added-AFDW) Establish         local    procedures   for   conducting
        exercises/training with live ammunition and/or Military Working Dogs (MWD).
        2.12.2.6.3. (Added-AFDW) Establish local procedures for conducting training
        utilizing the FX marking cartridge. These procedures must be coordinated with the
        local Safety Office to include the approval of training sites.
        2.12.2.6.4. (Added-AFDW) All weapons will be cleared/emptied prior to leaving
        the play box upon completion of any exercise scenario.
        2.12.2.6.5. (Added-AFDW) Ensure that upon return from an exercise play box, and
        prior to weapons turn-in, all weapons are cleared at approved clearing barrel areas.
24                                                  AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


         2.12.2.6.6. (Added-AFDW) Ensure handguns are carried in an authorized holster or
         approved container, whether carrying live, blank, or no ammunition.
         2.12.2.6.7. (Added-AFDW) Establish safe firing distances for all types of
         munitions/weapons to include during MWD training.
         2.12.2.6.8. (Added-AFDW) Address emergency action procedures should an
         accident/incident occur.
         2.12.2.6.9. (Added-AFDW) Establish notification procedures prior to exercise start,
         including at a minimum:
             2.12.2.6.9.1. (Added-AFDW) Security Forces Desk Sergeant will know exercise
             location in case of emergency.
         2.12.2.6.10. (Added-AFDW) Establish weapons/ammunition disposition procedures
         in the event an exercise participant becomes injured, sick, or incapacitated for any
         reason.
         2.12.2.6.11. (Added-AFDW) Establish         local    procedures     ensuring     100%
         accountability of exercise/ training ammunition.
         2.12.2.6.12. (Added-AFDW) Establish a training and qualification program for
         exercise/training supervisors.
         2.12.2.6.13. (Added-AFDW) Establish a range clearing checklist.
         2.12.2.6.14. (Added-AFDW) Develop appropriate safety briefings for the use of
         training munitions and weapons, and the conduct of training/demonstration scenarios
         to include MWD training and ensure briefings are given and properly documented
         prior to all exercise activity.
         2.12.2.6.15. (Added-AFDW) Ensure radio contact is maintained with the security
         forces control center or range control during all exercises.
  2.12.3. Storing Firearms. Firearms will not be stored loaded. Individuals authorized to
  store government-issued firearms at a residence or non-government location will use a
  firearms locking device. In such cases, the agency that issues the firearm(s) will provide the
  individual(s) with safety locks and instructions for proper use. EXCEPTIONS: Aircrew
  members performing anti-hijack missions, maintenance personnel at Air Force Space
  Command (AFSPC) missile launch facilities, and military personnel involved in actual
  combat may store loaded firearms.
  2.12.4. Use of Alcohol and Drugs. Personnel will not consume any form of alcohol or use
  over-the-counter drugs or prescription medications that could impair ability to handle a
  firearm while on duty, or within 8 hours before duty or firearms training. Failure to comply
  with this provision may lead to punishment under Article 92 of the UCMJ. Civilian
  employees who violate this provision are subject to administrative or disciplinary action
  without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
  laws.
  2.12.5. Weapons Handling Procedures. Personnel will use standardized weapons handling
  procedures IAW AFMAN 31-229, when armed with a USAF-owned weapon.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                                  25


   2.12.6. Weapons Clearing Procedures. Firearms may only be cleared under the
   supervision of a trained clearing barrel attendant at an authorized clearing area with a
   clearing barrel. Clearing barrel attendants, documented on the AF Form 797, Job
   Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS, must know clearing procedures for all
   firearms loaded and unloaded at the clearing area. EXCEPTIONS: This requirement does
   not apply to personnel engaged in combat, weapons qualification training, training exercises
   simulating combat, and AFOSI personnel who follow guidelines in AFOSI Instruction 71-
   113, Firearms, Use of Force, and Apprehension Tactics. NOTE: HQ AFSFC/SFO must
   approve any deviations to these procedures before MAJCOMs or units implement them.
2.13. Firearms as Signaling Devices. Firearms may be used as an emergency signaling device
only as a last resort in life-threatening situations. This is only authorized when all other means
of communication have failed or no other means of communication is available to sound the
alarm. Firearms signaling should be conducted by firing three shots in rapid succession, in a safe
direction, away from resources and populated areas.
2.14. Peacetime Firearms Discharges. Commanders must investigate all peacetime or in
garrison negligent and deliberate firearm discharges. Personnel must immediately report
peacetime discharges to their commander, the commander of the person who discharged the
firearm (if different), and the security forces. Failing to report these incidents is a violation of
Article 92, UCMJ. Civilian employees who violate this provision are subject to administrative or
disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws.
   2.14.1. Commander Responsibilities. The commander of the person who discharged a
   firearm will accomplish the following:
       2.14.1.1. Begin an investigation of the incident immediately or contact the Security
       Forces for investigative assistance.
       2.14.1.2. Temporarily withdraw the person's authorization to bear a firearm immediately
       until completion of the investigation and, if necessary, until the person completes a
       remedial firearms training course (mechanical portion only).
       2.14.1.3. Take immediate corrective action, including applicable administrative or
       disciplinary actions, if investigation reveals the person used the firearm negligently or has
       a training deficiency.
       2.14.1.4. Return the affected person to duty immediately if results of the investigation or
       other conclusive evidence show the person discharged the firearm according to
       established policy.
   2.14.2. Reporting Requirements. If a US military member, contract employee, or a
   civilian employee of the US military discharges a government owned or affiliated firearm,
   during any non-combat related incident, the installation commander will ensure the following
   actions are taken. NOTE: When unauthorized firearm discharges do not involve an injury,
   fatality, or possible adverse publicity, report the incidents according to MAJCOM or Field
   Operating Agency (FOA) instructions.
   2.14.2. (AFDW) Report the incident to HQ AFDW/A7SO within 24 hours of the incident
   following reporting guidelines in AFI 31-207, paragraphs 2.14.2.1 through 2.14.2.4.
 26                                                   AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


       2.14.2.1. Report incidents using OPREP-3/BEELINE message format.
       2.14.2.2. Send messages to HQ USAF/A7S (SF) and HQ AFSFC/SFO (Operations
       Division) within 24 hours of the incident using Report Control Symbol AF/A3O
       (Operations). Messages may be sent via e-mail to: opscenter@lackland.af.mil.
       Designate reports priority, emergency status code C1, and continue reporting during
       emergency conditions and MINIMIZE.
       2.14.2.3. Send information copies to HQ USAF or FOA headquarters functional
       manager, and to intermediate Security Forces headquarters (FOA, MAJCOM, or
       Numbered Air Force) staff and functional manager of the unit involved.
       2.14.2.4. Send a written follow-up report in a lessons learned format (Attachment 4)
       within 60 calendar days of the discharge to all original addressees and HQ AFSFC/SFOP
       (Police Services Branch). Criminal investigations by Security Forces investigations or
       AFOSI into the discharge do not alleviate the need for a lessons learned report. NOTE:
       Reports may be sent via e-mail to: afsfc.sfop@lackland.af.mil.
2.15. Non-Lethal Force. IAW DoDD 3000.3, Non-lethal force is defined as using weapons or
techniques weapons that are explicitly designed and primarily employed to incapacitate
personnel or materiel, while minimizing fatalities, permanent injury to personnel, and undesired
damage to property and the environment. Non-lethal force tools provide armed personnel with a
range of options to obtain subject compliance and achieve objectives short of employing deadly
force. Unit Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
(TTPs) may require adjustment to enable employment of non-lethal weapons and new equipment
for the success of specific missions.
2.16. Non-Lethal Techniques and Weapons Training.
   2.16.1. Security Forces and AFOSI personnel will be trained, and all other USAF personnel
   should be trained, on the following non-lethal techniques in concert with use of force
   training.
       2.16.1.1. Mental Preparation: Perception skills, risk assessment, and survival orientation.
       2.16.1.2. Spatial Positioning: Stance, body language, and relative positioning.
       2.16.1.3. Verbal Controls: Communication skills, interviewing, and behavioral
       assessment.
       2.16.1.4. Weapon Retention: Lower forearm block and rear wrist lock (strong and weak
       hand grab).
       2.16.1.5. Detention Tactics: Single/Dual subject, escort controls, and transport controls.
   2.16.2. Only Security Forces and AFOSI personnel will be trained on the following non-
   lethal techniques. Security Forces commanders may locally authorize this training for
   augmentees or other personnel performing force protection duties to meet mission
   requirements. Other AFSC functional managers may establish career field specific non-
   lethal force technique training requirements as necessary.
       2.16.2.1. Verbal Manipulation Techniques: Targeted towards changing the behavior of
       an individual (basic conflict management) or of a group of individuals (basic crisis
       management).
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                              27


     2.16.2.2. Handcuffing Techniques: Standing, kneeling, and prone.
     2.16.2.3. Wrist elbow position.
     2.16.2.4. Hand rotation position.
     2.16.2.5. Individual searching techniques.
     2.16.2.6. Escape Techniques: For use in escape from grabs and chokes.
     2.16.2.7. Neuromuscular controls.
     2.16.2.8. Pressure point control techniques.
     2.16.2.9. Assault defenses: To include use of head, hands, elbows, feet and knees in
     warding off or countering the subject assault.
  2.16.3. Only Security Forces, AFOSI and Airmen assigned to unit type code (UTC) QFENL
  will be trained on the employment of non-lethal weapons. Security Forces commanders may
  locally authorize non-lethal weapons training for SF and SF augmentees or other personnel
  performing force protection duties to meet mission requirements. Other AFSC functional
  managers may establish career field-specific non-lethal force weapon training requirements
  as necessary. EXCEPTION: AFOSI is exempt from this requirement and will follow
  guidelines set forth in AFOSI Instruction 71-113. Non-lethal individual weapons currently
  authorized for USAF use:
     2.16.3.1. Chemical irritants application.
         2.16.3.1.1. (Added-AFDW) AFDW organizations maintaining OC Spray will
         submit an annual inventory report NLT 5 January of each year to AFDW/A7SO. The
         report will list total number of units in the organization‟s inventory, number of units
         expended, and reason for expenditure. The report will be submitted in an official
         memorandum format, or locally devised form, and will be approved by the unit
         commander.
     2.16.3.2. Batons used as leverage devices or in pain compliance role (non-striking).
     2.16.3.3. Approved electronic control devices (e.g. TASER® devices).
     2.16.3.4. Impact Weapons: To include the expandable baton as well as anything at hand
     for use in defense or gaining control of an individual.
     2.16.3.5. Specified non-lethal munitions listed in AFCAT 21-209, Volume 1, Ground
     Munitions.
  2.16.4. Personnel will not employ non-lethal techniques or weapons listed from paragraphs
  2.16.2.1 through 2.16.3.5 prior to being trained. Non-lethal techniques, weapon use, and
  employment must be trained IAW AFMAN 31-222.
     2.16.4.1. Each unit is responsible for providing instructors to train individuals on
     performing non-lethal techniques and (if appropriate) using non-lethal weapons. For
     techniques listed from paragraphs 2.16.1.1 to 2.16.2.6, a previously qualified supervisor
     or instructor is authorized to train and certify personnel. For non-lethal techniques and
     weapons listed in paragraphs 2.16.2.7 through 2.16.3.5, individual initial training,
     training at technical schools, and training upon PCS must be performed by a qualified
 28                                                 AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


      trainer, certified to train the technique or weapon IAW federal, state or proprietary
      accreditation (e.g., an instructor conducting initial TASER training must be certified to
      train and conduct training IAW proprietary standards).
      2.16.4.2. Commanders will ensure personnel receive practical, performance based and
      scenario-driven use of force training annually, IAW paragraph 1.8 of this publication,
      before authorizing individuals to employ non-lethal weapons listed in paragraph 2.16.3.
      2.16.4.3. Personnel will be certified/qualified annually on non-lethal weapons IAW AFI
      36-2226. Initial certification, certification at technical schools, and certification upon
      each subsequent permanent change of station must be performed by a qualified instructor,
      certified on the technique or weapon IAW federal, state, or proprietary accreditation. All
      other annual certification may be by a supervisor, trainer, or quality control evaluator
      who is currently certified. MAJCOMs and local commanders may set more stringent
      certification criteria.
   2.16.5. Non-Lethal Weapons Reporting Requirements. If a US military member, contract
   employee, or a civilian employee of the US military employs/discharges a non-lethal
   weapon, while on duty or in the performance of official duties. NOTE: When unauthorized
   employment does not involve an injury, fatality, or possible adverse publicity, report the
   incidents according to MAJCOM or Field Operating Agency (FOA) instructions.
   2.16.5. (AFDW) When unauthorized employment does not involve an injury, fatality, or
   possible adverse publicity, notify AFDW/A7SO within 48 hours, or next duty day, via
   memorandum or electronic message.
      2.16.5.1. Report incidents using OPREP-3/BEELINE message format.
      2.16.5.2. Send messages to HQ USAF/A7S (SF) and HQ AFSFC/SFO (Operations
      Division) within 24 hours of the incident using Report Control Symbol AF/A3O
      (Operations). Messages may be sent via e-mail to: opscenter@lackland.af.mil.
      Designate reports priority, emergency status code C1, and continue reporting during
      emergency conditions and MINIMIZE.
      2.16.5.3. Send information copies to HQ USAF or FOA headquarters functional
      manager, and to intermediate Security Forces headquarters (FOA, MAJCOM, or
      Numbered Air Force) staff and functional manager of the unit involved.
      2.16.5.4. Send a written follow-up report in a lessons learned format (Attachment 4)
      within 60 calendar days of the employment/discharge to all original addressees and HQ
      AFSFC/SFOP (Police Services Branch) via e-mail at afsfc.sfop@lackland.af.mil.
      Criminal investigations by Security Forces investigations or AFOSI do not alleviate the
      need for a lessons learned report.

2.17. Prescribed Forms.

2.17.1. AF Form 523, USAF Authorization To Bear Firearms
2.17.2. AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                              29


2.18. Adopted Forms.

2.18.1. AF Form 522, USAF Ground Weapons Training Data
2.18.2. AF Form 590, Withdraw/Reinstatement of Authority to Bear Firearms
2.18.3. AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS
2.18.4. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
2.18.5. DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition




                                          LOREN M. RENO, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support

                                          (AFDW)

                                          BEGIN SIGNATURE
                                          DARREN W. McDEW, Maj Gen, USAF
                                          Commander, Air Force District of Washington
 30                                                 AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3121.01B, Standing Rules of
Engagement/Standing Rules for the Use of Force for US Forces
DoD Directive 5210.56, Use of Deadly Force and the Carrying of Firearms by DoD Personnel
Engaged in Law Enforcement and Security Duties, 1 November 2001
DoD Civil Disturbance Plan “Garden Plot” (unnumbered), 15 February 1991
DoD S-5210.41M, Nuclear Weapons Security Manual, 22 November 2004
AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement & Provost Operations
AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 1 July 1999
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program, 1 March 2003
AFMAN 31-222, Air Force Use of Force Manual, 1 June 2001
AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual, 12 May 2004
AFI 10-245, USAF Antiterrorism Standards, 16 February 2004
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 7 March 2006
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program, 26 February 2003
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality and Military Law, 1 March 2000
AFI 48-123 Volume 1, Medical Examinations and Standards, Volume 1 – General Provisions, 5
June 2006
AFOSI Instruction 71-113, Firearms, Use of Force, and Apprehension Tactics

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCAT—Air Force Catalog
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Managers
AFECD—Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOCD—Air Force Officer Classification Directory
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFS—Air Force Specialty
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                              31


AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ASOC—Air Support Operations Center
CSF—Chief, Security Forces
CCDR—combatant commander
DEFCON—Defense Readiness Condition
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—DoD Directive
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
TACP—Tactical Air Control Party
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice

Terms
Aggravated Assault—An unlawful intentional, or attempt, to do bodily harm to another person,
using a dangerous weapon or other means or force likely to produce grievous bodily harm, or the
intentional infliction of grievous bodily harm, with or without a weapon.
Armed—Equipped with a loaded firearm.
Armed Robbery— Wrongfully taking certain property from a person or from a person‟s
possession while in the person‟s presence, by means of force or violence or fear of immediate or
future injury to that person, a relative or member of their family or any one accompanying that
person at the time.
Concealed Weapon— A firearm that is carried by a person and intentionally covered or kept
from sight (for instance, a hand gun not clearly visible on the outermost garment worn).
Deadly Force— Force that a person uses causing, or that a person knows or should know would
create a substantial risk of causing, death or serious bodily harm.
Firearm—Any weapon designed to expel a projectile through a barrel by the action of a
propellant or one that you can readily convert to this purpose. The frame or receiver group of
any such weapon, any firearm muffler or silencer, and starter guns are firearms.
Firearm Locking Device—A device that when installed on a firearm and secured by means of a
key or mechanically, electronically, or electro-mechanically operated combination lock prevents
the firearm from being discharged without first deactivating or removing the device by means of
a key or mechanically, electronically, or electro-mechanically operated combination lock; or A
mechanical, electrical, or electro-mechanical locking mechanism incorporated into the design of
 32                                                     AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


the firearm that prevents discharge of the weapon by anyone not having access to the key or
other device designed to unlock and allow discharge of the firearm.
Functional Manager—The office of primary responsibility for a particular Air Force specialty.
Examples: HQ USAF/A7S, for Security Forces; HQ USAF/A7C for civil engineers; AF/A1 for
personnel, and education and training specialists.
Hostile Act— An attack or other use of force by any civilian, paramilitary, or military force or
terrorist(s) (with or without national designation) against the United States, US forces and, in
certain circumstances, US nationals, their property, US commercial assets, or other designated
non-US forces, foreign nationals, and their property. Force used directly to preclude or impede
the mission and/or duties of US forces, including the recovery of US personnel and vital US
Government property. When a hostile act is in progress the right exists to use proportional force,
including armed force, in self-defense by all necessary means available to deter or neutralize the
potential attacker or, if necessary, to destroy the threat.
Hostile Intent—The threat of imminent use of force by a foreign force, terrorist(s), or
organization against the United States and US national interests, US forces and, in certain
circumstances, US nationals, their property, US commercial assets, and other designated non-US
forces, foreign nationals, and their property. When hostile intent is present, the right exists to use
proportional force, including armed force, in self-defense by all necessary means available to
deter or neutralize the potential attacker or, if necessary, to destroy the threat. A determination
that hostile intent exists and requires the use of proportional force in self-defense must be based
on evidence that an attack is imminent. Evidence necessary to determine hostile intent will vary
depending on the state of international and regional political tension, military preparations,
intelligence, and indications and warning information.
Imminent Threat—The determination of whether the danger of death or serious bodily harm in
imminent will be based on an assessment of all facts and circumstances known to DoD forces
(military, civilian, or contractor) at the time and may be made at any level. Imminent does not
necessarily mean immediate or instantaneous. Individuals with the capability to inflict death or
serious bodily harm and who demonstrate intent to do so may be considered an imminent threat.
Installation Commander—The individual responsible for all operations performed by an
installation.
Objective Reasonableness—Fourth Amendment standard established by Supreme Court in
determining if individuals involved in law enforcement or security duties employed appropriate
level of force in dealing with all persons. The Supreme Court defined police use of force as a
“seizure” under the Fourth Amendment to the US Constitution. The “reasonableness” of a
particular use of force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable Airman on the scene,
rather than with the 20/20 vision of hindsight.
Officer/Sentry— Any officer, noncommissioned officer, Airman, civilian or contract employee
performing security, law enforcement, military police, or guard duties under Air Force control.
Subject Action(s)—The officer/sentry‟s perception of the subject‟s capability, opportunity, and
intent indicate what degree of force is required, if any, by the officer/sentry to achieve his/her
objective. As in the elements of reasonableness, subject actions cannot be defined mechanically,
but can be structured into behavioral categories to promote understanding of the concept.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                                 33


Probable Cause (Reasonable Grounds)— Determination required by Fourth Amendment of
the Constitution and UCMJ in the general context of apprehension, search, or seizure that
reasonable grounds exist to believe that a specific offense has occurred, that a certain person has
committed a specific offense or is engaged in committing an offense or that a person, property,
or evidence sought is located in a particular place or on a particular person.
Reasonable Officer Response(s)—The “balanced” response(s) appropriate for the reasonable
officer‟s selection from the Use of Force Model‟s Reasonable Officer Response Categories, in
order to maintain or gain subject compliance and control.
Rules of Engagement—Directives issued by competent military authority that delineate the
circumstances and limitations under which US forces will initiate or continue combat
engagement with other forces.
Grievous Bodily Harm/Serious Bodily Harm—Includes fractured or dislocated bones, deep
cuts, torn members of the body, serious damage to the internal organs, and life threatening
injuries but does not include minor injuries such as a black eye or bloody nose.
Unauthorized Firearms Discharge—Intentionally or accidentally discharging a firearm without
authorization.
Unit Commander—An officer who commands a designated unit assigned, attached, or tenant to
an installation and whom administrative orders identify as a "commander.”
 34                                                    AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 2
PERSONALITY AND BEHAVIOR FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT SUITABILITY TO
                        BEAR FIREARMS

A2.1. The personality and behavioral factors below are presented in categories so they may be
more easily recognized. There is no magic number of these factors that suggests a personality or
behavioral disorder. Rather it is the extent to which the noted factor(s) change that is different
from what is considered "normal" that makes a factor important. Finally, it is the duration (how
long the factor has been present/how long it lasts), frequency (how often it happens), and
intensity (strength) of the factor that suggest the severity of the personality or behavioral trait.
A2.2. Factors Relating to Thinking and Attitude.
   A2.2.1. Suspiciousness. Individual seems unable to trust others, is jealous, complains of
   plots against him or her, and sees hidden meanings in personal slights.
   A2.2.2. Arrogance. Individual assumes or presumes the possession of superior or unique
   ideas or abilities.
   A2.2.3. Lack of Humor. Especially the inability to laugh at one's self, at one's mistakes, or
   one's weaknesses.
   A2.2.4. Inflexibility. Especially in accepting new ideas originating among others.
   A2.2.5. Preoccupation. Sticking to one idea to the exclusion of almost all other thoughts so
   those relationships with others are strained and ranges of interests are severely narrowed.
   A2.2.6. Sensitivity. Particularly concerning status, where the individual is overly concerned
   with being left out, ignored, ridiculed, or talked about.
   A2.2.7. Arguing. When accompanied by the development of a personal logic to support
   unusual or unrealistic ideas.
A2.3. Factors Related to Behavior or Activity.
   A2.3.1. Impulsiveness. Acts without considering the consequences, is easily distracted,
   seeks enjoyment of the moment to the exclusion of long-range goals, craves excitement, and
   may talk about disasters, violence, or destruction.
   A2.3.2. Destructiveness. May involve impulsive damage to military equipment.
   A2.3.3. Temper Tantrums. Childish outbursts of anger, sulking, or pouting over minor
   disappointments.
   A2.3.4. Agitation. Excessive restlessness due to emotional tension.
   A2.3.5. Excessive Talking. Particularly when no logical thought is communicated to the
   listener.
   A2.3.6. Decreased Talking. Usually accompanied by boredom, listlessness, and apparent
   disinterest.
   A2.3.7. Accident Prone. May show apparent disregard for safety procedures.
A2.4. Factors Related to Awareness or Level of Consciousness.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                                 35


   A2.4.1. Alcohol and Drug Intoxication. May cause loss of inhibitions, poor judgment, or
   physical impairment.
   A2.4.2. Fainting Spells. May have both physical and emotional causes.
   A2.4.3. Sleep Attacks (Narcolepsy). Uncontrollable episodes of sleeping that may interfere
   with functional reliability.
   A2.4.4. Seizures (Epilepsy). May have convulsions, with or without complete loss of
   consciousness; trance-like states; attacks of inappropriate rage or repetitive, stereotyped
   behavior.
   A2.4.5. Sleepwalking.     Individuals may injure themselves or damage property while
   apparently asleep.
   A2.4.6. Daydreaming. Individual preoccupied with internal thoughts and fantasies with lack
   of attention to current tasks.
   A2.4.7. Amnesia. Loss of memory due to brain disease and injury or emotional conflicts.
A2.5. Factors Related to Mood and Feeling.
   A2.5.1. Unusual Happiness. Particularly when no apparent reason for elation exists. May
   be accompanied by excessive physical activity, lack of sleep, excitement, and excessive
   talking.
   A2.5.2. Unusual Sadness.       May indicate significant depression, particularly when
   accompanied by hopelessness, self condemnation, dejection, feelings of guilt, pessimism,
   poor sleep, fatigue, loss of appetite, slow physical activity, or loss of interest in job and
   family.
   A2.5.3. Attempted Suicide. Particularly significant when attempted through the deliberate
   use of a firearm. Factors predictive of suicide include a history of previous suicide attempts,
   suicidal threats, depression, serious physical illness, alcoholism, loss of a loved one through
   death or divorce, financial or job reversals with loss of self-esteem, and apparent preparations
   for death, such as an unusual interest in wills and life insurance.
   A2.5.4. Suicide Gestures. May represent significant emotional disorder and require medical
   evaluation.
   A2.5.5. Hypochondria. Imagined illness. Disagreements with doctors who are pictured as
   not understanding.
   A2.5.6. Complaints of headaches, back pain, or abdominal pains without evidence of
   physical illness or medical evaluation.
   A2.5.7. Hostility. Particularly expressions of hostility towards one's country.
   A2.5.8. Legal Controversies.      Threats of lawsuit and other reprisals over minor or
   nonexistent wrongs.
A2.6. The stress reactions below are presented in categories so they may be more easily
recognized and understood. There is no magic number of these symptoms that suggests
difficulty in coping. Rather it is the extent to which the noted reaction is a change that is
different from a person's normal condition that makes a reaction potentially important. It is the
 36                                                    AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


combined presence of symptoms that determines potency of the problem. Indicators may be
isolated reactions or combinations among the three categories listed below. Finally, it is their
duration (how long symptoms have been present/how long they last), frequency of such incidents
(how often they happen), and intensity (strength) with which they are present that suggest
severity of the difficulty of coping.
A2.7. Emotional Indicators.
   A2.7.1. Apathy:
       A2.7.1.1. The "blahs”/sad
       A2.7.1.2. Recreation no longer pleasurable
   A2.7.2. Anxiety:
       A2.7.2.1. Restless/agitated
       A2.7.2.2. Insecure/feelings of worthlessness
   A2.7.3. Irritability:
       A2.7.3.1. Overly sensitive/defensive
       A2.7.3.2. Arrogant/argumentative
       A2.7.3.3. Insubordinate/hostile
   A2.7.4. Mental Fatigue:
       A2.7.4.1. Preoccupied/inflexible
       A2.7.4.2. Difficulty concentrating
   A2.7.5. Overcompensation (Denial):
       A2.7.5.1. Exaggerate/grandiose
       A2.7.5.2. Overworks to exhaustion
       A2.7.5.3. Denies problems/symptoms
       A2.7.5.4. Suspicious/paranoid
A2.8. Behavioral Indicators.
   A2.8.1. Withdrawal (Avoidance):
       A2.8.1.1. Social isolation
       A2.8.1.2. Work-related withdrawal
       A2.8.1.3. Reluctance to accept responsibilities
       A2.8.1.4. Neglecting responsibilities
   A2.8.2. Acting out:
       A2.8.2.1. Alcohol abuse; promiscuity
       A2.8.2.2. Gambling/spending spree
   A2.8.3. Desperate acting out (getting attention):
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                              37


      A2.8.3.1. Cry for help
      A2.8.3.2. Administrative infractions such as tardy for work, poor appearance, poor
      personal hygiene, accident prone, etc.
      A2.8.3.3. Legal infractions such as traffic tickets, indebtedness, shoplifting, etc.
      A2.8.3.4. Fights and/or Child/spouse abuse
A2.9. Physical Indicators.
   A2.9.1. Preoccupation with illness (intolerant of/dwelling on minor ailments)
   A2.9.2. Frequent illness (actually sick)
   A2.9.3. Use of self-medication
   A2.9.4. Somatic indicators:
      A2.9.4.1. Headaches
      A2.9.4.2. Insomnia
      A2.9.4.3. Change in appetite
      A2.9.4.4. Weight gain/weight loss
      A2.9.4.5. Digestion problems
      A2.9.4.6. Nausea/vomiting
      A2.9.4.7. Diarrhea/constipation
      A2.9.4.8. Sexual difficulties
 38                                                   AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


                                         Attachment 3
                     EMERGENCY RESPONSES WITH FIREARMS

A3.1. During routine/normal operations all personnel are required to arm/carry all USAF small
arms IAW AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual. However, when responding to
an actual incident where you can reasonably expect to meet an armed adversary, respond with
firearms ready as follows. You must base any decision to chamber a round of ammunition in a
firearm that‟s not normally carried with a round chambered, or draw a pistol from the holster, on
the circumstances you‟re facing and the threat present. NOTE: AFOSI special agents will
follow guidance set forth in AFOSI Instruction 71-113, Firearms, Use of Force, and
Apprehension Tactics.
   A3.1.1. When armed with an M16 series rifle, an M4 carbine or the GAU5A, GAU5A/A or
   GUU5P, carry it at "port arms," a round in the chamber, safety selector on "SAFE," and the
   finger not in the trigger guard.
   A3.1.2. When armed with a shotgun, carry it at "port arms," safety selector on "ON," a round
   in the chamber, and finger not in the trigger guard.
   A3.1.3. When armed with the M9 (9mm) pistol, carry it in its holster, flap open
   (unstrapped)/sentry lock disengaged and hood rotated forward, shooting hand on the pistol
   grip, hammer not cocked, and finger not in the trigger guard.
   A3.1.4. When armed with the M203 grenade launcher attached to a M16/M4 carbine, follow
   the instructions for the M16/M4rifle (A3.1.1). You will chamber a 40mm round only when
   use is deemed necessary.
   A3.1.5. When armed with the M240B machine gun, carry it at "port arms, "half loaded" or
   "full loaded" depending upon MAJCOM directives, safety lever on "SAFE," and finger not in
   the trigger guard.
       A3.1.5.1. (Added-AFDW) The M240B machine gun will only be loaded in the "half
       loaded" configuration, unless under imminent threat (FPCON CHARLIE or DELTA), or
       as the commander directs.
   A3.1.6. When armed with other firearms (UZI submachine gun, H&K MP5 submachine gun,
   etc) follow the guidance set forth by the Air Staff functional manager or MAJCOM (see
   AFMAN 31-229, attachments 15 and 16).
   A3.1.7. When armed with the M249 automatic rifle, carry it at “port arms”, “fully loaded”
   depending on MAJCOM directive, selector lever on “Safe”, and finger not in the trigger
   guard.
       A3.1.7.1. (Added-AFDW) The M249 automatic rifle will be loaded in the "half loaded"
       configuration, unless under imminent threat (FPCON CHARLIE or DELTA), or as the
       commander directs.
   A3.1.8. When armed with an M24 sniper rifle, carry it at “port arms”, chamber empty,
   safety selector on “SAFE”, and the finger not in the trigger guard. You will chamber around
   only when use is deemed necessary.
AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012                                                             39


                                        Attachment 4
          PEACETIME GOVERNMENT FIREARMS DISCHARGE REPORT

A4.1. Installation commanders must use this report when providing the follow-up firearms
discharge report specified by paragraph 2.13.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON SUBJECT
     1. FULL NAME AND GRADE
     2. SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER (EMPLOYEE NUMBER WHEN
     SUBJECT DOES NOT HAVE A SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER)
     3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
     4. MAJCOM/SOA/FOA OF ASSIGNMENT
     5. UNIT AND INSTALLATION OF ASSIGNMENT
     6. DATE ASSIGNED PRESENT UNIT
     7. PRIMARY AFSC
INCIDENT SUMMARY
     1. DATE AND TIME OF INCIDENT
     2. TYPE AND SERIAL NUMBER OF FIREARM
     3. TYPE OF INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE
     4. PUBLICITY RECEIVED
     5. BRIEF SUMMARY OF INCIDENT
LESSONS LEARNED
     1. Submitted by: Usually the CSF or squadron commander of the individual who
     discharged the firearm.
     2. Operation/Event Name: The formal name of the military operation or a brief
     description of the event, for example, RESTORE HOPE in Somalia from 5 August to
     December 1993 or Use of Deadly Force, Andrews AFB, MD, 1990.
     3. Keywords: Critical terms specific enough to facilitate a subject matter automated
     search. Example: Law enforcement, use of deadly force.
     4. Title: Name of the incident. Example: Murder of a SF Member/Robbery.
     5. Observation: A precise, factual description of the entire incident in narrative format.
     This section should include background information on the subject.
     6. Discussion: A critical review of the procedures used and actions accomplished during
     the incident. The intent is to highlight potential problem areas so readers can prevent
     similar mistakes or to prompt a review of appropriate policy or procedures.
     7. Lessons Learned: A synopsis of a “better way” or a “best business practice” that may
     be more effective in the future.
40                                                AFI31-207_AFDWSUP_I 18 MAY 2012


     8. Recommended Action: Use this section to outline suggested review actions by higher
     headquarters.
     9. OPR Comments: This is an open area designed for the OPR to add any additional
     appropriate comments.
     HQ AFSFC/SFOP
     1517 Billy Mitchell Blvd
     Lackland AFB, TX 78236-0119
