BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3108
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              31 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                      MEMORIALIZATION PROGRAM AND
                                                                       CEREMONIES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFPC/DPSIDR                                                           Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                                      (Brig Gen Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes: AFI 36-3108, 1 February 1999                                               Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-31, Personal Affairs. It outlines Air
Force responsibilities for naming installations, buildings, rooms, facilities (recreational and
medical), or streets, and provides guidance for arranging and conducting ceremonies associated
with memorialization actions. This instruction applies to all Air Force stateside and overseas
activities, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, in the United States and all
territorial area that the United States administers, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
It also applies to bases acquired under the Leased Naval and Air Force Agreement signed 27
March 1941. This instruction does not apply to industrial facilities because those facilities are
under the jurisdiction of their responsible officials. This AFI may be supplemented at any level,
but all supplements that directly implement this instruction must be routed to HQ
AFPC/DPSIDR for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from
the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Major Commands
(MAJCOMs), Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) must send
one copy of their published and or posted supplement to the OPR at HQ AFPC/DPSIDR, 550 C
Street West, Suite 12, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4712. Other organizations send one copy of
each published and or posted supplement to the next higher headquarters. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

When sending nomination packages through e-mail or postal system be vigilant to protect
Privacy Act (PA) and Personal Identifying Information (PII). As a minimum, the following
references should be reviewed to ensure care is taken when forwarding nomination packages
 2                                                               AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011


containing PA/PII, sensitive or For Official Use Only (FOUO) information: DoD 5400.11-R,
Department of Defense Privacy Program; AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program; AFI 33-200,
Information Assurance (IA) Management; AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use; and
Directive-Type Memorandum (DTM) 07-015-USD(P&R) - DoD Social Security Number (SSN)
Reduction Plan.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision provides general information and guidance for requesting memorializations for
areas, clarifying the suspense for memorialization requests to arrive at HQ AFPC/DPSIDR, and
forwarding locally-approved (MAJCOM-level and below) memorialization packages to HQ
AFPC/DPSIDR and the installation historian. It also adds attachment 1, Glossary of References
and Supporting Information and Adopted and Prescribed Forms, and renames Table 1 as
Attachment 2, ―Table of Approval Authorities‖.

Section A—General Information

1. Policy and General Information. The intent of the Air Force Memorialization Program is to
provide lasting honor and pay tribute to deceased as well as living Air Force military and civilian
personnel with records of outstanding and honorable service. This program also fosters
favorable relations between the public and the Air Force. All memorializations should be
carefully evaluated to ensure that only the most deserving persons are selected. These selections
should bring honor and goodwill to the Air Force and local communities. Commanders at all
levels are responsible for ensuring and maintaining the integrity of the Air Force
Memorialization Program. Joint base commanders may follow Sister Service policies for
naming facilities and buildings used exclusively by the other Service. All Air Force (to include
Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard) installations, facilities, buildings, rooms, and any
other permanent facilities located on any Air Force-owned installation will be named only in
accordance with this instruction. Facilities include unaccompanied personnel housing, dining
facilities, clubs, libraries, service centers, gymnasiums, and other recreational areas. The
requirements of this instruction are mandatory when considering all memorialization actions,
including any that are not specifically covered in this instruction. Memorialization constitutes a
permanent and lasting honor. Once in effect, the renaming of any installation, street, building, or
facility is prohibited as long as the installation remains active except under unique
circumstances.
     1.1. When an installation closes, all memorializations that were put into effect during the
     history of that installation cease to exist. In unique circumstances, however, reinstating the
     names of certain individuals may be acceptable in order to preserve and continue the Air
     Force’s history and heritage. All requests to reinstate the names of individuals previously
     memorialized at closed installations will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Staff all
     such requests to the appropriate approval authority outlined in Table of Approval Authorities
     (Attachment 2).
     1.2. In cases where a building is condemned, torn down, or is renovated and reused for
     another function, the following actions may be taken: the name may be discontinued when
     no next of kin (NOK) can be located and no opposition is received from the public. If the
     NOK can be located, it is desirable and appropriate to secure favorable reaction to the
AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                         3


   discontinuance from the closest relative in the following order of precedence: spouse,
   children, parents, and then siblings, providing there is no opposition from the public; such
   might be the case where the memorialized individual was a favorite son or daughter and
   prominent in the history of the community. If the discontinuance is not compatible with the
   NOK and/or the public, the installation commander should retain the honoree’s name for the
   redesignated building. In this case, a courtesy letter from the commander to the NOK and/or
   the interested parties, notifying them of the change, is in order. A formal dedication
   ceremony is at the discretion of the commander; however, it is not required.
   1.3. The Air Force does not memorialize facilities that are not yet built or completed nor
   does it support ground-breaking dedications for future memorializations.
2. Guide to Selecting a Name. Consider only Air Force military members, Department of the
Air Force civilians (DAFC), and private sector citizens as outlined in the Table of Approval
Authorities (Attachment 2) when naming any Air Force real estate. Individuals who were
assigned to an air component of the United States Army (Army Air Corps) before the United
States Air Force became a separate military service are eligible for memorialization honors if
they had outstanding and honorable records. In unusual circumstances, it may be appropriate to
honor deceased military members other than Air Force personnel (Army, Navy, or Marine
Corps). In such instances, the Air Force Chief of Staff (CSAF) is the approval authority.
   2.1. Use only the surname of the individual being honored unless it is a name that might be
   confused or mistaken for another individual; e.g. ―Smith‖ or ―Jones‖. Do not duplicate or
   use names that are already assigned or used on the installation. As an example, if a street is
   named for a particular individual, do not name a building or facility for that same individual.
   When naming a medical facility, use only the names of members or individuals who were
   connected with the Air Force Medical Service.
       2.1.1. The only exception to duplication of a name is if a facility, room, or street is being
       named after the named base (i.e.: Randolph Bowling Center located on Randolph AFB).
       A formal dedication ceremony is at the discretion of the installation commander;
       however, it is not required.
   2.2. Submit all memorialization requests through command channels to the approval
   authority listed in the Table of Approval Authorities (Attachment 2). Include a biography
   on the individual, supporting data reflecting association of the person with the installation or
   real estate that is being named, a base map indicating the real estate that is being considered
   for naming, and a letter signed by the requesting office outlining what is being named, for
   whom, and what connection the person being memorialized has with the installation or real
   estate being considered for naming. Do not make disclosure of nominations prior to
   receiving approval. After receiving approval, but before announcement of a dedication
   ceremony, notify the NOK to ensure the memorialization action meets with their approval.
   In this respect, make no public announcements or other publicity prior to receiving
   concurrence from the memorialized individual or respective NOK.
   2.3. Select individuals of prominence or those whose careers or actions were important to
   and well known in the locality where memorialized. Conduct quality force reviews or
   background checks to ensure only deserving individuals are being honored. Possible sources
   to review when determining individual’s suitability for memorialization are:
 4                                                                 AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011


        2.3.1. Military personnel records prior to October 2004 (retired and deceased military
        members) are located at the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC), Air Force
        Reference Branch, 9700 Page Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63132-5100. Military personnel
        records after October 2004 (active duty, retired and deceased military members) are
        located at HQ AFPC/DPSIRP, 550 C Street West, Ste 19, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-
        4723.
        2.3.2. Civilian personnel records (retired and deceased DAFC), which are located at the
        NPRC, Civilian Personnel Records Branch, 111 Winnebago Street, St. Louis, MO 63118
        or at the NPRC Annex, 1411 Boulder Boulevard, Valmeyer IL 62295.
        2.3.3. Public libraries for archived newspaper articles.
        2.3.4. Local newspapers.
        2.3.5. Local courthouse records.
        2.3.6. Local Air Force Office of Special Investigations or Security Police.
        2.3.7. Family members, friends, acquaintances, and co-workers.

Section B—Naming an Installation

3. Policy. When naming an Air Force installation, ensure that only the most deserving
individuals are selected for memorialization actions. Selections should bring honor to the Air
Force and reflect the goodwill of the local community. Only a few major installations remain
unnamed. It is not possible to commemorate all Air Force heroes or persons who might be
eligible. Therefore, local civic groups and citizens should not be encouraged to advance names
for memorialization. Consider individuals in the following order of precedence when naming an
installation:
     3.1. National military heroes; that is, those who displayed conspicuous gallantry or heroism
     at the risk of life above and beyond the call of duty such as Medal of Honor recipients, and so
     forth.
     3.2. Individuals who performed highly responsible duties in an outstanding manner for the
     Air Force.
     3.3. Those individuals that have made a major contribution to the development or mission of
     the Air Force.
4. Processing Procedures for Naming Installations. Some Air Force installations continue to
retain their geographical identity. The geographical name may be used indefinitely or until a
suitable name is approved for public acceptance. If a proposal is made to rename such an
installation, the installation commander takes the following actions:
     4.1. From all names that are recommended, the wing commander advises, in writing, of the
     contemplated renaming action and the name being considered to:
        4.1.1. State and local government officials.
        4.1.2. City or town councils or similar organizations.
        4.1.3. Chambers of Commerce.
AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                   5


      4.1.4. Local postal officials.
   4.2. After obtaining the written concurrence from organizations listed above, the wing
   commander or vice commander sends the recommended name and supporting documentation
   to the Major Command (MAJCOM) Director of Manpower, Personnel and Services (A1).
   The MAJCOM/A1 forwards the proposal, with recommendations and supporting
   documentation, through the MAJCOM commander (CC), vice commander (CV), or staff
   director (CD) to HQ AFPC/DPSIDR for administrative review and consideration by the
   CSAF and the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF). The recommendation must be staffed
   well in advance (usually six months) of a desired ceremony date to allow for processing,
   approval, and any other actions.
   4.3. AFPC's Recognition Programs Section (AFPC/DPSIDR) notifies the MAJCOM/CC
   whether the proposal is approved or disapproved. The MAJCOM, in turn, informs the wing
   commander, who obtains the concurrence of the NOK. If the NOK nonconcur, inform the
   appropriate offices in the chain of command and discontinue the memorialization action.
   4.4. If approved, the wing commander refers the approved name to the Secretary of the Air
   Force Office of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) so they may advise interested congressional
   delegations and other citizens of national prominence so invitations may be extended for
   them to attend or take part in the dedication or memorialization ceremony. The wing
   commander also advises the Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) via
   its MAJCOM so that public announcements may be made.
5. Dedication Ceremonies. MAJCOMs should assist the installation in carrying out dedication
ceremonies for installations under their purview. After the SECAF approves the naming of an
installation, the MAJCOM commander, vice commander, or their designee:
   5.1. Sends a letter to the Air Force Real Estate Agency (AFREA/MI), 112 Luke Avenue,
   Room 104, Bolling AFB DC 20332-8020, and to HQ USAF Deputy Chief of Staff for
   Installations and Logistics, Bases, and Units (AF/A4/7), 1030 Air Force Pentagon,
   Washington DC 20330-1030, advising of the base’s name change.
   5.2. Coordinates directly with SAF/PA on a date for the ceremony. The effective date is
   usually set for 3 months after the date the Secretary of the Air Force approves the
   memorialization request.
   5.3. Sends a completed AF Form 1192, USAF Installations Characteristics Report, to HQ
   AFREA/MI, as shown in AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting.
   5.4. Sends a completed AF Form 532, Programming Actions Involving Units, Installation
   and Unit Equipment, to HQ USAF/A4/7, 1030 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-
   1030, as shown in AFI 16-403, Updating the USAF Program Installations, Units, and
   Priorities and Movement of Air Force Units.
   5.5. Appoints a project officer for the ceremony.     In conjunction with the MAJCOM
   protocol office, the project officer:
      5.5.1. Coordinates all arrangements for the dedication ceremony.
      5.5.2. Consults with the guest of honor or NOK, and according to existing policies,
      strives to satisfy their wishes regarding the ceremony.
 6                                                                AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011


       5.5.3. Ensures an escort or aide is appointed to the guest of honor or NOK on matters
       pertaining to the ceremony.
       5.5.4. Coordinates with the host wing commander to ensure transportation for the guest
       of honor and NOK (see paragraph 5.5.5.4.5).
       5.5.5. Invites interested congressional delegations to attend or take part in the
       ceremonies. Citizens of national prominence may also be invited. Discretion and good
       judgment are critical when extending invitations. The wing commander is required to
       advise SAF/LL when planning to invite members of Congress to a ceremony or official
       function. SAF/LL advises the members of Congress of the ceremony      before it is
       publicly announced. Specifically, the wing commander:
          5.5.5.1. Prepares a written invitation with reply requested to each member of an
          interested congressional delegation. Refer to AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with
          Congress, for additional guidance in extending invitations. Send the invitations
          directly to SAF/LL, 1160 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1160, for
          approval and dispatch at least 60 days before the ceremony.
          5.5.5.2. After approval is received from SAF/LL, makes public announcement about
          the ceremony.
          5.5.5.3. Advises SAF/PA when planning a ceremony or other official function to
          which citizens of national prominence, such as elected representatives, senior federal
          officials, Presidential appointees, state officials, and so forth, will be invited.
          5.5.5.4. The host (wing) commander:
              5.5.5.4.1. Sends the proposed guest list directly to SAF/PA at least 60 days
              before the ceremony.
              5.5.5.4.2. Holds all the invitations until SAF/PA has approved the proposed guest
              list.
              5.5.5.4.3. Sends an invitation to each guest after SAF/PA approves the proposed
              guest list.
              5.5.5.4.4. After these persons have been invited, makes a public announcement
              about the ceremony.
              5.5.5.4.5. Arranges transport for the honoree (if living) and one member of the
              honoree’s immediate NOK (surviving spouse, if not remarried), eldest child,
              mother and/or father (in this order), eldest sibling, or other beneficiary, if no close
              relatives are available. Refer to Joint Travel Regulation, Volume II, paragraphs
              C6000 and C6002-F, and AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders, for guidance on
              preparing invitational travel orders. Other guests desiring to attend the ceremony
              must travel at their own expense.

Section C—Naming a Street, Building, Room, Facility, Recreational Facility/Area, or Medical
Facility

6. Policy. CSAF, MAJCOM, and wing CCs or CVs have the authority to name areas, streets,
buildings, rooms and facilities in accordance with the Table of Approval Authorities
AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                            7


(Attachment 2). When naming areas, streets, buildings, or facilities, do not duplicate or use
names that are already in use on the installation or in the local community. When naming any
medical facility, use only the names of medical service personnel. All requests to name medical
facilities must be staffed to the CSAF for approval.
7. Processing Procedures for Naming Areas, Streets, Rooms, Buildings, and Facilities.
   7.1. Wing and MAJCOM CCs or CVs will ensure all memorialization requests are staffed
   and approved to the appropriate approval authority before obtaining the concurrence of either
   the NOK or the individual being considered for memorialization.
   7.2. Include in all memorialization requests, a letter signed by the wing CC or CV, stating
   what sources were reviewed to verify the individual’s background and that no derogatory
   information was found which would preclude the individual’s selection for memorialization
   honors.
   7.3. Staff the proposed memorialization action through the FSS/CC before sending it to the
   MAJCOM/CC or CV (if the approval authority lies at MAJCOM or CSAF level, as outlined
   in the Table of Approval Authorities (Attachment 2).
       7.3.1. For those memorialization actions requiring CSAF approval, staff the proposal
       though the MAJCOM commander or vice commander. The MAJCOM A1 staffs the
       request to AFPC's Recognition Programs Section (AFPC/DPSIDR), who staffs the
       request through Air Staff channels to the CSAF. Include in the request recommendation
       letters signed by the wing and MAJCOM commander or vice commander stating the
       achievements or contributions and association the individual had with the real estate
       contemplated for naming, and a biography on the individual.
       7.3.2. The recommendation must be staffed well in advance (usually six months) of a
       desired ceremony date to allow for processing, approval, and any other actions.
   7.4. After approval, a dedication ceremony may be conducted. Make arrangements for the
   dedication ceremony at least 3 months before the planned date. Requests for non-local travel
   authorization by commercial or government transportation may be authorized for the honoree
   (if living) and one member of the honoree’s immediate NOK (surviving spouse, if not
   remarried), eldest child, mother or father (in this order), eldest sibling, or other beneficiary, if
   no close relatives are available, to attend the dedication ceremony. Refer to paragraph
   5.5.5.4.5 for guidance on preparing invitational travel orders. Other guests who desire to
   attend the ceremony will travel at their own expense.
   7.5. If inviting members of Congress notify SAF/LL at least 60 days before the ceremony
   (see paragraph 5.5.5).
   7.6. When inviting citizens of national prominence (Cabinet members, heads of federal
   agencies and departments, Presidential appointees, and state governors), forward the
   proposed guest list to SAF/PA at least 60 days before the ceremony (see paragraph 5.5.5).
   7.7. Do not make public announcement until SAF/LL and SAF/PA notify interested parties.
8                                                               AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011


    7.8. Place a metal plaque identifying the person memorialized at the entrance of the building,
    facility, or room named. Refer to Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-120-01, Air Force Sign
    Standard, for standardization of sign material, color, style, and placement. An electronic
    copy of UFC 3-120-01 can be found at the Whole Building Design Guide website
    (http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/DOD/UFC/ufc_3_120_01.pdf).
    7.9. Send a letter to the installation historian and to HQ AFPC/DPSIDR, 550 C. Street West,
    Suite 12, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4714, within 30 days after the approval date of the
    memorialization.




                                             DARRELL D. JONES
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                    9


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-31, Personal Affairs, 27 September 1993
AFI 16-403, Updating the USAF Program Installations, Units, and Priorities and Movement of
Air Force Units, 25 January 2011
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting, 14 August 2008
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 28 December 2008
AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders, 16 January 2007
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 35-105, Community Relations, 26 January 2010
AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with Congress, 1 July 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Directive 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 8 May 2007
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard, 6 February 2003
Joint Travel Regulation, Volume II, 1 June 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 532, Programming Actions Involving Units, Installation and Unit Equipment
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1192, USAF Installations Characteristics Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CSAF—Air Force Chief of Staff
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DTM—Directive-Type Memorandum
FOA—Field Operating Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
PA—Privacy Act
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 10                                                               AFI36-3108 31 AUGUST 2011


                                           Attachment 2
                              TABLE OF APPROVAL AUTHORITIES

Table A2.1. Table of Approval Authorities.
      Area, Facility, Building,    The person being memorialized is:         Approval Authority:
      Street, Room to be
      named:

1     Installation                 Living or deceased military or civilian   SECAF
2     Medical facility (any        Living or deceased medical service        Chief of Staff, USAF
      size)                        member (medical facilities are named
                                   for medical service members only)
3     Area or Building (any        Living Air Force member                   Chief of Staff, USAF
      size)                        Living Department of the Air Force
                                   civilian (DAFC)
                                   Living or deceased private sector
                                   individual
4     Area, building or facility   Deceased Air Force member                 MAJCOM/CC or CV
      – 3,000 square feet or       Deceased DAFC
      larger
5     Area, building or facility   Deceased Air Force member                 Wing/CC or CV
      – less than 3,000 square     Deceased DAFC
      feet
6     Streets                      Living Air Force member                   Chief of Staff, USAF
                                   Living DAFC
                                   Living or deceased private sector
                                   individual
                                   Deceased Air Force member                 Wing/CC or CV
                                   Deceased DAFC
7     Rooms                        Living Air Force member                   MAJCOM/CC or CV
                                   Living DAFC
                                   Living or deceased private sector
                                   individual
                                   Deceased Air Force member                 Wing/CC or CV
                                   Deceased DAFC
