BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2903 UNITED
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                             STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
(USAFE)                                                                           Supplement

                                                                                         21 JULY 2009
                                                                                             Personnel

                                                   DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF AIR
                                                                       FORCE PERSONNEL

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                          www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KPF                                                      Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1KP
                                                                                 (SMSgt Dawn M. Collao)
                                                                                             Pages: 14


AFI 36-2903, 2 August 2006 incorporating Interim Change 1, 6 August 2007 is supplemented as
follows: This supplement applies to all United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) personnel. It does
not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Military Personnel Programs Section (HQ
USAFE/A1KPF) wrote this USAFE supplement and must approve all base supplements to this
instruction prior to being published. Units must send draft supplements along with AF Form 673, Air
Force Publication/Form Action Request, to HQ USAFE/A1KPF, Unit 3050 Box 25, APO AE 09094-
5025, or e-mail: USAFE/A1KPF@ramstein.af.mil. Ensure that any local policy/guidance,
publications, instructions or supplements are created in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-
360, Publications and Forms Management, and the USAFE supplement. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS): https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.


Table 1.1. (USAFE) Commander’s Responsibility.

 Installation            Installation Commanders will provide wear instructions for authorized
 Commanders              functional clothing in the local base supplement. Supplements must
                         be coordinated through Military Personnel Programs Section (HQ
                         USAFE/A1KPF), prior to publication (also see item number 7.2.2.1.
                         (Added) of this supplement).
 2                                                           AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009


Table 1.1. NOTES
3. (Added) Commander, USAFE (USAFE/CC) has approved the wear of the “Personal Hydration
System.” Installation commanders, will prescribe the wear of “Personal Hydration System” in their base
supplements.
Table 1.3. NOTES
11. (Added) When participating in formal military events such as promotion ceremonies, changes of
command, retirement and award ceremonies, dining-in/outs, and receiving distinguished visitors, the
appropriate blues combination, service or mess dress should be worn. The same applies when attending
special events (conferences, conventions, symposiums, meetings, and so forth) where the normal civilian
dress would make it more appropriate for members to wear a comparable uniform.
12. (Added) If Force Protection Condition (FPCON) CHARLIE or higher is declared, the uniform of
the day policy for all USAFE personnel command-wide is the Battle Dress Uniform (BDU) or Flight
Dress Uniform (FDU). While in FPCON CHARLIE or higher, either the standard issue BDU cap or the
woodland camouflage pattern baseball style cap with subdued rank insignia must be worn.
13. (Added) Numbered Air Force (NAF), Wing commanders and directors are authorized to establish
local uniform of the day guidance consistent with the provisions outlined in AFI 36-2903 and/or this
supplement. Field Operating Agencies (FOA) and Direct Reporting Units (DRU) will wear uniforms
appropriate to their duties and environment and as directed by their parent commander/commandant.
14. (Added) The FDU or BDU may be worn to off-base establishments to include short convenience
stops, eating at fast-food, and duty day lunch-time restaurants when local conditions allow. Members
will not wear these uniforms to off-base establishments for extended shopping, dining, socializing, or to
take part in any entertainment.
Figure 2.7. NOTES
4. (USAFE) Personnel center their respective subdued major command (MAJCOM) patch on the right
breast pocket, between the left and right edges and bottom of flap and pocket. All personnel newly
assigned to USAFE will have required patches sewn on their uniforms within 30 days of arrival. Center
a subdued unit emblem on the left breast pocket, except when an approved badge (security force, fire
protection, missile, etc.) is worn on this pocket. The approved badge takes precedence. Command and
unit patches will be subdued and approximately 3 inches in diameter. Installation commanders
designate which unit patches will be worn (e.g., NAF, wing, group, or squadron). Unit emblems must
be approved in accordance with AFI 84-105, Organizational Lineage, Honors and Heraldry, before they
can be worn. Publish information/guidance regarding which unit patch is worn by each assigned
organization in the local base supplement to AFI 36-2903. Personnel assigned to Headquarter (HQ)
USAFE staff will not wear unit patches. Patches will not be worn over the right pocket above the
nametape. The only authorized exception is the Honor and Elite Guard Patches. Patches will be sewn
on the uniform and not be affixed with Velcro or similar fasteners. Morale Patches are authorized for
wear upon USAFE/CC approval. The following are currently approved for wear: Master Crew Chief
Patch, Master Technician Patch, Prime Rib Patch, Honor Guard Patch, and the Elite Guard Patch.
Requests for development of a new morale patch should be routed through command channels to
Commander (USAFE/CC) for approval. Coordination with the MAJCOM functional manager is
mandatory for inclusion with the request. Commander’s request for morale patches will include
guidelines for wear, an explanation of the patch design, and a sketch, drawing, or photo of the proposed
patch. Approval for temporary morale patches (i.e., to commemorate an activity, exercise, or special
event) is delegated to no lower than the wing commander. Temporary morale patches (competitions),
AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009                                                                                                                                             3


once approved, are only worn 60 days prior to the event and no longer than 30 days after the event.
Morale patches will meet the requirements of AFI 84-105, must not exceed 3-by-3 inches in size, and
will be in good taste. A copy of all approved morale patches will be maintained by the local Military
Personnel flight (MPF) and a copy provided to HQ USAFE/A1KPF. If authorized, morale patches will
be centered above the right breast pocket, 1/2 inch above the nametape. When an authorized duty patch
(i.e. Professional Military Education [PME]) is worn in this position, a morale patch will not be worn.
The duty patch takes precedence.
5. (Added) Officers may wear either subdued cloth or subdued metal rank insignia. Officers who
routinely work or periodically visit the flightline or aircraft maintenance areas must wear subdued cloth
rank insignia. Patches will be sewn on and not affixed with Velcro or similar fasteners.
Figure 2.12. NOTES
6. (Added) Officers will wear non-subdued (shiny) grade insignia while in garrison and subdued grade
insignia when not in garrison. When FPCON CHARLIE or higher has been declared, either the
standard-issue BDU cap or the woodland camouflage-pattern baseball-style cap must be worn with
subdued grade insignia.

Table 2.1. (USAFE) Men’s Service and Dress Uniforms (see note).

      A               B                        C                    D                     E            F              G             H


 L
                       Service Dress Uniform



                                                                    Short Sleeved Shirt




  I
                                               Long Sleeved Shirt




 N
                                                                                                       Formal Dress

                                                                                                                      Semi-Formal




 E
                                                                                          Mess Dress




      Items                                                                                                                         Wear Instructions

 8.   Outer Garments                                                                                                                Liners of outer garments are not to be
                                                                                                                                    worn alone, as they are not
                                                                                                                                    authorized as an outer garment.
 4                                                                                 AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009


Table 2.2. (USAFE) Men’s Battle Dress Uniform.

      A                B                            C




                       Battle Dress Uniform (BDU)
 L
 I
 N    Items                                         Wear Instructions/Materials
 E




 6.   Headgear         X                            Hoods of parkas, field jackets, and outer garments are not
      (BDU Cap)                                     considered headgear. Therefore, when the hood is being used,
      Mandatory                                     appropriate headgear must be worn under the hood.

 7.   Organizational   X                            Approved organizational baseball caps may be worn while TDY
      Baseball Cap                                  to other USAFE-owned bases providing neither the temporary
                                                    duty (TDY) nor its location is related to a contingency. The
                                                    black or woodland camouflage-pattern baseball-style caps will be
                                                    the only style or color designated to be worn as organizational
                                                    baseball caps. The only authorized exceptions are Combat Arms
                                                    Training personnel. Combat Arms Training personnel are
                                                    authorized a red baseball cap with white letters “COMBAT
                                                    ARMS” on the front of the cap. The Combat Arms baseball cap
                                                    will only be worn when performing duties on the firing range.
                                                    The designated cap will have approved organizational letters,
                                                    numerals, badges, emblems, and/or patches affixed to it. All
                                                    badges, emblems, and patches must be in accordance with AFI
                                                    84-105. (NOTE: AFI 84-105 governs the dimensions of badges,
                                                    emblems, and patches; Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) is
                                                    Command History Office [HQ USAF/HO]). Units desiring to
                                                    wear organizational baseball caps submit requests in writing to
                                                    the installation commander through the MPF. Include a detailed
                                                    description of the hat to be worn, complete wear instructions, and
                                                    specific justification with your request. The MPF will maintain a
                                                    list of authorized organizational caps. For the black or red cap,
                                                    organizational letters and numeral colors will be limited to one
                                                    single color or one color outlined by a different color. The
                                                    woodland camouflage-pattern baseball-style cap will have only
                                                    approved, subdued letters, numerals, badges, emblems, or patches
                                                    affixed to it. Units can combine organizational letters and
                                                    numerals with badges, emblems, or patches. Higher HQ
                                                    coordination/approval is not required. HQ USAFE staff
AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009                                                                  5


                           personnel may wear the black cap with the modified USAFE
                           symbol in the center and the words “HQ USAFE” centered under
                           the symbol in white letters. The only other style hat authorized
                           for wear is the standard-issue BDU cap or the woodland
                           camouflage-pattern baseball-style cap. Separate directorate or
                           division caps are not authorized. Unless otherwise restricted by
                           installation supplements, these caps may be worn to off-base
                           establishments to include short convenience stops and eating at
                           fast food restaurants. During contingency operations and
                           deployments or when FPCON CHARLIE or higher has been
                           declared, all USAFE personnel (including Combat Arms
                           organizations) will wear either the standard issue BDU cap or the
                           woodland camouflage-pattern baseball-style cap.

 8.   Outer Garments       Liners of outer garments are not to be worn alone, as they are not
                           authorized as an outer garment. Officers who routinely work or
                           periodically visit the flightline or aircraft maintenance areas must
                           wear subdued cloth grade insignia with Gortex™ parka.

13.   Undershirt       X   Members of this command are authorized to wear black or brown
                           T-shirts. The long-sleeved black or brown turtleneck shirts,
                           dickies, or white or brown thermal undershirts are also
                           authorized. The olive-green sweater or sleeping shirt may be
                           worn under the BDU shirt only. Units desiring to wear
                           organizational T-shirts must submit requests in writing to the
                           installation commander through the MPF. The MPF will
                           maintain a list of authorized organizational shirts. Organizational
                           shirts from previous bases are not authorized.

14.   Other            X   Installation commanders will prescribe other functional clothing
                           authorized by Table of Allowance (TA)-016 in their base
                           supplements.
 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009



Table 2.3. (USAFE) Women’s Service and Dress Uniform (see notes).

         A            B                       C                                     D                              E                          F                  G                               H                                I            J              K                   L




                                                                                                                                                                 Long-Sleeved Maternity Blouse
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Short-sleeved Maternity Blouse
L



                                                                                                                    Maternity Service Dress
                      Service Dress Uniform


                                                                                    Short-Sleeved Blouse
I
                                              Long-Sleeved Blouse




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Semi-Formal Dress
                                                                                                                                              Maternity Jumper
N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Wear
         Items
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Instructions/Materials




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Formal Dress
E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mess Dress
12. Outer Garments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Liners of outer garments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  are not to be worn alone,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  as they are not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  authorized as an outer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  garment.


Table 2.4. (USAFE) Women’s Battle Dress Uniforms.

                                              A                                     B                              C

          Items
                                                   Maternity Battle Dress Uniform
                                                                                     Battle Dress Uniforms (BDU)




    L
     I
    N
    E




     6    Headgear                            X                                     X                              Hoods of parkas, field jackets, and outer garments are not
          (BDU Cap)                                                                                                considered headgear. Therefore, when the hood is being
          Mandatory                                                                                                used, appropriate headgear must be worn under the hood.
AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009                                                               7


     Organizational   X   X Approved organizational baseball caps may be worn while
     Baseball Cap           TDY to other USAFE-owned bases providing neither the
                            TDY nor its location is related to a contingency. The black or
                            woodland camouflage-pattern baseball-style caps will be the
                            only style or color designated to be worn as an organizational
                            baseball caps. The only authorized exceptions are Combat
                            Arms Training personnel. Combat Arms Training personnel
                            are authorized a red baseball cap with white letters
                            “COMBAT ARMS” on the front of the cap. The Combat
                            Arms baseball cap will only be worn when performing duties
                            on the firing range. The designated cap will have approved
                            organizational letters, numerals, badges, emblems, and/or
                            patches affixed to it. All badges, emblems, and patches must
                            be in accordance with AFI 84-105. (NOTE: AFI 84-105
                            governs the dimensions of badges, emblems, and patches;
                            OPR is Command History Office [HQ USAF/HO]). Units
                            desiring to wear organizational baseball caps submit requests
                            in writing to the installation commander through the MPF.
                            Include a detailed description of the hat to be worn, complete
                            wear instructions, and specific justification with your request.
                            The MPF will maintain a list of authorized organizational
                            caps. For the black or red cap, organizational letters and
                            numeral colors will be limited to one single color or one color
                            outlined by a different color. The woodland camouflage-
                            pattern baseball-style cap will have only approved, subdued
                            letters, numerals, badges, emblems, or patches affixed to it.
                            Units can combine organizational letters and numerals with
                            badges, emblems, or patches. Higher HQ coordination or
                            approval is not required. HQ USAFE staff personnel may
                            wear the black cap with the modified USAFE symbol in the
                            center and the words “HQ USAFE” centered under the
                            symbol in white letters. The only other style hat authorized
                            for wear is the standard-issue BDU cap or the woodland
                            camouflage-pattern baseball-style cap. Separate directorate or
                            division caps are not authorized. Unless otherwise restricted
                            by installation supplements, these caps may be worn to off-
                            base establishments to include short convenience stops and
                            eating at fast-food restaurants. Members will not wear these
                            caps to off-base establishments for extended shopping, dining,
                            socializing, or to take part in any entertainment. During
                            contingency operations or deployments or when FPCON
                            CHARLIE or higher has been declared, all USAFE personnel
                            (including Combat Arms organizations) will wear either the
                            standard-issue BDU cap or the woodland camouflage-pattern
                            baseball-style cap.
 8                                                           AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009


  7.   Outer             X    X Liners of outer garments are not to be worn alone, as they are
       Garments                 not authorized as an outer garment.

 7b.   Woodland          X    X Officers who routinely work or periodically visit the flightline
       Patterned                or aircraft maintenance areas must wear subdued cloth grade
       (Gortex Parka            insignia.
       and Pants)

 12.   Undershirt        X    X Members of this command are authorized to wear black or
                                brown T-shirts. The long-sleeved black or brown turtleneck
                                shirts, dickies, or white or brown thermal undershirts are also
                                authorized. The olive green sweater or sleeping shirt may be
                                worn under the BDU shirt only. Units desiring to wear
                                organizational T-shirts must submit requests in writing to the
                                installation commander through the MPF. The MPF will
                                maintain a list of authorized organizational shirts.
                                Organizational shirts from previous bases are not authorized.

 13    Other             X    X Installation commanders will prescribe other functional
                                clothing authorized by TA-016 in their base supplements.


Table 2.8. NOTES
3. (Added) No-Hat Area. Installation commanders specify in their base supplements where headgear
may be removed (flightline, motor vehicle maintenance compounds, civil engineering shops, etc.). No-
hat areas should be designated for mission or safety reasons only, not for convenience. Temporary no-
hat areas (for special functions) will be clearly marked. Keep designated no-hat areas to an absolute
minimum.
3.1.3. (Added) Functional Clothing Items. As a minimum, installation commanders provide wear
instructions in the base supplement to AFI 36-2903 for the following:
3.1.3.1. (Added) Stocking (Navy Watch) Cap. May be worn during inclement weather (as defined
by the installation commander) when the flight jacket, leather A-2 flying jacket, Cold Weather
Camouflage Parka (Gortex™), or BDU jacket is worn. Wear the sides of the watch cap down to cover
the ears to the maximum extent possible. Do not wear the watch cap rolled up on top of the head. The
seam of the cap will rest on the crown of the head. The watch cap may be worn throughout the
installation on breaks, lunch, and other quick convenience stops. It will not entirely replace the BDU
cap when the BDU cap is more appropriate. The watch cap may be worn to and from the installation
(while traveling in a Government Owned Vehicle [GOV] or Privately Owned Vehicle [POV]). The
watch cap will not be worn on stops off-base (i.e., eating or shopping) when you must exit your vehicle.
3.1.3.2. (Added)       Coveralls.   Installation commanders will determine style, accouterments, and
authorized wear areas.
3.1.3.3. (Added) Cold Weather Camouflage Parka (Gortex™). Wear cloth grade insignia, officer
and enlisted, centered on the jacket front tab when in-garrison. Remove or conceal grade insignia during
local exercises and contingency operations as directed by the installation commander.
AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009                                                                     9


3.1.3.4. (Added) Cold Weather Camouflage Pants (Gortex™). Cold Weather Camouflage Pants
may be worn during cold and inclement weather and will not be worn without the Gortex™ parka.
3.1.3.5. (Added) Winter Parka. Installation commanders will determine style, accouterments, and
authorized wear areas.
3.1.3.6. (Added) Reflective Tape, Belts, Jackets, and Arm Bands. Installation commanders will
determine style, accouterments, and required wear areas and times. Reflective belts will be worn
securely fastened around the waist or hips.
3.1.3.7. (Added) Flight Dress Uniforms. FDUs and jackets are worn as prescribed in Attachment 2.
Table 3.4. NOTES
8. (Added) USAFE Combat Arms Training personnel are authorized a red baseball cap with white
letters “COMBAT ARMS” on the front of the cap. The Combat Arms baseball cap will only be worn
when performing duties on the firing range.
4.2.4. (Added) Foreign Decorations. Foreign decorations must be approved by HQ USAFE/A1KPF.
Wear foreign awards and decorations as prescribed by AFI 36-2903 and the guidance provided by the
particular foreign nation. Do not modify the uniform to allow the wear of foreign awards or decorations
(i.e., addition of buttons or snaps).
4.2.4.1. (Added) Schützenschnur (German Marksmanship Award). This is an award not a
decoration. Approval to accept and retain this award is not automatic. Individuals must submit a
memorandum with commander’s recommendation, certificate, and citation to HQ USAFE/A1KPF for
approval. Upon approval, wear instructions will be provided to the member. Officer and enlisted
personnel may receive the award; however, only enlisted personnel are authorized to wear the award.
7.1.2.1. (Added) Uniform Boards. A summary of all uniform boards, either Air Force or USAFE,
will be provided to each installation Force Support Squadron (FSS)/ Mission Support Squadron (MSS)
commander for use in evaluating local dress and appearance proposals. The summary is furnished for
information purposes only and will not be used as implementation authority.
7.2.2.1. (Added) Processing Supplements. Base supplements are approved by HQ USAFE/A1KPF
prior to being published. Drafts with AF Form 673s, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request, are
sent to HQ USAFE/A1KPF, UNIT 3050 BOX 25, APO AE 09094-5025, or e-mail:
usafe.a1kpf@ramstein.af.mil.
7.4. (USAFE) Adopted Forms.
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request.



                                            CARLA H. GAMMON, Colonel, USAF
                                            Director, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
 10                                                      AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009


                                         Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-301 Volume 1_USAFE Supplement, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, 28 January 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006 and the USAFE Supplement, 6
December 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 84-105, Organizational Lineage, Honors and Heraldry, 1 February 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FDU—Flight Dress Uniform
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
SF—Security Forces
TA—Table of Allowance
TDY—Temporary Duty
TSgt—Technical Sergeant
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFE/CC—Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009                                                                       11


                                        Attachment 2 (Added)
                         USAFE AIRCREW FLIGHT DRESS UNIFORMS

A2.1. (Added) General. The Flight Dress Uniform (FDU) has traditionally identified aircrew members
with unique flying duties. Wear sleeves full length (not pushed up) and zip all zippers. When not
flying, the Velcro portion of the sleeves may be unfastened and tucked under the sleeve the width of the
Velcro fastener. Non-subdued accouterments; i.e., nametag, command emblem, etc. will be used on all
FDUs and jackets by all USAFE aircrews. FDUs will not be substituted for BDUs. Only individuals
authorized and issued FDUs in accordance with TA-016 are authorized FDU wear. Inactive aircrews in
USAFE are authorized wear of the FDU if they are Senior or Command Pilots, or Senior or Master
Aircrew.
A2.2. (Added) Sanitization. To ease removal of adornments (sanitization) during wartime or actual
periods of increased tension, attach adornments of FDUs with sage green Velcro tape for all aircrew
members. Remove all unit identifications from FDUs before flying any combat missions and during
exercises. The approval authority for wear of organizational emblems by aircrews in the alert
facility/area is delegated to wing commanders.
A2.3. (Added) Flight Jacket. The Nomex or the leather A-2 flying jacket may be worn with the FDU.
Jackets must be zipped at least halfway. Wear sleeves full length (not pushed up). See AFI 11-402,
Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges and AFI 36-2903, Table 3.6,
Authorized Individuals, for additional wear instructions on the leather A-2 flying jacket. Liners of outer
garments are not to be worn alone, as they are not outer garments.
A2.3.1. (Added) Cold Weather Camouflage Parka (Gortex™). Authorized for wear during
inclement weather conditions only. The Cold Weather Camouflage Parka (Gortex™) will not be worn
over the Brown Leather A-2 flight jacket or the Nomex flying jacket.
A2.4. (Added) Headgear:
A2.4.1. (Added) Flight Cap. Same requirements as listed in Table 2.1., line 11; and Table 2.3., line
13, of the basic instruction for service uniforms.

A2.4.2. (Added) Stocking (Navy Watch) Cap. May be worn during inclement weather (as defined
by the installation commander) when the flight jacket, leather A-2 flying jacket, Cold Weather
Camouflage Parka (Gortex™), or BDU jacket is worn. Wear the sides of the watch cap down to cover
the ears to the maximum extent possible. Do not wear the watch cap rolled up on top of the head. The
seam of the watch cap will rest on the crown of the head. The watch cap may be worn throughout the
installation on breaks, lunch, and other quick convenience stops. It will not entirely replace the BDU
cap when the BDU cap is more appropriate. The watch cap may be worn to and from the installation
(while traveling in a GOV or POV). The watch cap will not be worn on stops off-base (i.e. eating or
shopping) when you must exit your vehicle.
A2.5. (Added) Accouterments:
A2.5.1. (Added) Velcro Fasteners. Attach sage green Velcro fasteners as follows: Center a 2 inch
by 4 inch rectangular piece on the left breast of the FDU/Nomex™ jacket for placement of the name
patch. Center a silhouette shape of the USAFE command emblem on the right breast of the
FDU/Nomex™ jacket. Place a 3.5-by-3.5-inch square piece on each sleeve just below the shoulder for
authorized organizational/specialty patches.
 12                                                           AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009


A2.5.2. (Added) Rank Insignia. Officers will have non-subdued (shiny) cloth grade insignia sewn on
the shoulder of the flight coveralls and Nomex™ jacket, center grade insignia from the front to the back
of the epaulet, on the shoulder, and 5/8-inch from the shoulder seam. AFI 36-2903, Figure 2.13.
prescribes placement and size of general officers’ stars. Wing, group, or geographically separated units
(GSU) commanders will standardize wear of either subdued or plastic-covered metallic rank insignia.
NOTE: Mixing subdued cloth and plastic-covered metallic grade insignia is not authorized.

A2.5.3. (Added) Nametags. Name (in block letters) and appropriate aeronautical/operational badges
(wings) will be embroidered and will be silver (white) in color. Wings will be approximately 2 3/4
inches by 5/8 inch in size. Other badges/silhouettes to include the parachutist badge will be
proportioned accordingly. Members have the option of wearing either one or two badges (aeronautical
wings are mandatory). If two badges are worn, the aeronautical wings will be approximately two inches
wide to allow two badges to fit properly on the name tag. Badges and name are centered. The
installation commander will standardize nametags - identify the color of the cloth, color of embroidery,
color of print and other emblems or silhouettes for each organization (i.e., squadron, group, wing, etc.)
in their installation supplement. For officers, last name is mandatory; first name, initial(s), or common
nicknames are optional provided they are in good taste (e.g., member may use "SAMUEL P. JONES,"
"SAM JONES," "S. JONES," "ACE JONES," or "JONES"). For enlisted personnel; last name and
abbreviated rank (e.g., Staff Sergeant (SSgt), Technical Sergeant (TSgt), Master Sergeant (MSgt), etc.),
initial(s), or common nicknames are optional provided they are in good taste (e.g., member may use
"TSGT SAMUEL P. JONES," "TSGT SAM JONES," "TSGT S. JONES," "TSGT ACE JONES," or
"TSGT JONES"). For personnel assigned to the USAFE headquarters staff; last name is mandatory and
common nicknames are authorized provided they are in good taste. Cloth embroidered, black leather
backing, royal blue background (not navy, not light blue); yellow lettering, yellow border, and white
occupational badge are authorized. One aircraft silhouette (silver embroidery with black highlights) is
permitted to reflect the aircrew’s expertise in a specific major weapon system.
A2.6. (Added) Flight Dress Uniform. For HQ USAFE staff personnel, members may wear the FDU
configured for the flying unit to which they are currently attached.
A2.7. (Added) Organizational Emblems, Specialty Patches and Add On Patches.                 Optional
adornments from the emblems listed in paragraphs A2.9.1. (Added) or A2.10.1. (Added) are authorized
for wear and may be put on FDUs at the discretion of the wing commander. Standardize optional
adornments throughout the wing. Only one emblem may be worn on each sleeve in addition to the
Standardization and Evaluation (Stan/Eval) emblem and will be centered below the shoulder seam. Do
not cover the pencil pocket.
A2.8. (Added) Command Emblem. Wear the USAFE command emblem on all FDUs, centered above
the right breast pocket. The emblem will be similarly located on the Nomex™ flight jacket or the
leather A-2 flying jacket. Use only the non-subdued, standard size (3 inches by 3 inches) command
emblem on all FDUs and on the Nomex™ flight jacket. Use only the non-subdued, over-size (4 inches
by 4 inches) command emblem on the leather A-2 flying jacket.
A2.9. (Added) Authorized Right Sleeve Patch. A vivid emblem, approximately 3 inches by 3 inches
in size, of either the squadron assigned to for flying or the unique emblem of the wing assigned to (if
not, emblem of the squadron assigned to).
A2.9.1. (Added) Freedom’s Guardian Emblem.
AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009                                                                       13


A2.10. (Added) Authorized Left Sleeve Emblem. A vivid emblem, approximately 3 inches by 3
inches in size, of one of the following:
A2.10.1. (Added) The aircraft unique (such as F-15, F-16, etc.) specialty patch.
A2.10.2. (Added) The Aircrew Standardization and Evaluation (Stan/Eval) Emblem. Personnel
assigned to HQ USAFE, wing, or group Stan/Eval sections affix the patch to the left sleeve of the flight
coverall/jacket with the top of the patch even with the shoulder seam.
A2.10.3. (Added) Organization emblem, unit of assignment (HQs, NAF, Wing, Group) (with
flight safety patch, if appropriate).
A2.10.4. (Added) Allied Air Force Central Europe (AAFCE) Tactical Leadership Program Patch.
A2.10.5. (Added) Fighter Weapons Instructor Course Patch.
A2.10.6. (Added) Residency in Aerospace Medicine Patch.
A2.10.7. (Added) Critical Care Air Transport Team Patch.
A2.10.8. (Added) United States National Flag Patch.
A2.10.9. (Added) Expeditionary USAFE “Light, lean and lethal” Patch.
A2.10.10. (Added) Inspector General’s (IG) Inspector General Patch.
A2.10.11. (Added) USAFE North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)/Weapons Competition Team
Emblem. May be worn during preparation for the competitions, during the competitions, and for 6
months thereafter, while assigned to USAFE.
A2.10.12. (Added) USAFE Safety Patch. Personnel assigned to Safety (HQ USAFE/SE) wear the
HQ USAFE Safety patch. Wear the patch on the left sleeve of the flight coveralls/jacket with the top of
the emblem even with the shoulder seam.
A2.10.13. (Added) Specialty Upgrade Patches. Forward Air Controller Airborne (FAC-A), Combat
Search and Rescue (CSAR), and Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses (SEAD).
A2.11. (Added) Neckwear. Installation commanders have the authority to establish wear policy to
include standardized unit or wing colors for their installations. If scarves are authorized for wear, they
will be worn around the neck and tucked in, and the FDU must be zipped to within approximately 3
inches of the neckline. Scarves will not be worn during flight operations.
A2.12. (Added) Socks. White or black; must be plain without design or colored bands.
A2.13. (Added) Footwear. Wear authorized laced or belted black leather flight boots. Installation
commanders may authorize wear of jungle boots when not in flight. Flight boots may have zipper
inserts.
A2.14. (Added) Undergarments. Appropriate undergarments are mandatory. Undershirts must be v-
neck, u-neck, or crew neck. Undershirts may be athletic style, sleeveless, or T-shirt style and must be
brown or black in color. Undershirts with pockets are prohibited when wearing the FDU. Black or
brown turtlenecks, mock turtlenecks, and dickies may be worn with the FDU.
A2.15. (Added) Other Standard Flight Clothing. Wear gloves, helmets, and other flight clothing as
prescribed in AFI 11-301V1_USAFESUP, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program.
 14                                                         AFI36-2903_USAFESUP 21 JULY 2009


                                       Attachment 3 (Added)
                      USAFE SECURITY FORCES (SF) BIKE UNIFORMS

A3.1. (Added) General. The following bike patrol uniforms are authorized for wear within USAFE.
Members will maintain normal dress and appearance standards when wearing the bike patrol uniform.
A3.2. (Added) Authorized SF bike uniforms during warm weather conditions are as follows:
A3.2.1. (Added) Shirt. Polo-type shirt with the SF shield embroidered or printed on the left chest area
where a pocket would ordinarily be. Shirts will be white or other conservative color, and be
standardized within each unit.
A3.2.2. (Added) Shorts. Blue or black biking shorts with reinforced padding or “coaching type
shorts.”
A3.2.3. (Added) Headgear. White bicycle helmet, coordinate headgear selection with the local safety
office.
A3.2.4. (Added) Footwear. Plain white or black sneaker-type shoes.
A3.2.5. (Added) Protective Clothing. Issue black leather or plain black biking gloves (if worn).
A3.3. (Added) Authorized SF bike uniforms during cold or inclement weather conditions are as
follows:
A3.3.1. (Added) Jacket. Yellow rain jacket (if worn).
A3.3.2. (Added) Shirt. Long-sleeved shirt
A3.3.3. (Added) Trousers. Full-length pants may be substituted for the biking shorts.
A3.3.4. (Added) Jacket. The SFs jacket may be worn when wearing full-length pants.
A3.4. (Added) Current SFs uniforms are authorized for bike patrols.
