BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-2001
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                30 MARCH 2006

                                                                                      90TH SPACE WING
                                                                                            Supplement 1
                                                                                          28 MARCH 2006

                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                        THE FIRE PROTECTION OPERATIONS AND
                                                                   FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFCESA/CEXF (Mr. James Hotell)                                     Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CC
                                                                                      (Col H. Dean Bartel)
Supersedes AFI 32-2001, 1 September 1997                                                        Pages: 45
                                                                                           Distribution: F

                                      (90SW)
OPR: 90 CES/CEF (Mr. Delbert Hammond)      Certified by: 90 CES/CC (Lt Col Joe G. Ballard)
Supersedes AFI32_2001_90SWSUP1,                                                 Pages: 20
           15 August 2002                                                  Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Protection, and DoD Instruc-
tion (DoDI) 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program, Department of Labor – Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), and National Fire Pro-
tection Association (NFPA) standards as Air Force policy unless otherwise directed in DoD or Air Force
instructions. It applies to personnel who develop and implement fire protection and fire prevention pro-
grams at Air Force installations, facilities, and contractor-operated facilities. This instruction does not
apply to Reserve or Air National Guard firefighters in training status. Refer to AFI 10-210, Prime Base
Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program, and applicable Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
supplements. Users should send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommen-
dation for Change of Publication, through major commands (MAJCOM), Air National Guard, and
HQ AFCESA, 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319 to HQ USAF/ILEO, 1260 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1260.

(90SW) This instruction implements AFI32_2001_90SWSUP1, 15 August 2002, The Fire Protection
Operations and Fire Prevention Program, AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 5 August 2003, and
establishes policies, procedures and prohibitions concerning the fire protection program. This instruction
is applicable to all Air Force facilities, tenant facilities and structures located on and off of F.E. Warren
Air Force Base. Objectives are to prevent fires and reduce the fire loss. Effective fire prevention serves a
2                                                          AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


dual purpose: reduces the number of fire and enables safer and more effective fire suppression. Prevention
of fire incidents is a never-ending task, and it is incumbent upon every member of this installation to apply
positive thinking and actions. This instruction forms the blueprint for the structure of the installation fire
prevention program. It provides a definite field of activity for every individual within the installation. Vig-
orous support at all levels will effect a substantial reduction in the fire incident rate. This directive sets
forth policies and procedures regarding turning in false alarms, tampering with or misuse of fire protec-
tion systems or devices by Air Force military or civilian personnel, including the Air Force Reserve. Fail-
ure to observe the provisions of this directive in paragraph 3.7. by military personnel is a violation of
Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Violations by civilian employees may result in
administrative disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws.
(90SW) Maintain and dispose of any records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance
with the Air Records Disposition Schedule (AFRIMS). Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program,
for documents containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoD Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Sup-
plement/AFSPCSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Air Force Supplement, Chapter 4, for
documents containing For Official Use Only information.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
This revision redefines voting and non-voting members on the Fire Protection Council (1.3.); clarifies
base fire marshal responsibilities (paragraph 1.5.); broadens scope of fire chief duties (paragraph 1.6.);
defines responsibilities and levels of authority having jurisdiction (paragraph 1.7.); provides fire protec-
tion program mission statement (paragraph 2.1.); adopts as Air Force policy OSHA regulations and NFPA
standards, with some Air Force modifications (paragraph 2.2.); formalizes Operational Risk Management
(ORM) plan process (paragraph 2.3.2.); requires installation fire protection and prevention services (para-
graph 3.1.); clarifies procedures for obtaining deviations and submission of Operational Risk Manage-
ment (ORM) plans (paragraph 3.1.1.); identifies minimum staffing requirements (paragraph 3.1.2.);
provides installation commander authority to reduce capability levels (paragraph 3.1.2.1.); limits addi-
tional duties of fire protection personnel (paragraph 3.1.2.3.); redefines firefighter duty badge wear crite-
ria (paragraph 3.1.4.); adds a requirement for the installation commander to approve mutual aid
agreements (paragraph 3.1.7.); clarifies certification, education, and training references and documenta-
tion requirements (paragraph 3.2.); requires development of pre-incident plans (paragraph 3.3.); specifies
requirements for pre-incident plans (paragraph 3.3.2.); establishes rescue team criteria (paragraph 3.3.3.;
requires emergency medical response protocols (paragraph 3.3.4.); establishes annual reporting of OSHA
and NFPA standard compliance (paragraph 3.3.5.); incorporates NFPA aircraft emergency response time
criteria (paragraph 3.3.7.); requires assignment of a fire department safety officer at off-base responses
(paragraph 3.3.9.); adds a requirement to maintain a reserve quantity of fire fighting agents (paragraph
3.3.11.); requires a minimum of two radio frequencies for fire department use (paragraph 3.3.12.);
requires the fire chief to follow specific Air Force publications (paragraph 3.4.); further defines types of
systems to be maintained (paragraph 3.6.); clarifies the role of the fire chief in performing design plan
reviews (paragraph 3.7.).
(90SW) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Attachment 8
(Added) was revised and renumbered. A bar ( | ) indicates revision from the previous edition.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                                                  3


    1.   Functional Area Responsibilities: ..............................................................................            4
    2.   Installation Fire Protection and Prevention Program: ................................................                       5
    3.   Program Elements: .....................................................................................................     6
    4.   Forms Prescribed .......................................................................................................   11

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                     12

Attachment 2— TRAINING PROGRAM                                                                                                      15

Attachment 3— FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSES                                                                                             17

Attachment 4— AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE PROTECTIONAND
             HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT RESPONSE (US)                                                                             19

Attachment 5— SAMPLE FORMAT FOR AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE
             PROTECTION (FOREIGN)                                                                                                   21

Attachment 6— RELEASE OF CLAIMS AND INDEMNIFICATION CLAUSE
             FOR CIVIL AIRPORT JOINT-USE AGREEMENTS                                                                                 23

Attachment 7— SAMPLE CONSOLIDATED MAJCOM METRIC                                                                                     24

Attachment 8—(Added-90SW) FRANCIS E. WARREN AIR FORCE BASE FIRE
             PROTECTION AND PREVENTION PROGRAM                                                                                      25
4                                                        AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


1. Functional Area Responsibilities:
    1.1. HQ USAF:
       1.1.1. HQ USAF/ILE. The Office of The Civil Engineer provides fire protection and prevention
       program policy and functional oversight.
       1.1.2. HQ USAF/ILEO. The Operations and Maintenance Division in the Office of The Civil
       Engineer is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for fire protection and prevention program
       policy development.
    1.2. HQ AFCESA/CEXF. The Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency’s Fire Protection Division
    is the Office of the Chief, Air Force Fire Protection. HQ AFCESA/CEXF provides technical services
    to the major commands, assists The Civil Engineer with oversight of fire protection programs, and
    implements standards to support fire protection and prevention programs.
    1.3. Air Force Fire Protection Council. The Fire Protection Council is responsible to The Civil Engi-
    neer for formulating proposed standards, technical policy, and program goals. All proposed initiatives
    and programs are coordinated with AFCESA/CC and presented to the Readiness Working Group for
    approval. Voting membership consists of the Chief, Air Force Fire Protection (Chairperson), com-
    mand fire chiefs or designated representatives, and Chief of Air National Guard Fire Protection or
    designated representative. Advisors to the council include representatives from Louis F. Garland Fire
    Academy, Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL/MLQC),
    and Air Force Materiel Command (ASC/WMO and WR-ALC/LES).
    1.4. Major Commands and Field Operating Agencies. Commanders execute fire protection policy
    within their commands.
    1.5. Base Fire Marshal. The Base Civil Engineer is designated as the base fire marshal and is respon-
    sible to the installation commander for the effective and efficient execution of the installation’s fire
    protection program. Additionally, the fire marshal provides the fire chief with the necessary support
    to ensure the highest possible priority and funding of fire protection and prevention initiatives to
    accomplish mission support. For bases where the Base Operating Support is outsourced/privatized,
    the Support Group Commander is the base fire marshal.
    1.6. Fire Chief. The fire chief is directly responsible to the Base Civil Engineer for determining the
    resources required for the installation’s overall fire protection program. The fire chief will establish
    and implement an effective fire protection and prevention program, including hazardous materials,
    mutual aid, initial emergency medical care, confined space rescue, and emergency response programs.
    1.7. Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ):
       1.7.1. HQ USAF/ILE is the overall AHJ for Air Force fire protection policy and approval of per-
       manent deviations to NFPA standards.
       1.7.2. The Major Command Civil Engineer (MAJCOM/CE) is responsible for execution, over-
       sight, and compliance with DoD, Air Force, and OSHA regulations and NFPA standards as imple-
       mented by the Air Force. The MAJCOM/CE is the AHJ for approval of long-term (more than
       18-month) deviations to NFPA standards. MAJCOM/CEs forward all requests for permanent
       deviations to NFPA standards to HQ USAF/ILE for approval. They ensure that installation pro-
       grams are provided with high priority and funding to maintain compliance with this program.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                        5


      They are also responsible for validation and coordination of permanent deviations that are for-
      warded to HQ USAF/ILE.
      1.7.3. The installation commander is the AHJ to approve the processes, procedures, and programs
      developed locally for compliance with this instruction. The installation commander is the AHJ for
      approval of short-term (less than 18-month) deviations. The AHJ must ensure programs are
      assigned an appropriate priority for the associated risk and adequate funding for correction and
      compliance. They also approve Operational Risk Management (ORM) plans for deviations and
      forward to the MAJCOM/CE/SE. ORM plans must: (1) identify functional areas where the
      installation fails to comply with Air Force fire protection policies; and (2) quantify the operational
      restrictions or other appropriate mitigating actions that fully offset the installation’s failure to
      explicitly comply with those Air Force standards.

2. Installation Fire Protection and Prevention Program:
   2.1. Mission Statement. By authority of DoDI 6055.6, the Air Force Fire Protection program is
   established. The mission of Air Force Fire Protection is to provide fire and emergency services to pre-
   vent and minimize losses to Air Force lives, property, and the environment occurring in periods of
   peace, war, military operations other-than-war, and humanitarian support operations. These include
   both man-made and natural incidents requiring fire protection, rescue, hazardous material, and emer-
   gency medical responses.
   2.2. Installation Commanders. Installation commanders will establish and execute comprehensive
   installation fire protection and fire prevention programs. These programs execute DoDI 6055.6,
   DoDI 6055.6-M, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Certification Program, AFPD 32-20, OSHA reg-
   ulations, and NFPA standards as implemented by the Air Force. The installation commander is
   responsible for allocating manpower and resources for the fire department as required by this instruc-
   tion and other applicable Air Force standards.
   2.3. Fire Chiefs develop and implement management plans for the following areas and functions:
      2.3.1. Fire risk management plans and operational policies when resources and staffing levels fall
      below Air Force standards.
      2.3.2. ORM plans when the fire department fails to comply with DoD and Air Force instructions,
      OSHA regulations, and NFPA standards (see paragraph 1.7.3.). This includes ORM plans which
      ensure firefighter safety by either (1) appropriately restricting emergency activities when OSHA
      regulations preclude normal emergency operations; or (2) establishing alternative procedures for
      safe operations.
      2.3.3. Firefighter occupational safety and health program.
      2.3.4. Procedures to ensure environmental pollution control during all fire protection activities.
      2.3.5. Hazardous materials emergency response. The fire department’s role during hazardous
      materials emergency response is to respond to the incident to provide command and control, res-
      cue, extinguishment, and containment actions based on the conditions present. Once these actions
      have been accomplished, the fire department’s involvement reverts to a support role. Neutraliza-
      tion, recovery, cleanup, and disposition of hazardous waste are accomplished by trained experts in
      related fields and are not hazardous materials (HAZMAT) emergency response team functions.
6                                                        AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


       2.3.6. Response to incidents occurring in rough and difficult-to-reach terrain and off-installation
       Airfield Installation Compatibility Use Zone (AICUZ) areas.
       2.3.7. Selective response procedures to reduce the number of aircraft rescue and fire fighting
       vehicles responding to an emergency when appropriate.
       2.3.8. Confined space rescue.
       2.3.9. Emergency medical response.
       2.3.10. Off-installation responses.

3. Program Elements:
    3.1. Management. Each installation will provide fire protection and prevention services.
       3.1.1. Fire Protection Deviations. Installation commanders submit proposed deviations to DoDI
       6055.6, AFPD 32-20, AFMAN 32-2003, Air Force Fire Fighter Certification Program, OSHA
       regulations, NFPA standards, and this instruction through their major command civil engineer. If
       approved by the MAJCOM/CE, forward to HQ USAF/ILE, 1260 Air Force Pentagon, Washington
       DC 20330-1260. Provide an information copy to HQ AFCESA/CC, 139 Barnes Drive Suite l,
       Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319. Deviations will be submitted in the form of an ORM plan that fully
       addresses the proposed non-compliance and alternative measures at the installation, in accordance
       with paragraph 1.7. of this instruction.
       3.1.2. Fire Protection Staffing and Vehicles. DoDI 6055.6; Air Force Manpower Standard 44EF,
       Fire Protection (AFRC and ANG MAJCOM utilize individual manpower standards); Allowance
       Standard 019, Vehicle Fleet (Registered) All MAJCOM Common; OSHA regulations; and NFPA
       standards outline minimum acceptable staffing and equipage requirements. Air Force fire depart-
       ments are staffed and equipped to respond to one major aircraft, structural, or hazardous material
       incident at a time. The fire chief and Base Civil Engineer will ensure the installation commander
       is informed of the fire department's capabilities. The fire chief will establish standard operating
       procedures on incident response priorities for approval by the installation commander.
           3.1.2.1. Staffing Reduction. Installation commanders have the authority to reduce levels of
           aircraft rescue and fire fighting capabilities during periods when the flight control tower is not
           operational due to non-flying, and combined with no aircraft ground servicing or maintenance.
           Staffing will not be reduced below the level required to meet regulatory requirements for
           structural fire fighting and hazardous material incidents. This includes ensuring sufficient
           staffing is on hand to respond the minimum required aircraft rescue and fire fighting (ARFF)
           vehicles to initiate fire suppression actions and provide fire fighting agent and water resupply.
           3.1.2.2. Memorandum of Agreement. Commanders may establish a Memorandum of Agree-
           ment (MOA) with civilian communities or other government agencies to offset internal levels
           of fire protection staffing and equipage. MOAs of this type must be coordinated with the
           major command civil engineer and comply with AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Author-
           ities.
           3.1.2.3. Additional Duties or Details. Fire protection personnel will not be assigned additional
           duties or details outside of the fire department when it compromises mission support and Air
           Force acceptable levels of risk for safe fire fighting operations. The fire chief determines
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                      7


          when additional duties or details impact mission support or acceptable levels of risk and
          advises the base civil engineer and installation commander.
       3.1.3. Fire Fighting Support Equipment. Fire chiefs will maintain sufficient stock levels of fire
       fighting support equipment. Allowance Standard 490, Civil Engineer Fire Protection Support and
       Aircraft Crash Rescue Equipment, provides the primary basis of issue. The fire chief determines
       the reserve levels of specialized equipment. Fire departments will record inspections of equip-
       ment not maintained on vehicles on AF Form 1071, Inspection and Maintenance Record, or
       automated product.
       3.1.4. Fire Protection Badge. AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Personnel, and
       AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees, prescribe the wear of the fire protection badge.
       There are four fire protection duty-level badges:
          3.1.4.1. Firefighter (one bugle).
          3.1.4.2. Assistant chief (operations, prevention, and training) (gold shield with three bugles).
          3.1.4.3. Assistant chief for operations, readiness and logistics (gold shield with four bugles).
          3.1.4.4. Fire chief and fire marshal (gold shield with five bugles).
NOTE: Instructors at the Louis F. Garland Fire Academy may wear the firefighter duty badge. Air Staff,
major command, and Inspector General Team fire protection representatives may wear the fire chief’s
duty badge.
       3.1.5. Investigations of Fire Incidents. Wing commanders ensure investigations are performed in
       accordance with AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
       3.1.6. Fire Department Emergency Responses. Fire chiefs report emergency responses in accor-
       dance with the automated DoD Fire Incident Reporting System (DFIRS), and Attachment 3.
       3.1.7. Mutual Aid Agreements. The fire chief manages Mutual Aid Agreements in accordance
       with Attachment 4 (US) and Attachment 5 (Foreign) of this AFI. If the Air Force provides fire
       fighting services at joint-use civilian airports, include a release and indemnification clause in
       accordance with Attachment 6 of this AFI. Mutual aid agreements, and emergency responses to
       local communities not covered by mutual aid agreements, must be approved by the installation
       commander.
          3.1.7.1. Fire chiefs and their assistants must coordinate with local agencies to familiarize each
          other with the incident management system used by each emergency response agency and the
          level at which these agencies comply with NFPA 1500, Fire Department Occupational Safety
          and Health Program, operational safety requirements. It is critical that off-base agencies be
          aware of NFPA 1500 requirements and the Air Force requirement to appoint a fire ground
          safety officer at any incident if one has not been appointed.
          3.1.7.2. Off-Base Surveys. Installation fire departments annually survey those areas sur-
          rounding the base where they may be called upon to provide mutual aid or assistance to ensure
          a full understanding of potential hazards. The installation fire department will obtain copies of
          civilian fire department emergency response plans for high hazard areas where they may be
          requested to provide assistance.
8                                                        AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


    3.2. Certification, Education, and Training. The fire chief will establish a certification and profi-
    ciency training program. All military AFSC 3E7XX, civilian GS-081, local national, and contrac-
    tor-operated fire department members will be certified by the DoD Fire and Emergency Services
    Certification Program in accordance with DoDI 6055.6-M, AFMAN 32-2003, AFI 32-4002, Hazard-
    ous Material Emergency Planning and Response Compliance, and the CerTest Computer-Based Test-
    ing Procedural Guide. Civilian employees must be certified at the next higher level to be eligible for
    promotion to that level. Military members must be certified in accordance with the Career Field Edu-
    cation and Training Plan (CFETP). Minimum proficiency training requirements are listed at Attach-
    ment 2. Trainers will record all training on AF Form 1085, Fire Protection Training Report, and
    the appropriate certification program documentation, or automated products.
       3.2.1. Training Facilities. HQ AFCESA/CEXF is responsible for investigating effective,
       cost-efficient methods to provide proficiency and certification training. HQ AFCESA/CESM
       maintains environmentally acceptable design plans and drawings for aircraft live fire training
       facilities. Aircraft live fire training facilities will be maintained and operated in accordance with
       Technical Order (TO) 35E1-2-13-1, Operation and Maintenance Instructions Crash Fire Rescue
       Training Facility. Structural fire training facility designs and commercially procured products
       must satisfy the performance test elements of Firefighter II, as specified in NFPA 1001, Standard
       for Firefighter Professional Qualifications. Structural fire training facilities using liquid petro-
       leum gas for fire training will meet national safety standards.
       3.2.2. Firefighter Fitness/Wellness Program. All military AFSC 3E7XX, civilian GS-081, local
       national, and contract firefighters whose position descriptions require participation in fire fighting
       operations (to include fire chiefs, assistant chiefs, and fire inspectors) will participate in the HQ
       USAF Surgeon General approved DoD fitness/wellness program. This program is designed to
       insure that firefighters sustain a minimum degree of physical fitness and well being. Firefighter
       physical fitness will also be observed during emergency responses and training sessions. Individ-
       uals not physically capable of performing essential job functions, or who otherwise represent a
       direct threat to the public safety or the safety of coworkers will be referred to the appropriate med-
       ical authority for a fitness-for-duty evaluation in accordance with Title 5, Code of Federal Regula-
       tions, Part 339, Medical Qualification Determination, current edition.
       3.2.3. Emergency Medical Training. Personnel designated by the fire chief will be trained to at
       least the Emergency Medical Technician-Basic (EMT-B) level to support installation response and
       patient stabilization during medical emergencies. The fire chief will determine the number of
       EMT-Bs required for each shift and at outlying stations. The fire department will meet the mini-
       mum requirements outlined in DoDI 6055.6-M-1, DoD Standardized Emergency Medical Services
       Program (Draft).
       3.2.4. On-Scene Commander Training. The Fire Chief, Assistant Chief for Operations, Readiness
       and Logistics, Assistant Chief for Operations, Assistant Chief for Training, and other designated
       senior fire officials will attend the On-Scene Commanders Course as specified in AFI 32-4002.
    3.3. Operations. The fire department and other disaster response organizations must coordinate
    emergency response actions by developing pre-incident plans.
       3.3.1. Fire Protection Incident Management System. The Air Force uses NFPA 1561, Fire
       Department Incident Management System, and the National Fire Academy's incident command
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                       9


     system, as modified by AFMAN 32-4004, Contingency Response Operations, as the standard for
     emergency responses.
     3.3.2. Pre-Incident Plans. Fire chiefs will determine the need and develop pre-incident plans for
     potential high fire- and life-risk facilities, hazardous operations, and assigned/transient aircraft.
     Facility pre-incident plans are recorded on an AF Form 1028, Facility Pre-Fire Plan, or auto-
     mated product. Aircraft pre-incident plans are recorded on an AFTO Form 88, Aircraft Pre-Fire
     Plan (TO 00-105E-9, Aircraft Emergency Rescue Information), or automated product. HQ AFC-
     ESA/CEX is responsible for the development and maintenance of TO 00-105E-9. The technical
     order provides aircraft emergency rescue, fire fighting, and hazardous materials information and
     procedures.
     3.3.3. Rescue Teams. The fire chief will establish a dedicated rescue team(s) for each shift. Fire-
     fighters perform first-aid emergency medical care within the legal limits of their training. Rescue
     team members must be: (1) DoD-certified at the Fire Fighter II and Airport Fire Fighter levels (for
     installations without a flying mission only Fire Fighter II certification is required), and (2) a grad-
     uate of, or scheduled to attend, the AETC or USAFE Fire Fighter Rescue Course.
     3.3.4. Emergency Medical Responses. With the approval of the installation and medical care
     facility (MCF) commanders, the fire department may provide installation initial response and
     patient stabilization during medical emergencies. Emergency care protocols for the fire depart-
     ment must be developed and approved by the MCF commander. MCF commanders are responsi-
     ble to fund emergency medical logistics, provide EMT training, and certification to meet locally
     established protocols and DoD requirements.
     3.3.5. Occupational Safety and Health. NFPA 1500 contains policy for firefighter safety and
     health in all Air Force fire departments. This program will be fully integrated into the installa-
     tion’s Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) and MAJCOM Environmental, Occu-
     pational Safety and Health (EOSH) programs. The fire chief will complete and forward the NFPA
     1500 Fire Department Occupational Safety and Health Program Worksheet provided in NFPA
     1500, Appendix B, to their MAJCOM fire chief each year by 1 September. This worksheet sub-
     mission will include an approved ORM plan for all non-compliance areas and will be maintained
     on file at the MAJCOM. MAJCOMs will consolidate base level inputs using the same worksheet.
     MAJCOMs will forward the consolidated worksheet and consolidated MAJCOM metric (Attach-
     ment 7) to HQ AFCESA/CEX each year by 1 October. ORM plans will be developed by the fire
     chief and approved by the installation commander for non-compliance with OSHA and NFPA
     1500 requirements.
     3.3.6. Fire Department Safety Officer. During an emergency, the senior fire official on-scene is
     responsible for incident safety. When the situation dictates, the senior fire official will assign an
     incident safety officer. Once assigned, the safety officer has the authority to alter, suspend, or ter-
     minate those activities deemed unsafe.
     3.3.7. Aircraft Emergency Response Requirements. Aircraft fire fighting, rescue and support
     vehicles must be capable of responding to any incident on the runways or overruns within one
     minute after pre-positioning for a pre-announced emergency. For unannounced emergencies, at
     least one primary aircraft fire fighting vehicle must reach the end of the furthest runway within
     three minutes from the time of dispatch from the airfield fire station. The remaining primary air-
10                                                          AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


        craft fire fighting and rescue vehicles must arrive at the incident (for both announced or unan-
        nounced emergencies) at intervals not exceeding 30 seconds.
        3.3.8. Facility Emergency Response Requirements. Facility emergency response times are out-
        lined in DoDI 6055.6.
        3.3.9. Safety During Off-Base Responses. When responding to off-base emergencies, including
        mutual aid emergencies, where local agencies routinely do not assign a safety officer, the Air
        Force senior fire official will dispatch an Air Force firefighter to act as the safety officer to observe
        Air Force portions of the operation. If unsafe conditions are observed or encountered by Air Force
        firefighters, the Air Force fire department safety officer will mitigate the condition and inform the
        incident commander. The Air Force fire department safety officer is responsible for ensuring that
        Air Force firefighters are withdrawn from unsafe fireground operations or operations violating
        OSHA or NFPA 1500 safety standards. The Air Force fire department safety officer may act as
        the safety officer for the entire incident, if requested by the incident commander.
        3.3.10. Fire Vehicle Maintenance. Force Activity Designator (FAD) codes for fire protection
        vehicles, equipment, and supplies will be equal to the mission being supported. Record all fire
        pump testing, maintenance, and annual certifications on AF Form 1078, Fire Truck and Equip-
        ment Test and Inspection Record, or automated product.
        3.3.11. Stock Levels of Fire Fighting Agents. Fire chiefs maintain a reserve quantity of aqueous
        film forming foam (AFFF) and dry chemical agent equal to the total capacity of assigned fire
        fighting vehicles at the fire station. Local procedures will be established to provide for the imme-
        diate transportation of AFFF agent for emergency operations. The fire chief will maintain a sec-
        ondary reserve of AFFF agent when the Base Logistics Center does not maintain an adjusted stock
        level. This secondary reserve of AFFF will be equal to the total capacity of assigned fire fighting
        vehicles. A secondary reserve of dry chemical agent is not required.
        3.3.12. Communication. The installation commander, with advice from the fire chief, will deter-
        mine which agencies are authorized transceiver access to the fire crash net. A minimum of two
        frequencies are required for use by the fire department. One frequency will be limited to fire
        department access only. This frequency is reserved for tactical fire ground operations and emer-
        gency use. Other emergency responders may be allowed transceiver access on the secondary fre-
        quency only, when approved by the installation commander. All fire stations must have automatic
        start/transfer emergency generator backup power.
        3.3.13. The fire chief or assistant fire chief on duty must receive at least a 30-minute prior notifi-
        cation when exercises involve fire fighting vehicles, equipment, or personnel.
     3.4. Fire Prevention. In accordance with AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Environmental Safety,
     Fire Protection, and Health Program and AFOSH STD 91-56, Fire Protection and Prevention (out-
     lines the fire prevention program), fire chiefs must:
        3.4.1. Implement installation fire prevention programs.
        3.4.2. Conduct annual facility fire prevention assessments, unless required more often by public
        law or other statutory requirement.
        3.4.3. Ensure AF Form 218, Facility Fire Prevention and Protection Record, or automated
        product is used as a checklist and to record the results of facility assessments.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                   11


      3.4.4. Use AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, or automated product, to identify the
      condition of the fire prevention program to commanders.
   3.5. Facility Fire Protection Systems. The appropriate civil engineer shop or contractor equivalent
   must inspect, test, repair, and maintain fire detection, water distribution, and suppression systems.
   3.6. Fire Protection System Impairments. Fire protection system impairments and systems
   out-of-service, to include water distribution systems, must be reported immediately to the Fire Alarm
   Communication Center (FACC). The appropriate civil engineer shop or contractor equivalent repairs
   and maintains fire suppression, fire alarm, fire detection and water distribution systems. The desig-
   nated civil engineer shop records all water distribution tests on AF Form 1027, Water Flow Test
   Record, or automated product, and provides copies of all water distribution tests to the fire chief.
   3.7. Fire Protection Engineering. The engineering flight or maintenance engineering element man-
   ages fire protection engineering requirements as prescribed by the current edition of
   MIL-HDBK-1008, Fire Protection for Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction. The fire
   chief provides consultation and design recommendations regarding fire fighting operational require-
   ments. The fire chief is not responsible for system design. The fire chief coordinates on design draw-
   ings to signify review and that fire fighting operational recommendations are incorporated. This
   coordination does not indicate fire protection engineering design acceptance.

4. Forms Prescribed . AF Forms 218, Facility Fire Prevention and Protection Record; 1027, Water
Flow Test Record; 1028, Facility Pre-Fire Plan; 1071, Inspection Maintenance Record; 1078, Fire
Truck and Equipment Test and Inspection Record; 1085, Fire Protection Training Report; and
1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report.



                                              JOHN W. HANDY, Lt General, USAF
                                              DCS/Installations & Logistics

                                              (90SW)

                                              ALVIN R. KEMMET JR., Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 90th Mission Support Group
12                                                     AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law
32.CFR Part 339, Medical Qualification Determination
29 CFR Part 1910.146, Permit-Required Confined Spaces
29 CFR Part 1910.120, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response
44 CFR Part 151, Reimbursement for Costs of Firefighting on Federal Property
DoD Publications
DoDI 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program
DoDI 6055.6-M, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Certification Program
DoDI 6055.6-M-1, DoD Standardized Emergency Medical Services Program
MIL-HDBK-1008, Fire Protection for Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction
Air Force Publications
AFPD 32-20, Fire Protection
AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program
AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities
AFI 21-112, Aircraft Egress and Escape Systems
AFI 32-4002, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning and Response Compliance
AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Personnel
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health Program
AFMAN 32-2003, Air Force Fire Fighter Certification Program
AFMAN 32-4004, Contingency Response Operations
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards
AFOSH 91-25, Confined Spaces
AFOSH 91-56, Fire Protection and Prevention
T.O. 35E1-2-13-1, Operation and Maintenance Instructions Crash Fire Rescue Training Facility
T.O. 00-105E-9, Aircraft Emergency Rescue Information
Manpower Standard 44EF, Fire Protection
Allowance Standard 019, Vehicle Fleet (Registered) All MAJCOM Common
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                             13


Allowance Standard 490, Civil Engineer Fire Protection Support and Aircraft Crash Rescue Equipment
Other
NFPA 472, Professional Competence of Responders to Hazardous Materials Incidents
NFPA 1001, Standard for Firefighter Professional Qualifications
NFPA 1002, Fire Apparatus Driver/Operator Professional Qualifications
NFPA 1404, Fire Department Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus Program.
NFPA 1500, Fire Department Occupational Safety and Health Program
NFPA 1561, Fire Department Incident Management System
NFPA 1581, Fire Department Infection Control Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFFF—Aqueous Film Forming Foam
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AHJ—Authority Having Jurisdiction
AICUZ—Airfield Installation Compatibility Use Zone
ANG—Air National Guard
ARFF—Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
DFIRS—Department of Defense Fire Incident Reporting System
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
EMT-B—Emergency Medical Technician - Basic
EOSH—Environmental, Occupational Safety and Health
FACC—Fire Alarm Communication Center
FAD—Force Activity Designator
14                                                     AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


FOA—Field Operating Agency
FPO—Fire Protection Office
GS-081—ire Protection and Prevention Series
HAZMAT—hazardous materials
HQ AFCESA/CEXF—Office of the Chief, Air Force Fire Protection
HQ USAF/ILE—The Civil Engineer
HQ USAF/ILEO—Chief, DCS/Installations & Logistics Operations and Maintenance Division
MAJCOM—Major Command (includes representative of the ANG)
MCF—Medical Care Facility
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
TO—Technical Order
USAFE—US Air Forces in Europe

Terms
CerTest—CerTest is an interactive computer-based testing program designed to test, evaluate and certify
a student's knowledge of principles and procedures on job-related subjects.
DoD Component—USAF, USA, USN, USMC, and the Defense Logistics Agency
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association. A national organization that publishes national consensus
standards known as National Fire Codes.
Primary Aircraft Fire Fighting Vehicle—P-2, P-4, P-15, P-19, P-23, P-XX
Senior Fire Official—Fire Chief; Assistant Chief for Operations, Readiness and Logistics; Assistant
Chief for Operations; and Assistant Chief for Training.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                   15


                                             Attachment 2

                                       TRAINING PROGRAM

A2.1. Background. The DoD Firefighter Certification System is designed to improve individual knowl-
edge, confidence, and performance reliability. It certifies a person’s competence performing specific
tasks and does not certify an individual's competence working as an integral part of a team. The profi-
ciency training program enhances a firefighter’s ability to work as a team member.

A2.2. Responsibilities. Fire chiefs are responsible for developing a proficiency training program for
each of the following requirements:
   A2.2.1. Firefighter certification program performance testing (see the applicable fire fighter career
   development courses to determine specific performance test requirements).
   A2.2.2. Fire department occupational safety and health program, in accordance with NFPA 1500,
   Chapter 3.
   A2.2.3. Structural fire fighting training evolutions (hands-on training, monthly).
   A2.2.4. Structural fire fighting tactics (classroom training, bimonthly).
   A2.2.5. Infectious disease control (NFPA 1581, Fire Department Infection Control Program).
   A2.2.6. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and emergency medical training. Train and certify all
   firefighters involved in fire ground operations to the first aid first responder level and in American
   Red Cross or American Heart Association CPR. Additionally, firefighters designated by the fire chief
   must be trained to the Emergency Medical Technician-Basic (EMT-B) level as defined in the 1994
   Department of Transportation National Standard Curriculum.
   A2.2.7. Self-contained breathing apparatus (NFPA 1404, Fire Department Self-Contained Breathing
   Apparatus Program). Additionally, every firefighter that performs fire fighting operations must
   watch the Spirolite 9030 Familiarization Videotape (Video # 612530) and take the corresponding
   CerTest computer-based exam (Test # 351) annually.
   A2.2.8. Incident management system (NFPA Standard 1561, the National Fire Academy’s Incident
   Command System, and AFMAN 32-4004).
   A2.2.9. Installation-specific explosive safety (AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards).
   A2.2.10. Confined-space rescue tailored to the installation’s mission requirements. (AFOSH 91-25,
   Confined Spaces and 29 CFR 1910.146, Permit-Required Confined Spaces).
   A2.2.11. Initial certification and annual hazardous materials emergency response refresher training
   (29 CFR 1910.120, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response, NFPA Standard 472, Pro-
   fessional Competence of Responders to Hazardous Materials Incidents, AFI 32-4002, and the CerTest
   Computer-Based Testing Procedural Guide).
   A2.2.12. Aircraft familiarization and hands-on egress training for transient and mission assigned air-
   craft:
       A2.2.12.1. Transient aircraft familiarization (frequency and aircraft requiring this training are
       determined by the fire chief).
16                                                         AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


        A2.2.12.2. Hands-on egress training for all mission assigned aircraft shall be conducted as often
        as necessary to maintain proficiency, but not less than twice each year.
     A2.2.13. Wildland fire fighting (fire chief establishes frequency).
     A2.2.14. Fire Alarm Communication Center operator training program (fire chief establishes fre-
     quency).
     A2.2.15. Aircraft live fire training (Aircraft live fire training shall be provided to all members as
     often as necessary to meet this requirement, but not less than twice each year). The fire chief will
     determine specific scenarios based on the following:
        A2.2.15.1. Engine fires (inboard, outboard, high tail, or running fuel).
        A2.2.15.2. Exterior (pool fires involving fuselage, right or left wing).
        A2.2.15.3. Interior (flight deck, cargo, or passenger compartments).
        A2.2.15.4. Miscellaneous fires (wheel well, battery compartment, or auxiliary power unit).
     A2.2.16. Apparatus driver operator training. Implement a continuous apparatus driver operator train-
     ing program to license all firefighters on assigned fire fighting apparatus. All driver operators must be
     licensed and DoD-certified (NFPA Standard 1002, Fire Apparatus Driver/Operator Professional
     Qualifications).
     A2.2.17. Petroleum, oil, and lubricant (POL) storage tank fire fighting. Include crude oil fire fighting
     tactics if there’s potential to respond to this type of incident both on and off base. (Frequency is
     annual.)
     A2.2.18. Aircraft egress and escape system familiarity (AFI 21-112, Aircraft Egress and Escape Sys-
     tems).
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                  17


                                              Attachment 3

                                 FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSES

A3.1. The fire chief will complete a report on all responses in accordance with the automated DoD Fire
Incident Reporting System requirements.
   A3.1.1. The MAJCOM or FOA Fire Protection Office up-channels information to HQ AFCESA/
   CEXF, DSN 523-6151/6152/6159/6214, using priority precedence, or commercial (850) 283-6151/
   6152/6159/6214, (after normal duty hours, 1600-0700 Central Standard Time (2200-1300 Zulu)), to
   call the 325th Fighter Wing command post, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5000, DSN 523-2155/2023, or
   commercial (850) 283-2155/2023 for fires or other emergency responses resulting in:
       A3.1.1.1. A loss of $25,000 or more to military family housing.
       A3.1.1.2. A loss of $100,000 or more.
       A3.1.1.3. Loss of life or disabling injury.
       A3.1.1.4. Adverse public reaction.
       A3.1.1.5. Mutual aid responses that are major.
   A3.1.2. HQ AFCESA/CEXF notifies HQ USAF/ILEO, DSN 664-3632 or 664-4747, for fire inci-
   dents of major impact. In turn, HQ USAF/ILEO will inform The Civil Engineer of significant fire
   incidents.

A3.2. Fire Incident Message Notification, RCS: HAF-ILE(AR)8102. This report is designated emer-
gency status code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, priority precedence. Submit
data requirements assigned this category as prescribed or by any means to ensure their arrival on the
established due date. Continue reporting during MINIMIZE.
   A3.2.1. Priority Message. The fire chief will send a priority message to HQ AFCESA/CEXF and the
   MAJCOM FPO within 12 hours after a fire or other emergency responses resulting in:
       A3.2.1.1. A loss of $25,000 or more to military family housing.
       A3.2.1.2. A loss of $100,000 or more.
       A3.2.1.3. An incident otherwise considered major.
       A3.2.1.4. Loss of life or disabling injury.
       A3.2.1.5. Adverse public reaction.
   A3.2.2. When an incident requires reporting by priority message, use the format in Figure A3.1.

Figure A3.1. Format for Fire Department Emergency Response Message Notification.


FROM: Installation or Activity
TO: HQ AFCESA TYNDALL AFB FL//CEXF//
    MAJCOM//FOA//FPO//
18                                        AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006



UNCLAS


SUBJECT: FIRE DEPARTMENT EMERGENCY RESPONSE MESSAGE NOTIFICATION,
RCS: HAF-ILE (AR) 8102.


A. DATE, TIME, AND INCIDENT NUMBER.


B. BUILDING NUMBER OR AEROSPACE VEHICLE, TYPE, AND MODEL.


C. LOCATION OF INCIDENT (ON BASE, OFF BASE, DISTANCE).


D.OCCUPANCY OR USE.


E. PROPERTY DAMAGED.


F. NUMBER OF FATALITIES.


G. NUMBER AND EXTENT OF INJURIES (SPECIFY IF FIREFIGHTER OR OTHER
PERSONNEL).


H. PRELIMINARY AIR FORCE LOSS ESTIMATE.


I. PRELIMINARY NON-AIR FORCE LOSS ESTIMATE.


J. CAUSE OR MOST PROBABLE CAUSE.


K. SHORT SUMMARY OF INCIDENT.


L. MISSION IMPACT.


M. COGNIZANT OFFICIAL AND TELEPHONE NUMBER.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                        19


                                               Attachment 4

AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE PROTECTIONAND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
                      INCIDENT RESPONSE (US)
This agreement, entered into this XX day of XXX 19XX, between the Secretary of the (insert name of
DoD Component) acting pursuant to the authority of 42 U.S.C. 1856(a) and (insert name of fire organiza-
tion) is securing to each the benefits of mutual aid in fire prevention and hazardous materials incident
response, in the protection of life and property from fire, hazardous materials incident and in fire fighting.
It is agreed that:


    a. On request to a representative of the (insert name of installation) fire department by a representative
of the (insert name of fire organization), fire fighting equipment and personnel of the (insert name of
installation) fire department will be dispatched to any point within the area for which the (insert name of
fire organization) normally provides fire protection or hazardous materials incident response as desig-
nated by the representatives of the (insert name of fire organization).


    b. On request to a representative of the (insert name of fire organization) by a representative of the
(insert name of installation) fire department, fire fighting equipment or hazardous materials incident
response and personnel of the (insert name of fire organization) will be dispatched to any point within the
fire fighting or hazardous materials incident response jurisdiction of the (insert name of installation) fire
department as designated by the representative of the (insert name of installation) fire department.


   c. Any dispatch of equipment and personnel pursuant to this agreement is subject to the following
conditions:


       (1) Any request for aid hereunder shall include a statement of the amount and type of equipment
and personnel requested and shall specify the location to which the equipment and personnel are to be dis-
patched, but the amount and type of equipment and the number of personnel to be furnished shall be deter-
mined by a representative of the responding organization.


         (2) The responding organization shall report to the officer in charge of the requesting organization
at the location to which the equipment is dispatched, and shall be subject to the orders of that official.


        (3) A responding organization shall be released by the requesting organization when the services
of the responding organization are no longer required or when the responding organization is needed
within the area for which it normally provides fire protection.


        (4) In the event of a crash of an aircraft owned or operated by the United States or military aircraft
of any foreign nation within the area for which the (insert name of fire organization) normally provides
20                                                         AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


fire protection, the chief of the (insert name of installation) fire department or his or her representative
may assume full command on arrival at the scene of the crash.


   d. (Insert name of fire service) may claim reimbursement for the direct expenses and losses that are
additional fire fighting or hazardous materials incident costs above the normal operating costs incurred
while fighting a fire or hazardous materials incident response under this agreement as provided in 44 CFR
Part 151, Reimbursement for Costs of Firefighting on Federal Property.


   e. Each party waives all claims against every other party for compensation for any loss, damage, per-
sonal injury, or death occurring as a consequence of the performance of this agreement. This provision
does not waive any right of reimbursement pursuant to paragraph d above.


    f. All equipment used by (insert name of fire organization) in carrying out this agreement will, at the
time of action hereunder, be owned by it; and all personnel acting for (insert name of fire organization)
under this agreement will, at the time of such action, be an employee or volunteer member of (insert name
of fire organization).


For (insert name of fire organization);        For the Secretary of the (insert name of DoD Component)
______________________________                 _______________________________________________
           (TITLE)                                             (COMMANDER)
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                          21


                                                Attachment 5

     SAMPLE FORMAT FOR AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE PROTECTION
                              (FOREIGN)
NOTE: In some overseas locations, the requirements listed in this mutual aid agreement may need to be
incorporated in a Memorandum of Understanding in lieu of using this format.


This agreement, entered into this XX day of XXX 19XX, between the Secretary of the (insert name of
DoD component) acting pursuant to the authority of 42 U.S.C. 1856(a) and (insert name of fire organiza-
tion) is for securing to each the benefits of mutual aid in fire prevention, in the protection of life and prop-
erty from fire, and in fire fighting. It is agreed that:
    a. On request to a representative of the (insert name of installation) fire department by a representative
of the (insert name of fire organization), fire fighting equipment and personnel of the (insert name of
installation) fire department will be dispatched to any point within the area for which the (insert name of
fire organization) normally provides fire protection as designated by the representative of the (insert name
of fire organization).
    b. On request to a representative of the (insert name of fire organization) by a representative of the
(insert name of installation) fire department, fire fighting equipment and personnel of the (insert name of
fire organization) will be dispatched to any point within the fire fighting jurisdiction of the (insert name of
installation) fire department as designated by the representative of the (insert name of installation) fire
department.
   c. Any dispatch of equipment and personnel pursuant to this agreement is subject to the following
conditions:
       (1) Any request for aid hereunder shall include a statement of the amount and type of equipment
and personnel requested, and shall specify the location to which the equipment and personnel are to be
dispatched, but the amount and type of equipment and number of personnel to be furnished shall be deter-
mined by a representative of the responding organization.
         (2) The responding organization shall report to the officer in charge of the requesting organization
at the location to which the equipment is dispatched and shall be subject to the orders of that official.
        (3) A responding organization shall be released by the requesting organization when the services
of the responding organization are no longer required, or when the responding organization is needed
within the area for which it normally provides fire protection.
        (4) In the event of a crash of an aircraft owned or operated by the United States or military aircraft
of any foreign nation within the area for which the (insert name of fire organization) normally provides
fire protection, the chief of the (insert name of installation) fire department or his or her representative
may assume full command on arrival at the scene of the crash.
   d. Each party waives all claims against every other party for compensation for any loss, damage, per-
sonal injury, or death occurring as a consequence of the performance of this agreement.
   e. No party shall be reimbursed by any other party for any costs incurred pursuant to this agreement.
22                                                       AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


    f. All equipment used by (insert name of fire organization) in carrying out this agreement will, at the
time of action hereunder, be owned by it; and all personnel acting for (insert name of fire organization)
under this agreement will, at the time of such action, be an employee or volunteer member of (insert name
of fire organization).


For (insert name of fire organization);       For the Secretary of the (insert name of DoD Component)


_____________________________                 _______________________________________________
          (TITLE)                                                (COMMANDER)
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                        23


                                               Attachment 6

      RELEASE OF CLAIMS AND INDEMNIFICATION CLAUSE FOR CIVIL AIRPORT
                          JOINT-USE AGREEMENTS
(Insert Name of Airport Operator) agrees to release, acquit, and forever discharge the United States, its
officers, agents, and employees, for all liability arising out of or connected with the use of United States
equipment or personnel for fire control, crash, and rescue activities at or in the vicinity of (insert name of
airport), and (insert name of airport operator) further agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the
United States, its officers, agents, and employees against any and all claims, of whatever description, aris-
ing out of or connected with such use of United States equipment or personnel. The agreements contained
in the preceding sentence do not extend to claims arising out of or connected with services rendered solely
for the protection of United States property or personnel, or to claims for damages caused solely by the
negligence or willful misconduct of its officers, agents, or employees of the United States, without con-
tributory fault on the part of any person, firm, or corporation; provided, however, that insofar as this para-
graph may be inconsistent with the waiver or claims provisions contained in any reciprocal agreement for
mutual aid in furnishing fire protection heretofore or hereafter entered into by the lessor with any agency
of the United States pursuant to Public Law 84-46 (42 U.S.C. 1856, et seq.), the rights and obligations of
the parties shall be governed by said waiver of claims provision and not by this paragraph.
24                                   AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


                            Attachment 7

                SAMPLE CONSOLIDATED MAJCOM METRIC


MAJCOM NFPA 1500 COMPLIANCE SUMMARY BY CHAPTER
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                       25


                                     Attachment 8 (Added-90SW)

     FRANCIS E. WARREN AIR FORCE BASE FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
                                 PROGRAM
A8.1. (Added-90SW) Objective. The objectives of the fire prevention and protection programs are to
eliminate the cause of fires and reduce the loss of life, injury, and property damage if a fire occurs.
Achievement of these objectives requires commanders' support at all levels and the participation of all
base personnel (military, civilian, and contractors/concessionaires), thus ensuring accomplishment of our
assigned Air Force Mission.
A8.2. (Added-90SW) Responsibilities.
   A8.2.1. (Added-90SW) The 90th Mission Support Group (90 MSG) Commander: The 90 MSG
   Commander exercises primary responsibilities through the Base Civil Engineer. The 90 MSG Com-
   mander will be notified when a hazard creating any dangerous situation cannot be resolved by con-
   cerned parties to determine if it should be eliminated, or an operation should be discontinued, or
   implementation of interim controls will be necessary to reduce the risk posed by the situation.
   A8.2.2. (Added-90SW) Unit Commanders: Unit commanders will ensure compliance of fire safety
   requirements in their area of responsibility.
       A8.2.2.1. (Added-90SW) Forward a copy of building manager and alternate appointment memo-
       randum to 90 CES/CEFP.
       A8.2.2.2. (Added-90SW) Develop an operating instruction describing general and specialized
       fire safety requirements for operation within their unit.
       A8.2.2.3. (Added-90SW) Periodically review unit fire safety program.
       A8.2.2.4. (Added-90SW) Ensure fire drills are conducted for personnel occupying their facili-
       ties.
       A8.2.2.5. (Added-90SW) Ensure all newly assigned personnel, both military and civilian,
       receive fire prevention training within 30 days of assignment.
       A8.2.2.6. (Added-90SW) Ensure and provide emergency 911 telephone stickers for each instru-
       ment in the organization. May be obtained form the Fire Department.
   A8.2.3. (Added-90SW) Supervisors. Supervisors at all levels are responsible for fire safety in the
   work areas and operations. This includes briefing personnel on the fire reporting procedures enforcing
   safe smoking practices (from a fire hazard standpoint). Conduct a daily fire inspection to ensure area
   of responsibility is fire. The supervisor is also responsible for providing training in accordance with
   AFI 91-301 Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
   Program, para 2.14.8.
   A8.2.4. (Added-90SW) Facility Managers.
       A8.2.4.1. (Added-90SW) Facility managers will develop fire protection and prevention proce-
       dures for their unit.
       A8.2.4.2. (Added-90SW) Facility managers will conduct a visual inspection of facilities and note
       any fire hazards in their area of responsibility. Inspect fire extinguishers to ensure they are opera-
       tional. Facility extinguishers requiring servicing must be reported to Fire Extinguisher Contractor
26                                                      AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


       for servicing. Extinguishers must be replaced one-for-one when being taken out of service by the
       unit. All new fire extinguishers will be approved by the Base Fire Department IAW AFOSH Std
       91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard.
       A8.2.4.3. (Added-90SW) Facility managers will conduct a visual inspection of standpipes sys-
       tems (if applicable) to ensure there is no obvious damage to the system and nozzles are in the off
       position. Installed fire suppression systems (if applicable) to include wet and dry pipe sprinkler
       systems, dry chemical systems and ducts, etc., must also be visually inspected at least monthly to
       ensure devices are not damaged, obstructed, or blocked (such as grease buildup on nozzles in hood
       and duct systems), and manual activation switches are accessible and properly secured. Visually
       inspect pressure gauges to ensure indicators are in the green and systems with two pressure
       gauges; pressures are equal.
       A8.4.3.1. (Added-90SW) Check fire doors to ensure they are not blocked and in good working
       order. Ensure all exits are accessible and doors are operative.
       A8.4.3.2. (Added-90SW) Assure all exits are properly marked. Exit signs shall not be obstructed
       and the self-illuminated type must be kept operational.
       A8.4.3.3. (Added-90SW) Emergency lights shall be tested at least monthly for administrative,
       storage, and industrial occupancies, and at least every 2 weeks for mercantile, health care, educa-
       tional, and public assembly occupancies. Emergency lights must not be obstructed and shall be
       adjusted so as to illuminate paths of egress. Emergency lights will be tested annually by 90 CES
       IAW NFPA 101, Code for Safety to Life From Fire in Building and Structures.
       A2.4.3.4. (Added-90SW) Visual inspections of all installed fire alarm and detection systems,
       manual pull boxes, and detectors must be accomplished at least monthly. These inspections shall
       be limited to:
           A8.4.3.4.1. (Added-90SW) Checking for visual damage of devices.
           A8.4.3.4.2. (Added-90SW) Eliminating obstructions or blocking devices.
           A8.4.3.4.3. (Added-90SW) Ensuring devices are secured in place (including all pull boxes).
           A8.4.3.4.4. (Added-90SW) Smoke detectors equipped with power indicator lights are
           checked for flashing light.
           A2.4.3.4.5. (Added-90SW) Ensure detectors with activation lights are checked. NOTE:
           When lit, the Civil Engineer customer service and the Fire Department must be notified of the
           activated detector.
           A8.4.3.4.6. (Added-90SW) Facility managers are responsible for ensuring all AF IMT 332’s,
           Base Civil Engineer Work Request, are coordinated through the base fire department. The
           base fire department will have a minimum of 7 business days to review and coordinate AF
           IMT 332's, Base Civil Engineer Work Request.
A8.3. (Added-90SW) Civil Engineer Responses. The base civil engineer will establish procedures for
personnel at all utility shops to respond emergencies and correct emergency condition within 24 hours of
notification during and after duty hours to comply with AFPAM 32-1004, Vol 3, Working in the Opera-
tions Flight Facility Maintenance.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                          27


   A8.3.1. (Added-90SW) Upon discovery of a potential or actual fire situation, initiate fire alarm by
   activating pull station located at exits to the facility. If a local fire alarm is not available, alert occu-
   pants by the best means possible. Upon activating manual fire alarm pull box, immediately notify the
   fire department by telephone.
   A8.3.2. (Added-90SW) Report fires using on-base government telephones by dialing 911. Talk
   slowly and clearly and give the following information:
       A8.3.2.1. (Added-90SW) Building number.
       A8.3.2.2. (Added-90SW) Location of fire within facility or in relation to the facility.
       A8.3.2.3. (Added-90SW) Nature of the fire or suspected fire.
       A8.3.2.4. (Added-90SW) Status of personnel (evacuated or trapped).
       A8.3.2.5. (Added-90SW) Any other information you feel may be helpful.
       A8.3.2.6. (Added-90SW) Do not hang up until told to by dispatcher.
NOTE: Evacuate building immediately and do not enter until cleared by the senior fire official (SFO)
on-scene.
   A8.3.3. (Added-90SW) Report all fires to the fire department immediately, regardless of size, nature
   or extent of damage, whether extinguished by individual or group effort, citing all pertinent details.
   Also report as an emergency, any smell of burning that is detected or when any situation that may indi-
   cate a potential fire is discovered.
   A8.3.4. (Added-90SW) When reporting a fire from a commercial telephone or from any base hous-
   ing area, dial 911. Give the same information as above.
   A8.3.5. (Added-90SW) DO NOT report actual or potential fires on fire department administrative
   phone lines as delays may result.
   A8.3.6. (Added-90SW) Attempts to extinguish small fires with portable fire extinguishers should be
   made ONLY after evacuation and calling the fire department is accomplished. Abandon attempts to
   use a fire extinguisher when it becomes obvious the fire is gaining headway, or you begin to succumb
   to heat or smoke.
   A8.3.7. (Added-90SW) False Alarms. Willful misconduct or negligence involving fire prevention
   policies, turning in false alarms, tampering with or the misuse of fire protection systems or devices, is
   subject to punishment under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) and appropriate civilian
   punishment.
A8.4. (Added-90SW) Firefighting and Classes of Fire.
   A8.4.1. (Added-90SW) Class "A" Fires. Extinguish wood, paper, rags, and similar materials with
   water-type extinguishers. Garden hoses, buckets or cans of water, and dirt can also be used effectively.
   A8.4.2. (Added-90SW) Class "B" Fires. Extinguish lubricants, gasoline, paint thinner, cooking oil,
   and other flammables with dry chemical type extinguishers, directed at the base of the fire.
   A8.4.3. (Added-90SW) Class "C" Fires. Extinguish electrical fires with chemical type extinguishers
   designed specifically for all these type fires. CAUTION: Do not use water on electrical fires.
28                                                         AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


     A8.4.4. (Added-90SW) Class "D" Fires. Extinguish burnable metals such as magnesium, titanium,
     etc., with extinguishers designed specifically for these type fires. Do not attempt extinguishment with
     any form of liquid or vaporizing agent.
     A8.4.5. (Added-90SW) Class “K” Fires. Extinguish fires involving cooking oils used in commercial
     cooking equipment.
A8.5. (Added-90SW) First Aid Firefighting.
     A8.5.1. (Added-90SW) Personnel will attempt to extinguish a fire when discovered. Do not man all
     extinguishers in a facility, as this may subject personnel to undue danger. Leave the fire area when the
     extinguisher is depleted or fire is advancing, closing all doors.
     A8.5.2. (Added-90SW) Personnel will immediately evacuate the building after all other occupants
     have been evacuated if it is apparent efforts are futile or life is endangered by continued effort to com-
     bat the fire.
A8.6. (Added-90SW) Firefighting Equipment.
     A8.6.1. (Added-90SW) Fire extinguishers and installed firefighting equipment:
        A8.6.1.1. (Added-90SW) Do not tamper with or remove firefighting equipment from installed
        locations, or use equipment for other than the purpose of combating fires, i.e., fire extinguishers,
        fire detection, and alarm systems.
        A8.6.1.2. (Added-90SW) Do not block or obscure fire extinguishers, fire detection or fire alarm
        systems.
A8.7. (Added-90SW) Unit Supervisors and Facility Managers.
     A8.7.1. (Added-90SW) Will not occupy any building prior to the installation of fire extinguishers.
     The civil engineer real property officer and project monitor will ensure fire extinguishers are included
     in design of new facilities and supplied by the contractor per contract specifications.
     A8.7.2. (Added-90SW) Facility manager will call the Base Fire Department to have fire extinguish-
     ers from a deactivated building or facility turned into the fire prevention section. Contact Fire Preven-
     tion at 773-2931.
     A8.7.3. (Added-90SW) Fire extinguishers are not purchased by the fire extinguisher contractor; the
     using organization is responsible for extinguisher purchase. The fire department must approve all fire
     extinguisher purchases prior to purchase IAW AFOSH 91-501.
     A8.7.4. (Added-90SW) Will have a Knox-Box installed on the exterior of the building by the main
     entrance to the facility. The Knox-Box will be equipped with a master key or keys needed for fire pro-
     tection personnel to access the building quickly without causing property damage in the event of a
     emergency within the facility. Contact the fire prevention office at 2931 of information necessary for
     purchasing Knox-Box vaults.
A8.8. (Added-90SW) Fire Exit Drills. Fire exit drills are required to be conducted at least annually in
ALL occupied facilities. Facilities housing special activities may require more frequent drills, e.g., hospi-
tals are required to conduct quarterly drills and child day care facilities are required to conduct monthly
drills. Facility managers maintain specific requirements and schedules for drills in unit facilities. Facility
managers are responsible for ensuring fire drills are conducted and coordinated with the Base Fire Depart-
ment. Fire drills may be announced to give people time to review fire plans and procedures or they may
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                    29


be unannounced. Fire drills must encompass the entire facility. When more than one unit occupies one
facility, fire exit drills must be coordinated. In some occupancy, such as dormitories, assembly, theater,
Base Exchange, medical, and billeting, special training is required for employees only and practice drills
are required separately from fire exit drills.
A8.9. (Added-90SW) Fire Safety Inspections and Unit Reviews.
   A8.9.1. (Added-90SW) Fire Inspections. Commanders will develop a monthly “Fire Prevention
   Walk-Thru Program” to evaluate facilities and operations. These walk-thus are to be conducted by
   facility managers.
   A8.9.2. (Added-90SW) Unit Fire Safety Review. The Fire Department will conduct a review of all
   unit fire safety programs IAW applicable directives, federal statutes, and laws.
A8.10. (Added-90SW) Workplace/Job Safety and Fire Prevention Training Requirements.
   A8.10.1. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention Training. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring this
   training is provided. The training shall be provided to new personnel upon assignment during new
   employee training programs, but within 30 days of arrival at Warren Air Force Base, in all cases. The
   training will be given when there is a change in equipment, procedures, processes, safety, or fire pre-
   vention requirements. The training shall be given as required to ensure all employees remain familiar
   with fire safety and prevention requirements, but shall be given no less than annually in all cases.
   A8.10.2. (Added-90SW) Documentation. Document the training on the AF IMT 55, Employee
   Safety and Health Record, Sections I and IV.
   A8.10.3. (Added-90SW) Training Guides. Supervisors shall develop training guides, for their
   employees, to cover the subjects listed below.


        * USE/OPERATION                          PROCEDURES                LOCATION
        Fire Reporting                           X
        Emergency Evacuation                     X
        First Aid Firefighting                   X
        Fire Extinguishers                       X                         X
        Fire Suppression Systems (each type)     X                         X
        Fire Alarm Systems                       X                         X
        Fire Hazards (identifying/reporting)     X
        Hazardous Areas                                                    X
        Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)       X                         X

   *NOTE: All fire fighters are exempt from above areas due to continuous recurring training.
A8.11. (Added-90SW) Fire Escape Ladders, Stairways, and Fenced-In Areas. The facility manager
will ensure:
   A8.11.1. (Added-90SW) Fire escape ladders and stairways are unobstructed and maintained in a
   good state of repair.
   A8.11.2. (Added-90SW) Storage in stairwells and under stairwells is prohibited at all times.
30                                                         AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


     A8.11.3. (Added-90SW) Adequate means of escape is provided for all fenced-in areas. Local proce-
     dures for such areas will include provisions for opening a secondary gate in case of fire, for the evac-
     uation of personnel and for entrance of fire department personnel and equipment.
A8.12. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention-General.
     A8.12.1. (Added-90SW) Principal Causes of Fire. Air Force experience, as to the principal cause of
     fire, compares generally with civilian experience as recorded by the National Fire Protection Associ-
     ation (NFPA). The following list indicates fire causes fall into two classes: Unsafe conditions and
     unsafe acts. Fires resulting from several of these causes actually represent a combination of both
     classes. To be completely effective, a fire prevention program must consider the human element in all
     situations as well as elimination of unsafe physical conditions. Leading causes vary in relative posi-
     tion from year-to-year, but can generally be assumed to rank as follows:
        A8.12.1.1. (Added-90SW) Unattended cooking.
        A8.12.1.2. (Added-90SW) Smoking material and matches.
        A8.12.1.3. (Added-90SW) Heating appliances.
        A8.12.1.4. (Added-90SW) Electrical appliances.
        A8.12.1.5. (Added-90SW) Flammable liquids.
        A8.12.1.6. (Added-90SW) Electrical wiring.
        A8.12.1.7. (Added-90SW) Internal combustion engine.
        A8.12.1.8. (Added-90SW) Ignition of greases.
        A8.12.1.9. (Added-90SW) Open flames, ashes, etc.
        A8.12.1.10. (Added-90SW) Spontaneous ignition.
        A8.12.1.11. (Added-90SW) Sparks and flying brands.

A812.2. (Added-90SW) Building Conditions. Give particular attention to the conditions of walls, ceil-
ings and false ceilings, and breeches in floors, ceilings and fire walls. If maintenance is required, submit
AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to 90 CES Customer Service Unit.

A812.3. (Added-90SW) Electrical. Use of electrical equipment that is not explosion-proof in areas con-
taining flammable vapors, or an explosive atmosphere is prohibited.
     A812.3.1. (Added-90SW) Portable heaters must be UL or FM approved and must automatically shut
     off when tipped over. Heaters will be kept a minimum of 3 feet from any combustibles and will not be
     left unattended.
        A8.12.3.2. (Added-90SW) The use of heat element cooking appliances, i.e., toasters, toaster
        ovens, skillets, electrical frying pans, hot plates, and electric/gas grills are strictly prohibited for
        use in dormitories and base facilities.
        A8.12.3.3. (Added-90SW) The use of single and multiple outlet extension cords and the use of
        extension cords in lieu of permanent wiring are prohibited. Use fused 15 amps six appliance surge
        protectors only. Appliances must bare the “UL” or “FM” seal. The two-outlet box with trip proof
        extension cord is prohibited.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                    31


     A8.12.3.4. (Added-90SW) The use of electrical cords which are frayed, spliced, stapled, nailed,
     or cords which run through walls, ceilings or floors is prohibited.
     A8.12.3.5. (Added-90SW) Storage of combustible material under ceiling lights or electrical
     appliances must have an 18-inch clearance.
     A8.12.3.6. (Added-90SW) The use of portable appliances unless they bear the label of a national
     testing laboratory.
     A8.12.3.7. (Added-90SW) Dirty and oily motors.
     A8.12.3.8. (Added-90SW) Uncovered electrical panels, outlets and junction boxes.
     A8.12.3.9. (Added-90SW) Temporary or inadequate wiring.
     A8.12.3.10. (Added-90SW) The use of outlets, switches, and appliances when damaged.
  A8.12.4. (Added-90SW) Heating. Install all stoves, boilers, furnaces and other heaters according to
  specifications. Only American Gas Association (AGA) or other recognized agency devices are per-
  mitted. Proper temperature controls and venting, as well as maintenance, are essential to the elimina-
  tion and prevention of fire hazard conditions. The following hazards are typical:
     A8.12.4.1. (Added-90SW) Use of open flames or heaters with exposed electrical heating ele-
     ments, i.e., electric space/portable heaters, in areas where flammable vapors, dust, liquids, or com-
     bustible materials are present.
     A8.12.4.2. (Added-90SW) Air conditioning and ventilating systems involve unique fire hazards
     because of the use of motors and ducting in such systems. Install these systems in accordance with
     established standards. Correct defects in installation or use of air conditioning immediately.
     A8.12.4.3. (Added-90SW) Sparking, overheating of fan bearings, and friction of the moving fan
     in contact with surrounding metal.
     A8.12.4.4. (Added-90SW) Use of motors without "over temperature" device in unit type air con-
     ditioners.
     A8.12.4.5. (Added-90SW) Use of ferrous metal for blower fans or housing.
     A8.12.4.6. (Added-90SW) Use of ducts made of combustible material or with combustible filters
     or linings.
     A8.12.4.7. (Added-90SW) Inadequate clearance between metal ducts and combustible materials,
     including ceilings and roofs.
     A8.12.4.8. (Added-90SW) Ducts inadequately secured by metal hangers, straps, lugs, or brack-
     ets.
     A8.12.4.9. (Added-90SW) Inadequate insulation of ducts enclosed in combustible walls, parti-
     tions, or concealed ceiling spaces.
     A8.12.4.10. (Added-90SW) Ducts without ports for frequent cleaning and without compartment
     dampers for isolation of fire to a single section.
     A8.12.4.11. (Added-90SW) Improper clearances between combustible walls and heating and
     cooking equipment (should have overhead clearance of 48 inches, side clearance of 18 inches, and
     back clearance of 18 inches) unless otherwise specified by manufacturer.
32                                                        AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


     A8.12.5. (Added-90SW) Flammable Liquids and Gases. The following precautions will reduce and
     control vapors.
        A8.12.5.1. (Added-90SW) Store flammable liquids in excess of working stock in outside desig-
        nated storage buildings or cabinets marked "FLAMMABLE - KEEP FIRE AWAY." Storage of
        flammable liquids must be in an approved locker or area intended for that purpose. Submit floor
        plan to fire department indicating location of all lockers.
        A8.12.5.2. (Added-90SW) Where occupancy of a building requires the storage of small quanti-
        ties of flammable liquids such as type cleaner, ditto fluid, and liquids required for laboratory work,
        store containers in an approved metal cabinet. Plainly label the cabinet "Flammables." Desk or
        table containers will not exceed 8 fluid ounces in volume.
        A8.12.5.3. (Added-90SW) A working stock (5-day supply) of paints, oils, and necessary thinners
        and cleaning solvents is permitted in paint shops, hobby shops, maintenance shops, and other like
        facilities. No individual container will exceed 5 gallons in capacity, except safety vats. Secure lids
        firmly when containers are not in use and store in proper type storage cabinets. Keep cabinet doors
        closed at all times except when removing and replacing flammables. Label storage cabinets con-
        spicuously in red letters "FLAMMABLE - KEEP FIRE AWAY."
        A8.12.5.4. (Added-90SW) Stencil the identity of the contents clearly or similarly mark on exte-
        rior of all flammable liquid containers.
        A8.12.5.5. (Added-90SW) Do not use gasoline, naphtha, lacquer, paint thinner, alcohol, turpen-
        tine, tolulene, JP8, and acetone as cleaning solvents.
        A8.12.5.6. (Added-90SW) The use of any solvent with a flash point of less than 200 degrees is
        prohibited for cleaning hot engines.
        A8.12.5.7. (Added-90SW) Provide vats with fusible links to melt and close the lids in all activi-
        ties where parts or units are cleaned inside buildings.
        A8.12.5.8. (Added-90SW) Store compressed gas cylinders in accordance with NFPA 55, Stan-
        dard for the Storage, Use and Handling of Compressed and Liquefied Gases in Portable Cylin-
        ders.
        A8.12.5.9. (Added-90SW) Use approved gasoline safety cans for the transportation and storage
        of gasoline.
        A8.12.5.10. (Added-90SW) When fuel spills occur, contact the fire department immediately.
        A8.12.5.11. (Added-90SW) Dispose of gasoline or oil soaked rags or waste immediately by plac-
        ing them in approved closed non-combustible containers.
        A8.12.5.12. (Added-90SW) DO NOT dispose of flammable liquids in drains or sewers. Follow
        directions contained in AF Pamphlet 32-7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, for dis-
        posal.
     A8.12.6. (Added-90SW) Welding, Cutting, and Brazing.
        A8.12.6.1. (Added-90SW) Contractor personnel will obtain an AF Form 592, USAF Welding,
        Cutting, and Brazing Permit, from the fire department before conducting any welding, cutting,
        brazing or open flame operations. Contractors will provide a minimum of three workdays prior
        notice for permits.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                     33


     A8.12.6.2. (Added-90SW) Base personnel must obtain AF Form 592 prior to commencement of
     work. This permit can be obtained from civil engineer shop personnel who have been trained and
     authorized to issue the permit.
         A8.12.6.2.1. (Added-90SW) Personnel performing the operation must notify the fire depart-
         ment prior to starting the operation.
     A8.12.6.3. (Added-90SW) Protect combustible material during welding, cutting, or brazing
     operations by placing non-combustible material between the operation and adjacent combustible
     material. Upon completion of the operation, wet down the area with water.
     A8.12.6.4. (Added-90SW) Ensure an operational portable fire extinguisher is near all such oper-
     ations and the extinguisher is rated for the type of operation being performed.
     A8.12.6.5. (Added-90SW) At the conclusion of the operation, an inspection is made to ensure the
     area is clean and fire safe. Personnel will notify the fire department to confirm operation is com-
     pleted and the area is fire safe, 773-2931.
     A8.12.6.6. (Added-90SW) Contractors will return the original AF Form 592 to the Fire Preven-
     tion Section in Bldg 324.
  A8.12.7. (Added-90SW) Good Housekeeping Standards Relative to Fire Safety. A high state of
  cleanliness and complete elimination of accumulation of waste and rubbish are primary factors in fire
  prevention.
     A8.12.7.1. (Added-90SW) Commanders, facility managers, and supervisors will ensure all
     buildings and grounds under their jurisdiction are policed and maintained in a fire safe condition.
     A8.12.7.2. (Added-90SW) The facility manager will ensure all trash and waste containers are
     emptied into outside fire resistant trash receptacles as often as necessary to maintain a fire-safe
     workplace.
     A8.12.7.3. (Added-90SW) Provide metal trash receptacles in all rest rooms.
     A8.12.7.4. (Added-90SW) Keep rags, steel wool, floor sweeping compound, and combustible
     waste in tightly covered metal containers. Mark containers to indicate contents.
     A8.12.7.5. (Added-90SW) Do not allow dried grass, brush or foliage to accumulate near, on, or
     under buildings, equipment, or supplies. Give special attention to removing pine needles from
     rooftops. Burning of trash or waste is prohibited.
     A8.12.7.6. (Added-90SW) Clean lint, grease and dust from motors, louvers, screens, stoves,
     walls, vents, and hoods on a regular basis.
  A8.12.8. (Added-90SW) Storage. Reference AFOSH Standard 91-66, General Industrial Opera-
  tions, AFMAN 23-210, and NFPA 231 Series, General Storage.
     A8.12.8.1. (Added-90SW) Storage in attics, heating, air conditioner, electrical, generator,
     mechanical, and power rooms, exit corridors, and in or under stairwells in buildings is prohibited.
     A8.12.8.2. (Added-90SW) Keep stored material orderly at all times, maintain aisles, and do not
     block or obscure fire alarm pull stations and electrical controls. Aisles will be maintained in accor-
     dance with applicable publications.
34                                                          AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


        A8.12.8.3. (Added-90SW) Keep all materials and supplies 18 inches from light fixtures, fire
        sprinkler systems, and building material components.
        A8.12.8.4. (Added-90SW) Inspect bulk storage of clothing, parachutes, or baled material daily.
        A8.12.8.5. (Added-90SW) Store lawn mowers and other gasoline operated equipment only in
        buildings designated for this purpose.
        A8.12.8.6. (Added-90SW) Do not store wooden pallets within 25 feet of any structure.
     A8.12.9. (Added-90SW) Open Flame or Fires. No open fires or flames, such as campfires, bonfires,
     trash fires, vegetation fires, and so forth, regardless of size, are authorized on this installation unless
     inspected by the fire department and approved in writing by the fire chief, or designated representa-
     tive.
     A8.12.10. (Added-90SW) Candles and Other Type of Flame Producing Devices. The use of open
     flame devices such as candles, liquid, or solid fuel burner, incense, and so forth, are prohibited in
     Unaccompanied Officer Quarters (UOQ), Unaccompanied Enlisted Personnel Housing (UEPH), Vis-
     iting Officer Quarters (VOQ), Visiting Airman Quarters (VAQ), and Temporary Lodging Facilities
     (TLF).
     A8.12.11. (Added-90SW) Barbecue Grills. Barbecue grills will not be used inside or within 10 feet
     of any Air Force facility. Special events will require inspection by the fire department prior to the
     event and approved, in writing, by the fire chief or his designated representative.
     A8.12.12. (Added-90SW) Cooking in Air Force Facilities. These events will be coordinated with the
     Base Fire Department by the facility manager at least 48 hours in advance. Cooking is strictly prohib-
     ited in facilities or areas not specifically approved for that purpose, with the exception of special
     events approved by the fire chief or designated representative.
     A8.12.13. (Added-90SW) Dumpsters. Dumpsters used for trash and other waste shall be located at
     least 25 feet from facilities unless written approval by the fire chief or designated representative.
     A8.12.14. (Added-90SW) Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants are inspected, tested, and maintained by 90
     CES/CEOIU per URC 3-600-2 and NFPA Stds.
        A8.12.14.1. (Added-90SW) When fire hydrants are out of service, the utility shop will identify
        them with a metal placard no smaller that 12 inches in diameter with weatherproof white letters on
        a red background reading "OUT OF SERVICE." The placards shall be placed in a way that identi-
        fies hydrants out of service from approaching directions.
        A8.12.14.2. (Added-90SW) The fire alarm communications center shall immediately be notified
        of out of service hydrants and post them on the system outage board. The alarm communication
        center shall also be immediately notified when fire hydrants are returned to service by the CES
        shop repairing the fire hydrant.
        A8.12.14.3. (Added-90SW) Out of service hydrants shall be treated as an emergency work order
        until returned to service.
        A8.12.14.4. (Added-90SW) Base fire hydrants will not be used for any other purpose other than
        firefighting without prior written approval from 90 CES/CEF, 773-2931.
        A8.12.14.5. (Added-90SW) NOTE: Out of service includes water outages fire hydrants (closing
        of valves) as well as inoperative fire hydrants.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                       35


A8.13. (Added-90SW) Inspections.
   A8.13.1. (Added-90SW) Fire Inspection Responsibilities. Assigned base fire inspectors will inspect
   each assigned unit IAW AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program.
   The Facility Manager or alternate Facility Manager will accompany the fire inspector and make
   on-the-spot correction of minor irregularities. The fire inspector will record deficiencies and correc-
   tive action required on AF IMT 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report. It is the responsibility of the
   functional manager, working through the facility manager, to ensure all corrective actions are accom-
   plished and the AF IMT 1487 is returned to 90 CES/CEF by the indicated suspense date. Only the
   functional manager or unit commander can sign the back of the AF IMT 1487 certifying corrective
   action has taken place.
A8.14. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention Lectures And Demonstrations.
   A8.14.1. (Added-90SW) Responsibilities. The Fire Prevention Section will conduct fire prevention
   lectures and give demonstrations at the request of functional managers or social groups.
   A8.14.2. (Added-90SW) Requests. Direct requests for lectures and demonstrations to Fire Preven-
   tion (90 CES/CEFP) at least 15 days prior to scheduled date and include the approximate number of
   personnel to attend. Requestors should obtain the largest possible audience. Furnish the Fire Preven-
   tion Section an actual attendance figure not later than 5 workdays after the lecture or demonstration.
A8.15. (Added-90SW) Ground/Traffic Control-Fire/Crash Emergencies.
   A8.15.1. (Added-90SW) Traffic Control. The Senior Security Forces representative will establish
   procedures for traffic control, security, and restriction of personnel from emergency areas, as
   requested by the SFO.
   A8.15.2. (Added-90SW) Operational Control. The senior fire officer will control firefighting and
   rescue operations of the accident/incident site. Personnel not assigned to the fire protection organiza-
   tion will not interfere and will remain a safe distance from the area unless requested by the senior fire
   officer in charge.
   A8.15.3. (Added-90SW) Authority to Commander. The senior fire officer, acting for the installation
   commander, may commandeer military vehicles, equipment, materials, and personnel (military or
   civilian) as necessary.
   A8.15.4. (Added-90SW) Safety at the Scene. Security Forces, OSI agents, supervisors of flying
   ground/flight safety specialists and other disaster response force (DRF) teams who are expected to
   respond to a fire, crash or other disaster scene will remain well clear of firefighting apparatus and per-
   sonnel and will not enter an emergency site or location without the express permission of the senior
   fire officer on the scene.
   A8.15.5. (Added-90SW) Emergency Vehicle Right-of-Way. Firefighting equipment has the right of
   way when responding to an emergency. At the sound of a siren or sight of a flashing red light, motor-
   ized equipment will move to the street curb, stop, and remain stationary until emergency vehicles have
   passed.
   A8.15.6. (Added-90SW) Obstructing Firefighting Resources. Do not obstruct fire lanes, fire
   hydrants, fire department sprinkler connections, and standpipe connections within a radius of 15 feet.
   Do not use fire hydrants for any other purpose than intended without written permission of the fire
   department.
36                                                          AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


        A8.15.6.1. (Added-90SW) Facilities must be provided with a clear access (fire lane) of 30 feet
        for firefighting around the facility.
A8.16. (Added-90SW) Places of Public Assembly.
     A8.16.1. (Added-90SW) Training. Public assembly managers will establish a training program com-
     plying with AFOSH 91-501 and NFPA 101 to ensure each employee understands their duties and
     responsibilities toward fire prevention, including the use of fire extinguishers, installed fire protection
     equipment and duties in case of fire. Managers will ensure employees are proficient in aiding in the
     orderly evacuation of occupants from facilities in the event the fire alarm system is activated or there
     is a fire. This training program must be developed to cover each functional area including kitchen
     workers, office workers, waitresses, and bartenders. All newly hired employees must be trained within
     7 days of hire.
     A8.16.2. (Added-90SW) Procedures for Conducting Closing Inspection.
        A8.16.2.1. (Added-90SW) Specialized Training. Specialized training for managers or assistant
        managers who perform closing inspection must be conducted. This training must be geared to
        each individual occupant. Personnel who have been trained to close these facilities will be desig-
        nated in writing and a copy will be maintained in the facilities fire prevention book. Public assem-
        bly managers are responsible for ensuring this training is conducted.
        A8.16.2.2. (Added-90SW) Performing Daily Closing Inspection. Public assembly managers or
        their assistants, designated in writing, shall perform daily closing inspections and document the
        results of the inspection in the facility fire prevention folder.
        A8.16.2.3. (Added-90SW) Checklist. The closing inspection will consist of a thorough inspec-
        tion of the entire work area or area of operation. A checklist will be used to ensure a completed
        and uniform type inspection.
     A8.16.3. (Added-90SW) Kitchens. Kitchen managers shall ensure all kitchens comply with require-
     ments listed below as well as the requirements in AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated
     Occupational Safety Standard, AFOSH Standard 91-300, Food Services Operation, and NFPA 96,
     Ventilation, Control, and Like Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations.
        A8.16.3.1. (Added-90SW) Food preparation or cooking that emits grease-laden vapors will be
        protected with hood and duct system equipped with an installed fire suppression system. These
        systems shall be operational at all times except for scheduled inspection, test, and routine mainte-
        nance. If any one of the systems is out of service for any reason, equipment protected by that sys-
        tem will not be used.
        A8.16.3.2. (Added-90SW) Openings in hood leading to the duct will be protected with grease fil-
        ters that fit tightly. Cooking shall not be accomplished when grease filters are not in place. A spare
        set of filters will be maintained by each user.
        A8.16.3.3. (Added-90SW) Kitchen ranges, hoods, filters, and surroundings will be cleaned at
        least daily (end of operation) or more often if needed. A spare set of filters will be maintained by
        each user.
        A8.16.3.4. (Added-90SW) Ensure cooking appliances are completely under exhaust hoods
        (hoods must overhang appliances at least 6 inches on all sides) at all times when in operation. Pro-
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                       37


      vide a metal or metal clad cover for each deep fat fryer for immediate use in case of grease fire.
      The cover is adjacent to the deep fat fryer.
      A8.16.3.5. (Added-90SW) A class K fire extinguisher, with a 40 BC rating, shall be provided in
      the kitchen with deep fat fryer and grills.
      A8.16.3.6. (Added-90SW) Facility/public assembly managers will ensure that all hoods, canopy
      motors, ductwork are not allowed to accumulate grease to unsafe levels IAW AFOSH 91-501. A
      copy of the inspection will be forwarded to the fire department.
      A8.16.3.7. (Added-90SW) Public assembly managers will ensure thermostats on deep fat fryers
      are tested annually and permanently metal tagged indicating the inspection results and date of
      inspection IAW AFOSH Std 91-501. Facility managers should keep a copy of the certification on
      file and forward a copy to the Base Fire Department.
      A8.16.3.8. (Added-90SW) Flammable and combustible liquids will be stored, displayed and
      handled as outlined in AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force consolidated occupation safety stan-
      dard, NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Codes, and 30A, Automotive and Marine Service
      Station Code.
A8.17. (Added-90SW) Decoration and Arrangements For Special Social Events and Gatherings.
   A8.17.1. (Added-90SW) Notification of Special Events. The Fire Department, Fire Prevention Sec-
   tion, must be notified at ext 773-2931 of all special events held in base facilities, so a fire inspection
   can be performed no less than 2 days prior to the event.
      A8.17.1.1. (Added-90SW) Decorations and Furnishings. All decorations and furnishings must be
      non-combustible and fire retardant. Decorations will not obstruct installed fire protection devices
      nor will they block or obstruct egress routes and exits.
      A8.17.1.2. (Added-90SW) Occupant Load. Functional and facility managers are responsible for
      enforcing facility occupant loads. The fire department shall be informed of the expected number
      of personnel to attend the special function.
      A8.17.1.3. (Added-90SW) Managers and Supervisors. Managers and supervisors of these special
      functions will ensure that employees are trained in fire reporting procedures, helping personnel
      egress from building and prevention of panic. They must also be trained on the location of fire
      extinguishers and in their use.
      A8.17.1.4. (Added-90SW) Temporary Wire. Temporary wiring must conform to NFPA 70,
      National Electric Code.
   A8.17.2. (Added-90SW) Fireworks and Hobby Supplies.
      A8.17.2.1. (Added-90SW) The possession or use of fireworks is prohibited in all base areas
      including family housing.
      A8.17.2.2. (Added-90SW) Keep model airplane fuels, dopes, paints, and other flammable liq-
      uids, as listed below in the original containers and tightly sealed when not in use. Possession
      within dormitories is limited to the following, per individual.
          A8.17.2.2.1. (Added-90SW) One pint of model aircraft fuel.
          A8.17.2.2.2. (Added-90SW) One small container of any combustible substance used in the
          construction of model aircraft, cars, boats, etc.
38                                                          AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


            A8.17.2.2.3. (Added-90SW) One can of cigarette lighter fluid.
            A8.17.2.2.4. (Added-90SW) One can of brass polish.
     A8.17.3. (Added-90SW) Firearms Munitions. No firearms reloading powder or primers are allowed
     in bachelor quarters, dormitories at any time.
     A8.17.4. (Added-90SW) Flammable Floor Cleaners, Waxes, and Polishes.
        A8.17.4.1. (Added-90SW) Do not use any flammable product for floor cleaning or polishing.
        A8.17.4.2. (Added-90SW) Do not melt floor wax or shoe polish to facilitate spreading or apply-
        ing.
A8.18. (Added-90SW) General Practices – Military Family Housing.
     A8.18.1. (Added-90SW) Family Sponsors. Family sponsors are responsible for fire prevention in
     their quarters. They must ensure dependents are familiar with the fire prevention instructions outlined
     in this instruction.
     A8.18.2. (Added-90SW) Garages. Garages and carport will not be used for major repairs on vehi-
     cles. This includes painting, overhauling engines, and repairing transmissions. Any type of welding,
     cutting, and brazing is prohibited.
     A8.18.3. (Added-90SW) Electric/Gas Dryers. Dryer hoses will be disconnected and cleaned as
     needed. Cleaning must be performed at least semiannually to prevent accumulation of lint and other
     debris that could cause the dryer to overheat and catch fire.
     A8.18.4. (Added-90SW) Control of Flame Producing Devices. Flame producing devices such as
     lighters and matches will be kept out of children's reach.
     A8.18.5. (Added-90SW) Cooking Safety. Cooking appliances will not be unattended when in use.
     Lids will be readily available for the control of grease fires when cooking. Do not attempt to remove
     a burning pan from the stove. Place lid on the pan and turn off the heat, then call the fire department at
     911.
     A8.18.6. (Added-90SW) Conventional and Gas Grills. Barbecue grills must be lit and supervised by
     an adult. They will not be operated in garages or under overhangs of the building. Grills will be thor-
     oughly cooled prior to being placed in storage. Do not discard hot coals in trash cans or dumpsters.
     A8.18.7. (Added-90SW) Handicapped Family Members. It is the responsibility of the military spon-
     sor to inform the fire department when an occupant is handicapped and needs assistance in exiting the
     quarters. This may be accomplished by calling the Fire Alarm Communication Center at ext
     773-2931.
     A8.18.8. (Added-90SW) Self-Help Projects. All self-help projects performed in MFH must be sub-
     mitted on an AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to the 90 CES for approval and coor-
     dinated through fire department. The base fire department will have a minimum of 7 business days to
     review and coordinate on AF IMT 332 requests. Unauthorized projects will be removed or corrected
     at the occupant's expense.
     A8.18.9. (Added-90SW) Extension Cords. Extension cords will not be used as fixed wiring. There-
     fore, they cannot be attached to structure surfaces, run through doors, doorways, windows, holes in
     walls, ceilings, etc. Cords shall not be arranged to run under rugs, carpets, or other items that will con-
     ceal damage and insulate conductors causing wires to overheat. Extension cords will be in good con-
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                   39


  dition and UL approved. Frayed, deteriorated, spliced, or otherwise degraded cords will not be used.
  Multi-outlet assemblies must have a built-in surge protector.
  A8.18.10. (Added-90SW) MFH Firefighting Procedures.
     A8.18.10.1. (Added-90SW) First-aid firefighting efforts may be employed by using the MFH
     fire extinguisher.
     A8.18.10.2. (Added-90SW) For grease fires, turn off the stove and place a lid over the pot or pan.
     Do not attempt to move a burning cooking container.
     A8.18.10.3. (Added-90SW) In the event of an electrical fire, turn the electricity off by unplug-
     ging the device or turning off the wall switch or circuit breaker.
     A8.18.10.4. (Added-90SW) Do not use water on grease or electrical fires, regardless of the cir-
     cumstances.
     A8.18.10.5. (Added-90SW) When babysitters are used, the sponsor will brief them on fire safe
     practices and reporting procedures.
  A8.18.11. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention Reporting Labels.
     A8.18.11.1. (Added-90SW) Emergency telephone number labels will be placed on telephones in
     each housing unit.
  A8.18.12. (Added-90SW) Storage Practices.
     A8.18.12.1. (Added-90SW) Family housing members must follow safe storage practices. A min-
     imum distance of 3 feet must be maintained between stored materials and hot water heaters and air
     conditioning equipment.
     A8.18.12.2. (Added-90SW) Store highly flammable products, such as gasoline, fuels for camp
     stoves, charcoal lighter, or cleaning solvents as follows:
         A8.18.12.2.1. (Added-90SW) Store all flammable products outside the home. Gasoline and
         other combustibles of flammable liquids may be stored in the garage. These hazardous liquids
         will not be stored in quarters, including basements.
         A8.18.12.2.2. (Added-90SW) Keep storage of flammable liquids to the minimum amount.
         A8.18.12.2.3. (Added-90SW) Store all highly flammable liquids away from any source of
         ignition and in properly marked containers.
         A8.18.12.2.4. (Added-90SW) Store gasoline in approved safety cans properly and do not
         exceed 2 gallons total for lawn mowers.
     A8.18.12.3. (Added-90SW) Family housing members will follow safe smoking practices by
     proper disposal of smoking materials and will not smoke around flammable storage areas.
  A8.18.13. (Added-90SW) Government Installed Smoke Detectors and Fire Extinguishers.
     A8.18.13.1. (Added-90SW) Each military family housing occupant is responsible for periodic
     cleaning and testing of smoke detectors installed in their quarters. Use the following procedures:
     A8.18.13.2. (Added-90SW) Activation of the reset button alone does not ensure the smoke
     detector is operating properly. It only indicates the warning buzzer is functional. To properly test
     the unit, introduce smoke into the chamber from an extinguished match or candle. Automatic acti-
40                                                        AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


        vation of smoke detectors installed in military family housing units will not transmit an alarm to
        the Base Fire Department. The occupant should immediately call the fire department using
        911 and report alarm activation if a fire is evident or suspected.
        A8.18.13.3. (Added-90SW) To reset, fan detector with paper or hat to clear smoke from around
        it.
        A8.18.13.4. (Added-90SW) Clean the detector by brushing the unit's exterior with a soft brush
        while holding a vacuum cleaner hose near the unit to collect dust particles.
        A8.18.13.5. (Added-90SW) Smoke detectors which activate for no apparent reason can normally
        be reset by cleaning and resetting the unit as described above. If cleaning and resetting procedures
        fail to accomplish the resetting of the unit, contact Housing Maintenance, ext 637-6102, for repair
        or replacement of the unit.
        A8.18.13.6. (Added-90SW) Do not remove the smoke detector from its mounting.
        A8.18.13.7. (Added-90SW) Government Installed Fire Extinguishers:
            A8.18.13.7.1. (Added-90SW) Inspect extinguisher monthly.
            A8.18.13.7.2. (Added-90SW) Check for signs of loss in pressure, damage to cylinder, and
            blocked discharge hose.
            A8.18.13.7.3. (Added-90SW) Take the fire extinguisher to the Housing Maintenance Office
            to get extinguisher exchanged.
A8.19. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention - Clinic.
     A8.19.1. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention and Protection: Persons who are physically or mentally dis-
     abled must receive the highest degree of fire protection practical. Fire prevention programs in health
     care facilities will receive appropriate emphasis. The following items are required by appropriate fire
     protection standards.
     A8.19.2. (Added-90SW) Medical Material.
        A8.19.2.1. (Added-90SW) The Medical Group Safety Officer will notify the Fire Protection
        Flight of any hazardous material relocation.
        A8.19.2.2. (Added-90SW) Clearly label all medical supplies.
        A8.19.2.3. (Added-90SW) Store flammable/combustible liquids and gases in approved flamma-
        ble storage rooms or cabinets.
        A8.19.2.4. (Added-90SW) Store all compressed gas cylinders IAW NFPA 55.
            A8.19.2.4.1. (Added-90SW) Store flammable gases (ethylene, ether) and fuel gases (acety-
            lene, propane) separate from oxidizing gases (oxygen, nitrous oxide).
            A8.19.2.4.2. (Added-90SW) Chain or secure cylinders in a vertical position with safety caps
            in place.
            A8.19.2.4.3. (Added-90SW) Color code cylinders and stencil contents on the cylinder in
            accordance with MIL STD 101B. Post color codes for commonly used gases in the area.
            A8.19.2.4.4. (Added-90SW) Identify empty cylinders and store apart from full containers.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                       41


          A8.19.2.4.5. (Added-90SW) Do not subject cylinders to temperature extremes, especially
          heat.
          A8.19.2.4.6. (Added-90SW) Keep oil, grease, and other petroleum products away from cyl-
          inders, regulators, etc.
   A8.19.3. (Added-90SW) Open Flame Lighting Devices. Do not use open flame lighting devices or
   candles in base buildings, except in base chapels for religious services and tables for food. Ensure hur-
   ricane candles are securely supported by a substantial noncombustible base.
   A8.19.4. (Added-90SW) Burning Incense. The burning of incense is prohibited, except in base chap-
   els for established religious ceremonial purposes.
   A8.19.5. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention Training. Thoroughly train all personnel in fire reporting
   and evacuation procedures contained in 90th Medical Group Instruction 32-2001, Fire Protection,
   Prevention, and Evacuation, which establishes procedures for evacuation of patients and personnel.
   Fire drills will comply with NFPA 101 requirements.
   A8.19.6. (Added-90SW) Blocking Of Fire Exits. Do not lock, block, obscure, or obstruct exits dur-
   ing hours of operation. Keep aisles, foyers, lobbies, corridors, and areas leading to exits clean and free
   of obstructions. When movable chairs or tables are used, arrange to maintain aisles to exit ways.
A8.20. (Added-90SW) Contractors/Concessionaires.
   A8.20.1. (Added-90SW) General Information: This chapter is designed to assist civilian contractors
   in establishing their own fire prevention program at F.E. Warren Air Force Base. The fire department
   solicits your help in preventing fires. We stand ready to assist you in any matter pertinent to fire pre-
   vention or fire safety. Feel free to call on us any time you have a problem or in any situation that might
   lead to a problem. Our telephone number is 773-2931.
   A8.20.2. (Added-90SW) Responsibilities: The contractor (general, subs, laborers, etc.) is responsi-
   ble for establishing a fire protection and prevention program, that includes the compliance with an
   enforcement of established fire safety criteria set forth in specifications, manufacturers' instructions,
   the NFPA, the Uniform Fire Code, Air Force Directives (including AFOSH) and all applicable data
   detailed in contract specifications or drawings.
   A8.20.3. (Added-90SW) Firefighting Access: Every building shall be accessible to fire department
   apparatus, by way of access roadways with all-weather driving surface (if possible) of not less that 20
   feet of unobstructed width, to withstand the line loads of fire apparatus and having a minimum of 13
   feet, 6 inches of vertical clearance. All dead-end fire department access roads in excess of 150 feet in
   length shall be provided with approved turnaround for fire department apparatus.
   A8.20.4. (Added-90SW) Welding, Cutting, Brazing, Torch or Open Flame: Prior to performing "hot
   work" (welding, burning, lead melting, blow torches, tar pots, and so forth), or operating other
   flame-producing devices, the area must be inspected and approved by the fire department. When work
   is approved by a fire department official, an AF Form 592 will be issued for a period not to exceed 30
   days. Beyond the 30 days, permits will have to be re-approved.
   A8.20.5. (Added-90SW) Fire Reporting: The fire reporting number is 911 for the Base Fire Depart-
   ment. The general information number of the fire department is 773-2931. ALL FIRES, NO MAT-
   TER HOW SMALL, OR IF THE FIRE HAS BEEN EXTINGUISHED, OR BURNED OUT,
42                                                        AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


     must be reported immediately to the fire department. All personnel shall be trained in reporting fires
     and fire prevention responsibilities.
     A8.20.6. (Added-90SW) Utilities, Installed Fire Protection Systems and Blocked Roads or Streets:
     The contractor shall notify the fire department, 773-2931, whenever an existing fire detection, alarm,
     or fire suppression system must be disconnected, relocated, or extended, and prior to their being
     returned to service. Fire protection system components will be handled carefully to ensure reliability
     when systems are restored to service. System reliability checks will be performed by civil engineer
     shop technicians, a fire department representative, and the contractor. The fire department will be
     notified prior to any roads or streets being blocked or partially blocked.
     A8.20.7. (Added-90SW) Flammable or Combustible Liquids: All painting materials (paint, brushes,
     empty cans, rags, clothing, drop cloths) and flammable or combustible liquids shall be removed from
     the building at the end of the workday. Such painting materials and flammable liquids shall be stored
     in an approved locker or location.
     A8.20.8. (Added-90SW) Fire Extinguishers and Fire Hydrants: Fire hose or extinguishers in build-
     ings will not be removed from their locations or used for any purpose other than firefighting. Fire
     hydrants will not be used without permission from the fire department. Free access from the street to
     fire hydrants and to fire department connections, whether permanent or temporary, shall be provided
     and maintained at all times. A clear zone of at least 15 feet must be maintained around the fire hydrant
     to allow access for fire department vehicles.
     A8.20.9. (Added-90SW) Smoking: Smoking shall only be permitted in designated areas. All smok-
     ing areas shall be coordinated through Safety, Fire Department. Where smoking is permitted, safe
     receptacles shall be provided for the proper disposal of smoking materials. Smoking shall be prohib-
     ited throughout demolition areas. Smoking is strictly prohibited in or near areas where flammable liq-
     uids, highly combustible material, or explosives are stored, handled, or processed. "NO SMOKING"
     signs will be posted.
     A8.20.10. (Added-90SW) Electrical Appliances or Temporary Wiring: All portable electrical
     devices shall be disconnected at the close of each working day. Temporary wiring, including branch
     circuits and lighting shall be installed to meet requirements of the National Electric Code and NFPA
     241. Temporary wiring shall be removed immediately upon completion of construction or purpose for
     which the wiring was installed. Temporary heating equipment shall be UL listed or FM approved and
     shall be installed, used, and maintained according to the manufacturer's instructions and applicable
     fire codes. When temporary heating equipment is utilized, it shall be monitored and maintained by
     properly trained personnel.
     A8.20.11. (Added-90SW) Trash Disposal: Accumulation of trash, paper, shavings, sawdust, excel-
     sior, boxes, and other packing materials will be removed from the building at the close of the workday
     and disposed of in proper containers located away from the buildings. The area outside of buildings
     undergoing work shall be kept free of trash, paper, or discarded combustibles. Prior to quitting time, a
     reliable person delegated by the contractor will make a check of the building or area to ensure compli-
     ance with these procedures and that the building and area are left in a fire safe condition.
A8.21. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention – Flightline, Hangars. It is the responsibility of each activity
supervisor involved to ensure compliance with the contents of this instruction.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                       43


   A8.21.1. (Added-90SW) DO NOT obstruct fire lanes around hangars and aircraft parking areas. Do
   not double park, stage, or maintain privately owned vehicles (POVs), government owned vehicles
   (GOVs), motorcycles, bicycles, Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE), etc., in fire lanes.
   A8.21.2. (Added-90SW) Control parking around aircraft maintenance areas as necessary to provide
   evacuations of aircraft, equipment, personnel, and for maneuverability of firefighting equipment.
   A8.21.3. (Added-90SW) Accomplish fuel cell repairs in accordance with applicable technical
   orders. Do these repairs in specified fuel cell areas.
   A8.21.4. (Added-90SW) Do not park aircraft so as to interfere with the movement of emergency
   vehicles.
   A8.21.5. (Added-90SW) During fuel transfers, ground and bond the refueling units and aircraft in
   accordance with applicable technical orders.
   A8.21.6. (Added-90SW) Accomplish aircraft refueling and defueling operations in strict compliance
   with applicable technical orders, manuals, and other directives.
   A8.21.7. (Added-90SW) Use explosion proof electrical fixtures and appliances in hangars and other
   shops where explosive or flammable vapors may be present.
   A8.21.8. (Added-90SW) Partition off shops having equipment or appliances capable of producing
   ignition temperature, in areas where gasoline or other flammables are likely to be present from areas
   where such vapors could be encountered and install self-closing doors. These partitions and doors
   must be reasonably airtight.
   A8.21.9. (Added-90SW) DO NOT place or park POVs, GOVs, motorcycles, forklifts, “Loaders" or
   electric carts in aircraft hangars without written permission from the fire chief or designated represen-
   tative.
   A8.21.10. (Added-90SW) No painting, other than touch painting, defined by NFPA Std 410, Storage
   and Handling of Hazardous Materials, will be allowed without prior written approval by the fire chief
   or designated representative on a case-by-case basis.
   A8.21.11. (Added-90SW) Smoking, striking matches, operation of lighters, and any other open
   flame device is prohibited on the flightline and aircraft hangars.
A8.22. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention – Supply Function. Store stock supplies DOD 4145.19R-1,
Storage and Materials Handling.
   A8.22.1. (Added-90SW) Mandatory Fire Alarm Clearance: Do not stack or place supplies closer
   than 36 inches in all directions to any fire alarm system device (master transmitter or manual/auto-
   matic break station) or electrical switch box. When the stock height is above the level of the transmit-
   ter, break station, or electrical switch box, provide additional clearance to prevent items from falling
   onto the unit. In addition to the clearances, provide aisles to the unit and keep open at all times.
   A8.22.2. (Added-90SW) Wall Storage Clearances: Fire aisles are not necessary between stored sup-
   plies and outer walls, regardless of their type of construction, except in the case of supplies presenting
   special hazards and requiring special precautions. Leave a clear space of 24 inches between stored
   combustibles (including supplies packed in combustible containers) and substandard interior firewalls
   and partitions. A clear space is not mandatory between stored supplies and standard fire walls.
44                                                        AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006


     A8.22.3. (Added-90SW) Fire Doors: Take extreme caution to ensure all fire doors are closed when
     warehouses are not occupied by personnel and doors are never blocked and completely functional.
     A8.22.4. (Added-90SW) Aerosol Storage: Store aerosol dispensing containers, or other sealed pres-
     sure type containers which could possibly explode, in one area only and away from heat or direct rays
     of the sun.
     A8.22.5. (Added-90SW) Outside (Open) Storage: Select outside storage areas for their suitability for
     drainage, firefighting facilities (i.e., sprinkler connections), clearance of buildings, and automotive
     parking. Stockpiles will not exceed 5,000 square feet in area and no higher than within 2 feet of the
     eaves of buildings. Allow 20 feet from streets and buildings, with a clearance of 12 feet between
     stockpiles to reduce the spread of fire and allow adequate space for firefighting procedures. Post "NO
     SMOKING" signs throughout the area. Do not allow vehicles, except those used to transport supplies,
     within 20 feet of storage areas. Keep the entire storage area free from unnecessary accumulation of
     combustible material. Keep weeds and grass down, and provide a regular procedure for cleanup of the
     entire area.
     A8.22.6. (Added-90SW) Ammunition Storage: Maintain ammunition storage areas in accordance
     with AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
     A8.22.7. (Added-90SW) Petroleum Oil Lubrication (POL) Facilities: Operate and maintain POL
     facilities in accordance with applicable technical orders and safety manuals.
        A8.22.7.1. (Added-90SW) Open flame is prohibited in POL area at all times.
A8.23. (Added-90SW) Fire Prevention – Unaccompanied Housing (Dormitories).
     A8.23.1. (Added-90SW) Responsibilities: Unaccompanied housing occupants are responsible for
     fire prevention in their quarters. Occupants must be familiar with fire prevention instructions.
     A8.23.2. (Added-90SW) Prohibitions:
        A8.23.2.1. (Added-90SW) Do not use open flame lighting devices or candles in unaccompanied
        housing. Candles may be used for decoration; however, they may not be lighted.
        A8.23.2.2. (Added-90SW) Burning incense is strictly prohibited.
        A8.23.2.3. (Added-90SW) Smoking in bed is prohibited.
        A8.23.2.4. (Added-90SW) Cut live Christmas trees are prohibited.
        A8.23.2.5. (Added-90SW) Any type of automotive or motorcycle equipment, including internal
        combustion engines, batteries, or major sub-assemblies such as bumpers, removable tops, hoods
        and fenders.
        A8.23.2.6. (Added-90SW) Use of multiple socket adapters, single and multiple outlet extension
        cords, the use of extension cords in lieu of permanent wiring is prohibited. Use fused 15 amps, six
        appliances surge protectors only. Appliances must bear the "UL" or "FM" seal. The two outlet box
        with trip proof extension cord is prohibited.
        A8.23.2.7. (Added-90SW) Use of receptacles, switches, and appliances when damaged. Report
        discrepancies to civil engineers.
        A8.23.2.8. (Added-90SW) Use of portable appliances unless they bear the label of a national
        testing laboratory.
AFI32-2001_90SWSUP1_I 28 MARCH 2006                                                                          45


      A8.23.2.9. (Added-90SW) Use of electrical cords that are frayed, spliced, stapled, nailed, or
      cords that run through walls, ceilings, or floors.
      A8.23.2.10. (Added-90SW) The use of heat element cooking appliances, i.e., toasters, toaster
      ovens, skillets, electrical frying pans, hot plates, and hibachi grills are strictly prohibited for use in
      dormitories rooms and base facilities with exception of dining facilities and dormitories with
      kitchenettes.
A8.24. (Added-90SW) Forms Adopted. AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, AF IMT
332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Per-
mit, and AF IMT 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report.
