BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-815
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                              RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement 1

                                                                          22 NOVEMBER 2006
                                                             Certified Current 5 November 2008

                                                                              Civilian Personnel

                                                                       ABSENCE AND LEAVE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at
               https://home.randolph.af.mil/pubsnforms.htm for downloading

RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 12 MSS/DPCE                        Certified by: 12 MSS/DPC (Ms. B. McCain)
Supersedes: AFI36-815_RANDOLPHAFBSUP, 4 December 2002                    Pages: 4

AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002, is supplemented as follows:

This supplement establishes and delegates specific authority to commanders/supervisors of
civilian employees to grant annual and sick leave, leave without pay, and other specialized forms
of leave and absence. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFM 37-123, (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) (available at <https://afrims.amc.af.mil>). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The requirement to utilize Randolph AFB Form 58, Civilian Time Card, has been added at
paragraph 1.3.3 and attachment 1. When approving advanced annual leave, a supervisor must
provide a letter to civilian pay as notification of the approval added at paragraph 2.4.1. Excused
absence may be granted to employees to participate in a voluntary physical fitness program at the
direction of the appropriate commander has been added at paragraph 8.1.1. Also, organizational
office symbols have been updated at paragraph 9.2. The process of notification to employees
accepted for voluntary leave donations has changed at paragraph 9.5.2. A indicates a revision
from the previous edition.

1.2.1. The civilian personnel officer is designated.

1.2.3. Immediate (first-level) supervisors are authorized to approve all leave requests for their
employees unless otherwise re-designated by higher-level management.

1.3.3. (Added) When annotating time and attendance, Randolph AFB Form 58, Civilian Time
Card, is required.
2                                                  AFI 36-815_12 FTW        22 NOVEMBER 2006

2.4. Employees will request unscheduled and emergency annual leave through their immediate
supervisors or second-level supervisor in the absence of the immediate supervisor not later than 2
hours after the start of the duty day. Employees will be advised if, due to the work situation, the
request must be made sooner than 2 hours after the start of the duty day. Employees who occupy
positions providing security, utilities, or safety services may be required to request unscheduled
or emergency leave at least 2 hours before the shift begins. NOTE: Employees will not assume
the requested leave is approved until the supervisor’s determination is made.

2.4.1. When a supervisor approves advanced annual leave, they must submit a letter to the
civilian payroll office with the name of the employee, amount of approved advanced leave and
dates of anticipated use.

2.10.1.4. The 12th Mission Support Group Commander (12 MSG/CC) for all wing activities and
associate commanders/designees for their organizations are designated to approve exigencies.
The Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Director of Personnel approves exigencies
for all employees assigned to HQ AETC and activities under direct command jurisdiction.

2.10.6. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring employees use restored annual leave by the end
of the leave year ending 2 years after the termination date of the exigency of the public business
that resulted in forfeiture of annual leave; the date the employee is determined to be recovered
and able to return to duty if the leave was forfeited because of sickness; or the date of restoration
of the annual leave was forfeited because of an administrative error. Employees with 40 hours or
less of restored leave should be encouraged to use the leave before using regular annual leave.
Employees with more than 40 hours of restored leave should be encouraged to prorate the use
over the entire time limit. Supervisors must ensure that, when restored leave is used, it is
charged against the restored leave balance and not against the annual leave balance.

3.11.3. NOTE: Coordination with the 12th Mission Support Squadron Civilian Personnel Flight
(12 MSS/DPCE) will be obtained prior to informing employees of the decision to approve or
disapprove the request. Supervisors will forward the employee's request for advance sick leave,
along with their recommendations for approval, to 12 MSS/DPCE as far in advance as possible.
This will assist employees in avoiding a possible leave without pay situation.

4.4. NOTE: Coordination with 12 MSS/DPCE is required prior to informing employees of the
decision to approve or disapprove the request.

7.2. Approval to close an activity or portion of the base on an emergency basis will be requested
from the 12 MSG/CC. If it is known in advance that an activity will be closed, arrangements
should be made to have affected employees work in another area or take annual leave, credit
hours, comp time, or leave without pay.

8.1.1. (Added) Wing group and staff commanders may implement programs to excuse
employees up to three (3) hours a week to participate in a voluntary physical fitness program.
Associate unit commanders may adopt or develop their own policy for a voluntary physical
fitness program for civilian employees. Contact 12 MSS/DPCE for additional information and
assistance. All voluntary physical fitness programs must be coordinated with 12 MSS/DPCE
prior to implementation.

9.2. Approving officials of applications to become a leave recipient have been designated as
follows: 12 FTW group commanders, Air Force Office of Special Investigations Commander,
AFI 36-815_12FTW        22 NOVEMBER 2006                                                    3
Air Force Security Assistance Training and Air Force Manpower Agency commanders and
executive directors, HQ AETC and Air Force Services Agency directors, Air Force Personnel
Center DSHC Chief, and Joint Personal Property Shipping Office Deputy Director. The 12
MSG/CC is also appointed as approving official for all other civilian personnel not otherwise
included in the above organizations serviced by the 12 MSS/DPCE.

9.3. Contact the 12 MSS/DPCE for additional information and assistance.

9.5.2. Prior to notifying the employee of approval, the deciding official will forward the
application, along with applicable supporting documentation, to 12 MSS/DPCE to ensure
compliance with applicable regulations. The 12 MSS/DPCE will notify the employee, the
civilian payroll office and servicing Defense Finance and Accounting Service that the employee
has been approved to accept volunteer leave donations.

12.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Prescribed Forms. Randolph AFB Form 58, Civilian Time
Card.



                                           RICHARD M. CLARK, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing


Attachment:
5. Sample Randolph AFB Form 58, Civilian Time Card
4                             AFI 36-815_12 FTW   22 NOVEMBER 2006

                       Attachment 5

    SAMPLE – Randolph AFB FORM 58, CIVILIAN TIME CARD
