                              Template modified:      27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2015
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                    23 MAY 1994

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                            AIR FORCE RECRUITING ADVERTISING
                                                                                    PROGRAM


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFRS/RSOA                                                            Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX
       (Mr Tim Talbert)                                                                 (Col Henry L. Cyr)
Supersedes AFR 35-48, 31 March 1978.                                                              Pages: 2
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel. It provides guid-
ance and procedures for the Air Force advertising program. It tells how the Air Force manages the adver-
tising program and how the program supports all military recruitment programs.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This issuance aligns with AFPD 36-20. Substantive changes did not occur in responsibilities or authori-
ties.



1. Reason for the Program. Title 10, United States Code, Section 503, makes the Secretary of the Air
Force responsible for conducting intensive recruiting campaigns. The Air Force creates, produces, and
distributes advertising materials to support all Air Force personnel procurement programs. The materials
are to inform the public in general--and, in particular, persons who are eligible for military service--about
Air Force personnel needs and the professional development and career opportunities in the Air Force.

2. Management of the Program. The advertising program is centrally planned and controlled to ensure
economical, timely, and coordinated response to Air Force personnel requirements. The Air Education
and Training Command, Air Force Recruiting Service, Advertising Branch (AFRS/RSOM), Randolph
Air Force Base, Texas, is the Air Force executive agent for active duty recruitment advertising and works
with, coordinates, and supports other Air Force advertising programs to achieve maximum economies.
The programs are:
   2.1. Air Force Academy.
   2.2. Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps.
   2.3. Air Force Reserve.
   2.4. Headquarters US Air Force Surgeon General.
   2.5. Air National Guard.

3. Responsibilities. The Advertising Branch (AFRS/RSOM):
   3.1. Is the Air Force office of primary responsibility for coordinating, planning, and managing the
   active duty program.
   3.2. Ensures equity of advertising support to Air Force recruitment programs within budgetary
   restraints and develops the annual advertising operating program.
   3.3. Develops annual budget requirements for the advertising program.
   3.4. Gives information to the Secretary of the Air Force Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) through HQ
   USAF/DPXF to help answer congressional, executive, or judicial questions about the Air Force
   advertising program, its products, and the award of contracts for its sustainment.
   3.5. Establishes and maintains quality control, review, and coordination of all Air Force advertising
   products to ensure efficiency, effectiveness, and presentation of the highest possible standards.
   3.6. Conducts periodic planning conferences to get programs started, establish requirements, and
   develop advertising schedules with recruiting program managers.
   3.7. Represents the Air Force to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, through the Air Staff, on all
   Air Force military advertising matters, with coordinated inputs from other programs listed in para-
   graph 2., as appropriate.
   3.8. Coordinates Air Force attendance at all joint service advertising ventures, conferences, work-
   shops, discussions, etc., with other Air Force advertising programs, other Military Services, and gov-
   ernment agencies.
   3.9. Is the Air Force executive agent to nongovernment agencies (Advertising Council, National
   Association of Broadcasters, etc.) on all military personnel advertising matters with input of other
   programs listed in paragraph 2. , as appropriate.




                                        BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                        DCS/Personnel




                                               2
