BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2818
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                     AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                          SUPPLEMENT

                                                                                    15 August 2010

                                                                                         Personnel

                                             THE USAF MAINTENANCE AWARDS PROGRAM

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A4MX                                                   Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A4M
                                                                                (Col George Torres)
                                                                                          Pages: 14

AFI 36-2818, 27 November 2007, is supplemented as follows. This supplement prescribes policies
and procedures governing maintenance awards program for Air Force Global Strike Command
(AFGSC). It applies to all AFGSC organizations and personnel that maintain missiles, missile
systems, aircraft, aircraft systems, munitions, equipment, support equipment and components
regardless of Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). This supplement does not apply to the Air National
Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and their units. The reporting requirements in
this publication (unless otherwise specified) are exempt from licensing according to AFI 33-324, The
Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling Internal, Public and
Interagency Air Force Information Collections. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functionl’s
chain of command. The use of the name of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force (AF). Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Record
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. See
attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
    2                                                       AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

1.3.2.4. (Added) Policy Development and Enforcement Branch (HQ AFGSC/A4MX) is AFGSC’s
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the Clements McMullen Memorial Daedalian Weapon
System Maintenance Trophy, Maintenance Effectiveness Award, General Lew Allen, Jr., Trophy,
CMSAF Thomas N. Barnes Award and Lieutenant General Leo Marquez Award.

1.3.2.5. (Added) 8 AF and 20 AF will publish guidance and manage a quarterly awards program with
awards equivalent to those listed in Table 4.3. as applicable to their subordinate units. 576 FLTS will
compete through 20 AF for quarterly awards.

1.3.2.6. (Added) AFGSC/A4/7 will provide trophies for annual award winners.

1.3.3.1. Units will pay for personnel to travel to the award ceremonies.

4.1.1.3. AFGSC units will send electronic packages no later than 1 Jun to e-mail address provided in
the award announcement message.

4.1.1.5. An AFGSC/A4M approved evaluation board reviews all AFGSC unit nominations and
selects the AFGSC nominee. AFGSC/A4/7 approves the nominee and notifies AFGSC units by
message.

4.1.2.3. AFGSC units will send electronic packages no later than 1 Nov to the e-mail address
provided in the award announcement message.

4.1.2.7. An AFGSC/A4M approved evaluation board reviews all AFGSC unit nominations and
selects the AFGSC nominee. AFGSC/A4/7 approves the nominee and notifies AFGSC units by
message.

4.1.3.3. AFGSC units will send electronic packages no later than 1 January to the e-mail address
provided in the award announcement message.

4.1.3.5. An AFGSC/A4M approved evaluation board reviews all AFGSC unit nominations and
selects the AFGSC nominee. AFGSC/A4/7 approves the nominee and notifies AFGSC units by
message.

4.2. (Added) AFGSC Maintenance Awards. In addition to Air Force level maintenance awards, HQ
AFGSC has established the following command-specific awards to ensure recognition of AFGSC's
outstanding performers.

4.2.1. General Guidelines. (Applies to all command specific awards in this chapter).

4.2.1.1. Submit packages as outlined in Tables 4.2. (Added) and 4.3. (Added).

4.2.1.2. Only one nominee per wing/NAF HQ staff, per category, per calendar year will be submitted.
Nominees are not required to have been assigned to the unit for the entire inclusive period.
    3                                                       AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

4.2.1.3. In addition to the AF IMT 1206, nomination packages for all AFGSC Maintenance Awards
will include a nomination recommendation letter signed by the unit commander (digital signatures are
acceptable). The letter must validate the nominee meets all criteria listed for the applicable award.
This memo must also include mailing and message addresses of appropriate Group and Squadron
Commanders, as well as unit Public Affairs Officer to ensure the appropriate level of recognition and
publicity.

4.2.1.3.1. Nominations for annual awards will be documented on the latest version of AF IMT 1206.
Limit narratives to the front side of the form. Comments will be in bullet format, with double spacing
used between categories and single spacing between and within major bullets. Refer to Table 4.3. for
individual award AF IMT 1206 criteria.

4.2.1.3.2. Acronyms not approved in AFI 21-101, AFI 21-201, AFI 21-202V1, AFI 21-202V2 or AFI
21-204 must be defined on the bottom of the first page or on the continuation page of the AF IMT
1206. Limit unapproved acronyms to 10 total.

4.2.1.3.3. Track changes option must be turned off before sending nomination packages forward.
Packages will not be accepted with track changes enabled.

4.2.1.3.4. Nominations will be packaged in a single electronic file for each award category.

4.2.1.4. Personnel assigned to geographically separated units, detachments and munitions support
sites will compete within their parent wing. In the event an organization is not assigned to a parent
wing, the highest level organization available (i.e., group) may submit nominees.

4.2.1.5. Selection Process. A panel consisting of AFGSC/A4M officers and SNCOs selects the
winner and forwards to AFGSC/A4M, Chief of Maintenance, for approval. Award winners are
announced to NAF/units by message.

4.2.2. Maintenance Professional of the Year (MPOY). This award recognizes outstanding
maintenance performers operating in a sortie generation or munitions role. This award also includes
personnel assigned to flight line, back shop and MOS functions having direct impact on sortie
generation. Munitions organizations are eligible regardless of sortie generation role. The award is
based solely on duty performance, demonstrated professionalism and support for AFGSC readiness
and mission accomplishment. Off duty activities are not factors for consideration. Personnel in the
2A, 2M, 2P, 2W, 21A, and 21M career fields are eligible for this award.

4.2.3. Maintenance Support Professional of the Year (MSPOY). This award recognizes
outstanding maintenance performers operating in a support role, such as personnel assigned to
Maintenance Operations Center, Maintenance Training Flight, Quality Assurance, support sections,
tool rooms and the Air Force Repair Enhancement Program. It is based solely on duty performance,
demonstrated professionalism and support for AFGSC readiness and mission accomplishment. Off
duty activities are not factors for consideration. Personnel in the 2A, 2M, 2P, 2R, 2S, 2W, 3S2, 21A
and 21M career fields are eligible for this award.
    4                                                        AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

4.2.4. Aircraft Avionics Technician of the Year. This award recognizes outstanding avionics
performers operating in a sortie generation role. This award also includes personnel assigned to flight
line and back shop functions having direct impact on sortie generation. The award is based solely on
duty performance, demonstrated professionalism and support for AFGSC readiness and mission
accomplishment. Off duty activities are not factors for consideration. Any 2A573A, 2A573B,
2A573C or 2A0X1B may be nominated if they meet the criteria listed below:

4.2.4.1. Certified on all core tasks required for their respective skill-level (N/A for Manager category)
and at least 90 percent of tasks identified for current duty position IAW their respective CFETP.

4.2.4.2. Must be awarded 3/5 skill-level (Technician Award), 5/7 skill-level (Supervisor Award) or
7/9 skill-level (Manager) in the Personnel Data System.

4.2.4.3. No failed local Quality Assurance or higher headquarters personnel evaluations and no
Detected Safety Violations during the award period.

4.2.4.4. Must be performing maintenance duties. Personnel performing in a support role should be
considered for competition in the MSPOY category.

4.2.5. Aircraft Mechanic of the Year. This award recognizes outstanding aircraft mechanics
operating in a sortie generation role. This award also includes personnel assigned to flight line and
back shop functions having direct impact on sortie generation. The award is based solely on duty
performance, demonstrated professionalism and support for AFGSC readiness and mission
accomplishment. Off duty activities are not factors for consideration. Any 2A6X1, 2A6X2, 2A6X3,
2A6X4, 2A6X5, 2A6X6 or 2A7X0 may be nominated if they meet the criteria listed below:

4.2.5.1. Certified on all core tasks required for their respective skill-level (N/A for Manager category)
and at least 90 percent of tasks identified for current duty position IAW their CFETP.

4.2.5.2. Must be awarded 3/5 skill-level (Technician Award), 5/7 skill-level (Supervisor Award) or
7/9 skill-level (Manager) in the Personnel Data System.

4.2.5.3. No failed local Quality Assurance or higher headquarters personnel evaluations and no
Detected Safety Violations during the award period.

4.2.5.4. Must be performing maintenance duties. Personnel performing in a support role should be
considered for competition in the MSPOY category.

4.2.6. Colonel Edward D. Payne Missile Maintainer of the Year Award. The AFGSC Colonel
Edward D. Payne Missile Maintainer of the Year Award recognizes individual superior contributions
to the missile maintenance effort for the previous calendar year. It is the highest individual AFGSC
award available to recognize demonstrated superior performance of missile maintenance personnel
and is based solely on duty performance, demonstrated professionalism and support for AFGSC
readiness and mission accomplishment. Off duty activities are not factors for consideration. Personnel
in the 2M career field are eligible for this award. Any 2M0XX may be nominated if they meet the
criteria below:
    5                                                        AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010


4.2.6.1. Certified on all core tasks required for their respective skill-level (N/A for Manager category)
and at least 90 percent of tasks identified for current duty position IAW their CFETP.

4.2.6.2. Must be awarded 3/5 skill-level (Technician Award), 5/7 skill-level (Supervisor Award) or
7/9 skill-level (Manager) in the Personnel Data System.

4.2.6.3. No failed local Quality Assurance or higher headquarters personnel evaluations and no
Detected Safety Violations during the award period.

4.2.6.4. Must be performing maintenance technician duties in either a dispatching technician or back-
shop role. Technicians performing in a support role should be considered for competition in the
MSPOY category.

4.2.7. Maintenance Management Systems Professional of the Year (MMSPOY). This award
recognizes individuals for outstanding contributions to logistics operations and maintenance
management in AFGSC. The award is based solely on duty performance, demonstrated
professionalism and support for AFGSC readiness and mission accomplishment. Off duty activities
are not factors for consideration. Any 2R0X1 or 2R1X1 may be nominated if they meet the criteria
listed below:

4.2.7.1. Certified on all core tasks required for their respective skill-level (N/A for Manager category)
and at least 90 percent of tasks identified for current duty position IAW their CFETP.

4.2.7.2. Must be awarded 3/5 skill-level (Technician Award), 5/7 skill-level (Supervisor Award) or
7/9 skill-level (Manager) in the Personnel Data System.

4.2.8. Munitions Systems Technician/Supervisor/Manager of the Year. The Munitions Systems
Technician/Supervisor/Manager of the Year Award serves to recognize individual excellence in
munitions systems operations. This award does not distinguish between maintenance and support
roles and is based solely on duty performance, demonstrated professionalism, and consistent
performance in support of AFGSC readiness. Off duty activities are not factors for consideration.
Any 2W0X1 may be nominated if they meet the criteria listed below:

4.2.8.1. Certified on all core tasks required for their respective skill-level (N/A for Manager category)
and at least 90 percent of tasks identified for current duty position IAW their CFETP.

4.2.8.2. Must be awarded 3/5 skill-level (Technician Award), 5/7 skill-level (Supervisor Award) or
7/9 skill-level (Manager) in the Personnel Data System.

4.2.8.3. No failed local Quality Assurance or higher headquarters personnel evaluations and no
Detected Safety Violations during the award period.

4.2.9. Armament Systems Technician/Supervisor/Manager of the Year. The Armament
Technician/Supervisor/Manager of the Year Award serves to recognize individual excellence in
aircraft armament loading, armament systems maintenance and supervision of either operation. This
    6                                                        AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

award is based solely on duty performance, demonstrated professionalism and consistent performance
in support of AFGSC readiness. Off duty activities are not factors for consideration. Any 2W1X1
may be nominated if they meet the criteria listed below:

4.2.9.1. Certified on all core tasks required for their respective skill-level (N/A for Manager category)
and at least 90 percent of tasks identified for current duty position IAW their CFETP.

4.2.9.2. Must be awarded 3/5 skill-level (Technician Award), 5/7 skill-level (Supervisor Award) or
7/9 skill-level (Manager) in the Personnel Data System.

4.2.9.3. No failed local Quality Assurance or higher headquarters personnel evaluations and no
Detected Safety Violations during the award period.

4.2.9.4. Must be performing maintenance duties. Personnel performing in a support role should be
considered for competition in the MSPOY category.

4.2.10. Maintenance Training Flight Training Manager of the Year Award. The Maintenance
Training Manager of the Year Award is designed to recognize the “Best Maintenance Training
Manager in AFGSC”. This is an opportunity to recognize the efforts and accomplishments of
maintenance training managers performing duties as unit managers, schedulers or in course
development. This program is open to all maintenance training managers assigned to the MTF in the
grade of SrA through MSgt.

4.2.11. Maintenance Training Flight Instructor of the Year Award. The AFGSC Maintenance
Instructor of the Year Award is designed to recognize the "Best MTF instructor in AFGSC". This
program is open to all Maintenance Training Flight instructors in the grade of SrA through MSgt.

4.2.13. Maintenance Training Flight (MTF) of the Year Award. The MTF of the Year award is
designed to recognize the "Best MTF in AFGSC". All Maintenance Training Flights assigned to
AFGSC are eligible to compete. This award is based on a combination of the AF IMT 1206 (50%)
and Status of Training statistics for the award period (50%).

Table 4.2. (Added) Annual Directorate of Maintenance Individual Awards
Award                          Period of Award                Suspense to AFGSC NLT:
CMSgt Thomas N. Barnes         1 Jan - 31 Dec                 01 Jan
Award
General Lew Allen, Jr.         1 Jun - 31 May                 01 Jun
Trophy
Lieutenant General Leo         1 Oct - 30 Sep                 01 Nov
Marquez Award
    7                                                 AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

Table 4.3. (Added) AFGSC Annual Individual Award Submission Requirements.
Award                 AF IMT 1206 Criteria          Eligibility    AF IMT 1206
                                                                   Heading(s)
Maintenance           No more than 20 lines  Personnel in the 2A,  Duty Performance
Professional of the   of text, not including 2M, 2P, 2W, 21A and   (Includes all primary
Year                  headings.              21M career fields are and additional duties)
                                             eligible.

                                                Categories:
                                                Airman: AB - SrA
                                                NCO: SSgt - TSgt
                                                SNCO: MSgt - SMSgt
                                                CGO: 2d Lt - Capt
Maintenance Support    No more than 20 lines    Personnel in the 2A,      Duty Performance
Professional of the    of text, not including   2M, 2P, 2R, 2S, 2W,       (Includes all primary
Year                   headings.                3S2, 21A and 21M          and additional duties)
                                                career fields are
                                                eligible.

                                                Categories:
                                                Airman: AB - SrA
                                                NCO: SSgt - TSgt
                                                SNCO: MSgt - SMSgt
                                                CGO: 2d Lt - Capt
Aircraft Avionics      No more than 20 lines    Personnel in the          Duty Performance
Technician of the      of text, not including   2A573A, 2A573B,           (Includes all primary
Year                   headings.                2A573C and 2A0X1B         and additional duties)
                                                AFSCs are eligible.
                                                                          Significant
                                                Categories                Improvements to
                                                Technician: AB - SrA      Processes and
                                                Supervisor: SSgt - TSgt   Procedures
                                                Manager: MSgt-SMSgt
Aircraft Mechanic of   No more than 20 lines    Personnel in the          Duty Performance
the Year               of text, not including   2A6X1, 2A6X2,             (Includes all primary
                       headings.                2A6X3, 2A6X4,             and additional duties)
                                                2A6X5, 2A6X6 and
                                                2A7X0 AFSCs are           Significant
                                                eligible.                 Improvements to
                                                                          Processes and
                                                Categories:               Procedures
                                                Technician: AB - SrA
                                                Supervisor: SSgt - TSgt
                                                Manager: MSgt-SMSgt
    8                                                    AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

Colonel Edward D.        No more than 20 lines    Personnel in the          Duty Performance
Payne Missile            of text, not including   2M0XX AFSC are            (Includes all primary
Maintainer of the        headings.                eligible.                 and additional duties)
Year Award
                                                  Categories:               Significant
                                                  Technician: AB - SrA      Improvements to
                                                  Supervisor: SSgt - TSgt   Processes and
                                                  Manager: MSgt-SMSgt       Procedures
Maintenance              No more than 20 lines    Personnel in the          Duty Performance
Management Systems       of text, not including   2R0X1 and 2R1X1           (Includes all primary
Professional of the      headings.                AFSCs are eligible.       and additional duties)
Year
                                                  Categories:               Significant
                                                  Technician: AB - SrA      Improvements to
                                                  Supervisor: SSgt - TSgt   Processes and
                                                  Manager: MSgt-SMSgt       Procedures
Munitions Systems        No more than 20 lines    Personnel in the          Duty Performance
Technician/              of text, not including   2W0X1 AFSC are            (Includes all primary
Supervisor/ Manager      headings.                eligible.                 and additional duties)
of the Year
                                                  Categories:               Significant
                                                  Technician: AB - SrA      Improvements to
                                                  Supervisor: SSgt - TSgt   Processes and
                                                  Manager: MSgt-SMSgt       Procedure
Armament Systems         No more than 20 lines    Personnel in the          Duty Performance
Technician/              of text, not including   2W1X1 AFSC are            (Includes all primary
Supervisor/ Manager      headings.                eligible.                 and additional duties)
of the Year
                                                  Categories:               Significant
                                                  Technician: AB - SrA      Improvements to
                                                  Supervisor: SSgt - TSgt   Processes and
                                                  Manager: MSgt-SMSgt       Procedures
MTF Training             No more than 20 lines    All maintenance           Duty Performance
Manager of the Year      of text, not including   training managers         (Includes all primary
                         headings.                assigned to the MTF in    and additional duties)
                                                  the grade of
                                                  SrA through MSgt.         Significant
                                                                            Improvements to
                                                                            Processes and
                                                                            Procedures
Maintenance              No more than 20 lines    All maintenance           Duty Performance
Training Flight          of text, not including   instructors assigned to   (Includes all primary
Instructor of the Year   headings.                the MTF in the grade      and additional duties)
                                                  of SrA through MSgt
                                                                            Significant
    9                                                     AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

                                                                            Improvements to
                                                                            Processes and
                                                                            Procedures
Maintenance              No more than 20 lines     Any Maintenance          Achievements
Training Flight of the   of text, not including    Training Flight in
Year                     headings.                 AFGSC.                   Innovative
                                                                            Management Actions

Note: Award period for all AFGSC Annual Awards is 1 Jan – 31 Dec.

5.1.1.5. AFGSC units will send electronic packages no later than 1 Nov to e-mail address provided in
the award announcement message.

5.1.1.6. An AFGSC/A4M approved evaluation board reviews all AFGSC unit nominations and
selects the AFGSC nominee. AFGSC/A4/7 approves the nominee and notifies AFGSC units by
message.

5.1.2.6. AFGSC units will send electronic packages no later than 1 Nov to e-mail address provided in
the award announcement message.

5.1.2.7. An AFGSC/A4M approved evaluation board reviews all AFGSC unit nominations and
selects the AFGSC nominee. AFGSC/A4/7 approves the nominee and notifies AFGSC units by
message.

5.1.5 (Added) Colonel George T. Chadwell Memorial Trophy. The Colonel George T. Chadwell
Memorial Trophy is awarded annually to the ICBM maintenance organization (including test) which
clearly contributed the most superior maintenance performance in support of its assigned mission the
previous calendar year. The trophy is named in honor of the late Colonel George T. Chadwell, whose
exemplary service in support of the ICBM program extended from 1958 to 1966.

Due Date: 1 March

5.1.5.1. Nomination Procedures:

5.1.5.2. Use AF IMT 1206 (front and back) with following headings:

5.1.5.3. Mission Accomplishments (Weight Factor = 5) (recommended maximum 1 page):
Describe unit accomplishments for the reporting period. Items to include are weapons system
performance, local or higher headquarters exercises/inspections, special programs, etc. Programs
which address environmental compliance should be addressed in this section.

5.1.5.4. Effective Use of Maintenance Resources (Weight Factor = 2.5) (recommended maximum
.5 pages): Describe actions taken by the unit to maximize equipment repair capability and promote
effective use of maintenance resources.
    10                                                     AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

5.1.5.5. Innovative Management Actions (Weight Factor = 2.5) (recommended maximum .5
pages): Describe quality actions taken by the unit to improve mission capability, work environment
and support to personnel and community.

5.1.5.6. Selection Process: A selection board composed of AFGSC/A4M officers and SNCOs
reviews the nominations and selects a proposed winner. AFGSC/A4M is the final approval authority.
NAFs and units are notified by message of the selection results.

5.1.5.7. Presentation: AFGSC/A4M, or designated representative, presents the trophy at an
appropriate ceremony at the earliest available opportunity. The winning unit retains the trophy until a
new annual winner is named. At that time, the unit possessing the award takes action to have the
appropriate engraving accomplished and forwards the trophy to the winning unit. The new receiving
unit maintains the award in the carrying case until officially presented.

Chapter 7 (Added)

MISSILE MAINTENANCE INCENTIVE AWARDS

7.1. Purpose. Missile maintenance incentive awards are designed to preserve and strengthen the
morale of ICBM and cruise missile maintenance personnel directly supporting the generation or test
of the ICBM/Cruise Missile weapon system.

7.2. Categories:

7.2.1. Missile Master Technician.

7.2.2. Missile Master Team Chief.

7.2.3. Missile Master Instructor.

7.2.4. Missile Master Evaluator.

7.3. Approval Authority. Supervisors recommend and unit commanders nominate and forward
individual names to the unit Quality Assurance evaluation monitor. The evaluation monitor verifies
award eligibility and forwards eligible nominations directly to the final approval authority (MXG/576
FLTS commander). The commander signs a letter granting the award and forwards the letter to the
individual and to the QA evaluation monitor. The QA evaluation monitor must develop procedures to
track approved nominations.

7.4. Achievement Criteria. In addition to specific criteria for each award, the following criteria must
be met:

7.4.1. Missile maintenance personnel must be primarily performing work in the area specifically
relating to the individual award for at least 18 months. Qualifying time can be cumulative (i.e., one
shop for 6 months and another shop for 12 months).
     11                                                      AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

7.4.2. Missile maintenance personnel must be subject to proficiency evaluations/inspections, and
receive satisfactory/pass ratings on local and higher headquarters proficiency evaluations/inspections
for the most recent 18 months of evaluation history. Since this is a very subjective area, final
determination is the MXG/576 FLTS commander's discretion.

7.4.3. Individuals must possess at least a 5-skill level.

7.5. Presentation. Each unit determines presentation of incentive award.

7.6. Master Technician. Recognizes technicians who do not meet criteria for the Master Team Chief
award, but through their knowledge, skill and effort, have demonstrated superior performance as a
technician. Eligibility begins the day the individual completes 5-skill level core task training
requirements.

7.7. Master Team Chief. Recognizes individuals who through their knowledge, skill and effort
demonstrated superior performance as a team chief. Eligibility begins the day the team chief is
certified to perform team chief duties.

7.8. Master Instructor. Recognizes individuals who demonstrated superior performance as a missile
maintenance instructor/trainer. Eligibility begins the day of an instructor’s certification. Personnel
primarily assigned as trainer maintainers are not eligible for this award; rather, submit for Master
Team Chief or Master Technician, if otherwise eligible. Instructors/trainers must be evaluated by
20 AF personnel or a higher headquarters evaluation team (i.e., Logistics Compliance Assessment
Program Team) and receive a "Satisfactory" or higher grade to be eligible for this award.

7.8.1. The nominee is required to have a minimum of 250 instructional hours to qualify for this
award.

7.8.2. Nominees must have an associate’s degree or higher.

7.9. Master Evaluator. Recognizes evaluators who demonstrated superior performance as a
maintenance evaluator. Eligibility begins the day of an evaluator's certification. In addition to
receiving “satisfactory” or higher ratings during locally conducted evaluator proficiency evaluations,
evaluators must be evaluated by 20 AF personnel or a higher headquarters evaluation team (i.e.,
Logistics Compliance Assessment Program Team) and receive a "Satisfactory" or higher grade to be
eligible for this award.

Chapter 8 (Added)

AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE INCENTIVE AWARDS

8.1. Purpose. Aircraft maintenance incentive awards are designed to preserve and strengthen the
morale of aircraft maintenance personnel directly supporting bomber operations.

8.2. Categories:
     12                                                     AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

8.2.1. Master Technician.

8.2.2. Master Crew Chief.

8.2.3. Master Instructor.

8.2.4. Master Evaluator.

8.3. Approval Authority. Supervisors recommend and unit commanders nominate and forward
individual names to the unit Quality Assurance evaluation monitor. The evaluation monitor verifies
award eligibility and forwards eligible nominations directly to the final approval authority (MXG
commander). The commander signs a letter granting the award and forwards the letter to the
individual and to the QA evaluation monitor. The QA evaluation monitor must develop procedures to
track approved nominations.

8.4. Achievement Criteria. In addition to specific criteria for each award, the following criteria must
be met:

8.4.1. Aircraft maintenance personnel must be primarily performing work in the area specifically
relating to the individual award for at least 18 months. Qualifying time can be cumulative (i.e., one
shop for 6 months and another shop for 12 months).

8.4.2. Aircraft maintenance personnel must be subject to proficiency evaluations/inspections, and
receive “Satisfactory/Pass” ratings on local and higher headquarters proficiency evaluations/
inspections for the most recent 18 months of evaluation history. Since this is a very subjective area,
final determination is the MXG commander’s discretion.

8.4.3. Individuals must possess at least a 5-skill level.

8.5. Presentation. Each unit determines presentation of incentive award.

8.6. Master Technician. Recognizes technicians who do not meet criteria for the Master Crew Chief
award, but, through their knowledge, skill and effort, have demonstrated superior performance as a
technician. Eligibility begins the day the individual completes 5-skill level core task training
requirements.

8.7. Master Crew Chief. Recognizes individuals who through their knowledge, skill and effort
demonstrated superior performance as a crew chief. Eligibility begins the day the crew chief is
certified to perform crew chief duties.

8.8. Master Instructor. Recognizes individuals who demonstrated superior performance as an
aircraft maintenance instructor/trainer. Eligibility begins the day the Chief/Superintendent of Training
Section approves the instructor's certification. Personnel primarily assigned as trainer maintainers are
not eligible for this award; rather, submit for Master Crew Chief or Master Technician, if otherwise
eligible. Instructors/trainers must be evaluated by a higher headquarters evaluation team (i.e.,
    13                                                       AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010

Logistics Compliance Assessment Program Team) and receive a "Satisfactory" or higher grade to be
eligible for this award.

8.8.1. The nominee is required to have 18 months instructor experience from the date of course
qualification and a minimum of 250 instructional hours as a Master Instructor.

8.8.2. Nominees will have an associate’s degree or higher.

8.9. Master Evaluator. Recognizes evaluators who demonstrated superior performance as a
maintenance evaluator. Eligibility begins the day the Chief/Superintendent of QA approves the
evaluator's certification. In addition to receiving “Satisfactory” or higher ratings during locally
conducted evaluator proficiency evaluations, evaluators must be evaluated by a higher headquarters
evaluation team (i.e., Logistics Compliance Assessment Program Team) and receive a "Satisfactory"
or higher grade to be eligible for this award.




                                            ANN L. MITCHELL, SES-2, DAF
                                            Director, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
    14                                                 AFI 36-2818_AFGSCSUP 15 Aug 2010


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-324, The Information Collection and Reports Management Program: Controlling Internal,
Public, and Interagency Air Force Information’s Collections, 1 June 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2821, The USAF Logistics Readiness Awards Program, 27 November 2007

Abbreviations and acronyms

AFGSC-Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMAN- Air Force Manual
AFSC- Air Force Specialty Code
CFETP-Career Field Education and Training Plan
HQ-Headquarters
IAW-In Accordance With
ICBM- Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
MMG-Munitions Maintenance Group
MMSPOY- Maintenance Management Systems Professional of the Year
MOFSOY-Maintenance Operations Flight Superintendant of the Year
MPOY-Maintenance Professional of the Year
MSPOY-Maintenance Support Professional of the Year
MTF-Maintenance Training Flight
MXG-Maintenance Group
NAF-Numbered Air Force
NLT-No later than
OPR-Office of Primary Responsibility
QA-Quality Assurance
