BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-502
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             30 MARCH 1994

                                                      HEADQUARTERS, AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF
                                                                             WASHINGTON
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                       22 MARCH 2007

                                                                                               Personnel

                                                                MANAGING CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                                                                                  RESOURCES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/DPCX                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Mr John R. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-312, 20 February 1980 and                                                Pages: 7
           AFR 40-112, 25 October 1973.

                                                (AFDW)
OPR: AFDW/A1CC                                     Certified by: AFDW/A1 (Ms. Maureen B. Higgins)
                                                                                         Pages: 4

This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and AFPD 36-1,
General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It includes instructions for commanders, manag-
ers, and financial management specialists who oversee civilian employees. Use this instruction with Air
Force 38- and 65-series publications. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of terms.

(AFDW) This publication supplements AFI 36-502, Managing Civilian Personnel Resources. It delin-
eates the rules of engagement, responsibilities, processes and the overall corporate board structure that
provides the Air Force District of Washington/Air Force National Capital Region (AFDW/AFNCR) with
the Civilian Employment Cost Management (CECM) responsibilities in accordance with AFI 36-502.
This supplement is applicable to all AFDW (AFDW A-Staff and special staff Directorates), 11 WG, 79
MDW, 316 WG, and 844 CG components and their resource advisors to ensure civilian resources are
managed in the most judicious manner and to keep organizational commanders informed on current and
future civilian employment matters. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
2                                                          AFI36-502_AFDWSUP_I 22 MARCH 2007



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This is the first publication of AFI 36-502, substantially revising AFRs 40-312 and 40-112. It updates,
clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on managing civilian personnel resources.


1. Objective. The Air Force needs to manage civilian human resources within budget while balancing:
    •   Mission needs.
    •   Operational economy and efficiency.
    •   Skills and career paths.
    •   Employee development and motivation.
    •   Recruitment and retention of competent people.

2. Civilian Resource Management Responsibility. Civilian resource management responsibility is
assigned down through the Air Force chain of command from the Secretary of the Air Force to command-
ers of major commands (MAJCOM) or comparable organizations, to subordinate commanders on down
to first-level supervisors. Each manager who employs civilian personnel within the chain of command
must manage civilian resources properly and is accountable for their immediate supervision. Managers
and supervisors at each level must evaluate their subordinate supervisors on how well they manage their
civilian resources and take appropriate action to correct or reward managers' performance.
    2.1. All managers and supervisors:
        •   Match civilian appointments (permanent, term, or temporary) to the projected length of the
            workload and the available funding. Appoint employees on a temporary basis when execution
            year dollars are used to fund the position from other than civilian pay. Make sure that
            employee work schedules accommodate both the employees' needs and the efficient and
            effective accomplishment of the mission.
        •   Make sure the Air Force Resource Allocation process approves reprogramming of civilian
            pay funds prior to committing to long-term resource management plans (decisions that com-
            mit resources for more than 2 years). Exercise personnel management authority to minimize
            adverse impact on the civilian workforce. Track civilian resource costs and take action to
            ensure successful budget execution.
        •   Tell the corporate board about surplus funds for redistribution (see paragraph 2.2.).
        •   Prepare an employment plan for the following fiscal year, not later than March of each year.
        2.1.1. Managers and supervisors must set up positions and compensate and reward personnel
        within their civilian resource budget and in accordance with:
            •   Applicable authorities.
            •   Sound management practices.
            •   The advice and assistance of manpower, comptroller, and personnel specialists.
AFI36-502_AFDWSUP_I 22 MARCH 2007                                                                      3


  2.2. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies, direct reporting units, and installation commanders estab-
  lish a corporate board to make sure that civilian resources are used most efficiently and effectively.
  The commander or designated representative chairs the board, which includes functional managers
  and representatives from the civilian personnel, financial management, and manpower communities.
  The board:
     •   Reviews civilian resource management operating budget submissions at installation level.
     •   Periodically reviews employment plans and compares civilian pay expenditures against bud-
         getary targets. Provides managers and supervisors with targets for the civilian resource operat-
         ing budget, allocates directed adjustments, and redistributes any surplus funds.
     •   Establishes instructions on civilian resource management for the installation.
     2.2.1. (Added-AFDW) Civilian Employment Cost Management Center. (CECMC) The AFDW
     Commander or designated representative will chair the CECMC. The chairperson assigns offices
     of primary responsibility (OPR) to resolve open items, approves completed actions, and sets sus-
     pense dates. The CECMC will:
         2.2.1.1. (Added-AFDW) Convene on a quarterly basis or as required.
         2.2.1.2. (Added-AFDW) Review work-year and funding execution of the civilian employ-
         ment plan (CEP) and approve recommended employment strategies.
         2.2.1.3. (Added-AFDW) Ensure 100 percent execution of civilian work years through the
         utilization of a permanent Civil Service and a temporary work force.
         2.2.1.4. (Added-AFDW) Monitor execution and make decisions on civilian pay budget.
         2.2.1.5. (Added-AFDW) Review proposed expenditures for PCS, relocation and recruitment
         bonuses, retention allowances, superior qualification appointments, and student loan repay-
         ments against the budget.
         2.2.1.6. (Added-AFDW) Develop and monitor the National Security Personnel System
         (NSPS) pay pool strategy and management.
         2.2.2.1. (Added-AFDW) Will convene on a quarterly basis or as required.
         2.2.2.2. (Added-AFDW) The AFDW Civilian Personnel Officer (AFDW/A1C) chairs the
         CBWG which will meet prior to the CECMC. This working group is a sub-committee of the
         CECMC and is responsible for ranking all non-Unit Manpower Document (UMD positions.
             2.2.2.2.3. (Added-AFDW) The CBWG will prioritize over hire requests and recommend
             approval/disapproval to the CECMC.
             2.2.2.2.4. (Added-AFDW) All requests will be reviewed/validated by AFDW/A1M at
             least two weeks prior to submission to the CBWG. All requests will be coordinated
             through the servicing manpower office before submission to AFDW/A1M.
             2.2.2.2.5. (Added-AFDW) The Civilian Personnel Resources Manager (AFDW/A1CCR)
             makes all committee and working group meeting arrangements, develops and distributes
             the agenda in advance, and prepares the minutes.
     2.2.3. (Added-AFDW) Membership.
         2.2.3.1. (Added-AFDW) Civilian Employment Cost Management Center (CECMC).
4                                                       AFI36-502_AFDWSUP_I 22 MARCH 2007


               2.2.3.1.2. (Added-AFDW) The AFDW Commander holds the position of Chairperson
               and assumes total authority with the advice and consent of the advisory council listed in
               Table 1. (Added) Additional or reduced membership is at the discretion of the Chairper-
               son.

Table 1. (Added-AFDW) Civilian Employment Cost Management Center (CECMC) Membership.
Chairperson:
AFDW/CC


Members:
AFDW/DS
11 WG/CC
316 WG/CC
79 MDW/CC
844 CG/CC


Advisors:
AFDW/CV
AFDW/DS
AFDW/A1M
AFDW/A8 (FM)
AFDW A Staff functionals (as needed)

      2.2.4. (Added-AFDW) Civilian Board Working Group (CBWG).
            2.2.4.1. (Added-AFDW) The AFDW Director of Staff (AFDW/DS) represents AFDW agen-
            cies on the CBWG. Representatives from tenant units, as needed, are invited if civilian
            employment issues affect their operations. CBWG and advisory membership are listed in
            Table 2. (Added)`
AFI36-502_AFDWSUP_I 22 MARCH 2007                                                                   5


Table 2. (Added-AFDW) Civilian Board Working Group Membership.
Chairperson:
AFDW/A1C


Members:
AFDW/DS
11 WG/CV
316 WG/CV
79 MDW/CV
844 CG/CD


Advisors:
AFDW/A1M
AFDW/A8 (FM)
AFDW A Staff functional (as needed)
AFDW/A1CCR
11 WG/FM
11 MSS/MOF
316 MSS/DPC/MOF
316 CPTS/FM
79 MDW Resources Representative
844 CG Resources Representative

   2.3. Air Force civilian personnel, financial management personnel, and manpower personnel jointly
   help managers and supervisors by:
      •     Developing, defending, and coordinating budgets, funding, utilization, and projections for
            civilian resources.
      •     Allocating manpower resources.
      •     Forecasting, executing, and adjusting civilian pay budgets.
      •     Advising managers and supervisors on human resource issues.
   2.4. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPF) assist managers and supervisors by:
      •     Helping them plan employment.
      •     Consolidating installation employment plans not later than March and forwarding them to HQ
            USAF as required.
      •     Advising managers on how best to use civilian human resources.
6                                                          AFI36-502_AFDWSUP_I 22 MARCH 2007


       2.4.1. CPFs help determine the costs of position management, personnel administration, and
       operational requirements, including:
           •   The costs of recruitment and staffing.
           •   The kinds of skills available in the local labor market.
           •   Affirmative employment goals.
           •   The use of flexible work schedules and appointment types.
    2.5. Manpower offices help managers and supervisors by:
       •   Determining and validating manpower requirements needed to accomplish the mission.
       •   Processing authorization change requests to the MAJCOMs for validated manpower require-
           ments.
       •   Advising managers on how best to use manpower resources.
    2.6. Financial managers and comptrollers help managers and supervisors by:
       •   Developing and defending civilian resource budget projections based on programs approved
           by the corporate board.
       •   Advising managers on budgeting techniques and practices, on how to execute their civilian
           resource budget, and on how best to use civilian resource funds.

3. Reporting Requirements. Civilian Man-Year Cost Management Program Reports (RCS: HAF-DPC
[AR] 7401), is assigned any reports generated by this instruction. This reporting requirement is desig-
nated Status Code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, precedence priority. Submit
data requirements assigned this category as prescribed or by any means to ensure arrival on the estab-
lished due dates.



                                                BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                                DCS/Personnel

                                                (AFDW)

                                                ROBERT L. SMOLEN, Maj Gen, USAF
                                                Commander
AFI36-502_AFDWSUP_I 22 MARCH 2007                                                                    7


                                            Attachment 1

                                      GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Civilian Pay Budget—The total obligation authority comprised of Direct Obligating Authority dollars
and earnings from reimbursements.
Civilian Resource Management—The practice of balancing mission needs, operational economy and
efficiency, skills and career paths, employee development and motivation, and recruitment and retention
of competent people within a civilian pay budget.
Employment Planning—Identifying employment levels and work years needed to accomplish the
mission within the civilian pay budget.
Resource Allocation Process—The Air Force corporate approach to planning, programming, and
budgeting the resources needed to execute Air Force programs now and for the next 6 years. The process
uses six functional teams who develop options and make recommendations to senior leadership.
Civilian Personnel Resources—The dollars allocated to an organization for the purpose of civilian
employment.
