                          •                                            •
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-601
                                                               OFFUTT AFB SUPPLEMENT 1

                                                                               9 DECEMBER 2005

                                                                                            Security

                                       INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY




The official version of this publication is available electronically on the Offutt AFB Intranet site
at: https:llwwwintra.offutt.af.mil/base/publications/indexhom.htm. If you lack access, please
contact the Base Publishing Office or 55 SFS/SFAI for an electronic copy.


OPR: 55 SFS/SFA (Mr. Mercier)                                           Certified by: (55 SFS/CC)
Approved by: Mr. Selph                                                (Lt Col Bradley A. Wayland)
Editor: MSgt Springer                                                                     Pages: 3
Supersedes: AFI 31-601_0FFUTTAFBSUP1, 1 October 2000                                Distribution: F


Air Force Instruction 31-601, 29 June 2005, Industrial Security Program Management, is
supplemented as follows: This supplement establishes security managers' and contractors'
responsibilities and provides guidance for implementing Offutt's Industrial Security Program. It
applies to all 55th Wing and tenant organizations. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123,
Management of Records (to be replaced by AFMAN 33-363), and are disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https:llafrims.amc.af.mil/.
Contact supporting records managers as required.


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS: This document has been administratively revised and should be
completely reviewed.

1.5.9.1. (Added) The ISPM is designated this responsibility. 55 SFS/SFAI is further designated
as the servicing security activity for Offutt AFB, which includes all tenant units as applicable.

1.6.1.1.1. (Added) All on-base contractor operations are designated as integrated visitor
groups.
                         •                                          •
2                                    AFI31-601_0FFUTTAFBSUPl,9 DECEMBER 2005

2.4.2. (Added) Restricted/controlled area badges will be obtained at Pass and Registration, Bldg
107. Contractor identification cards and vehicle registration will be obtained at SAC gate
reception center.

2.4.2.1. (Added) Contractors will advise the sponsoring agency when there is any change in
their employment status. Upon termination of employment, they will surrender all
identification/vehicle media to the sponsoring agency.

3.1.1. The sponsoring agency's security manager will include contractors in the unit security
education program and in the unit's self-inspections.

4.1.3. Security managers must notify 55 SFS/SFAI at least 30 days prior to classified contract
performance by DoD contractors.

4.2.3.1. (Added) Security managers and contractors are required to maintain a current copy of
the DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification, Department Of Defense,
visit authorization requests, and the security support agreement. These documents will be
available for review during inspections.

4.3.2.1. (Added) 55 SFS/SFAI will review DD Forms 254, Contract Security Classification
Specification, Department Of Defense for all classified contracts and solicitations for all
classified and unclassified contracts to ensure pertinent security guidance and information are
included.

4.3.2.2. (Added) Each unit security manager will provide a current DD Form 254, Contract
Security Classification Specification, Department Of Defense, to 55 SFS/SFAI for each
classified contract that is awarded, provided the work is being performed on the installation.

6.2.1. Long Term Visitor Groups on Offutt AFB who don't store classified information, but
have access to classified information in Air Force custody and control, will be inspected annually
during the sponsoring unit's Information Security program review.

7.3.1.1. (Added) When visiting DoD activities on Offutt AFB, contractors must complete a
Visit Authorization Letter (VAL) in one of the following methods. Submit a VAL electronically
using the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS). When this option is not suitable,
contractors will fax or mail a hard copy VAL to the DoD activity.

8.1.3. (Added) All contractors accessing the base network must, at a minimum, have a
completed National Agency Check (NAC). Appropriate paperwork will be submitted to the
servicing security activity to be forwarded to Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
Commanders may grant interim access in accordance with API 31-501, Personnel Security
Program Management, Chapter 3.
                         •                                           •
AFI31-601_0FFUTTAFBSUPl, 9 DECEMBER 2005                                                   3

8.1.4. (Added) All contractors requiring unescorted entry to restricted areas not involving access
to classified material must, at a minimum, have a NAC. Appropriate paperwork will be
submitted to the servicing security activity to be forwarded to OPM. Commanders may grant
access to restricted areas in accordance with AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
Management, Chapter 3.




OFFICIAL                                       JONATHAN D. GEORGE, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 55th Wing
