BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-502
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                30 MARCH 1994

                                                                         35TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                  Supplement
                                                                                  12 APRIL 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                       MANAGING CIVILIAN
                                                                    PERSONNEL RESOURCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPCX                                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC
                                                                             (Mr John R. Graham)
Supersedes:    AFR 40-312, 20 February                                                   Pages: 6
               1980 and AFR 40-112,
               25 October 1973.
                                             (35FW)
OPR: 35 FSS/FSMC                                                         Certified by: 35 FSS/CC
                                                                         (LtCol Thomas P. Esser)
                                                                                          Pages:2


This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and AFPD
36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It includes instructions for
commanders, managers, and financial management specialists who oversee civilian employees.
Use this instruction with Air Force 38- and 65-series publications. Attachment 1 contains a
glossary of terms.

(35FW) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-502, Managing Civilian Personnel Resources (30
March 1994), AFI 36-502_35FWSUP is supplemented as follows. This supplement applies to
all units assigned to the 35th Fighter Wing (35 FW). Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Additionally, if the publication
 2                                                       AFI36-502_35FWSUP_I 12 APRIL 2012


generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Report Control Numbers
in accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management
Program: Controlling Internal Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collection..
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the first publication of AFI 36-502, substantially revising AFRs 40-312 and 40-112. It
updates, clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on managing civilian personnel resources.
1. Objective. The Air Force needs to manage civilian human resources within budget while
balancing:
            Mission needs.
            Operational economy and efficiency.
            Skills and career paths.
            Employee development and motivation.
            Recruitment and retention of competent people.
2. Civilian Resource Management Responsibility. Civilian resource management
responsibility is assigned down through the Air Force chain of command from the Secretary of
the Air Force to commanders of major commands (MAJCOM) or comparable organizations, to
subordinate commanders on down to first-level supervisors. Each manager who employs
civilian personnel within the chain of command must manage civilian resources properly and is
accountable for their immediate supervision. Managers and supervisors at each level must
evaluate their subordinate supervisors on how well they manage their civilian resources and take
appropriate action to correct or reward managers" performance.
     2.1. All managers and supervisors:
              Match civilian appointments (permanent, term, or temporary) to the projected length
               of the workload and the available funding. Appoint employees on a temporary basis
               when execution year dollars are used to fund the position from other than civilian
               pay. Make sure that employee work schedules accommodate both the employees"
               needs and the efficient and effective accomplishment of the mission.
              Make sure the Air Force Resource Allocation process approves reprogramming of
               civilian pay funds prior to committing to long-term resource management plans
               (decisions that commit resources for more than 2 years). Exercise personnel
               management authority to minimize adverse impact on the civilian workforce. Track
               civilian resource costs and take action to ensure successful budget execution.
              Tell the corporate board about surplus funds for redistribution (see paragraph 2.2.).
              Prepare an employment plan for the following fiscal year, not later than March of
               each year.
AFI36-502_35FWSUP_I 12 APRIL 2012                                                                  3


       2.1.1. Managers and supervisors must set up positions and compensate and reward
       personnel within their civilian resource budget and in accordance with:
            Applicable authorities.
            Sound management practices.
            The advice and assistance of manpower, comptroller, and personnel specialists.
   2.2. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies, direct reporting units, and installation
   commanders establish a corporate board to make sure that civilian resources are used most
   efficiently and effectively. The commander or designated representative chairs the board,
   which includes functional managers and representatives from the civilian personnel, financial
   management, and manpower communities. The board:
          Reviews civilian resource management operating budget submissions at installation
           level.
          Periodically reviews employment plans and compares civilian pay expenditures
           against budgetary targets. Provides managers and supervisors with targets for the
           civilian resource operating budget, allocates directed adjustments, and redistributes
           any surplus funds.
          Establishes instructions on civilian resource management for the installation.
   2.2. (35FW) The Corporate Board (CB) serves as the corporate body responsible for
   civilian employment planning and tracking against budgetary targets. CB will assume the
   responsibilities as chartered for the Equal Employment Opportunity Committee and the
   hiring oversight for employees under the Federal Employees Compensation Act. CB
   membership is as follows:
        35th Fighter Wing Vice Commander                            Chair
        35th Operations Group Commander                             Voting Member
        35th Maintenance Group Commander                            Voting Member
        35th Medical Group Commander                                Voting Member
        35th Mission Support Group Commander                        Voting Member
        35th Comptroller Squadron Commander                         Advisor
        35th Force Support Squadron, Human Resources Officer        Advisor
        35th Force Support Squadron, Manpower Chief                 Advisor
NOTE: The commander/chief may designate an alternate. The designee must have full authority
to act for the commander.
   2.3. Air Force civilian personnel, financial management personnel, and manpower personnel
   jointly help managers and supervisors by:
          Developing, defending, and coordinating budgets, funding, utilization, and
           projections for civilian resources.
          Allocating manpower resources.
          Forecasting, executing, and adjusting civilian pay budgets.
          Advising managers and supervisors on human resource issues.
   2.4. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPF) assist managers and supervisors by:
          Helping them plan employment.
 4                                                   AFI36-502_35FWSUP_I 12 APRIL 2012


            Consolidating installation employment plans not later than March and forwarding
             them to HQ USAF as required.
            Advising managers on how best to use civilian human resources.
        2.4.1. CPFs help determine the costs of position management, personnel administration,
        and operational requirements, including:
                 The costs of recruitment and staffing.
                 The kinds of skills available in the local labor market.
                 Affirmative employment goals.
                 The use of flexible work schedules and appointment types.
     2.5. Manpower offices help managers and supervisors by:
            Determining and validating manpower requirements needed to accomplish the
             mission.
            Processing authorization change requests to the MAJCOMs for validated manpower
             requirements.
            Advising managers on how best to use manpower resources.
     2.6. Financial managers and comptrollers help managers and supervisors by:
            Developing and defending civilian resource budget projections based on programs
             approved by the corporate board.
            Advising managers on budgeting techniques and practices, on how to execute their
             civilian resource budget, and on how best to use civilian resource funds.
3. Reporting Requirements. Civilian Man-Year Cost Management Program Reports (RCS:
HAF-DPC [AR] 7401), is assigned any reports generated by this instruction. This reporting
requirement is designated Status Code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions,
precedence priority. Submit data requirements assigned this category as prescribed or by any
means to ensure arrival on the established due dates.




                                            BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                            DCS/Personnel

                                            (35FW)

                                            MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI36-502_35FWSUP_I 12 APRIL 2012                                                           5


                                        Attachment 1
                                  GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Civilian Pay Budget—The total obligation authority comprised of Direct Obligating Authority
dollars and earnings from reimbursements.
Civilian Resource Management—The practice of balancing mission needs, operational
economy and efficiency, skills and career paths, employee development and motivation, and
recruitment and retention of competent people within a civilian pay budget.
Employment Planning—Identifying employment levels and work years needed to accomplish
the mission within the civilian pay budget.
Resource Allocation Process—The Air Force corporate approach to planning, programming,
and budgeting the resources needed to execute Air Force programs now and for the next 6 years.
The process uses six functional teams who develop options and make recommendations to senior
leadership.
Civilian Personnel Resources—The dollars allocated to an organization for the purpose of
civilian employment.
 6                                              AFI36-502_35FWSUP_I 12 APRIL 2012


                                 Attachment 1 (35FW)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program, 1 Jun 2000

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

AFI 36-502, Managing Civilian Personnel Resources, 30 Mar 1994

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
