BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-126
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              7 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    SERVICES

                                                                      ARMED FORCES
                                                             ENTERTAINMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A1SOT                                                               Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                           (Robert E. Corsi, Jr.)
Supersedes:   AFI 34-126_IP                                                            Pages: 15
              28 February 2005

This instruction implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 1330.13, Armed
Forces Entertainment Program, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force
Services. This publication applies to all DoD agencies and organizations. This AFI is applicable
to all Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units or installations. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR), using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. In
collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National
Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1)
develops policy for the Armed Forces Entertainment Program. This publication may be
supplemented at any level; all MAJCOM-level supplements must be approved by the Human
Resource Management Strategic Board (HSB) prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air
Force Records Information Management System.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates new AF/A1S
and AFPC/SV office symbols, AFE operational procedures and eliminates outdated procedures
for AFE tours. Tier waiver authorities as approved by the Inspector General Advisory Board
have been included per AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management. Refer to AFI 33-360
for tier waiver authority definitions and procedures.
 2                                                                 AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014


Section A—Overview

1. Purpose of the Program. This program provides free, quality, live, professional
entertainment to US Armed Forces personnel and their family members stationed overseas.
Priority is given to remote and isolated locations, ships at sea, and contingency operations. The
goal of the program is to lift the spirits and morale of troops and maintain their readiness and
effectiveness while serving in defense of our country. While raising the morale of troops
stationed overseas, the AFE program provides entertainers with an appreciation of the hardships
troops endure and helps them serve as a vital link between those at home and those protecting
our national security.
2. Authority. The Secretary of the Air Force, as Executive Agent for coordinating overseas
entertainment within the Department of Defense, administers the AFE program within the
Directorate of Services (AF/A1S) under the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and
Services as the AFE office. IAW DoDI 1330.13, AFE is authorized direct communication with
the United Service Organizations (USO) concerning the entertainment of US Armed Forces
overseas.
3. Program Policy.
     3.1. Priority for AFE goes to personnel in contingency operations, serving on ships at sea
     and stationed in austere, remote, and / or isolated locations overseas.
     3.2. Commercial sponsorship of AFE tours is authorized IAW DoDI 1015.10, Programs for
     Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR), and DoDI 1330.13. Commercial
     sponsorship for AFE will be solicited, accepted, and executed in accordance with AFI 34-
     108, Commercial Sponsorship and Sale of Advertising. AFPC/SV is the OPR for all
     commercial sponsorship issues, actions, and negotiations.
     3.3. Retail Sales of Commercial Items. Commercially sponsored DoD celebrity tours, local
     military exchanges or other resale activities may not sell souvenir merchandise such as T-
     shirts, hats, records, etc., which bear the likeness, name or any copyrighted logo of the
     entertainers unless all royalties and fees have been paid or unless express permission has
     been granted by the entertainers.
     3.4. Unauthorized Commercial Sponsorship. Sponsorship will not be accepted for any AFE
     from manufacturers or distributors of tobacco or alcoholic beverage products if the products
     are to be identified in connection with their sponsorship.
     3.5. AFE offers all entertainers 18 years and older equal opportunity for tour selection. All
     applications are reviewed and judged based on originality, demonstrated ability, and AFE
     requirements. Age restriction can be waived upon approval by AFE leadership and parental
     consent.
     3.6. To ensure a maximum amount of entertainment groups are afforded the opportunity to
     tour for AFE, each group or agent will be limited to a maximum of 45 tour days within a
     fiscal year. The Chief, AFE may approve exceptions when a command makes a by-name
     request or an alternative entertainment group is not available to satisfy the type of
     entertainment requested.
     3.7. Tours may be cancelled or curtailed at any time if there is anything that will
     compromise the interest of the US or local government as determined by the Chief, AFE.
AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                          3


   3.8. Shows will be presented free of charge and will be open to all military personnel
   regardless of grade or service unless an audience exception is granted by AFE. When AFE
   authorizes a performance before a restricted audience, the following conditions will be met:
      3.8.1. An open performance has already been given for all authorized personnel.
      3.8.2. Such performance does not interfere with other scheduled performances.
      3.8.3. The audience for restricted performances should not be selected on the basis of
      rank or official position. Restricting an audience to the in-patient population of a
      Military Treatment Facility, for instance, would be acceptable.

Section B—Roles and Responsibilities.

4. AF/A1S Responsibilities.
   4.1. Establishes Services doctrine and policy.
      4.1.1. Oversees AFE program.
      4.1.2. Approves requests for upgrade of commercial air accommodations in accordance
      with the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR).
   4.2. Chief, AFE (AF/A1SOT) Responsibilities.
      4.2.1. Reviews and validates all entertainment requests/offers IAW priorities and funding
      constraints.
      4.2.2. Creates and executes the CY Entertainment Plan.
      4.2.3. Primary Liaison to USO for entertainment to the U.S. Armed Forces overseas.
      4.2.4. Reviews USO celebrity tour entertainment offers based on the CY Entertainment
      Plan and un-programmed USO celebrity offers as they become available. Either accepts,
      indicates further interest, or declines offers based on command interest, budgetary
      concerns, and the CY Entertainment Plan.
      4.2.5. Approves all substantial tour changes.
      4.2.6. Reviews on-going tours and planning efforts, and discusses any other pertinent
      issues related to providing celebrity entertainment overseas.
      4.2.7. Approves all lodging or other unique expenses that may impose a hardship on
      entertainment groups.
      4.2.8. Approves all exceptions to 45-day maximum tour days per FY requirement.
      4.2.9. Approves all contract modifications and Performance Fee Contract costs.
      4.2.10. Approves requests for any use of dedicated military airlift for transoceanic travel.
      4.2.11. Signs requests for commercial travel upgrades IAW the JTR and submits to
      AF/A1SO for approval. Ensures requests submitted are complete and include all
      rationale for travel upgrades.
      4.2.12. Approves any requests for itinerary changes.
      4.2.13. Signs all invitational travel orders (ITOs) for entertainment groups.
 4                                                                 AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014


        4.2.14. Approves all tour cancellation/curtailment requests.
        4.2.15. Approves all requests to remove an individual from tour.
        4.2.16. Randomly audits final pay packages to ensure expenses and reimbursements are
        in compliance with established guidance. Ensures random audits are documented.
5. Installation/Site Commander Responsibilities. Commanders at all levels are encouraged to
provide maximum support allowed by law and extend every courtesy in return for the substantial
contribution, which the entertainers make to the morale and welfare of Armed Forces personnel
and their families overseas. (T-3). This instruction does not preclude overseas commanders
from accepting or planning other entertainment for their commands. Such entertainment will be
coordinated with the applicable AFE Regional Manager to avoid duplication and scheduling
conflicts. Commanders submit requests to AFE for specific entertainment to meet the needs of
their forces during the annual call for fiscal year entertainment requirements.
     5.1. Installation/Site Commanders submit annual entertainment requirements through their
     parent Commands. (T-3). They are responsible for providing local transportation at and
     between performance sites for entertainment groups, where applicable. (T-2). They also
     appoint Site Coordinators and ensure they have all the personnel and resources required to
     ensure tour success. (T-3). Table 2 is the Site Coordinator Tour Hosting Process. Site
     Coordinators are responsible to:
        5.1.1. Coordinate information flow between AFE regional managers and entertainers.
        (T-2).
        5.1.2. Prepare site itineraries for entertainment tours and submit to AFE regional
        manager. (T-2).
        5.1.3. Coordinate local logistics support. (T-2).
        5.1.4. Ensure proper marketing and advertising at the site. (T-3).
        5.1.5. Complete and submit tour evaluations via AFE’s After Action Report process
        NLT 5 days after tour. (T-3).
6. USO Responsibilities. Recruits entertainers and manages and produces tours for the USO.
The USO representative is expected to:
     6.1. Coordinate with the Chief, AFE any overseas celebrity entertainment being provided to
     the military Services. (T-3).
        6.1.1. Review on-going tours and discuss pertinent issues related to celebrity
        entertainment overseas. (T-3).
        6.1.2. Offer AFE additional entertainment proposals (not outlined in the CY
        Entertainment Plan) no later than 120 days prior to tour start date. (T-3).
7. Entertainment Group Responsibilities. As a condition of touring and performing,
entertainers and entertainment groups must abide by the requirements laid out in this paragraph
and its sub- paragraphs. (T-2). Entertainers are responsible for conducting themselves as
“ambassadors” while on tour, abiding by all local (country) customs/courtesies as briefed by the
Site Coordinators and following guidelines established by AFE in the Rules of Engagement
(RoE) letter provided to each group member upon acceptance of the tour, as well as the
AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                        5


guidelines provided in AFEs contracts (Para. 8. a. and b. of the “Armed Forces Entertainment
Performance Contract” and Para. 11. a. and b. of the “Armed Forces Entertainment Standard
Honorarium Contract”). (T-2). Entertainment groups will ensure material is not offensive to
anyone with regard to race, religion, national origin, gender, military rank, military Service,
sexual orientation or disability. (T-1). Entertainers may not sell any type of merchandise or
souvenir items while on tour. (T-3).
   7.1. Entertainers may receive required immunizations for travel at the nearest Military
   Treatment Facility (MTF). Paragraph 9.1.19 provides more detail on immunization
   requirements.
        7.1.1. Illegal drug use or possession is strictly prohibited. Entertainers will not joke
        about drug use, possession or purchase. (T-3). Entertainers will not consume alcohol on
        stage or during the performance. (T-3).
        7.1.2. Entertainers may not carry or possess weapons or ammunition of any kind while
        on tour. (T-1).
        7.1.3. Entertainers must complete a tour evaluation for each country/installation visited
        and submit via AFEs AAR process. (T-3).
        7.1.4. Contract Travel Office (CTO). The CTO issues commercial airline tickets for
        entertainment groups traveling under the AFE program. (T-2).
        7.1.5. DoD Component Medical Services Responsibilities. The DoD Component
        Medical Services provide immunizations and emergency medical and dental care to
        entertainers IAW applicable Service publications as outlined in Table 1 (T-2).

Table 1. Applicable Publications for Providing Immunizations and Medical Care to
Entertainers
 M i l i ta r y Service                          Applicable Publications
 US Air Force                                    AFI 41-210, Tricare Operations and Patient
                                                 Administration Functions

                                                 AFI 48-110, Immunizations and
                                                 Chemoprophylaxis for the Prevention of
                                                 Infectious Diseases
 6                                                                  AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014


Section C—AFE Program Management

8. AFE Circuits. (See Table 2)

Table 2. AFE Circuits

Circuit                       Major Countries (Over 300 hundred Military Sites)

Europe                        United Kingdom, Norway, Germany, Belgium, Bosnia/Herzegovina,
                              Kosovo, and the Netherlands
Western Hemisphere            Ecuador, Honduras, Cuba, Greenland, Iceland, Bahamas, Curacao,
                              and Puerto Rico
Mediterranean                 Italy, Malta, Greece, Spain, Turkey, France, Portugal/Azores, Egypt/
                              Sinai, Jordan, Lebanon, and Israel
Pacific                       Alaska, Australia, Korea, Japan, Okinawa, Guam, Hawaii,
                              Kwajalein, Singapore, and Diego Garcia
Southwest/Central Asia        Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait,
                              Qatar, Pakistan, Oman, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Djibouti
9. The Entertainment Tour Request Process. To maximize the return on investment of
AFE’s budget and meet the needs of commanders, AFE prepares a CY Entertainment Plan.
     9.1. Celebrity Entertainers. AFE may recruit Celebrity Entertainers through unsolicited
     contacts, referrals or AFE-initiated invitation. When celebrities are matched to a requirement
     in the CY Entertainment Plan, AFE organizes and processes the tour.
          9.1.1. See Table 3 For USO tour offers.

Table 3. The USO Celebrity Tour Offer Process
 Step      OPR     When      Action
                             Sends AFE a recruiting report listing current celebrity tour offers
 1         USO     Bi-Weekly with as much detail as is available including (1) Name (2) Dates
                             available, (3) Locations available to visit, (4) Size of group, etc.
                   Within 3
 2         AFE               Responds to U S O with interest or non-interest.
                   Duty Days
                             Responds via e-mail to USO Entertainment Director either
                   Within 10 accepting, indicating interest for further recruiting, or declining
 3         AFE
                   Days      offer. If accepting, identifies specific locations, inclusive dates,
                             and tour group size.
                              Begins discussion of detail s with USO Tour/Production
                   Offer      Managers.
 4         AFE
                   Accepted
AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                       7



Table 4. Site Coordinator Tour Hosting Process
 When               Action
                    1. Arrival site personnel are assigned to:

                    - Meet the entertainment group at the international airport
                    - Transport them and their personal bags to lodging
                    - Transport their excess equipment to a secure area

 Prior to Group      2. Make lodging arrangements for the entertainment group

 Arrival             3. Prepare a detailed itinerary for the entertainment group that
                     includes a courtesy visit with installation/site leadership, visits
                     to various duty sections during the day and the actual
                     performance(s)

                     4. Publicize and advertise the upcoming performance by
                     the entertainment group
                     1. Greet entertainment group/provide security briefing and site
                     orientation
                     2. Assist with excess baggage/customs clearance
                     3. Assist with lodging check-in/out
                     4. Address any problems (lost baggage, damaged equipment, etc)
 Upon Arriv al       5. Assist in load/unload equipment, setup/tear-down the entertainment area
 and During          6. Advise the tour group leader of the location of their equipment
 Performance         7. Provide site and tour itinerary brief
                     8. Coordinate off day activities
                     9. Arrange for photographs
                     10. Brief on all contractual obligations while performing (no profanity,
                     vulgarity, dress and appearance in good taste, drunkenness on stage, using
                     drugs, etc.)
                    1. Assist with group departure
                    2. Make sure site personnel are available to properly pack (palletize)
                    equipment
 Upon Show
                    3. Ensure equipment is stored in a secure location prior to ongoing travel
                    4. Ensure group is advised of ongoing travel arrangements for
 Completion
                    bags/equipment
                    5. Have the tour group ready and in designated area for ongoing travel
                    6. Prepare tour evaluation and reports as required
10. Tour Evaluations. To continually improve the AFE program, tour evaluations are required
from each hosting site coordinator and the entertainment group and are submitted via AFEs AAR
process. See Table 5
 8                                                                   AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014


Table 5. Tour Evaluation Submission Process
OPR                                 When                              Action
                                                                      Submitted via AFEs AAR
Site Coordinator                    NLT 5 days after tour
                                                                      Process
                                                                      Reviews all AARs
                                                                      completed for the tour. If
                                    NL 10 days after country
                                       T                              not all AARs have been
AFE Regional Manager
                                    tour                              submitted, follow up is
                                                                      required until all AARs are
                                                                      completed.
                                                                      Evaluation of AARs takes
                                                                      place. “Lessons learned”
HQ/AFE/Staff                        NL 15 days after region tour
                                      T
                                                                      document is created and
                                                                      filed.
11. Transportation and Tour Requirements.
     11.1. General. AFE will fund all inter- and intra-country travel to and within the overseas
     area. Entertainers may travel by military airlift or commercial air. Local travel within the
     country between to include travel to/from major transportation hub [airport, train station, etc.
     and, if within 75 miles, the follow-on site) and all transportation within the host site] is the
     responsibility of the hosting installation commanders.
        11.1.1. Military Air Travel. Use of military airlift to transport entertainers is governed
        by DoD 4500.9-R. Travel by military airlift outside CONUS is directed when available
        and will be performed under Priority 2c IAW DoD 4500.9-R, Appendix E. AFE will
        make military airlift arrangements IAW DoD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility.
        AMC billings are sent electronically each month to AFE. The AMC bill includes the
        name and cost for each leg of military airlift provided to entertainers. Bills will be
        reconciled to ensure no unauthorized charges are billed to AFE. Use of dedicated
        military airlift for transoceanic travel requires pre-approval by the Chief, AFE.
        11.1.2. Commercial Air Travel. All passenger travel will be coach class unless approved
        for upgrade in accordance with the JTR.
        11.1.3. Premium Class Travel Other Than First Class. Premium class travel is
        authorized for entertainers under certain circumstances according to the JTR.
        11.1.4. Contract Travel Office (CTO). AFE will make all entertainer commercial travel
        arrangements for tickets and excess baggage through the CTO, unless contracted
        otherwise. Unless authorized, Entertainment groups are not authorized to book or change
        travel arrangements (e.g., rescheduling, reissue of tickets and/or excess baggage coupons)
        directly with the CTO. AFE will verify personal information for entertainers and
        associated support staff with passports or copies of passports prior to making airline
        reservations. CTO will not issue tickets until approved travel orders have been received.
        11.1.5. Entertainer Travel Included in Negotiated Contract. When a group is contracted
        using AFEs Performance Contract, the entertainer may include commercial air travel
        costs in their negotiated performance fee. These arrangements must be fully refundable,
        should travel be interrupted and/or the tour re-routed or ended prematurely.
AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                          9


     11.1.6. Invitational Travel Orders (ITOs). ITOs are issued to entertainers and members
     traveling in direct support of the entertainment tour IAW JTR/JFTR, Appendix E. ITOs
     provide for the travel and logistical support of an individual from the business place or
     home to the place the individual’s services are required and return to point of origin. The
     ITO identifies the “Grade Equivalent” of each individual on the orders; as established in
     AFI36-3026V1_IP, Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services,
     their Dependents, and other Eligible Members. Authorization of transportation modes,
     routing and accommodations will be consistent        with Chapter 2 of the JTR. If
     applicable, individuals approved for upgrade of air accommodations to business class
     IAW the JTR will be specified in the ITOs.
     11.1.7. Medical and dental support. Medical and dental support is provided IAW AFI
     41-210, AR 40-400, and NAVMEDCOMINST 6320.3B (para G-11b (4)(b-c)).
     Individuals traveling under ITOs will be billed for inpatient costs including room
     charges, meals, etc. No-cost treatment is not available for existing medical conditions or
     injuries from contributory actions on the part of the entertainer. Medical treatment for
     injuries and illnesses incurred in the course of entertainment duties should normally be
     provided without reimbursement.
     11.1.8. Delays en route. Delays en route may be granted. Delays en route require
     approval as discussed below. The use of contract fares is limited to official travel only;
     contract fares cannot be used for the portion of the trip that is personal. The traveler is
     responsible for any additional costs when, for personal convenience, a circuitous route is
     used or the traveler interrupts a direct travel route. Costs are limited to the transportation
     costs by a usually traveled route on an uninterrupted basis. Approved delays en route
     will be included in the ITOs provided the following conditions have been met:
     11.1.9. The delay is requested and approved by AFE before the entertainer departs on
     tour.
     11.1.10. The delay does not interfere with the main purpose of the tour, disrupt or delay
     scheduled transportation and is authorized in the overseas area requested.
     11.1.11. Delays for the convenience of touring members will be at no cost to the
     Government.
     11.1.12. Entertainment groups or individual entertainers desiring to remain in overseas
     areas longer than authorized must end their relationship with DoD and return to CONUS
     at their own expense.
     11.1.13. Travel Documents. AFE has countries with unique document requirements for
     travel. These may include Passports, Visas, Theater/Country Clearance, and Geneva
     Convention Identity Cards (DD Form 489).
     11.1.14. Passports. All entertainers must have their own tourist passport that may be used
     for AFE tours. If a touring member is not in custody of a Department of State issued
     tourist passport, they will not be considered for an AFE tour.
     11.1.15. Visas. Some countries require visas prior to entering. The embassies for these
     countries require 5 to 10 days to process each visa. When visas are required, AFE
10                                                              AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014


     ensures entertainment groups complete the necessary forms, passports and photos with
     sufficient time to process through the applicable embassy.
     11.1.16. Country Clearance. Theater/Country Clearance is requested via message at
     least 30 days prior to departure. All information required to complete the clearance
     message must be received by AFE in sufficient time to meet the 30-day window. AFE
     obtains the appropriate information from the entertainers.
     11.1.17. Other Miscellaneous Tour Requirements.
     11.1.18. Immunizations. Under the AFE program, immunizations are provided free of
     charge at CONUS Military Treatment Facilities IAW AFJI 48-110/AR 40-
     562/BUMEDINST 6230.15/CG COMDTINST M6230.4E, and AFI 41-210. Entertainers
     are considered sponsored personnel, therefore, SECTION C; paragraph 24 of AFJI 48-
     110 applies. When a military installation is outside of a 50-mile radius, AFE will
     reimburse the direct cost of an immunization provided by a civilian physician. AFE does
     not reimburse the cost of an “office visit” when using a private physician. AFE also does
     not reimburse mileage costs to obtain immunizations at a military installation or from a
     private physician. The nearest military installation may be located using the TRICARE
     website at www.tricare.osd.mil. AFE provide entertainment groups a letter authorizing
     immunizations recommended for entry into foreign countries. All entertainers must sign
     and return the immunizations letter.
     11.1.19. Carnets. Entertainers use carnets to carry professional equipment into various
     countries without having to pay duties and taxes before entering and additional penalties
     after departing. The carnet serves as proof of exportation and re-importation back in the
     United States and those countries visited. Carnets are processed through Admission
     Temporary Admission Carnets (USCIB) on-line at http://www.uscib.org. A deposit is
     required in addition to the price of the     carnet, which is paid by AFE. The deposit is
     refunded after the carnet has been returned to USCIB and verification has been obtained
     that there are no claims being filed against the United States. Final payment to the
     entertainment groups can be delayed if carnets are not returned to AFE.
     11.1.20. Posters. AFE Posters will be created by AFE through use of their Public Affairs
     Contract. Groups will provide high resolution photographs for poster creation and will be
     given a finalized copy as a courtesy. AFE has final approval authority for all posters.
     11.1.21. Tour Photos. Photos from current entertainment tours are required for briefings,
     articles, brochures, the AFE website, and other marketing needs. Therefore, Site
     Coordinators will provide a minimum of three quality photos of AFE and AFE/USO
     tours at their locations. The goal is quality photos, not quantity. To assure quality, the
     Site Coordinator should ask on-site visual information or public affairs personnel to take
     professional-quality digital photos. The types of shots needed are photos that capture the
     entertainer performing, the entertainer performing with enough of the audience visible to
     reflect it is a military crowd, the entertainer signing autographs, and the entertainer
     interacting with troops. Each photo file will be named by using the entertainer's name,
     date of the shot and location. Site Coordinators will forward the photos to AFE.
AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                     11


Section D—Funding and Reimbursement

12. Authorized Tour Expenses.

Table 6. Authorized Tour Expenses AFE Pays Directly
 Type of Expense          Notes
                          Coach class airfare and MCOs, charged to the AFE centrally
                          billed account (CBA). If any airline tickets or MCOs are lost and
                          traveler has to purchase/replace, this cost is not reimbursable
                          until AFE is refunded/credited by the airlines.
 Commercial Airfare
                          The traveler must file a lost/stolen ticket claim at the airport.
                          It is the travelers’ responsibility to safeguard these documents.
                          Commercial Airfare may also be paid by AFE, if included as part of
                          AFEs performance contract.
 Military Airlift         Always
 Visas                    Always
                          AFE may use appropriate CBA for payment arrangement when
 Lodging, bus or          groups encounter changes (extensions or delays) or cancellations
 charter transportation   in their itinerary and/or travel arrangements that impose a hardship
 costs                    or when they are unprepared to cover the unexpected costs. Only
                          the Chief can approve.
 12                                                           AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014



Table 7. Authorized Tour Expenses AFE Reimburses via Contract (Receipts are required
for all reimbursable expenses).
 Type of Expense          Notes
 Approved High
 Performing contract
 quoted price             Always


 Honorarium for Non-
                          Always
 Celebrity Entertainers
                          Production/Tour Managers that travel with the group because
 Honorarium for
                          they are dual-hatted as entertainers receive the daily honorarium
 Production/Tour
                          specified by contract for the number of days the group tours plus
 Managers
                          one day before and one day after the tour.

                          May include instrument/equipment rental, sound and/or
                          lighting systems, and labor to set up equipment. May also include
 Production Costs         minor repairs to instruments/equipment when the cost of
                          such repairs is more economical than renting and necessary
                          to continue shows without interruption.
                          Includes preparation and development costs for production of
                          posters, film, T-shirts, hats, etc. These materials must be pre-
 Promotional Materials
                          approved by AFE before production and will not be ordered
                          prior to contract being signed by all parties.
                          For other than originally issued tickets and MCOs; bus, truck or
 Travel Costs             car rental to/from departure airport or between overseas venue IAW
                          JTR.
 Lodging Costs for
                          Reimbursement will not exceed maximum rate in JTR.
 Celebrity Tours
 Lodging Costs for Non-
                          Reimbursement will not exceed maximum rate in JTR.
 Celebrity
                          Miscellaneous costs include the following:

                          - Shipping                          - Local travel costs
                          - Visa/custom/departure fees        - Toll fees
                          - Baggage Tips (within reason and logged accordingly)
 Miscellaneous Costs      - Official telephone calls directly related to producing the tour.
                          For telephone call reimbursement provide itemization detailing:

                          1. Date and time of call            4. Length of call
                          2. Purpose of call                  5. Cost of call
                          3. Who was called
AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                     13


   12.1. Tour Expenses That Are Not Reimbursed. The following table outlines entertainment
   tour expenses that are not reimbursed:

Table 8. Tour Expenses That Are Not Reimbursed
 Type of Expense                      Notes
 Meals                                Never
 Alcohol                              Never
 First Class Commercial
                                      Never
 Airfare
                                      Except as allowed under very limited circumstances by
 Business Class Commercial Airfare
                                      the JTR
 Phone Cards                          Exceptions in cases of emergency
                                      AFE reimburses actual cost of immunizations.
                                      Does not reimburse:
                                      - Cost when using a private physician to obtain
 Immunization Costs                   immunizations
                                      - Mileage to obtain immunizations from a MTF or private
                                      physician
                                      Entertainer must file equipment claims resulting
 Lost, Stolen, or Damaged
                                      from neglect of equipment with the airline at the first
 Equipment
                                      available opportunity (within 24 hours).
   12.2. The Final Pay Package. After tour completion, the entertainment group within 30 days
   submits a Final Pay Package to AFE. Submission of a complete Package i.e., all paid
   receipts and required documentation) will assure timely processing within AFE. Packages
   returned due to incomplete information will delay final payment. If modifications to the
   primary contract are required, the primary contract can be processed for payment prior to
   receipt of the modification from Contracting. However, any monetary amount associated
   with the modification will not be issued until the contract modification has been completed.




                                           DANIEL R. SITTERLY
                                           Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
                                           (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
 14                                                            AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1330.13, Armed Forces Entertainment Program, 23 March 2004
AFI36-3026V1_IP, Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Eligible
Family Members, and Other Eligible Personnel, 17 June 2009
DoDI 1015.10, Programs for Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR), 6 July 2009
DOD 4500.9R, Defense Transportation Regulation (Part I Passenger Movement), September
2001
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services, 2 November 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 34-108, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship Program and Sale of Advertising, 12 October
2011
AFI 41-210, Tricare Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 6 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AR 40-400, Patient Administration, 27 January 2010
AR 40-562, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis for the Prevention of Infectious Diseases, 7
October 2013
AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis for the Prevention of Infectious Diseases,
29 September 2006
NAVMEDCOMINST 6320.3B, Medical and Dental Care for Eligible Persons at Navy Medical
Department Facilities, 14 May 1987
BUMEDINST 6230.15, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 12 May 2004
Joint Travel Regulation
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFE—Armed Forces Entertainment
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
CBA—Centrally Billed Account
CONUS—Continental United States
CTO—Contract Travel Office
AFI34-126 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                       15


DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
ESP—Emergency and Special Program
FY—Fiscal Year
ROE—Rules of Engagement
USCIB—Admission Temporary Admission Carnets

Terms
Application Packet— A packet submitted by a non-celebrity entertainment group in order to be
considered for acceptance into the AFE program.
Carnet— Entertainers use carnets to carry professional equipment into various countries without
having to pay duties and taxes before entering and additional penalties after departing. The
carnet serves as proof of exportation and re-importation back in the United States and those
countries visited.
Celebrity Entertainer— Famous person or group to include but not limited to recognition via
top 100 billboard, gold record, platinum record, nationally recognized label; actor in movie, TV
show, sitcom; Paris runway model; or articles in popular magazines.
Commercial Sponsorship— The act of providing assistance, funding, goods, equipment
(including fixed assets), or services to an MWR program(s)or event(s) by an individual, agency,
association, company or corporation, or other entity (sponsor) for a specific (limited) period of
time in return for public recognition or advertising promotions.
Entertainer(s)— Any single entertainer to include, but not limited to singer, musician,
comedian, dance group member, actor, sports figure, famous person, author, motivational
speaker                                  or                                   magician.

Entertainment Group — A group of entertainers that comprise an act or members needed to
conduct a performance.
Non—celebrity Entertainer — An entertainer that does not meet the criteria to be considered a
celebrity. For bands, these are generally up and coming bands receiving national play. Non-
celebrity entertainers are usually professionally managed by an agent.
Tour Folder— Record maintained in the AFE office containing all documents associated with
an entertainment tour.
Tour Package— A package assembled by the AFE staff and containing items the entertainment
group needs for travel.
