BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-360
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)                                    MAXWELL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          Supplement

                                                                      29 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                           Communications and Information

                                                            PUBLICATIONS AND FORMS
                                                                      MANAGEMENT

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for download or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 CS/SCQ                                                        Certified by: 42 CS/CC
                                                                        (Maj Gerald T. Yap)
                                                                                     Pages: 12


AFI 33-360 is supplemented as follows: This supplement defines the Publications and Forms
Management program at Maxwell AFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This supplement applies to Air University (AU) and 42d Air Base Wing (42 ABW)
organizations. This supplement does not apply to the 908th Airlift Wing (AFRC) or ANG. The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
1.1.3. Official Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development (Holm
Center), Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC), Air Force Junior Reserve Officer
Training Corps (AFJROTC), and Officer Training School (OTS) publications and forms are
posted on the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office AF Portal page. Due to their
unique circumstances, Holm Center/JR and CAP-USAF may maintain separate respositories for
their publications and forms. The Air Force Institute for Technology (AFIT) maintains its own
publications and forms web pages.
 2                                 AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011


1.2. Roles and Responsibilities. See Table 1.2 in this supplement to determine OPR, Certifying
and Approving Officials for publicatons and forms pertaining to contractor-operated functions.
See paragraph 2.18 of this supplement for guidance when it is necessary to obtain coordination
from a Base Operations Support (BOS) contracted function.
1.2.2.1.3. The 42 CS/CC is the approval authority for waiver requests to this supplement.
1.2.2.2.2.2. Organizations requiring copies of printed wing/base-level publications and forms
must coordinate with the OPR of the desired publication/form.
1.2.2.2.2.2.2. Maxwell AFB Product Indexes (to include Office forms) and Product
Announcements are located on the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office Web
page on the AF Portal. AFIT will produce its own Product Indexes (to include Office forms) and
Product Announcements and provide copies to the Maxwell Publications and Forms
Management Office. AFIT will make their Product Announcements and Indexes available to
AFIT personnel. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office and the AFIT
Publications/Forms Monitor will submit copies of their Product Indexes and Product
Announcements to higher headquarters as required.
1.2.3.1. Submit the appointment memorandum to Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC
[afniceampf@us.af.mil]) indicating the required information for the primary and alternate
publications and forms managers. AFIT will maintain primary and alternate Publications/Forms
Monitors who will act as the AFIT Publications/Forms Management function. AFIT will submit
an appointment memorandum to the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office. The
AFIT Publications/Forms Monitor will perform all Wing/Base Level publications/forms manager
functions for AFIT except as specified in this supplement. The Maxwell Publications and Forms
Management Office will provide guidance to AFIT upon request.
1.2.3.2. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office will maintain official record
sets for wing/base level, AU (that apply to all AU organizations), and Holm Center (Holm
Center, OTS, AFROTC, and AFJROTC) products. AU subordinate units (remaining Centers,
AFRI, AFIT, etc.) will maintain the appropriate official record sets.
1.2.4. The AFIT Publications/Forms Monitor will perfom all Wing/Base actions listed in Table
1.1 unless otherwise stated in this supplement.

Table 1.1. Publications/Forms Managers’ Responsibilities.

                                                                                            Wing
                                                                                            /Base
Functions                                           HAF MAJCOM           FOA      DRU
12     See Note 1.                                         X             X        X         X
13     See Note 2                                          X             X        X         X
NOTES:
1. See paragraph 1.2.3.2.
2. See Attachment 5
AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                          3


1.2.5. See Table 1.2 in this supplement to determine OPRs for publications/forms pertaining to
contractor-operated functions.
1.2.5.3.1. Use the Comment Matrix available on the Maxwell Publications and Forms
Management Office Web page (on the Air Force Portal) to collect comments.
1.2.6. See Table 1.2 in this supplement to determine Certifying Officials for publications/forms
pertaining to BOS contractor-operated functions. Exception: The designated Performance
Manager overseeing a BOS contract area will certify draft/revised office forms BOS contractors
use to perform governmental business. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management
Office will maitain current appointment letters (issued by unit commanders/directors)
designating Performance Managers. See paragraphs 3.6.3 and 3.11.3 of this supplement for
additional guidance on office forms.
1.2.7.1. Group Commanders and wing staff agency chiefs are considered two-letter functional
offices for approving wing/base level publication/form revisions or rescissions. See paragraph
1.2.7.1.4 of this supplement for further guidance.
1.2.7.1.4. AU/CC has delegated approval authority to revise, update, and rescind AU
publications/forms to HQ AU/DS; designate as Air University publications/forms; list the
AU/CC’s signature block in publications. Holm Center/CC has delegated approval authority for
publications/forms pertaining to AFJROTC to Holm Center/JR; designate as AFJROTC
publications/forms; list the Holm Center/JR’s signature block in publications. The 42 ABW/CC
has delegated approval authority to revise, update, and rescind Maxwell AFB publications/forms
to the appropriate group commander or staff agency chief. See Table 1.2 in this supplement for
Certifying and Approving Authorities for publications and forms pertaining to BOS contract
functions. Exception: The appropriate unit commander/director will approve draft/revised
office forms for use by BOS contractors performing governmental business supporting their
organization.

Table 1.2. (Added) Delegations for BOS Contracted Functions Publications/Forms
Responsibilities. Note: Approvals are for revisions, updates, and rescissions only; approval for
new publications/forms remains with 42 ABW/CC.

Functional Area                           Certifying Official          Approving Official
Airfield Support                          42 OSF/CC                    42 MSG/CC
Community Services                        42 FSS/CC                    42 MSG/CC
Human Resources (Military)                42 FSS/CC                    42 ABW/CC
Human Resources (Civilian)                42 FSS/CC                    42 ABW/CC
Marketing and Publicity                   42 FSS/CC                    42 MSG/CC
Resource Management                       42 FSS/CC                    42 MSG/CC
Custodial Services                        42 CES/CL                    42 MSG/CC
Energy Management                         42 CES/CL                    42 MSG/CC
CE Operations and Maintenance             42 CES/CL                    42 MSG/CC
Site Maintenance                          42 CES/CL                    42 MSG/CC
 4                                  AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011


Functional Area                         Certifying Official         Approving Official
Space Management                        42 CES/CL                   42 MSG/CC
Emergency Management                    42 CES/CL                   42 MSG/CC
Engineering Services                    42 CES/CL                   42 MSG/CC
Environmental                           42 CES/CL                   42 MSG/CC
Information Technology                  42 CS/CC                    42 MSG/CC
Publications and Forms Management       42 CS/CC                    42 MSG/CC
Materiel Management                     42 LRS/CC                   42 MSG/CC
Transportation                          42 LRS/CC                   42 MSG/CC

1.2.8.4.1. Use the Comment Matrix available on the Maxwell Publications and Forms
Management Office Web page (on the Air Force Portal) to provide feedback; instructions are
included on the matrix.
2.3. Conflicting Publications. See Attachment 5 in this supplement for guidance pertaining to
processing AF Forms 847.
2.4. Applicability of Publications to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
Units. Coordinate wing- and base-level publications that apply to 908th Airlift Wing (AFRC)
units/personnel through 908 CF/SCOK.
AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 5


Table 2.1. Types of Publications

Directive publications are necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety, security, or other areas
where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air Force personnel must comply
with these publications. All publications in this category must carry the following statement in the
publication header: ―COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.‖
Note: The e-Publishing website does not post products below wing/base level, although unless otherwise
noted in this table all products must be listed in the e-Publishing website product index.
Item       Publication        Applicability Issued By                    Description
           Name
6          Guidance           Field             MAJCOM, FOA,             42 ABW/CC will approve GMs
           Memorandum                           DRU and below            that affect the base populace.
           (GM)                                                          Individual units will follow
                                                                         similar procedures to maintain
                                                                         unit GMs on a local level,
                                                                         incorporating new guidance into
                                                                         a unit operating instruction
                                                                         within 180 calendar days.
                                                                         Ensure GMs contain required
                                                                         closing statement per Attachment
                                                                         4.
7          Operating          Issuing Unit      Units below              Organizations publishing OIs are
           Instructions                         headquarters             responsible for coordinating and
           (OI)                                                          managing their OIs, maintaining
                                                                         respective record sets (see
                                                                         paragraph 2.31.4.1), and posting
                                                                         in a location allowing easy access
                                                                         by assigned personnel. Assign
                                                                         OI numbers per guidance in this
                                                                         instruction. The Maxwell
                                                                         Publications and Forms
                                                                         Management Office does not
                                                                         process, manage, or coordinate
                                                                         on OIs. The Maxwell
                                                                         Publications and Forms
                                                                         Management Office offers
                                                                         technical assistance and may
                                                                         conduct Staff Assistance Visits to
                                                                         ensure effective OI management
                                                                         practices are in place.
Nondirective publications are informational and suggest guidance you can modify to fit the
circumstances. Complying with publications in this category is expected, but not mandatory. Air Force
personnel use these publications as reference aids, ―how-to‖ guides, or as sources of official information.
Note: Publications in this category follow the standard Air Force format. The ―COMPLIANCE WITH
THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY‖ statement is not used in nondirective publications.
 6                                  AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011



Item      Publication     Applicability    Issued By              Description
          Name
19        Product Index   Field            Units below            The Maxwell Publications and
(Added)   (PI)                             headquarters           Forms Management Office will
                                                                  maintain Publication and Form
                                                                  Product Indexes. Organizations
                                                                  issuing OIs will maintain an OI
                                                                  Product Index.
2.8.1. See Table 1.2 in this supplement to determine OPR, Certifying and Approving Officials
for publications/forms pertaining to contractor-operated functions. When it is necessary to
obtain coordination from a contracted function, see paragraph 2.18 of this supplement.
2.10.5. The AFIT Publications/Forms Monitor will assign AFIT publication control numbers.
2.12. Format the Draft. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office does not
provide editing services. Consult the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office web
page for guidance on submitting publications for publishing. This page also contains
information to assist OPRs in drafting revisions, interim and administrative changes, and
operating instructions.
2.12.1. There are example formatted drafts of a publication and a supplement available on the
Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office Web page.
2.12.1.1. Holm Center organizations will include a Table of Contents for publications 20 pages
or more in length.
2.18. Coordination. When a technical/functional coordinating agency is contractor operated,
forward the draft publication/form to the contactor’s supported unit Contract Performance
Manager; contact the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office for assistance. The
Performance Manager will review the publication/form and provide the required coordination.
AFIT may submit draft publications through the appropriate host-base agencies.
2.18.2.6. See Table 1.2 in this supplement to determine the Certifying Official for publications/
forms pertaining to BOS contracted functions.
2.18.2.7. See paragraph 1.2.7.1.4 of this supplement. See Table 1.2 in this supplement to
determine the Approving Official for publications/forms pertaining to BOS contracted functions.
2.18.2.11. Use the Comment Matrix available on the Maxwell Publications and Forms
Management Office Web page.
2.18.2.12. OPRs must similarly resolve substantive comments before submitting the publication
or form for final processing and publishing.
2.18.2.13. If the AF Form 673 is submitted more than 90 days after Approving Official’s
signature, the OPR must certify the draft is still current and obtain the Certifying Official’s
concurrence prior to the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office submitting it for
publication.
AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                      7


Table 2.2. Mandatory Coordination.

     A                               B                       C
I    Mandatory Area to be            Coordinate
     Addressed and
T
     Coordination provided:
E                                                            Field Publications with:
M
1    Legal Implications                                      AU, 42 ABW: 42 ABW/JA
                                                             Holm Center: Holm Center/JA
                                                             CAP-USAF: CAP-USAF/JA
2    Manpower, personnel, and                                Manpower: 42 FSS/FSMM
     labor implications                                      Labor Implications: 42 FSS/FSMC
                                                             Personnel: 42 FSS/FSMP
3    Future resource implications                            AU: AU/A5/8
                                                             42 ABW: 42 ABW/XP
                                                             Holm Center: Holm Center/SD
4    Communications and                                      42 CS/SCOK
     information management,                                 NOTE: coordinate through unit
     including FOIA, Privacy                                 FARM/PAM before submitting to
     Act, Federal Registry, postal                           42 CS/SCOK.
     service, and records
     management
5    Applicability to AF Reserve                             When required, coordinate through
                                                             908 CF/SCOK
6    Budget implications                                     AU/FM
7    Applicability to ANG and/or
     NGB
8    Formatting and compliance                               42 CS/SCOKP (for publications),
     with AFI 33-360                                         42 CS/SCOKF (for forms)
9    Reports control                                         42 CS/SCOK (ICR)
     requirements
11   Policy Review:                                          N/A
NOTES:
5. (Added) AFIT may coordinate through host base agencies.

2.19. Technical/Functional Coordination. Complete Technical/Functional coordination (to
include addressing any comments) before starting Mandatory coordination. See also paragraph
2.18 of this supplement.
 8                                  AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011


2.21.4. Funding for printing publishing products is not centralized within the Maxwell
Publications and Forms Management Office. Coordinate funding directly with DAPS.
2.22. Suggesting Updates to Publications. See Attachment 5 in this supplement for guidance
pertaining to AF Form 847.
2.23. Requesting a Waiver. The subject publication’s Certifying Official will rule on all
waiver requests. Provide the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office all
correspondence relating to waivers—approved or not—to file in the record set. Maintain waiver
actions to OIs in the appropriate record set. AFIT will maintain waiver correspondence to their
publications in the appropriate record set.
2.24. Revising a Publication. AFIT POCs will process all ICs, ACs, and revisions through the
AFIT Publications/Forms Monitor.
2.25.2.1. The AFIT Publications/Forms Monitor assigns numbers for AFIT ICs.
2.29.2.4. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office announces rescinded
publications and forms in the Product Announcement and lists them in the applicable Product
Index. The AFIT Publications/Forms Monitor will accomplish these actions for AFIT products.
2.31.3. Coordinate through the unit Funcational Area Records Manager/Privacy Act Monitor
(FARM/PAM) prior to coordinating with the Base Records Manager.
2.31.4.1. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office will maintain official record
sets. AFIT will maintain the official record sets for their publishing products. Units developing
operating instructions will maintain the respective official record sets.
3.1.2. See paragraph 1.2.6 of this supplement.

Table 3.1. Types and Descriptions of Forms.

Prescribed Forms
Type                             Description                               Issued by
Headquarters/unit (HAF,          See Note 1                                HAF and field
MAJCOM, base, unit, etc.)
Non-Prescribed Forms (OPRs must supply instruction on non-prescribed forms as necessary;
an accompanying memo is acceptable. Any form collection information covered by the Privacy
Act must be managed as a prescribed form.)
Type                             Description                               Issued by
Office                           See Note 2                                All levels
Note 1: Unit forms will be designed using the forms development software. Contact the
Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office for assistance.
Note 2: Maxwell AFB uses a centralized forms management program. As such, the Maxwell
Publications and Forms Management Office manages Office Forms.
AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                      9


3.5.7. If revisions made to the form affect guidance in the prescribing publication, the Maxwell
Publications and Forms Management Office will not release the approved revised form until the
publication is updated.
3.6. Creating a Form. POCs contact the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office
for assistance in creating forms. AFIT POCs contact the AFIT Publications/Forms Monitor. The
Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office will provide form design services for
AFIT, however the AFIT Publications/Forms Monitor must ensure all requirements for
developing, prescribing, coordinating, and approving proposed forms are complete prior to
seeking design services. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office will return
incomplete design requests without action, noting missing/incomplete requirements.
3.6.3. Office forms will be created using the standard AF form software.
3.6.4. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office will assign the date to AFIT
forms.
3.7.4. Contact the Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office for assistance with
overprinting forms.
3.8. Licensing a Report Control Symbol (RCS). The Base reports control manager makes this
determination during the coordination process.
3.10.1. POCs should contact their organization’s Funcational Area Records Manager/Privacy
Act Monitor (FARM/PAM) for assistance when developing a PAS.
3.10.5. (Added) The unit FARM/PAM must coordinte on all draft forms to verify correct
disposition guidance from the AFRIMS RDS. List the appropriate guidance in Block 25 of the
AF Form 673.
3.11.1. OPRs must ensure draft forms are clearly identified as drafts prior to coordination.
3.11.3. (Added) Office Forms.
3.11.3.1. (Added) The staff agency chief, school, squadron or flight commander/commandant is
the approving authority for office forms within their organization.
3.11.3.2. (Added) As a minimum, the OPR must coordinate the draft form through the unit
FARM/PAM to ensure compliance with AFI 33-360 prior to obtaining approval.
3.11.3.3. (Added) The OPR must submit the completed AF Form 673 to the Maxwell
Publications and Forms Management Office for filing in the record set.
3.11.3.4. (Added) The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office will manage office
forms as prescribed forms, to include listing them in the Forms Product Index and initiating 2-
Year Reviews during the form’s anniversary month. Office forms will not be posted on the e-
Publishing or Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office web pages.
 10                                AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011


Table 3.2. Mandatory Coordination for Forms.

                   A                               B                               C
R     Coordinate
U
L
E     Departmental forms with:     Field forms with:                    To address:
1                                  Coordinate with 42 CS/SCOK
                                   after coordinating with unit
                                   FARM/PAM .
2                                  Coordinate with 42 CS/SCOKP
3                                  Coordinate with 42 CS/SCOK
5                                  Staff Judge Advocate (See Note)      Legal implications
NOTE: Coordinate AU and Maxwell AFB forms with 42 ABW/JA. Holm Center organizations
coordinate with Holm Center/JA.
3.13.2. If rescinding a form but not its prescribing publication, submit an IC to update the
publication along with the AF Form 673 to rescind the form; see paragraph 2.25. The Maxwell
Publications and Forms Management Office will not rescind the form until the publication is
properly updated.
3.14.3.1. The Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office will maintain official forms
record sets, to include office forms, but not unit forms. Units issuing unit forms will maintain
the appropriate record set along with (but not incorporated into) the prescribing operating
instruction record set. AFIT will maintain the official record sets for their forms, to include
office forms.




                                            BRIAN M. KILLOUGH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011                      11


                                      Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFJROTC—Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps
AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
AU—Air University
BOS—Base Operating Support Contract
CAP—USAF—Civil Air Patrol – United States Air Force
FARM/PAM—Functional Area Records Manager/Privacy Act Monitor
ICR—Information Collections and Reports
OTS—Officer Training School
 12                                AFI33-360_MAXWELLAFBSUP 29 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                   Attachment 5 (Added)
        INSTRUCTIONS FOR RECOMMENDING PUBLICATION CHANGES

A5.1. (Added) Local Publications. To recommend changes to a local publication (e.g., AU,
Maxwell AFB, Holm Center, etc.), follow guidance in AFI 11-215 when completing the
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, with the following exceptions:
   A5.1.1. (Added) Submit the AF Form 847 to the appropriate OPR as listed on the subject
   publication. Suggestor’s organization may annotate a locally-generated control number for
   Block 2 if desired.
   A5.1.2. (Added) On the reverse, the publication OPR will complete Section 3 and forward
   the AF Form 847 to the publication approval authority for final decision.
   A5.1.3. (Added) The publication approval authority will complete Section 4 and return the
   AF Form 847 to the suggestor through the publication OPR.
   A5.1.4. (Added) If the suggestion is approved, the publication OPR will initiate the
   appropriate procedures to revise the publication or issue an interim change. Contact the
   Maxwell Publications and Forms Management Office for assistance. If the suggestion is
   disapproved, return a copy of the AF Form 874 to the suggestor with justification as required
   by AFI 11-215.
   A5.1.5. (Added) Submit original, completed AF Forms 847 to the Maxwell Publications
   and Forms Management Office for filing in the appropriate record set.
