BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1067
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  3 APRIL 2013

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                                            WATER SYSTEMS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFCEC/CO                                                            Certified by: AF/A7CO
                                                                          (Col Derrek D. Sanks)
Supersedes:   AFI32-1067, 25 March 1994                                                Pages: 27


This instruction implements Air Force policy directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities, and AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality. It provides guidelines for managing water
and wastewater systems at United States Air Force (USAF) bases. This publication applies to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with      the    Air    Force    Records      Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)     located   at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Users should send comments and
suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through
major commands (MAJCOM) and the Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC), 139 Barnes
Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB, FL 32403-5319, to USAF/A7C, 1260 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington, D.C. 20330-1260. This instruction may be supplemented at any level, but all direct
supplements must be routed to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for coordination prior
to certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include the following: This revision updates water and wastewater system program
responsibilities and requirements. There have been numerous changes to organizational roles and
names throughout the Air Force due to organizational transformations and those changes are
reflected in this AFI. The changes also include guidance on utility privatization, water
conservation, water rights, changes in sampling, water line flushing and other operations and
maintenance (O&M) practices, addition of outage logs, updated listing of references, and
 2                                                                                                     AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


revision of water contingency response plan (WCRP) policy. AF Form 997, Daily Well Activity
Record, AF Form 998, Daily Pumping Station Activity Record – Water, and AF Form 1461,
Water Utility Operating Log (General), are updated. To align with Department of Defense
(DOD) policies for well-drilling operations, this AFI adopts DD Form 2678, Well Driller's Log,
DD Form 2679, Piping and Casing Log, and DD Form 2680, Military Water Well Completion
Report.

        1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Objectives. .............................................................................................................      3

Section A—Compliance                                                                                                                           3
        3.      Compliance with Statutory Requirements. ............................................................                           3

Section B—Responsibilities                                                                                                                     5
        4.      Air Force Organizations. ........................................................................................              5
        5.      Water and Wastewater Services Provided by Other Than Air Force. ....................                                           9

Section C—Program Requirements                                                                                                                 9
        6.      Water and Wastewater Facility Design Requirements. .........................................                                   9
        7.      Facility O&M. ........................................................................................................        10
        8.      Water and Wastewater System Planning. ..............................................................                          11
        9.      Training and Certification. .....................................................................................             13
        10.     Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Hazards. ..............................................                               14
        11.     Logs, Records, and Drawings. ...............................................................................                  14
        12.     Safeguarding Water Against Contamination. ........................................................                            16
        13.     Cooperating with Regulatory Authorities on Water Compliance. .........................                                        17
        14.     Point-of-Entry (POE) and Point-of-Use (POU) Treatment Devices. .....................                                          18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                19

Attachment 2—IMPLEMENTING INSTRUCTIONS FOR AIR FORCE WATER RIGHTS
             DOCUMENTATION AND DATA RETENTION                                                                                                 25


1. Purpose.
     1.1. This instruction defines responsibilities and provides guidelines to help base civil
     engineering (CE) to design, operate, and maintain Air Force-owned or -operated water and
     wastewater systems at permanent installations. For specific technical guidance on the design
     and operation of water and wastewater systems, refer to the references specified in paragraph
     6 and paragraph 8. This instruction focuses on O&M of water and wastewater systems. For
     specifics on environmental compliance, refer to AFI 48-144, Drinking Water Surveillance
     Program; AFI 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance; AFI 32-7047, Environmental
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                           3


   Compliance, Release, and Inspection; and country-specific Final Governing Standards (FGS)
   or, if no FGS exist, DOD 4715.05-G, Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
   (OEBGD), and consult Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Environmental Center of Excellence
   (AFCEC/CZ). Stormwater is not covered in this instruction. Applicable Unified Facilities
   Criteria (UFC), Engineering Technical Letters (ETL), and federal, state, and local laws
   provide requirements for stormwater planning, construction, and O&M.
   1.2. The requirements of this AFI do not apply to water systems on Air Force installations
   not owned or operated by the Air Force (i.e., privatized systems) unless specifically provided
   in the contractual terms of the privatization agreements. When a base is placed on the Base
   Realignment and Closure (BRAC) list, water systems will be transferred as quickly as
   possible. All requirements of this AFI will terminate after the transfer has occurred. For
   closed bases, the losing MAJCOM will maintain the water systems until final closure of all
   active operations.
   1.3. This AFI does not apply to Air Force-owned or -operated water systems at contingency
   or other deployed operations installations outside the United States (U.S.) or its territories.
2. Objectives. The main objectives are to efficiently and effectively design, construct, operate,
and maintain potable water systems and domestic and industrial wastewater systems while
protecting public health and the environment. Systems located in the U.S. or its territories must
comply with the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) (Public Law [P.L.] 93-523), and Clean Water
Act (CWA) (P.L. 95-217), including all amendments. Use municipal or regional water supply
and wastewater systems where economically feasible. The use of recycled and reused water shall
be implemented for non-potable water needs such as irrigation where economically practical. A
lifecycle cost analysis will be performed to determine the most cost-effective approach. All Air
Force water and wastewater systems are candidates for privatization. These systems are designed
and operated according to this instruction until transferred to the private vendor.

Section A—Compliance

3. Compliance with Statutory Requirements. Military installations located in the U.S. and its
territories must comply with applicable federal, state, and local drinking water (DW) and
wastewater regulations. Installations are subject to the following requirements in this instruction.
However, installations located outside the U.S. and its territories are subject to these
requirements only to the extent the requirements do not conflict with provisions of applicable
FGS and, where FGS do not exist, the OEBGD.
   3.1. Requirements.
       3.1.1. This instruction, in addition to applicable federal, state, and local laws and
       regulations, AFI 48-144, AFI 32-7041, and AFI 32-7047, establishes requirements for
       water and wastewater systems.
       3.1.2. CE and bioenvironmental engineering (BE) organizations must cooperate to
       ensure compliance. Responsibility for compliance begins at the operator level, while
       higher levels give management support and guidance.
   3.2. U.S. Installations.
       3.2.1. Water System Requirements.
4                                                                   AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


          3.2.1.1. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sets specific requirements for
          covered (i.e., regulated) public water systems (PWS). In those requirements, a
          community water system (CWS) is defined as a PWS that has at least 15 connections
          and regularly serves at least 25 persons for a total of 60 days per year. (Consult Title
          40 Code of Federal Regulations [CFR] Section 141.2, Definitions, and AFI 48-144
          for a specific PWS definition.) An Air Force CWS must meet EPA and state public
          DW requirements in addition to Air Force DW standards and criteria. An Air Force-
          owned, unregulated PWS shall meet appropriate federal, state, and local regulations.
          3.2.1.2. All Air Force non-CWS PWS (i.e., water systems that do not meet the
          definition of a CWS) that produce their own water shall meet EPA or state primacy
          agency standards for treatment and sampling for transient non-community water
          systems (TNCWS) and non-transient non-community water systems (NTNCWS).
          The MAJCOM CE environmental management office or authorized AFCEC/CZ
          representative, with coordination by the MAJCOM Surgeon General (SG), may grant
          waivers to this requirement.
       3.2.2. Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA).
          3.2.2.1. Prevention Approaches. The civil engineer squadron (CES) ensures the
          installation is in compliance with federal and state requirements to develop source
          water protection measures by establishing source water assessment programs and
          wellhead protection plans in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local laws
          as well as antiterrorism/force protection requirements (see base antiterrorism officers
          [ATO] for specific local requirements). BE shall review and coordinate on the plans.
          3.2.2.2. Consumer Information. BE is responsible for working with base public
          affairs to notify installation water consumers of DW violations through public
          notification procedures in accordance with AFI 48-144. CEI (installation
          management) and CEO (operations) sections will provide coordinating support and
          assistance as needed.
          3.2.2.3. Regulatory Compliance. CES and BE shall coordinate DW system
          evaluations and planning to ensure drinking water parameters meet current federal,
          state, local, and Air Force standards.
          3.2.2.4. DW system water vulnerability assessments (WVA) are conducted by BE
          with cooperation and input from CES and other appropriate base/local agencies.
    3.2.3. Wastewater System Requirements.
          3.2.3.1. Permit Requirement. Wastewater treatment plants in the U.S. and its
          territories must have National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
          permits or underground injection control (UIC) permits that specify the conditions of
          their discharges. Each plant must operate according to its permit conditions.
          3.2.3.2. Clean Water Act (CWA).
              3.2.3.2.1. Wastewater Discharged to Publicly Owned Treatment Works
              (POTW) or Sewage Collection System. CES or other authorized personnel, in
              accordance with sampling, analysis, and monitoring (SAM) as prescribed in the
              Air Force Water Program Management Playbook, will monitor, through
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                        5


             sampling, wastewater discharged from the installation to ensure that permit limit
             categorical standards and local standards developed by the POTW are achieved.
             Wastewater sampling or monitoring may be delegated to another base agency or
             privatized contractor. CES may still be required to ensure delegated or contracted
             agencies meet applicable wastewater discharge standards in accordance with the
             contractual agreement.
             3.2.3.2.2. Direct Discharge of Wastewater. CES shall apply for and obtain
             NPDES permits for all point source discharges into applicable waters of the U.S.
             Federally owned treatment works (FOTW) shall be operated and maintained to
             ensure full compliance with the CWA and applicable NPDES permits.
   3.3. Foreign Installations. International agreements, country-specific FGS, and OEBGD
   establish treatment and operations requirements in foreign countries.

Section B—Responsibilities

4. Air Force Organizations.
   4.1. Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Operations Directorate, Engineer Division
   (AFCEC/COS):
      4.1.1. Issues policy and guidance for design and O&M of DW and wastewater systems.
      4.1.2. Provides technical assistance and consultation to MAJCOMs and bases on DW
      and wastewater systems.
      4.1.3. Provides bases with technical assistance to develop unidirectional flushing plans,
      hydraulic and water quality models, water and wastewater system planning documents,
      emergency/contingency response plans, and other documents required by this instruction.
   4.2. MAJCOM Civil Engineer:
      4.2.1. Develops programs to support DW and wastewater systems following Air Force
      guidance and policies for asset management.
      4.2.2. Provides administrative and technical support to help bases comply with Air Force
      policies and regulatory requirements.
      4.2.3. Reviews and validates installation programming and budget needs for conducting
      DW and wastewater requirements and forwards budget needs to Air Staff.
   4.3. Base Civil Engineer (BCE):
      4.3.1. Operates and maintains water and wastewater systems, using Air Force pamphlet
      (AFPAM) 32-1004, Volume 5, Working in the Operations Flight - Infrastructure
      Support, as a guide; performs sampling and conducts testing procedures necessary for
      day-to-day operation of the water and wastewater systems; reviews monitoring, sampling,
      and testing reports; and implements necessary corrective actions for compliance with
      applicable permits, standards, laws, and regulations.
      4.3.2. Ensures system operations personnel are properly trained and have the required
      license or certification (e.g., federal, DOD, state, local, or host nation) before assuming
      plant operations, maintenance, or repair responsibility for water and wastewater systems.
6                                                                AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


    4.3.3. Ensures all water and wastewater plants have required regulatory permits and
    sufficient resources to operate in compliance.
    4.3.4. Develops local operating instructions (including operational monitoring for
    process control), sampling and testing procedures, emergency operations, maintenance,
    and regulatory compliance requirements.
    4.3.5. Conducts engineering and scientific studies using an asset management approach
    to support the planning and the efficient and effective operation of water and wastewater
    systems (e.g., hydraulic modeling, OMTAP, leak-detection surveys, inflow/infiltration
    [I/I] investigations, closed-circuit television [CCTV] inspections, and supervisory control
    and data acquisition [SCADA]); participates in water working group as required by AFI
    48-144.
    4.3.6. Corrects system deficiencies identified through preparing responses, internal
    assessment, monitoring, or inspection by regulatory agencies, and keeps records of
    corrective actions.
    4.3.7. Maintains facility operating logs, records, drawings, and plant-specific O&M
    manuals.
    4.3.8. Maintains an accurate inventory of water and wastewater system assets and
    represents them in both tabular and spatial formats, and provides analytic and diagnostic
    evaluation concerning the value, condition, and functionality of those assets.
    4.3.9. Maintains oversight where water and wastewater services are provided through
    regional connections or a privatized system and provides the means and methods to
    accurately determine the total water consumption (potable and non-potable) and the total
    wastewater discharge from these services and their total cost.
    4.3.10. Water Vulnerability. The BCE:
       4.3.10.1. Provides CES technical support to BE to assist with WVAs conducted in
       accordance with AFI 10-246, Food and Water Protection Program.
       4.3.10.2. Prepares water contingency response plans (WCRP) for deficiencies
       identified in the WVA, WVA updates, and other sources as described in ETL 12-1,
       Recommendations for Incorporating Water System Emergency Response Plan (ERP)
       Requirements.
    4.3.11. Water Conservation. The BCE:
       4.3.11.1. Ensures proper consumption data is collected (via utility bills, potable and
       non-potable source meters, and justifiable quantity estimates) and maintains accurate
       records on the amount of potable and non-potable water consumed by the base to
       track progress towards meeting water conservation goals.
       4.3.11.2. Enters appropriate consumption data into the Air Force Energy Reporting
       System (AFERS) or future systems.
       4.3.11.3. Incorporates water conservation best-management practices into all projects
       and activities in accordance with paragraph 8.5 and appropriate federal, state, and
       local laws.
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                       7


     4.3.12. Water Rights. The BCE will maintain permanent records on all water-related
     documents and data pertaining to water rights as part of asset management, specifically
     under the real property section (see Attachment 2). The base CES real property office
     will be the lead for formal water rights documentation. If systems or services are
     privatized, the base shall retain water rights as required by Air Force policy. For further
     details concerning privatization, please refer to the Air Force Utilities Privatization
     Playbook and consult with AFCEC/CNU.
  4.4. The Air Force Surgeon General (USAF/SG):
     4.4.1. USAF/SG, the OPR for providing health oversight (DW surveillance) of Air Force
     DW systems, ensures Air Force DW systems are properly surveyed, sampled, analyzed
     and monitored to provide adequate supplies of safe DW to Air Force personnel at
     garrison and deployed locations.
     4.4.2. Establishes resources and implementation instructions for the DW surveillance
     program and regulatory compliance to protect public health, and coordinates with
     AF/A7C on these matters.
  4.5. The Air Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA):
     4.5.1. Develops implementation instructions for DW surveillance and establishes Air
     Force DW requirements to protect the health of Air Force personnel as required in AFI
     48-144.
     4.5.2. Provides SDWA oversight for DW surveillance, including analysis of present and
     proposed federal legislation associated with SDWA surveillance, and analyzes open
     enforcement actions associated with SDWA surveillance for negative trends.
     4.5.3. Coordinates for proposed revisions to FGS and OEBGD Chapter 3, “Drinking
     Water.”
  4.6. MAJCOM Bioenvironmental Engineer (BEE):
     4.6.1. Supports installations to ensure DW surveillance programs conform to AFI 48-
     144.
     4.6.2. Conducts periodic audits of installation DW surveillance programs in accordance
     with appropriate authority while ensuring regulatory compliance and adequate
     resourcing. Periodicity of audits should be determined by the MAJCOM BEE, and should
     be based upon installation-specific performance, historic enforcement actions, inspection
     results, and execution of new DW requirements.
     4.6.3. Fulfills the role of appropriate DOD medical authority for installations in foreign
     countries as specified in the OEBGD and/or country-specific FGS.
  4.7. Base BE:
     4.7.1. Provides general surveillance over potential environmental contamination of
     drinking water from Air Force facilities, and provides copies of monitoring and
     evaluation reports indicating an exceedance of a DW action level or upon request to the
     BCE.
8                                                                   AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


       4.7.2. Monitors compliance of DW and water supplies with applicable standards (see
       AFI 48-144). BE provides reporting and public notification assistance as required, and
       submits monitoring results and suggestions for improving water quality to the BCE.
       4.7.3. May assist the BCE with design review of drinking water treatment facilities and
       with monitoring to ensure the system is operated and maintained in compliance with
       applicable AF, state and federal rules.
       4.7.4. Ensures sanitary surveys are performed to satisfy the requirements of applicable
       regulations and standards and recommends mitigation actions by appropriate CES or SG
       organizations to maintain the sanitary quality of the base DW system.
       4.7.5. Supports CES by conducting technical reviews of repairs, renovations, and
       modifications to DW systems to assess and avert potential health hazards.
       4.7.6. Supports the cross-connection control and backflow prevention program by
       providing technical assistance and assigning the correct hazard classification to each
       cross-connection, using the most recent Uniform Plumbing Code criteria and AFI 32-
       1066, Backflow Prevention Program.
       4.7.7. Ensures water vulnerability assessments are completed in accordance with AFI 10-
       246.
    4.8. Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Environmental Center of Excellence
    (AFCEC/CZ):
       4.8.1. AFCEC/CZ provides a regional liaison, upon MAJCOM or base request, to the
       EPA (federal), state, and local regulatory authorities to resolve compliance and
       permitting issues, and assists MAJCOMs and installations to resolve regulatory issues.
       4.8.2. Provides Air Force comments through the appropriate DOD Services committee
       on proposed federal, regional, state, and local water regulations; participates in water
       working group as required by AFI 48-144.
       4.8.3. Maintains an Air Force database of all environmental regulatory open enforcement
       actions (OEA), consent agreements and their status, and, upon completion of required
       corrective actions, confirms closure with appropriate regulators.
       4.8.4. Provides environmental technical support and guidance, contracting services, and
       training to address the environmental compliance of DW and wastewater systems.
       4.8.5. Conducts periodic audits of installation-level safe DW and wastewater programs
       to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and laws as well as adequacy of
       resources to conduct these programs.
    4.9. United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM):
       4.9.1. Provides consultation regarding safe DW quality and provides a contracting
       mechanism to execute projects related to DW monitoring and compliance.
       4.9.2. Contracts laboratory analytical services to installations for DW sampling.
    4.10. DOD Environmental Executive Agents. DOD environmental executive agents for
    environmental matters in foreign countries where DOD installations are located interface
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                         9


   with host nation environmental regulatory officials and establish FGS in accordance with
   DODI 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations.
5. Water and Wastewater Services Provided by Other Than Air Force.
   5.1. The Air Force must accurately ascertain the amount of water obtained from other than
   in-house resources and the amount of wastewater discharged at other than its own discharge
   points, where possible. In order to perform this precisely, direct metering of these streams at
   locations representative of where they enter and leave the base is required. AFI 32-1061,
   Providing Utilities to U.S. Air Force Installations, may allow estimating wastewater
   amounts; however, with the increasing amount of water reuse or on-base water recycling, the
   estimating method may not be sufficiently accurate and equate to higher costs than what is
   treated. The use of smart metering or other Air Force-approved remote meter data-gathering
   system may ease meter record-keeping. For meter specifications, refer to Unified Facilities
   Guide Specification (UFGS) 33 12 33.00 30, Water Meters.
   5.2. Acquisition and Sales of Utility Services. AFI 32-1061 covers contracting and sales of
   utility services for reimbursement. Consider using municipal or regional water supply and
   wastewater systems where feasible and where the risks are acceptable. Perform a lifecycle
   cost analysis to determine the most cost-effective approach. The sale of DW to non-federal
   agencies may impact the base’s status under federal and state SDWA regulations. The
   utilities privatization (UP) program office will coordinate with BE, CEI, and CEO prior to
   taking contract action. The Air Force Utility Field Support Center (AFLOA/JACL-ULFSC)
   will be consulted as part of contract proceedings. See the Utilities Privatization Playbook for
   more details concerning UP and consult with AFCEC/CNU.
      5.2.1. Paying for Water and Wastewater Discharge. Monthly billings for water and
      wastewater services from municipalities or private vendors must be based on direct meter
      readings or by approved reimbursement methods according to AFI 32-1061 and
      supported by legally approved partnering or support agreements.
      5.2.2. Seeking Reimbursement for Providing Water. Reimbursement for water and
      wastewater services provided by the Air Force must also be based on direct meter
      readings where possible or by approved reimbursement methods according to AFI 32-
      1061 and supported by legally approved partnering or support agreements.

Section C—Program Requirements

6. Water and Wastewater Facility Design Requirements.
   6.1. Water System Design. DW systems shall be designed in accordance with UFC 3-230-
   01, Water Storage, Distribution and Transmission; UFC 3-230-03, Water Treatment; UFC 4-
   020-01, DOD Security Engineering Facilities Planning Manual; UFC 4-020-02FA, Security
   Engineering: Concept Design; and UFC 4-020-03FA, Security Engineering: Final Design.
   6.2. Wastewater System Design. Wastewater systems shall be designed in accordance with
   UFC 3-240-01, Wastewater Collection; UFC 3-240-02, Domestic Wastewater Treatment; and
   UFC 3-240-13FN, Industrial Water Treatment Operation and Maintenance. UFC 3-240-03N
   (MIL-HDBK-1138), Wastewater Treatment System Operation and Maintenance Augmenting
   Handbook also has some relevant O&M.
 10                                                                AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


   6.3. Design Review Process. Operations flight personnel must review designs for
   adequacy, resource conservation, and to help minimize excessive (or unnecessarily increase)
   O&M requirements. Consider fire protection, water/energy conservation, and water quality
   requirements in all reviews. Installation management flight personnel (environmental) must
   review designs to ensure compliance with all environmental laws, regulations, statutes,
   policies, and Air Force requirements, including necessary review and approval by
   appropriate state and local agencies. BE must review all DW system designs for water
   quality health considerations.
   6.4. Special Design Requirements. Comply with industry standards to the maximum extent
   possible in accordance with the applicable UFCs listed in paragraph 6.1 and paragraph 6.2.
   Special design requirements for DOD and Air Force facilities are specified in UFC 3-130-05,
   Utilities - Arctic and Subarctic Construction; SFIM-AEC-EQ-CR-200010, Multiservice
   Oil/Water Separator Guidance Manual; AFMAN 32-1072_IP, Water-Well Drilling
   Operations; AFI 32-1066, Backflow Prevention Program; ETL 08-10, Alternative Water
   Sources– Use of Non-Potable Water; and ETL 09-13, Irrigation of Installation Turfgrass and
   Landscaping.
7. Facility O&M. Note: For installations located outside the U.S. and its territories, see
paragraph 3.
   7.1. Water Treatment and Distribution Systems. Installations must operate and maintain
   water treatment and distribution facilities according to this instruction, UFC 3-230-02, O&M:
   Water Supply Systems, and applicable state and federal laws. When appropriate, installations
   shall also use the manufacturer's O&M manuals or plant-specific OMTAP Volume II for
   specific treatment components.
   7.2. Scale and Corrosion Control. AFI 32-1054, Corrosion Control, outlines the corrosion
   control program.
   7.3. Disinfection. The disinfection process inactivates pathogenic organisms in water by
   chemical oxidants or equivalent agents. Specific disinfection procedures can be found in
   American Water Works Association (AWWA) Standard C651-05, Disinfecting Water Mains,
   AWWA Standard C652-02, Disinfection of Water Storage Facilities, and AWWA Standard
   C654-03, Disinfection of Wells, and subsequent revisions.
      7.3.1. Air Force-owned or -operated water production and treatment facilities will be
      operated with a detectable (measurable level) disinfection residual at all points of the
      distribution system and throughout the potable water storage tanks served by the
      treatment plant. Detectable disinfection residual can range from 0.2 to 4.0 parts per
      million (ppm), depending on the type of disinfection used. This requirement varies from
      location to location, so the appropriate regulatory agency should be consulted to establish
      the correct level. (Refer to AFI 48-144 for information regarding disinfectant
      surveillance.)
      7.3.2. A consecutive system is a public water system that receives some or all of its
      finished water from one or more wholesale systems. Delivery may be through a direct
      connection or through the distribution system of one or more consecutive systems.
      Consecutive water systems must operate their distribution system in a manner to provide
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                        11


      a detectable disinfection residual at all points in the distribution system and throughout
      the potable water storage tanks in accordance with applicable SDWA requirements.
   7.4. Fluoride. Air Force-owned water treatment facilities are required to add fluoride if the
   naturally occurring level of fluoride is below the optimum per UFC 3-230-03.
   7.5. Wastewater Treatment Systems. Operate and maintain water pollution control
   facilities within applicable permit limits according to base-specific OMTAP manuals, or
   plant-specific O&M manuals and there is also relevant guidance in UFC 3-240-03N (MIL-
   HDBK-1138). Domestic and industrial wastewater treatment plants are the primary facilities
   covered by this instruction. Activities that require special attention include metal finishing
   and electroplating; vehicle and engine maintenance, and vehicle and aircraft wash facilities;
   aircraft maintenance (paint stripping, nondestructive inspection, painting, and solvent
   cleaning); battery shops; photo labs; hospitals; aircraft deicing; base CE activities; and fire
   training. Proper O&M of oil/water separators, pretreatment systems, and lift stations must
   also be addressed.
      7.5.1. Bases with wastewater treatment plants must have written instructions that govern
      the discharge of industrial and non-domestic waste to the sanitary system by generating
      activities. The BCE outlines procedures for discharging industrial wastes to the sanitary
      system and generators must follow these instructions. Instructions shall describe
      pretreatment requirements, discharge procedures, and limitations for industrial waste. The
      wing commander can impose these requirements. Within each generating organization,
      the activity commander is responsible for controlling industrial discharges. These
      organizations must use the pollution-control techniques specified in AFI 32-7001,
      Environmental Management, to minimize pollutant discharges. Hazardous waste or other
      prohibited materials may not be discharged to the collection system.
      7.5.2. Disinfect effluents when necessary to comply with federal, state, and local
      requirements for water pollution control. De-chlorination of the effluent may also be
      required at some locations.
8. Water and Wastewater System Planning. Note: For installations located outside the U.S.
and its territories, see paragraph 3.
   8.1. The effective and efficient operation of water and wastewater systems requires
   continuous planning: from daily plans to carry out the day’s work effort to mid- and long-
   range plans to maintain, upgrade, and modernize the system infrastructure. Plans for water
   and wastewater systems need to address numerous affecting goals and issues such as
   conservation, vulnerability, and sustainability. Formal plans may be required to comply with
   the SDWA and/or the CWA. Other planning needs can be met by coordinating
   construction/repair with utility shop experts, using existing CES planning processes (e.g.,
   recurring work plans, maintenance activity sheets, master planning), and in accordance with
   applicable criteria listed in paragraph 6.
   8.2. Asset Management. The Air Force has adopted an asset management approach.
   Planning for water and wastewater systems shall adapt to the processes for preparing and
   implementing asset management plans or activity management plans (AMP). The AWWA
   guide Effective Utility Management, A Primer for Water and Wastewater Utilities provides
   other suggestions to improve system management.
12                                                                AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


     8.2.1. Capital Improvements. Develop capital improvements for the short term (1 to 10
     years) and long term (10 to 20 years) that identify recommended water and wastewater
     system improvements and water system security upgrade requirements. Capital
     improvements shall address the adequacy of existing water and wastewater assets to meet
     current and future water requirements, including fire flows and future wastewater
     discharge requirements.
     8.2.2. Asset Inventories. Develop and maintain accurate inventories of water and
     wastewater assets. Asset inventories shall be maintained in both spatial (e.g., GeoBase)
     and tabulated (e.g., database) formats in accordance with Air Force-approved linear
     segmentation guidance (see Linear Infrastructure Playbook).
     8.2.3. Water System Hydraulic Models (WSHM) (Optional). Follow the latest
     edition of AWWA Manual M32, Computer Modeling of Water Distribution Systems, and,
     for further details, consult AWWA C0296, Modeling, Analysis and Design of Water
     Distribution Systems. All installation WSHM shall be checked for accuracy by field flow
     testing. Hydrant and distribution system flow testing results shall be documented.
     Integrate the WSHM into the installation's Geographic Information System (GIS). For
     major water distribution system construction projects, the construction contract must
     require that the contractor update the WSHM and other associated utility management
     systems to reflect these construction changes or additions as well as help develop the
     most appropriate construction project design and execution.
     8.2.4. Source Water Protection Plan. Bases that produce their own water shall
     implement a source water protection plan (e.g., for groundwater, a wellhead protection
     plan; for surface water, a watershed protection plan). If a water source is located outside
     base boundaries, a plan must be created through coordination with local authorities or
     entities as much as possible.
     8.2.5. Water Contingency Response Plans (WCRP). All Air Force-owned water
     systems serving more than 25 people shall develop a WCRP in accordance with the
     WVA requirements of AFI 10-246. Specific minimum WCRP elements are listed in ETL
     12-1. For privatized systems, the contractual agreement shall address contingency
     scenarios to adequately cover this requirement. CES and BE response actions must be
     integrated for effective response. CES and BE maintain more detailed checklists and
     supporting documentation as needed to support the WCRP.
  8.3. Local Operation Instructions. Local operation instructions for water and wastewater
  systems must include operational monitoring for process control, sampling and testing
  procedures, emergency O&M, and regulatory compliance.
  8.4. Distribution System Inspection and Flushing. All Air Force water systems shall
  conduct distribution system inspections, hydrant flushing, and distribution piping flushing.
     8.4.1. Distribution System Inspection and Hydrant Flushing. Distribution system
     components such as fire hydrants and blow-off hydrants shall be inspected, preventative
     maintenance performed, and checked for proper operation at least semi-annually in
     accordance with UFC 3-601-02, O&M: Water Supply Systems, and fire-flow testing shall
     be conducted every five years in accordance with UFC 3-600-01, Design: Fire Protection
     Engineering for Facilities.
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                        13


      8.4.2. Distribution System Flushing. Flushing plans shall be developed to implement a
      systematic flushing program that meets the needs of the water and wastewater systems.
      Written procedures shall be developed and posted for all activities associated with system
      flushing. Use mechanical cleaning devices (swabs or pigs) if flushing does not achieve
      the desired water quality or flow requirements. Flushing plans shall include all mains 6
      inches and larger. Unidirectional flushing is more effective than traditional flushing
      methods to remove sediments, deposits, corrosion byproducts, biofilm, and other debris,
      so Air Force water systems shall develop unidirectional flushing plans and conduct
      unidirectional flushing. Additional information and guidance on unidirectional flushing is
      available from AFCEC/COS. The required frequency and method of flushing (routine or
      unidirectional) will be determined based on individual water system requirements.
      However, in no case shall any section of water main go longer than five years between
      unidirectional flushings. Consider integrating the distribution system flushing plan with
      the hydrant flow testing required by UFC 3-600-01. CES should coordinate with BE on
      the installation distribution system flushing program to ensure health concerns identified
      by BE are addressed.
   8.5. Water Conservation. Personnel health and welfare and the base mission require an
   adequate supply of potable water in the most efficient and cost-effective manner. Therefore,
   water conservation must be part of the water and wastewater system planning process.
   Follow conservation procedures given in Department of Energy (DOE) Supplemental
   Guidance to the Instructions for Implementing Executive Order 13423 “Strengthening
   Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management” Establishing Baseline
   and Meeting Water Conservation Goals of Executive Order 13423; Executive Order (E.O.)
   13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance; P.L.
   102-486, Energy Policy Act of 1992, P.L. 109-58, Energy Policy Act of 2005, and other
   innovative approaches to preserve water supplies and minimize wastewater discharge. Report
   both potable water and industrial, landscaping and agricultural (ILA) consumption in
   accordance with ETL 11-6, Utility Reporting for Air Force Facilities. All irrigation systems
   must comply with installation water management and conservation requirements in ETL 09-
   13. For use of gray, reclaimed, and recycled water, refer to ETL 08-10.
9. Training and Certification. Note: For installations located outside the U.S. and its
territories, see paragraph 3.
   9.1. Operator Training. New operators must receive classroom training and extensive,
   supervised, on-the-job training before being assigned to critical tasks. Experienced personnel
   must also receive technical refresher courses and upgrade training. Ensure all training
   courses are compliant with applicable federal, state and local regulation/requirements.
   Military personnel are not required specific operator training if the plant has the appropriate
   number of legally trained and certified operators overseeing operations. Training
   requirements may be met by one of the means described in paragraphs 9.1.1 through 9.1.3:
      9.1.1. Air Force training is available through technical schools, career development
      correspondence courses, and on-the-job training;
      9.1.2. Civilian training courses are available at educational institutions, government
      agencies, and professional and technical associations;
 14                                                                AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


       9.1.3. Complete correspondence courses from accredited institutions for operators in
       areas that do not have local resident courses.
   9.2. Operator Certification. The CWA and the SDWA establish certification requirements.
   These standards require operating personnel to comply with state and local operator
   certification requirements for water and wastewater treatment plant operations. Job
   descriptions shall require state certification or that the certification be obtained and
   maintained, as appropriate. The operator cannot commence water and wastewater treatment
   system operations until fully certified. Proper certification must be a condition of
   employment for new civilians.
   9.3. Association of Boards of Certification (ABC) Uniform Program for
   Reciprocity. Supervisors shall encourage operators anticipating transfer to another state to
   obtain an ABC Certificate of Registration and listing on the ABC Reciprocity Register. Many
   states recognize the ABC Certificate of Registration as evidence of qualification.
   Participating states will issue the operator a certificate for that state without a written
   examination or other long delays. Contact the base education office for more information
   about the ABC program in the Defense Activity for Nontraditional Educational Support
   (DANTES) Examination Program Handbook.
10. Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Hazards. Supervisors must ensure all
employees are familiar with safety instructions, as applicable, in UFC 3-230-02; AFI 91-203, Air
Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction; and AFI 48-145, Occupational and
Environmental Health Program. Supervisors must maintain BE occupational health risk
assessment reports and shall use the reports to train workers on occupational health hazards.
Supervisors must make safety instructions readily available to all operating personnel; train
facility personnel on safety procedures and equipment; and enforce their proper use at all times.
Once trained, individual workers and the environment must be protected and workers are
personally responsible for following safety procedures.
11. Logs, Records, and Drawings. Note: For installations located outside the U.S. and its
territories, see paragraph 3.
   11.1. Operating Logs.
       11.1.1. Log Preparation and Procedures.
           11.1.1.1. Prepare daily operating logs and laboratory records in compliance with
           applicable regulations and requirements of Air Force-prescribed forms, including
           required training records. Operating logs should record throughput (water/wastewater
           produced/treated), level of activity, and time. Operating data can be collected
           remotely or electronically and maintained directly in a database. If operating data is
           manually read and transcribed, it must be recorded in a bound, page-numbered
           journal in ink with any corrections or deletions lined out and initialed by the user.
           11.1.1.2. Next-generation software and asset management requirements may dictate
           the collection of additional operating data.
           11.1.1.3. The BCE may delegate final review and signature of operating logs to an
           appropriate engineer.
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                     15


        11.1.1.4. Dispose of operational records according to AFI 33-364, Records
        Disposition–Procedures and Responsibilities, unless state or federal environmental
        laws require longer retention or when unusual circumstances such as litigation dictate
        other retention requirements.
        11.1.1.5. Paragraph 4.3.12 requires that all water-related data that could pertain to
        water rights must be retained permanently and indexed.
     11.1.2. Water Treatment Logs. The Automated Civil Engineer System (ACES),
     electronic spreadsheets, commercial software, or other electronic formats that collect the
     same data as the forms in paragraphs 11.1.2.1 and 11.1.2.2 may be used in place of these
     Air Force forms. The use of EPA or state-mandated forms in place of these Air Force
     forms is authorized.
        11.1.2.1. AF Form 1460 and AF Form 1461. Operators at every installation must
        prepare AF Form 1461, Water Utility Operating Log (General). If the water requires
        more than minor treatment (more than chlorination), prepare AF Form 1460, Water
        Utility Operating Log (Supplemental).
        11.1.2.2. Daily Well and Pumping Station Activity Records. Maintaining daily
        operating records for wells and pumping stations is a necessary part of water supply
        systems O&M. The forms in paragraphs 11.1.2.2.1 and 11.1.2.2.2 are available for
        use.
            11.1.2.2.1. AF Form 997, Daily Well Activity Record. Use this form to record
            operational information about the well. This information helps when evaluating
            the performance of the well and pumping system. Records showing trends such as
            an increase in drawdown or decreased yield help to detect existing problems and
            prevent future ones.
            11.1.2.2.2. AF Form 998, Daily Pumping Station Activity Record–Water. Use
            this form to record pertinent operational information such as pumping times and
            rates. Entries on this record are good performance indicators.
     11.1.3. Wastewater Treatment Logs. Operators must prepare AF Form 1462, Water
     Pollution Control Utility Operating Log (General). The use of electronic databases or
     EPA and state-mandated forms in place of this Air Force form is authorized.
     11.1.4. Compliance Monitoring Reports. Federal, DOD, state, and local regulatory
     agencies require monitoring reports. Prepare and submit these reports according to
     agency instructions. Each facility shall establish local procedures for preparing,
     coordinating, reviewing, and approving logs and reports. Include procedures for
     wastewater treatment monitoring in the base wastewater instruction, where appropriate.
  11.2. Physical Facility Information. Develop, maintain, and keep available at the
  treatment facilities the information in paragraphs 11.2.1 through 11.2.5.
     11.2.1. O&M Manuals: Required plant-specific O&M manuals and applicable Air
     Force publications for each treatment system.
     11.2.2. Operating Instructions: System operating instructions with single-line
     drawings. Include operational and compliance monitoring procedures.
 16                                                                 AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


      11.2.3. Up-to-date System Drawings: Plans should include hydraulic water elevation
      profiles (where applicable) and drawings of the entire collection and distribution system.
      Updated drawing information is added into the base GIS as changes occur to the system.
      11.2.4. DD Forms: DD Form 2680, Military Water Well Completion Report; DD Form
      2679, Piping and Casing Log; and DD Form 2678, Well Driller's Log, are prescribed by
      AFMAN 32-1072_IP.
          11.2.4.1. Complete and keep a file for each well, beginning with initial construction.
          11.2.4.2. Update the information after completing a repair, redeveloping a well, or
          conducting a performance test.
          11.2.4.3. Properly licensed personnel may be needed to construct new wells or
          modify existing wells in accordance with state and local regulations.
      11.2.5. Retain shop drawings, catalogue cuts, and any other equipment information.
   11.3. Maintenance Records. Develop and maintain effective maintenance plans, including:
      11.3.1. A recurring work schedule.
      11.3.2. A maintenance history for each major piece of equipment.
      11.3.3. An essential spare parts list. (Stock essential spare parts at the treatment facility
      or other accessible location.)
      11.3.4. A long-range maintenance and improvement plan.
      11.3.5. Service outage logs. Retain, at the minimum, time/date of incident, description of
      incident, location of incident, impact of incident, description of repairs, and time/date of
      restoration of service.
12. Safeguarding Water Against Contamination.
   12.1. Dual Water Supply Systems. Bases can have dual water supply systems for potable
   and non-potable water if:
      12.1.1. CES can establish and maintain a clearly defined separation of the two systems
      so that non-potable water cannot contaminate the potable water system. Non-potable
      water systems will be clearly delineated, following industry standards for marking and
      labeling (e.g., a purple pipe system).
      12.1.2. The systems have approved backflow prevention devices to prevent
      contamination of potable water.
      12.1.3. The non-potable systems comply with the provisions of ETL 08-10 and
      applicable state and local regulations.
      12.1.4. Cross-connection surveys are regularly completed to ensure the separate integrity
      of the dual system. See AFI 32-1066 for frequency.
   12.2. Water Vulnerability Assessments (WVA). CES personnel shall assist BE to conduct
   WVAs in accordance with AFI 10-246.
   12.3. Water System Lead Content. All new installations or repairs to public DW systems
   require the use of lead-free flux and solder, pipes, and pipe fittings as defined by the SDWA.
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                        17


13. Cooperating with Regulatory Authorities on Water Compliance.
   13.1. Executive Agent for Federal Enforcement. E.O. 12088, Federal Compliance with
   Pollution Control Standards, requires federal agencies to comply with all federal, state, and
   local pollution control requirements. This includes the payment of reasonable service
   charges, if applicable. The CWA and SDWA apply to DOD agencies in accordance with the
   provisions contained in each respective statute indicating applicability to federal agencies.
   13.2. Bases Outside the U. S. and its Territories. Commands, bases, and/or units located
   outside the U.S. and its territories must cooperate with foreign regulatory agencies consistent
   with the country-specific status of forces agreement (SOFA) and FGS or OEBGD.
   13.3. Cooperation Requirements. Wing commanders must cooperate with regulatory
   authorities to meet applicable treatment and DW quality standards, and prevent pollution of
   surface or underground water by wastewater and waste from Air Force installations.
   13.4. Regulator Access to Facilities. Agency representatives may inspect treatment
   facilities, examine facility operating records, and test as necessary to verify compliance with
   water quality standards. The BCE must permit authorized representatives of a regulatory
   authority access to treatment facilities without prior notice if the entry is consistent with
   security requirements and at a reasonable time.
   13.5. Inspection. The guidelines in paragraphs 13.5.1 through 13.5.5 apply to regulatory
   inspections.
      13.5.1. Technical representatives (environmental representative of installation
      management and plant operator of operation flight) of the BCE must accompany
      inspectors. Encourage agencies to coordinate visits in advance to allow proper
      representation and security clearances.
      13.5.2. Make operating logs and reports available for inspector review and provide
      copies, if requested.
      13.5.3. Request a preliminary copy of the inspection report or checklist at the end of the
      visit. If the inspector collects any water samples, request split samples to verify
      inspection test results.
      13.5.4. Comply with AFPD 32-70, which requires reporting notices of violation and
      noncompliance, and AFI 32-7047, which identifies compliance tracking and reporting
      requirements.
      13.5.5. Do not make any major operational changes based on the informal request of a
      federal, state, or regional regulatory official without approval of the MAJCOM
      commander (MAJCOM/CC) (or delegated authority).
   13.6. Release of Information. The BCE must submit discharge-monitoring reports
   according to permit instructions. In accordance with AFI 32-7047 Environmental
   Compliance, Release, And Inspection Reporting, BCE will promptly report any
   noncompliance in coordination with environmental representative of installation management
   flight and BE to the appropriate regulatory authority. The BCE shall send plans and
   specifications for any new or modified water supply or treatment facility or proposed
   pollution abatement facility to the appropriate regulatory agency, as required. This is usually
   a pre-construction requirement under initial facility permitting procedures. See AFI 32-7047
 18                                                                AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


   for detailed requirements. The BE releases an annual drinking water consumer confidence
   report; for more information see AFI 48-144.
14. Point-of-Entry (POE) and Point-of-Use (POU) Treatment Devices.
   14.1. Types of Devices. POE and POU devices are used for treating primary, secondary,
   and aesthetic water quality parameters. Typically, POE devices are installed on a main
   supply pipe or pipes within a facility to treat all or a portion of the potable water supply.
   POU devices are typically installed on single or multiple taps to treat potable water intended
   for direct consumption.
   14.2. Authorization for Use. POU and POE devices may be used only when other means
   of achieving compliance are not feasible. The use of POE and POU devices may be
   authorized to assist in achieving compliance with National Primary Drinking Water
   Regulations (NPDWR) maximum contaminant level (MCL), applicable state standards, and
   host nation limits. POE or POU devices shall not be installed on non-potable water systems
   with microbial, radiological, or chemical contamination for the sole purpose of producing
   potable water. POU and POE devices may also be authorized to assist in achieving secondary
   standard compliance and for addressing aesthetic problems. POUs and POEs shall be used
   only as a temporary measure to reach compliance until a permanent solution can be
   implemented. POE and POU devices used for meeting health-based standards must be
   owned, installed, and maintained by the water system operator




                                            Judith A. Fedder, Lt General, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                   19


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
40 CFR 141.2, Definitions
AFI 10-246, Food and Water Protection Program, 4 December 2004
AFI 32-1054, Corrosion Control, 1 March 2000
AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to U.S. Air Force Installations, 23 February 2011
AFI 32-1066, Backflow Prevention Program, 8 October 2007
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, 4 November 2011
AFI 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance, 10 December 2003
AFI 32-7047, Environmental Compliance, Release, and Inspection Reporting, 15 February 2012
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFI 48-144, Drinking Water Surveillance Program, 28 September 2010
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, 15 September 2011
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFMAN 32-1072_IP, Water-Well Drilling Operations, 1 December 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 32-1004V5, Working in the Operations Flight Infrastructure Support, 1 September
1998
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
AWWA C0296, Modeling, Analysis and Design of Water Distribution Systems
AWWA Effective Utility Management, A Primer for Water and Wastewater Utilities,
http://www.awwa.org/files/Resources/EffectiveUtilityManagement4color.pdf
AWWA Manual M32, Computer Modeling of Water Distribution Systems, 2005
AWWA Standard C651-05, Disinfecting Water Mains, 2005
AWWA Standard C652-02, Disinfection of Water Storage Facilities, 2002
AWWA Standard C654-03, Disinfection of Wells, 2003
DANTES Examination Program Handbook, 1 October 2010
DOD 4715.05-G, Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document, 1 May 2007
DODI 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations, 22 April
1996
 20                                                                AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


DOE Supplemental Guidance to the Instructions for Implementing Executive Order 13423
“Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management” Establishing
Baseline and Meeting Water Conservation Goals of Executive Order 13423, January 2008
E.O. 12088, Federal Compliance with Pollution Control Standards, 13 October 1978
E.O. 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance, 5
October 2009
ETL 08-10, Alternative Water Sources – Use of Non-Potable Water, 10 July 2008
ETL 09-13, Irrigation of Installation Turfgrass and Landscaping, 23 October 2009
ETL 11-6, Utilities Reporting for Air Force Facilities, 21 June 2011
ETL 12-1, Recommendations for Incorporating Water System Emergency Response Plan (ERP)
Requirements, 13 January 2012
P.L. 93-205, Endangered Species Act, 28 December 1973
P.L. 93-523, Safe Drinking Water Act, 16 December 1974
P.L. 95-217, Clean Water Act, 18 October 1972
P.L. 102-486, Energy Policy Act of 1992, 24 October 1992
P.L. 109-58, Energy Policy Act of 2005, 8 August 2005
SFIM-AEC-EQ-CR-200010, Multiservice Oil/Water Separator Guidance Manual, 11 June 1999
UFC 3-130-05, Utilities - Arctic and Subarctic Construction, 16 January 2004
UFC 3-230-01, Water Storage, Distribution, and Transmission, 1 November 2012
UFC 3-230-02, O&M: Water Supply Systems, 10 July 2001
UFC 3-230-03, Water Treatment, 1 November 2012
UFC 3-240-01, Wastewater Collection, 1 November 2012
UFC 3-240-02, Domestic Wastewater Treatment, 1 November 2012
UFC 3-240-03N (MIL-HDBK-1138), Wastewater Treatment System Operation and
Maintenance Augmenting Handbook, 16 January 2004
UFC 3-240-13FN, Industrial Water Treatment Operation and Maintenance, 16 January 2004
UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 26 September 2006
UFC 3-601-02, Operation and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, And Maintenance of Fire
Protection Systems, 8 September 2010
UFC 4-020-01, DOD Security Engineering Facilities Planning Manual, 11 September 2008
UFC 4-020-02FA, Security Engineering: Concept Design, 1 March 2005
UFC 4-020-03FA, Security Engineering: Final Design, 1 March 2005
UFGS 33 12 33.00 30, Water Meters, August 2008
Uniform Plumbing Code, 2012
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                21


Linear Infrastructure Playbook
https://cs.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/OPS/LI/default.aspx
Utilities Privatization Playbook,
https://cs.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/AM/AO/Energy/UP/Pages/default.aspx
Water Program Management Playbook,
https://cs.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/AM/EM/WPM/Pages/default.aspxx


Prescribed Forms
AF Form 997, Daily Well Activity Record
AF Form 998, Daily Pumping Station Activity Record – Water
AF Form 1460, Water Utility Operating Log (Supplemental)
AF Form 1461, Water Utility Operating Log (General)
AF Form 1462, Water Pollution Control Utility Operating Log (General)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2678, Well Driller's Log
DD Form 2679, Piping and Casing Log
DD Form 2680, Military Water Well Completion Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABC—Association of Boards of Certification
ACES—Automated Civil Engineer System
AF/A7C—The Air Force Civil Engineer
AF—Air Force (as used on forms)
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center
AFCEC/CNU—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Energy Directorate, Utilities Privatization
Division
AFCEC/CO—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Operations Directorate
AFCEC/COS—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Operations Directorate, Engineer Division
AFCEC/CZ—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Environmental Center of Excellence
AFERS—Air Force Energy Reporting System
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
 22                                                         AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


AFPAM—Air Force pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AMP—activity management plan
ANG—Air National Guard
ATO—antiterrorism officer
AWWA—American Water Works Association
BCE—base civil engineer
BE—bioenvironmental engineering
BEE—bioenvironmental engineer
BRAC—base realignment and closure
CCTV—closed-circuit television
CE—civil engineer
CEI—civil engineer, installation management flight
CEO—civil engineer, operations flight
CES—civil engineer squadron
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CWA—Clean Water Act
CWS—community water system
DANTES—Defense Activity for Nontraditional Educational Support
DD—Department of Defense (as used on forms)
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOE—Department of Energy
DW—drinking water
E.O.—Executive Order
EPA—United States Environmental Protection Agency
ETL—Engineering Technical Letter
FGS—Final Governing Standards
FOTW—federally owned treatment works
GIS—Geographic Information System
I/I—inflow/infiltration
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                          23


ILA—industrial, landscaping, agricultural
MAJCOM/CC—major command commander
MAJCOM—major command
MCL—maximum contaminant level
MIL—HDBK—Military Handbook
NPDES—National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
NPDWR—National Primary Drinking Water Regulations
NTNCWS—non-transient non-community water system
O&M—operations and maintenance
OEA—open enforcement action
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
OMTAP—Operations, Maintenance, and Training Assistance Program
OPR—office of primary responsibility
P.L.—Public Law
POC—point of contact
POE—point-of-entry device
POTW—publicly owned treatment works
POU—point-of-use device
ppm—parts per million
PWS—public water system
RDS—records disposition schedule
SAM—sampling, analysis, and monitoring
SCADA—supervisory control and data acquisition
SDWA—Safe Drinking Water Act
SG—surgeon general
SOFA—status of forces agreement
TNCWS—transient non-community water system
U.S.—United States
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
UFGS—Unified Facilities Guide Specification
UIC—underground injection control
ULFSC—Utility Field Support Center
 24                                                            AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


UP—utilities privatization
USAF/A7C—Headquarters, Air Force Civil Engineer
USAF/A7CO—Headquarters, Air Force Civil Engineer, Operations Division
USAF/SG—Headquarters, United States Air Force Surgeon General
USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
USAF—United States Air Force
WCRP—water contingency response plan
WSHM—water system hydraulic model
WVA—water vulnerability assessment

Terms
Aesthetic—Taste, color, and odor of drinking water.
Primary—Primary drinking water contaminants regulated by the Safe Drinking Water Act.
Secondary—Secondary drinking water contaminants listed in the Safe Drinking Water Act.
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                         25


                                         Attachment 2
       IMPLEMENTING INSTRUCTIONS FOR AIR FORCE WATER RIGHTS
               DOCUMENTATION AND DATA RETENTION

A2.1. Implementation. Implementation requires all installations to complete the following
three actions required by paragraph 4.3.12:
   A2.1.1. Systematically locate and retain existing water rights documentation and data as
   described in paragraph A2.4;
   A2.1.2. Create an index listing each record located, where it is being retained, and the point
   of contact (POC) for each record (Table A2.1);
   A2.1.3. Maintain this index in the installation CE Real Property office, with copies provided
   to the installation legal office. This index will serve as the official record of water rights
   information for the base.
A2.2. Points of Contact (POC).
   A2.2.1. Form an informal or formal working group with members who will maintain water
   rights records (e.g., CES operations flight, CES installation management flight [asset
   accountability], CES engineering flight, BE, historian, contracting, legal) to set out the
   course for this effort and assist with completing their portions of the index.
   A2.2.2. The index is designed to be maintained as a spreadsheet, but the installation can use
   whatever suits their purpose as long as equivalent information is maintained. (At some point,
   future data management systems will allow for inclusion of water rights information.)
A2.3. Process.
   A2.3.1. Use your organization’s file plan to label Water Rights Records, making sure it is
   designated for permanent retention (Retire as permanent). Follow the procedures for
   establishing permanent records as explained in AFI 33-322, Records Management Program,
   AFMAN 33-363, and AFI 33-364.
   A2.3.2. Include a statement in the file plan and on the file equivalent to, “This data is
   indexed as Water Rights Records. All activities and inquiries related to the disposition or use
   of this data must be referred to the base legal office.”
   A2.3.3. The POC should maintain a working copy of the index for updating.
A2.4. Retention of Water Rights Documentation and Data.
   A2.4.1. Locate and retain the following documentation and data for each Air Force
   installation. While intended to be comprehensive, collecting the information below may not
   cover all necessary records. It is expected that data collection will not just be limited to the
   data described below but will involve the collection of additional data.
   A2.4.2. Whenever possible, the original documents should be preserved. If original
   documents are not available or are in poor condition, clean copies are acceptable.
   Organizations should also locate and retain documentation and data from the earliest
   available date or timeframe, from the time the Air Force installation was established as a
   military facility up to the present, or as far back as historical records are available. To help
    26                                                                            AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013


      assist installations to locate these documents, the base CE organization(s) likely to have the
      information are shown below, italicized in brackets. In some cases, the documentation may
      be located in organizations outside the CE organization, such as the base history office, legal
      office, and/or BE office. Questions from CE offices about specific documentation and data to
      locate and retain should be directed to the installation legal office.
         A2.4.2.1. If Installation Purchases Water: Documents showing the name(s) of the water
         provider(s), and what percentage of water demand is met by the purchased water
         [Operations].
         A2.4.2.2. If Installation Supplies Own Water:
             A2.4.2.2.1. Real property documents showing how the installation was acquired,
             including E.O.’s, withdrawal legislation, public land orders, purchase agreements,
             deeds, condemnation, gifts, and the date(s) of acquisition [Installation Management].
             A2.4.2.2.2. Documents showing the names and locations of each diversion structure1
             (e.g., well #1), the source of the water, depth of each well, and what percentage (or
             range) of the water demand has been historically met by this water supply
             [Operations, Programs].
             A2.4.2.2.3. Documents listing the priority date, if any has been assigned by the state
             or local water authority, of each diversion structure, and the stated basis for that date
             [Operations, Engineering, Installation Management].
             A2.4.2.2.4. Documents that demonstrate current and historical water usage on the
             installation, such as water logs and meter records, diaries from infrastructure
             managers, and water purchase contracts. Specify the maximum diversion rate, in
             cubic feet per second or acre-feet [Operations].
             A2.4.2.2.5. Documents pertaining to the establishment of water sources, including
             well drilling/construction information, well maintenance records, and installation
             maps with water wells plotted. [Operations, Engineering, Installation Management].
             A2.4.2.2.6. Documents that show major uses of water at the installation (e.g.,
             municipal, irrigation, training, recreational, industrial, fire-fighting, habitat
             enhancement), as well as documents showing anticipated future uses of water
             [Operations].
             A2.4.2.2.7. Water consumption/withdrawal permits (including all closed and
             pending), and applications for permits and certificates. [Installation Management,
             Operations].
             A2.4.2.2.8. Documents of water being sold or supplied to others, including any
             Memorandums of Understanding. Identify each user as DOD, non-federal entities
             (e.g., credit unions or restaurants), or an off-base user [Operations, Engineering,
             Installation Management].
             A2.4.2.2.9. Regulatory reporting documents to the state, including annual reports
             pursuant to SDWA community water system reporting [Installation Management].

1
 Diversion is taking water from its natural course or from an aquifer for conveyance to a place of use. A diversion
usually takes the form of a well, dam, or ditch.
AFI32-1067 3 APRIL 2013                                                                        27


               A2.4.2.2.10. Environmental reports which studied or contains information on the
               installation’s hydrology [Installation Management].
               A2.4.2.2.11. Documents showing any CWA, SDWA, or Endangered Species Act
               (P.L. 93-205) issues which may affect or constrain water supply at the installation
               [Installation Management].
               A2.4.2.2.12. Any other available records, documentation, or data relating to water
               use, water rights, or the installation’s access to water resources.
               A2.4.2.2.13. Documents showing any other issues which may affect the installation’s
               ability to maintain an adequate water supply.
        A2.4.2.3. If Installation Recycles Water for Re-Use: Documents that show the volume of
        recycled water used, as well as what the recycled water is used for (e.g., municipal,
        irrigation, training, recreational, industrial, fire-fighting, habitat enhancement)
        [Operations].

Table A2.1. Index of Retained Water Rights Documentation and Data.

Installation:
Date:
Document         Location on Base                                                       Table
                                        POC, Organization,
(including       Where Document is                              File Title              and Rule
                                        Contact Information
year)            Retained                                                               #
e.g., Public
Land Order                                                      Reports of Soil and
No. XX-                                 John Public, A7C Real   Water Consolidated      T 32 - 38
XX, 1939         Bldg 100, Room C       Estate, DSN:555-1234    Reports                 R 04.00
