BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2824
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                        14 APRIL 2009
                                                                                              Personnel

                                                               ORDER OF THE SWORD PROGRAMS



                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                          publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/CCC                                       Certified by: AF/CCC (CMSAF Rodney J. McKinley)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decoration
Programs. This instruction formally establishes Air Force and Major Air Command (MAJCOM) Order
of the Sword Program. The term “MAJCOM” used throughout this instruction refers equally to Air
Force Field Operating Agencies (FOA) and Direct Reporting Units (DRU). This instruction applies to
all Air Force personnel including the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

1. Introduction.
   1.1. Objective. The Order of the Sword was established by the Air Force enlisted force to recognize
   and honor military senior officers, colonel or above, and civilian equivalents, for conspicuous and
   significant contributions to the welfare and prestige of the Air Force enlisted force, mission
   effectiveness as well as the overall military establishment. This honor should be bestowed at a time
   the enlisted force deems appropriate, based upon the eligible nominees contributions to the enlisted
   force, and should not be considered a part of the retirement process. Every action of the Order of the
   Sword must be conducted in a way that ensures the dignity, respect and honor in which the enlisted
   force has placed upon this distinguished recognition. The participants and audience for Order of the
   Sword ceremonies should primarily be enlisted members. Exceptions to this policy will be on a
   case-by-case basis and approved by the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (CMSAF).
   Individuals recognized and formally inducted into a Major Command (MAJCOM) Order of the
   Sword are as a general rule, ineligible for award of another sword.
 2                                                                        AFI36-2824     14 APRIL 2009


     1.2. Historical background. The Order of the Sword is patterned after two orders of chivalry
     founded during the Middle Ages. In 1522, King Gustavus the First of Sweden enjoined the
     noblemen commissioned by him to appoint officers to serve him. Those appointed were the
     accountants, builders, craftsmen, teachers, scribes, and others responsible for conducting the
     ordinary daily affairs of the kingdom. The system worked so well it was incorporated into the
     Swedish Army as a way to establish and maintain a cohesive, disciplined, well-trained force for
     protection of lives and property in the kingdom. These NCOs would honor their leader and pledge
     their loyalty by ceremoniously presenting him with a sword. The sword, a symbol of truth, justice,
     and power rightfully used, served as a token for all to see and know that here was a “leader among
     leaders”. This ceremony became known as the “Royal Order of the Sword.” It was passed through
     the ages, coming to America about the time of the Revolutionary War. The practice of awarding a
     sword lay dormant for many years. The only known instance of its use was in the 1860s when
     General Robert E. Lee was presented a sword by his command. The “Royal Order of the Sword”
     ceremony was revised, updated, and adopted by the NCOs of the United States Air Force in 1967.
     The Order of the Sword is the highest honor and tribute the enlisted corps can bestow upon an
     individual.
     1.3. Ceremonial Master Sword. The CMSAF serves as keeper of the Air Force Master Sword. The
     Master Sword, emblematic of the Order of the Sword, is displayed at Headquarters United States Air
     Force. Each MAJCOM maintains its own Master Sword displayed appropriately at the MAJCOM
     headquarters, with the MAJCOM Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCM) serving as keeper of the
     command’s Master Sword. The Air Force and MAJCOM Master Swords also represent a permanent
     record of Order of the Sword recipients. Each time a person is inducted into the Order of the Sword,
     appropriate recognition of the event should be displayed on or nearby the sword display. Normally
     an individual metal plate with the honoree’s grade, first name, middle initial, last name, title, and
     date of induction is inscribed and affixed to the appropriate Master Sword display in chronological
     order.
     1.4. Master Order of the Sword Listing. The CMSAF maintains a master listing of all recipients of
     the Air Force Order of the Sword, as well as the MAJCOM Order of the Sword. MAJCOM CCMs
     maintain master listings of all recipients of the MAJCOM Order of the Sword.
2. Approved Swords.
     2.1. Air Force Sword. The Air Force Sword is reserved for those deserving senior leaders who
     serve outside the MAJCOM structure.
     2.2. MAJCOM Sword. MAJCOM CCMs maintain the MAJCOM Swords and ensure, they are
     reserved for those deserving senior leaders who serve or have served within the awarding
     MAJCOM.
     2.3. Retiring a Sword. All authorized swords are considered unit memorabilia in accordance (IAW)
     AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage Program. Therefore, upon the inactivation of a MAJCOM the
     MAJCOM CCM ensures the command’s sword is transferred to USAFM/MUC using the guidance
     found in AFI 84-103, paragraph 6.2.4.2
     2.4. Reactivating a Sword. When a MAJCOM is reactivated, or its lineage transferred to another
     organization, the MAJCOM CCM of the reactivated command or command receiving the lineage of
     the inactivated MAJCOM sends a request, including a fund cite, to USAFM/MUC for return of the
     MAJCOM sword.
AFI36-2824 14 APRIL 2009                                                                              3


3. Nomination and Selection Procedures.
   3.1. Air Force Order of the Sword Executive Committee. The committee serves as executive agent
   and is responsible for the development of guidelines, nomination procedures, approval or
   disapproval of any nominations submitted, and protocol of the induction ceremony. This committee
   is chaired by the CMSAF. Committee members include the command chiefs from: ACC, AETC,
   AFDW, AFGSC, AFMC, AFOSI, AFRC, AFSOC, AFSPC, AMC, ANG, PACAF, USAFA and
   USAFE.
      3.1.1. Nomination Procedures: Only an AF enlisted member (must be an NCO or group of
      NCOs) may nominate any eligible individual, meeting the criteria established in paragraph 1.1
      for the Air Force Order of the Sword. The nomination package must consist of three documents:
      a cover letter, brief justification, and biography of nominee.
      3.1.2. Cover Letter. The cover letter identifies the nominee and is addressed to the Office of the
      Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force, through the nominator’s organization or to the
      MAJCOM CCM, as appropriate. The person submitting the nomination, or the group
      representative when an organization sponsors a nomination, signs the letter.
      3.1.3. Brief Justification. Submit justification in bullet format on AF Form 1206, Nomination
      for Award, and limited to two pages (front and back of the AF Form 1206). The justification
      should state specific facts as to why the nominee is considered worthy of the award and should
      concentrate on the nominee’s contributions to the welfare, advancement, and leadership of the
      enlisted force.
      3.1.4. Biographical Sketch. Include a copy of the nominee’s biography.
      3.1.5. Indorsement and Routing for Air Force Order of the Sword. The MAJCOM CCM who
      initially receives the nomination must concur or nonconcur by indorsing the cover letter and
      forwarding the nomination package to the CMSAF who serves as the single focal point for the
      Air Force Order of the Sword nomination and selection process. The CMSAF will send a copy
      of the nomination package to each committee member who will have 15 days to respond. In
      situations where the CMSAF is the nominating official, he/she will forward the nomination
      package directly to the Executive Committee. Executive Committee members indorse the cover
      letter by indicating whether they concur or nonconcur with the nomination, then return the
      package to the CMSAF.
      3.1.6. Each committee member votes on behalf of the enlisted members he/she represents and
      may consult, as necessary, with selected enlisted members of his/her command. All such
      discussions must remain strictly confidential.
      3.1.7. All correspondence referencing voting must remain between the individual committee
      members and the CMSAF. Committee members vote on behalf of the enlisted members they
      represent and should in no way influence another committee member’s vote. Votes are strictly
      between an individual committee member and the CMSAF.
      3.1.8. Consensus. A two-thirds majority vote of the Executive Committee is required for
      approval. The nomination and selection process is strictly confidential and not discussed,
      except when a committee member needs additional information. Disapproved nominations can
      be resubmitted with additional justification following a period of two years after initial
      submission or when the nominee departs his/her current position, whichever is later.
 4                                                                        AFI36-2824     14 APRIL 2009


        3.1.9. Notification. Once all committee members respond to a nomination, the CMSAF notifies
        the nominating NCO/group of NCOs of the decision by letter. Following all approved
        nominations, the CMSAF makes the initial notification to the nominated individual of his/her
        selection to receive the Air Force Order of the Sword. MAJCOM CCMs have oversight of the
        initial notification process within their respective commands.
        3.1.10. Planning. The CMSAF will maintain an Air Force Order of the Sword Continuity Folder
        containing samples of all documents and materials used in a prospective Order of the Sword
        ceremony. The CMSAF coordinates and publishes the date and location of the Air Force Order
        of the Sword Induction Ceremony. A minimum of 6 months time is normally required to plan
        and conduct the ceremony.
     3.2. MAJCOM Sword. Each MAJCOM may supplement this AFI outlining specific command
     guidance. The command guidance should parallel this AFI with regard to guidelines and nomination
     procedures. The approval process for all MAJCOM nominations for the Order of the Sword rests
     with the MAJCOM CCM, with final approval by the Office of the CMSAF.
     3.3. MAJCOM CCMs essentially carry out the same responsibilities for the Command Sword as the
     CMSAF does for the Air Force Sword. NAF and/or Wing CCMs assigned to the MAJCOM
     typically makeup the MAJCOM Order of the Sword Committee, with the MAJCOM CCM serving
     as chair. These guidelines should be spelled out within the MAJCOM supplement to this AFI.
4. Invitations - Air Force and MAJCOM Swords.
     4.1. Inductee. The inductee’s invitation is imprinted and encased in a rich woodgrain container
     lined with ultramarine blue velvet. The invitation is affixed to the velvet and centered on the right
     side of the container. The Air Force or MAJCOM crest, as appropriate, is superimposed on crossed
     swords and centered on the left side. The CMSAF (or MAJCOM CCM) arranges an appropriate
     time and place to formally present the honoree’s invitation and request the honoree’s presence at the
     induction ceremony. Honorees should have no prior knowledge of their induction nomination or
     approval.
     4.2. Special Guests of the Inductee. The induction committee works with the inductee to invite a
     limited number of special guests (not to exceed 10); these individuals may be officers, enlisted, or
     civilians. The inductee’s spouse is invited by the committee and does not count against the special
     guest list. Family members, other than the spouse, will count as special guests.
     4.3. Protocol Invitees. All Air Force Order of the Sword Executive Committee members receive an
     invitation and participate in conducting the ceremony as described by the CMSAF. For a MAJCOM
     Sword, all MAJCOM Order of the Sword Committee members receive an invitation and participate
     in conducting the ceremony as described by the MAJCOM CCM. All former CMSAFs receive an
     invitation to the Air Force Order of the Sword Ceremony, and the current and former CMSAFs all
     receive an invitation to a MAJCOM Order of the Sword Ceremony.
     4.4. Other Guests. The CMSAF determines the remaining guest list for an Air Force Sword, and the
     MAJCOM CCM does the same for a Command Sword. Other guests are limited to enlisted
     members of the Armed Forces--active, reserve component, or retired.
5. Ceremony Preparation - Air Force and MAJCOM Swords.
     5.1. Ceremony Committee: The CMSAF will select a chairperson to conduct the affairs of the Air
     Force Order of the Sword Ceremony preparation. MAJCOM CCMs carry out the same
     responsibilities for a Command Sword. The chairperson will ensure the committee is adequately
AFI36-2824 14 APRIL 2009                                                                              5


  staffed to address items such as the invitations, gifts, music, script, decorations,
  photography/videography, spotlight or special lighting, room set-up (arrangement of tables), tear-
  down, welcome/departure cordon, escorts for distinguished guests, programs, transportation for the
  honoree and spouse, billeting for out-of-town guests, and publicity. The chairperson will ensure the
  appropriate ceremony rehearsals are conducted, to include key personnel attendance at the final
  practice. Periodically, the chairperson will provide an in-progress brief to the CMSAF or to the
  MAJCOM CCMs for a Command Sword. Following the ceremony, the chairperson will conduct a
  “hot wash” to capture the lessons learned and ensure the lessons learned are placed in the CMSAF
  Order of the Sword Continuity book.
  5.2. Publicity. When an Air Force Order of the Sword ceremony is scheduled, the CMSAF, through
  the ceremony committee, arranges appropriate media coverage through Air Force Public Affairs.
  The news release should include the facts of the presentation, the nature of the award, and
  biographical data of the recipient. The CMSAF also arranges for video documentation of the
  induction ceremony and sends completed copies to the honoree, each Executive Committee member,
  and the Air Force Office of History for permanent file. MAJCOM CCMs carry out the same
  responsibilities for a Command Sword. In addition, the MAJCOM CCM conducting a Command
  Sword Ceremony also provides two 8” X 10” color photos of the recipient, and two copies of the
  recipient’s official biography, to the CMSAF for historical files.
  5.3. Funds. It is recommended that organizations establish and maintain a private organizational
  account available for costs incident to the ceremony. Each MAJCOM CCM with an approved
  Command Sword should maintain a private organizational account for the same reasons. Costs
  include funds for invitations; place cards; programs and mementos for attendees; the framed
  personal sword, scroll, citation, and proclamation; the banquet dinner; and gifts presented to the
  inductee and spouse. Enlisted members of the Air Force, or MAJCOM in the case of a Command
  Sword, fund all expenses incident to the ceremony from their own resources. For an Air Force
  Sword, costs are usually equally distributed across the MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs. For a
  Command Sword, a field unit with an approved honoree usually takes responsibility for the largest
  share of the total funds required.
  5.4. Dress for the induction ceremony is appropriate mess dress or semiformal dress uniform for all
  military personnel--active, reserve component, or retired. Formal attire is appropriate for civilians.
  5.5. Ceremony Participants.
     5.5.1. Chief Master Sergeant of the Mess (CMSAF - AF Sword; MAJCOM CCM - Command
     Sword)
     5.5.2. First Sergeant (MAJCOM CCM for AF Sword; NAF/Wing CCM for Command Sword)
     5.5.3. Duty Sergeant (MAJCOM CCM for AF Sword; NAF/Wing CCM for Command Sword)
     5.5.4. Chaplain
     5.5.5. Sergeant at Arms
     5.5.6. Honor Guard Commander
     5.5.7. Honor Guard Members
     5.5.8. Guardian of the Sword
     5.5.9. Keepers of the Master Sword
     5.5.10. Keepers of the Scroll
 6                                                                        AFI36-2824     14 APRIL 2009


        5.5.11. Air Force or Command Band (as appropriate)
     5.6. The following items are mandatory presentations during all Order of the Sword induction
     ceremonies:
        5.6.1. Personal Sword. A symbolic sword mounted on red velvet (the traditional color
        representative of the enlisted force) under glass in a wooden shadow box.
        5.6.2. Scroll. A scroll mounted on ultramarine blue velvet under glass in a wooden shadow box.
        The scroll is signed by enlisted members upon arriving for the Order of the Sword Induction
        Ceremony.
        5.6.3. Proclamation. A proclamation mounted on ultramarine blue velvet under glass in a
        wooden shadow box. It reflects the titles and signatures of the Air Force or MAJCOM Order of
        the Sword Committee members, as appropriate.
        5.6.4. Citation. The citation mounted on ultramarine blue velvet under glass in a wooden
        shadow box. It is signed by the Chief Master Sergeant of the Mess.
     5.7. The following items are optional presentations during the induction ceremony: personal gift to
     honoree and spouse, wine glasses, and photo album.
6. Information Collection, Records, and Forms:
     6.1. Information Collections. AF Form 1206 Nomination for Award.
     6.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication
     are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS
     RDS located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.
     6.3. Adopted and Prescribed Forms.
        6.3.1. Adopted Forms.
                AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
                AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award
        6.3.2. Prescribed Forms. No prescribed forms for this publication.




                                              RICHARD Y. NEWTON III
                                              Lt Gen, USAF
                                              DCS, Manpower & Personnel
AFI36-2824 14 APRIL 2009                                         7


                                          Attachment 1
             GLOSARRY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage Program, 27 October 2004
AFMAN 33-363,Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFRIMS RDS, https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFGSC—Global Strike Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CCM—Command Chief Master Sergeant
CMSAF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
PACAF—Pacific Air Force
USAFA—Unites States Air Force Academy
USAFE—United States Air Forces Europe
