BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2132
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                23 MARCH 2012

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                  FULL-TIME SUPPORT (FTS) TO THE AIR
                                                                     FORCE RESERVE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering via the
               e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on the release of this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/REP                                                      Certified by: HQ USAF/RE
                                                                  (Lt Gen Charles E. Stenner, Jr.)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2132, 17 April 2005                                              Pages: 22


This instruction implements AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military
Personnel, Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the
Reserve Components. It applies to personnel serving or involved in any capacity with support of
personnel in FTS of the Air Force Reserve (AFR) mission and including personnel throughout
the Air Force Reserve. This instruction assigns responsibilities, establishes policy and
procedures, and identifies applicable Air Force directives for administering the provisions of
FTS. It ensures all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records        Disposition        Schedule      (RDS)         located      at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions regarding this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to AF/RE, 1150 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1150.

The Privacy Act of 1974 applies. The authority to collect and maintain the data prescribed in this
Air Force Instruction (AFI) is Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.), § 8013. System of Records
Notice Numbers, F036 HQ AFPC C, Military Personnel Records System and F036 HQ AFPC Q,
Personnel Data System (PDS), apply. Process proposed supplements to this AFI as outlined in
AFI 33-360, Publications Management Program.
 2                                                                                              AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect changes in guidance and procedures with the Air Force
Reserve Full-Time Support Program. The major changes include updated title and inclusion of
all the categories of FTS personnel utilized by AFR as previous AFI referenced Active Guard
and Reserve (AGR) program only. The updated AFI contains guidance that applies to all
categories of AFR FTS programs and Volumes 1 and 2 provide specific details about each of the
categories — Air Reserve Technician (ART), and AGR respectively. This first part of the AFI
includes functional roles and responsibilities, general policies and procedures, Liaison Officer
(LNO) and Reserve Advisor (RA) roles, and procedures for managing all categories of AFR FTS
personnel.

Chapter 1—RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FULL-TIME SUPPORT PROGRAM                                                                                 3
       1.1.   Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    3
       1.2.   Functional Responsibilities. ...................................................................................               3

Chapter 2—GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES                                                                                                    5
       2.1.   General Information. ..............................................................................................            5
       2.2.   Equal Opportunity. .................................................................................................           5
       2.3.   Determining the status requirement of FTS positions. ..........................................                                5
       2.4.   Exceptions to Status Determinations. ....................................................................                      7
       2.5.   Special Categories of FTS Personnel. ....................................................................                      8
       2.6.   Managing FTS personnel .......................................................................................                 9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS,
             AND TERMS                                                                                                                      11

Attachment 2—COMMUNICATION ROLES FOR RESERVE ADVISORS (RAS) AND
             LIAISON OFFICERS (LNOS)                                                                                                        15

Attachment 3—DETERMINE STATUS OF FTS POSITIONS                                                                                              16

Attachment 4—FTS DECISION TREE                                                                                                              17

Attachment 5—MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (MOA) FOR LNOS AT AIR STAFF
                                                                                                                                            18

Attachment 6—MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (MOA) FOR LNOS AT MAJCOMS
                                                                                                                                            20

Attachment 7—GEOGRAPHICALLY SEPARATED LNOS (GSLNO)                                                                                          22
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                        3



                                            Chapter 1

          RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FULL-TIME SUPPORT PROGRAM

1.1. Purpose. This AFI assigns responsibilities, provides guidance, and establishes procedures
for developing and managing the Full-Time Support program to the Air Force Reserve (AFR).
   1.1.1. The AFR will maintain a cadre of FTS personnel consisting of Active Component
   (AC) military personnel, Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) personnel, Air Reserve
   Technicians (ARTs) (dual-status), non-dual status technicians (NDST), and other Federal
   civilian (CIV) employees.
   1.1.2. The FTS personnel are responsible for preparation and administration of policies and
   regulations to organize, administer, recruit, instruct, train or support the AFR IAW 10 U.S.C.
   § 10211, § 10216, § 12310, DoDI 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve
   Components, HAF MD 1-42, Chief of Air Force Reserve (CAFR), and AFMD11, Air Force
   Reserve Command (AFRC).
1.2. Functional Responsibilities.
   1.2.1. The Chief of Air Force Reserve:
       1.2.1.1. Manages an FTS program and structure which supports mission requirements
       and provides the applicable allocation and mix of FTS personnel to achieve readiness and
       meet deployment requirements.
       1.2.1.2. Ensures all FTS positions that do not require military FTS personnel are filled by
       Federal civilians or non-dual status technicians (NDST).
       1.2.1.3. Conducts an annual review of the utilization of FTS members and accomplishes
       the reporting requirements established in 10 U.S.C. § 8038.
       1.2.1.4. Ensures the skill requirements of the civilian and military positions of ARTs are
       compatible, and ensures that AGR members are assigned to validated Reserve positions
       that are compatible with their military grade and skill codes.
       1.2.1.5. Ensures FTS personnel are provided career opportunities, applicable to the
       category of employment, for promotion, career progression, retention, education, and
       professional development consistent with this Instruction and strength limitations.
       1.2.1.6. Establishes policies to limit the number of NDST in accordance with (IAW)
       congressional mandates.
   1.2.2. Plans, Programs and Requirements Directorate (AF/REX):
       1.2.2.1. Manages the manpower and programming of FTS end-strength and ensures
       authorizations and requirements across all organizations are updated in the Manpower
       Programming and Execution System (MPES).
       1.2.2.2. Ensures processing of new FTS requirements for validation, approval, and
       funding. Supports gaining organizations in the development and documentation of new
       FTS requirements.
4                                                               AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


       1.2.2.3. Provides controlled grade allocations for each Fiscal Year (FY) IAW
       congressional mandates.
       1.2.2.4. Programs all FTS end-strength changes in the AF Future Years Defense
       Program.
       1.2.2.5. Provides AFR manpower validation (new and existing), oversight, and execution
       to ensure FTS authorizations meet and sustain AFR force requirements.
    1.2.3. Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and
    Services (AFRC/A1):
       1.2.3.1. Provides personnel expertise and support in integrating AFR personnel policies
       into the FTS program.
       1.2.3.2. Facilitates personnel actions impacting FTS personnel and distribution of all A1
       guidance and released to AFRC FSMs.
    1.2.4. Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Manpower, Organization and Resources
    Division (AFRC/A1M):
       1.2.4.1. Provides AFRC manpower validation (new and existing), oversight, and
       execution of HQ AFRC and all AFRC Direct Reporting Units (DRUs)/Primary
       Subordinate Units (PSUs)/Field Operating Agencies (FOAs).
    1.2.5. Manpower and Personnel Flights (FSMs) and Commander’s Support Staff (CSS):
       1.2.5.1. Provides personnel service to assigned FTS personnel.
       1.2.5.2. Maintains and provides necessary administrative management of all personnel
       source documents and disposition.
    1.2.6. Commander or Equivalent (Equivalents = Directors of staff organizations):
       1.2.6.1. Commanders, or equivalents, are responsible for, but not limited to: coordination
       on curtailment actions; recommendation for promotion, demotion and continuation;
       initiation of involuntary curtailments, Management Directed Reassignments (MDRs) and
       manpower actions.
    1.2.7. Member:
    1.2.7.1. Individuals are responsible for maintaining a current security clearance; acquiring
    and/or maintaining the skill level commensurate with assigned grade and AFSC for military
    and/or civilian; and completing Professional Military Education/Development (PME/PMD)
    commensurate with grade.
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                        5


                                           Chapter 2

                        GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

2.1. General Information. There are a number of policies and procedures which apply to FTS
personnel management. Exceptions and/or deviations from policies and procedures must be
properly coordinated and may only be authorized by the Chief of Air Force Reserve, the deputy
to the Chief of Air Force Reserve, the Commander of Air Force Reserve Command, and the
Vice-Commander of Air Force Reserve Command.
2.2. Equal Opportunity. The management of FTS personnel will be free of discrimination
based upon race, color, religion, sex, and national origin. The FTS program will support military
equal opportunity and affirmative employment efforts to achieve an FTS work force that reflects
national diversity. The objective is to ensure fair, equitable and nondiscriminatory treatment of
all, based on merit, fitness, capability and potential.
2.3. Determining the status requirement of FTS positions. (See Attachment 3)
   2.3.1. Military Essential and Inherently Governmental: Military essential positions directly
   contribute to the prosecution of war (combat or direct combat support), are military by law,
   or are military by custom or tradition. FTS positions determined to be military essential shall
   be AGRs, ARTs or AC personnel. Inherently governmental positions are those that are so
   intimately related to the public interest as to mandate performance by government personnel.
   These activities require the exercise of discretion in applying government authority, the use
   of value judgment in making decisions on behalf of the government, or obligation of
   funds/entitlements. FTS positions determined not to be military essential shall generally be
   civilian if the work is inherently governmental and contractor if not inherently governmental,
   IAW AF policy on using contractor personnel. Military essential and inherently
   governmental activities are defined in AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program and
   Office of the Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-76, Performance of
   Commercial Activities, dated 29 May 03.
       2.3.1.1. AC: Military FTS shall be AC where AC expertise is required. AC positions
       provide advice, liaison, management, administration, training, and support to the Reserve.
       The number or percentage of AC positions in the AFR is not governed by law or policy.
       When funding new AC requirements first consider funding them from within the existing
       allocation of positions to the AFR. There is a ceiling and floor on AC end-strength so
       additional positions cannot be created. A second option for funding new AC
       requirements is an inter-command transfer.
       2.3.1.2. DoDI 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve Components,
       implements specific statutes concerning Federal Civilians, Military Technicians (dual
       status) (hereinafter Air Reserve Technicians (ARTs)) and Active Guard and Reserve
       members (AGRs).          These statutes provide specific limitations and permissions
       concerning the duties of ARTs and AGRs. The applicable statutes list specific primary
       duties of organizing, administering, instructing, or training of the Selected Reserve.
       ARTs also have the additional primary duty of maintenance and repair of supplies or
       equipment issued to the Selected Reserve or the armed forces. However, a significant
       array of additional duties may be performed so long as they do not interfere with
6                                                              AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


    performance of primary duties. Planning and validation of ART or AGR positions
    requires consultation with 10 U.S.C. §§ 10216, 10211, 12310, as applicable. Title 5
    Federal Civilians are governed by OPM work law.
       2.3.1.2.1. A non-inclusive list of ART and AGR additional duties includes:
           2.3.1.2.1.1. Supporting operations or missions assigned in whole or in part to
           their unit.
           2.3.1.2.1.2. Supporting operations or missions performed or to be performed by a
           unit composed of elements from more than one component of the technician’s
           armed force; or a joint forces unit that includes one or more units of the
           technician’s component; or a member of the technician’s component whose
           reserve component assignment is in a position in an element of the joint forces
           unit.
           2.3.1.2.1.3. Instructing or training in the United States or the Commonwealth of
           Puerto Rico or possessions of the United States of active-duty members of the
           armed forces.
       2.3.1.2.2. If a military FTS position is outside the United States, or its territories, it
       will in most cases be filled by an AGR. Status of Forces Agreements should be
       reviewed to determine if an ART is allowed. Consult with the servicing staff judge
       advocate when determining whether it is appropriate to fill an overseas position with
       an ART.
       2.3.1.2.3. Many FTS positions entail duties that could be undertaken by either an
       AGR or an ART. AFR FTS positions shall be designated for and filled by ARTs
       unless there is a compelling reason to utilize AGRs. (See Attachment 4.)
    2.3.1.3. ARTs are by definition Federal civilian employees who are required to maintain
    membership in the Selected Reserve as a condition of employment. Therefore, reference
    to an ART is normally a reference to a federal civilian employee in his/her civilian status.
    ARTs in their military status are treated as any other Traditional Reservist (TR).
       2.3.1.3.1. ARTs shall be exempt from any requirement for reductions in DoD civilian
       personnel and shall be reduced only as a direct result of military force structure
       reductions. (Reference: DoDI. 1205.18, para 6.10.7)
       2.3.1.3.2. Unit Membership Requirement for ARTs. ARTs are required as a
       condition of employment to maintain membership in the unit of the Selected Reserve
       by which employed; or a unit of the Selected Reserve that the ART is employed to
       support.
           2.3.1.3.2.1. Exceptions:
               2.3.1.3.2.1.1. ARTs who are employed in an area other than the Air Force
               Reserve unit program; however the number of these positions is limited by
               law.
               2.3.1.3.2.1.2. ARTs can be discretionarily continued for a period up to 12
               months following loss of membership in the Selected Reserve if it is
               determined that the loss of membership was not due to the failure of that
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                         7


                 individual to meet military standards.
          2.3.1.3.3. An ART may be retained until no later than 30 days after becoming
          eligible for an unreduced annuity and becoming 60 years of age, if Selected Reserve
          membership is lost as the result of a combat-related disability (as defined in Title 10 §
          1413a). The ART may be retained as a non-dual status technician so long as the
          combat-related disability does not prevent performing the non-dual status functions of
          the ARTs position and the ART is not otherwise disqualified from holding the non-
          dual status position as the result of performance, medical, or other reasons.
          2.3.1.3.4. Deferral of Mandatory Separation. ARTs who continue to meet the
          requirements for dual status are permitted to continue to serve beyond a mandatory
          removal date for officers, and any applicable maximum years of service limitation,
          until the military technician (dual status) reaches age 60 and attains eligibility for an
          unreduced annuity (as defined in §10218 (c) of Title 10).
      2.3.1.4. AGRs are members of the Selected Reserve that are ordered to extended active
      duty at the seat of government, and at headquarters responsible for reserve affairs (10
      U.S.C. § 10211) or elsewhere within the Air Force (10 U.S.C. §12310) to serve as
      advisors on Air Force Reserve policy or otherwise support the Air Force Reserve.
          2.3.1.4.1. While serving as an AGR, a member continues to be eligible for promotion
          as a Reservist, if otherwise qualified.
          2.3.1.4.2. Training. An AGR may be provided training consistent with training
          provided to other members on active duty, as the Secretary of the Air Force sees fit.
          2.3.1.4.3. Military FTS responsible for the recruitment of personnel for the Air Force
          Reserve having a Special Duty Identifier (SDI) of 83R (officer) or 8R (enlisted) are
          required to be AGRs.
          2.3.1.4.4. An AGR serves as an additional member of any staff with which he is
          serving, subject to the limitations imposed by law.
          2.3.1.4.5. AFR FTS Medical, JAG and Chaplain. Judge advocates, chaplains,
          medical officers, dental officers, veterinary officers, medical service officers, nurses
          and biomedical science officers shall be AGR officers.
          2.3.1.4.6. All AGR personnel shall be counted against authorized Selected Reserve
          end-strengths as authorized by the Congress each year and against congressional
          authorizations for the grades of E-8, E-9, O-4, O-5, and O-6.
   2.3.2. Centralized administrative and operational headquarters and support functions shall
   use FTS personnel consistent with Reserve readiness requirements, DoD manpower
   determination requirements, applicable laws, and fiscal and manpower constraints to ensure
   efficient and cost-effective manning levels while maximizing unit readiness.
   2.3.3. Supervisory authority for FTS members shall correspond to military operational lines
   of authority unless otherwise specified.
2.4. Exceptions to Status Determinations. Utilizing a FTS status other than directed above
requires approval of AF/RE through the Career Management Board (CMB). The requestor shall
 8                                                                AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


prepare a business case analysis to justify exceptions. Justification shall include the mission
impact of not utilizing the directed status.
     2.4.1. Business cases shall be submitted to AF/REXX for any positions in RE or above the
     MAJCOM and to AFRC/A1M for positions within AFRC and its subordinate units. More
     details on developing a business case analysis while utilizing the FTS decision tree are
     located at Attachment 4. An AGR, versus an ART, may be required if a position requires a
     significant amount of time in a work week in military status for any of the following*:
        2.4.1.1. Law of Armed Conflict (Operational Law).
        2.4.1.2. Active Component Command (Command and Doctrine).
        2.4.1.3. Uniform Code of Military Justice Authority (Military Justice).
        2.4.1.4. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Work Law (Labor Law).
        2.4.1.5. Combatant Command (COCOM) requirements. *These compelling reasons do
        not automatically require AGR status but require a legal and/or personnel office review
        and opinion on a case-by-case basis that will be part of the business case analysis.
2.5. Special Categories of FTS Personnel.
     2.5.1. Liaison Officers (LNOs). The AFR LNO is a subject matter expert and day-to-day
     link between AFR functionals and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and the AC organization
     for the purpose of facilitating subject matter expert communications between both
     organizations. Liaison Officers work in organizations at the tactical or transactional levels.
     See Attachment 2. See Attachment 4 on BCAs to determine appropriate FTS status for the
     position.
        2.5.1.1. LNOs are assigned to and rated by an AFR organization, but seated within an
        AC organization. If deemed appropriate by both organizations, the rating chain may also
        follow guidance provided in AFI 36-2406, Officer/Enlisted Evaluation Systems,
        regarding different AF components.
        2.5.1.2. Roles and Responsibilities of LNOs include being a communication conduit
        between AFR SMEs and functional and the AC organization; educate AC organization on
        functional specific Reserve capabilities, concerns, and equities; advise SMEs and
        functionals on highlights and subject matter interest items from AC organization; and
        ensure reach back to the AFR.
        2.5.1.3. AFR and the AC organization will have a MOA (see samples at Attachments 5
        and 6) outlining how an LNO fits into the organization where they are working while still
        being connected to the AFR. LNOs may provide support, as needed, to Mobilization
        Assistants (MAs) assigned to their AC organization.
        2.5.1.4. If agreed to by both organizations involved, LNOs may be utilized at OSD, Joint
        Staff, HAF, SAF, MAJCOMs, COCOMs, NAFs, FOAs, DRUs, schools and other
        agencies when determined as appropriate and approved by RE or AFRC.
        2.5.1.5. Geographically separated LNOs will fall into an operating location (OL)
        structure as outlined in Attachment 6.
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                       9


   2.5.2. Reserve Advisors (RAs). The RA is the focal point for communication and
   collaboration between AFR leadership, functional, and SMEs and the AC organization for
   the purpose of facilitating corporate communication for both organizations. Reserve
   Advisors work in organizations that have strategic vision or impact on the AFR. See
   Attachment 2. See Attachment 4 on BCAs to determine appropriate FTS status for the
   position.
      2.5.2.1. RAs are assigned to and rated by the AC organizations where they are working.
      2.5.2.2. Roles and responsibilities of RAs include being a communication conduit
      between AFR and AC leadership, AFR and AC functionals and SMEs; educate AC
      organization on Reserve capabilities, needs, and equities; advise AFR on initiatives,
      highlights and special interest items from AC organization; and ensure reach back to
      AFR.
      2.5.2.3. If the requirement for an RA is agreed to by both AFR and AC, RAs may be
      utilized at OSD, Joint Staff, HAF, SAF, MAJCOMs, COCOMs, NAFs, FOAs, DRUs,
      schools and other agencies when determined as appropriate and approved by RE.
2.6. Managing FTS personnel
   2.6.1. FTS programs, applicable to the category of personnel concerned, shall provide the
   opportunity for promotion, career progression, retention, education, and professional
   development, consistent with DoD military and civilian personnel policies.
   2.6.2. Career programs should be structured to provide for both the civilian and military
   career needs of FTS personnel, as applicable.
   2.6.3. Senior Leadership Development. Two tracks will provide personnel with choices,
   either be Deliberately Managed or be Voluntarily Assigned.
      2.6.3.1. Deliberately Managed: Members agree to allow the command to manage their
      career based on the needs of the AFR with vectors provided by the Development Team
      (DT) and mentor/senior leader’s/commander’s support. These members are given
      priority consideration for Key/Command/Joint (K/C/J) Positions as identified by the Key
      Personnel List (KPL). They are also given priority consideration for core and
      developmental positions, if not on KPL, and DE follow-on assignments. Members agree
      to education, training, and experiences based on the needs of the AFR.
          2.6.3.1.1. Assumptions. Member may receive a management-directed assignment. If
          member declines management-directed assignment it may result in member no longer
          being Deliberately Managed.
          2.6.3.1.2. Key/Command/Joint (K/C/J) Positions.          These positions will be
          Deliberately Managed. They will be filled using screened candidates identified
          through command processes and competitive sanctioned boards. Hiring officials will
          be provided a short list of candidates to be considered. These positions will be
          tour/term limited. Voluntarily Assigned members may have access to these positions
          only after all priority candidates have been considered.
          2.6.3.1.3. Promotion. Being Deliberately Managed does not imply promotion.
10                                                            AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


     2.6.3.1.4. Voluntarily Assigned: Members manage their career through their Officer
     Development Plan (ODP) and vectors provided by the DT and mentor/senior
     leader’s/commander’s support.
  2.6.4. Senior Developmental Education and Legislative Fellowships.                Follow-on
  assignments for individuals selected for DE or Fellowships should be considered, and if
  possible identified before an individual is selected for DE or a fellowship if the follow on
  assignment must be full-time. The assignment must be to a valid position on the Unit
  Manning Document (UMD).
  2.6.5. Detailed information. See Volume 1 of this AFI regarding the ART program. See
  Volume 2 of this AFI regarding the AGR program.




                                          DARRELL D. JONES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                        11


                                         Attachment 1
 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
10 U.S.C. §10211, Policies and regulations: participation Reserve officers in preparation and
administration
10 U.S.C. §10216, Military technicians (dual status)
10 U.S.C. §10217, Non-dual status technicians
10 U.S.C. §12301, Reserve Components Generally
10 U.S.C. §12310, Reserves: for organizing, administering, etc., reserve components
DoDI 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve Components, 4 May 2007
DoDD 2311.01E, DoD Law of War Program, 9 May 2006
DoD Law of War Manual (being published)
HAF MD 1-42, Chief of Air Force Reserve, 17 November 2009
AFMD11, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), 30 December 2005
AFI 36-2132V1, Air Reserve Technician (ART) Program, 20 March 2012
AFI 36-2132V2, Full-Time Support (FTS) Active Guard Reserve (AGR) Program, 20 March
2012
AFI 36-2254V1, Reserve Personnel Participation, 26 May 2010
AFI 36-2619, Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) Man-Day Program, 22 July 1994
AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 2004
AFI 38-204, Programming USAF Manpower, 1 August 1999
AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program, 20 June 2008
ANGI 36-101, The Active Guard/Reserve (AGR) Program, 3 June 2010
ANGI 36-2001, Management of Training and Operational Support Within the Air National
Guard, 19 October 2009
ANGI 36-2002, Enlistment and Reenlistment in the ANG and as a Reserve of the Air Force,
1 March 2004
ANGI 36-2101, Assignments within the Air National Guard, 11 June 2004
OMB Circular No. A-76, Performance of Commercial Activities, 29 May 03
 12                                                         AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—– Active Component
AFR—– Air Force Reserve
AFRC –—Air Force Reserve Command
AGR— – Active Guard and Reserve
ARC— – Air Reserve Component
ARPC— – Air Reserve Personnel Center
ART—– Air Reserve Technician
DRU—– Direct Reporting Unit
ETS—– Expiration Term of Service
FOA—– Field Operating Agency
FSF—– Force Support Flight
FSS—– Force Support Squadron
AFPC— – Air Force Personnel Center
HQ AFRC—– Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command
HYTD—– High Year Tenure Date
IAW—– In Accordance With
IR—– Individual Reservist (includes Individual Mobilization Augmented (IMA)
PIRR—– Participating Individual Ready Reserve
JFHQ— Joint Forces Headquarters
MA—– Mobilization Assistant
MAJCOM—– Major Command
MilPDS—– Military Personnel Data Systems
MPA—– Military Personnel Appropriation
FSM—– Manpower and Personnel Flight
MPS—Military Personnel Section
MSD—Mandatory Separation Date
NAF—– Numbered Air Force
NARS—Non-Affiliated Reserve Section
NDST—Non-Dual Status Technician
PCARS—Point Credit Accounting and Reporting System
PM—– Program Manager
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                         13


PSU—Primary Subordinate Unit
RC—– Reserve Component
RMG—– Readiness Management Group
RPA— – Reserve Personnel Appropriation
SAF—– Secretary of the Air Force
SELRES —–Selected Reserve
SME—Subject Matter Expert
ST—– Special Training
TAFMS —–Total Active Federal Military Service
UMD—– Unit Manning Document

Terms
Active Component FTS Personnel— Active Component members paid from Active
Component military personnel appropriations assigned or attached to Reserve component
organizations or units by their respective Service to provide advice, liaison, management,
administration, training, and support as a category of FTS. Those personnel are not members of
the Selected Reserve but may deploy with their assigned unit when mobilization occurs. Active
Component personnel who shall mobilize with the Reserve component unit to which assigned
are counted as part of the Reserve component trained strength in units, but are not included in the
Selected Reserve strengths.
Active Guard and Reserve— Members of a Reserve component on active duty under 10 U.S.C.
§12301(d) to perform duties as described in 10 U.S.C. §101, 10211, and 12310. The Secretary
of the Air Force may order a member of the Air Force Reserve to active duty at any time, or
retain him/her on active duty, with the consent of that member, to perform Active Guard and
Reserve duty organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the reserve
components.
Air Reserve Technician (Dual—Status) - A Federal civilian employee who is employed under
Title 5 § 3101 and is required as a condition of that employment to maintain membership in the
Selected Reserve of the Air Force Reserve; and is assigned to a civilian position as a technician
in the organizing, administering, instructing, or training of the Selected Reserve or in the
maintenance and repair of supplies or equipment issued to the Selected Reserve or the armed
forces.
Commander Equivalent— Directors of Directorates and Directors of Staff at HAF, MAJCOM,
and NAFs.
Federal Civilian Employees— Personnel hired under 5 U.S.C. §3101 to provide administration,
training, maintenance, and recruiting support to the Reserve components. The term civilian
employee, for the purposes of AFR, means all appointive positions in AFR (5 U.S.C. 105). It
does not refer to private contractors hired by the agencies.
Full—Time Support - Members of the Reserve components, assigned to organize; administer;
instruct; recruit and train; maintain supplies, equipment, and aircraft; and perform other functions
 14                                                               AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


required on a daily basis in the execution of operational missions and readiness preparation as
authorized in Title 5 and Title 10. Collectively, FTS personnel consist of five categories that are
AGR, MTs or ARTs, AC personnel, NDSTs, and CIV employees.
Military Technician (Dual Status)— See Air Reserve Technician which is a Dual Status
Military Technician working for the Air Force Reserve.
Manpower and Personnel Flight (FSM). Provides the installation with Manpower and
Organization services and Personnel support for both military and appropriated and
nonappropriated fund civilians.
Non—Dual Status Technician - A civilian employee employed as a technician before November
18, 1997, under any of the authorities specified in 10 U.S.C. § 10217 and is not a member of the
Selected Reserve or after that date has ceased to be a member of the Selected Reserve.
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                      15


                                     Attachment 2
   COMMUNICATION ROLES FOR RESERVE ADVISORS (RAS) AND LIAISON
                       OFFICERS (LNOS)

A2.1. The only difference between RAs and LNOs is the rating chain. RAs are rated by
their active component organization and LNOs are rated through the Reserve organization
to which they are attached. These positions are intended to facilitate communication
between the components.

Table A2.1. Communication Roles for RAs and LNOs
 Communication Roles            Provided to AFR                  Provided to Active Component
 Day-to-day link                Entry point/POC for relevant topics, taskers, etc

 Maintain Knowledge on AFR:     Facilitate staff to staff interaction with subject matter experts
 Priorities
 Policy
 Guidance

 Collaboration                  Deliberate facilitation of staff-to-staff interaction

 Communication                 Info/Data/Updates on Active Info/Data/Updates on AFR:
                               Component’s:                          Capabilities
                               Functional Information                Concerns
                               Subject Matter Interest Items         Equities
                               Highlights
                               New programs
 Reach back to AFR         for Facilitate staff to staff interaction with subject matter experts
 positions and/or decisions
 AFR positions and/or decisions should come from CAFR, AFRC/CC, MAJCOM Functionals/SMEs
 16                                                        AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


                                      Attachment 3
                      DETERMINE STATUS OF FTS POSITIONS

Table A3.1. Determine status of Full-Time Support positions as identified by Law or
Policy
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                                                                                                            17


                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                                        FTS DECISION TREE

A4.1. Utilizing a status other than directed by law or policy (see Attachment 1) requires
approval of AFRC/CC or AF/RE through the Corporate Structure process. The requestor shall
prepare a business case analysis to justify exceptions. The analysis should address the items in
the FTS decision tree below.
Law of Armed Conflict (LOAC) (Operational Law)
Command of Active Component Military (Command and Doctrine)
UCMJ Authority (Military Justice)
Office of Personnel Management (OPM) work laws (Labor Law)
COCOM support
Recruiting and retention
Force development

Table A4.1. FTS Decision Tree


                                                 AGR                                        AGR                               AGR                                 AGR

                                                     YES                                           YES                              YES                                YES
                                AFRC: A1M, JA                              AFRC: A1M, JA                      AFRC: A1M, JA                       AFRC: A1M, JA
                                  RE: REX                                    RE: REX                            RE: REX                             RE: REX

    Business Case Analysis
                                           Is this position                                                           Is work schedule                       Is this mission
    to determine ART or                                                                Is UCMJ authority
                                           one where LOAC                                                             one that would not                     executed directly in
    AGR FTS where military                                                             required a majority
    essentiality is a factor.              requires military                                                          comply with OPM                        support of a
                                                                        NO             of the time?          NO                              NO
                                           status?                                                                    civilian work law?                     COCOM?

   All AGR must be
   reviewed/approved by RE
                                DoDD 2311.01E                             AFRC/JA Review                      OPM Work Law                   Under review by
                                DoD Law of War                            to determine                                                       AFSPC/JA
                                Manual                                                                                                                                 NO




                                                                                                                                                             Will inability to
                                                                                                                                           NO                recruit and retain
                                                                                                                                                                          NO
                                                                                                             Position should be an ART                       people be
        LOAC, UCMJ, Support of                    Work schedule compliance
        COCOM all require a legal                 requires civilian personnel and JA                                                                         impossible as an
        review on case by case                    review for applicability in                                                                                ART?
        basis to determine                        determining status
                                                                                                                                See BCA OI for details on
        applicability as none of
                                                                                                                                metrics which must be
        these automatically                                                                                                     substantiated in order to              YES
        requires AGR status                                                                                                     demonstrate this claim
                                                                                                                                                                  AGR


     AFR FTS Determination Flowchart
     March 2011
     POC: AF/REX
     Page 2
 18                                                             AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


                                        Attachment 5
        MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (MOA) FOR LNOS AT AIR STAFF

    1. PURPOSE: The purpose of this agreement is to establish a basic working relationship
       between AF/(Appropriate RE Directorate here) personnel and AF/(Appropriate HAF
Organization here). This MOA provides guidance and documentation of both parties agreement
   to roles and responsibilities. Actions and agreements herein apply only to the participating
parties and are not intended to supersede existing regulations or agreements. Use of AGRs under
                      this agreement is in compliance with 10 U.S.C. §10211.

2. AUTHORITY: AFI 36-2132, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Air Force Reserve (New Date),
and other directives, as required.

3. SCOPE: This agreement addresses (number of positions) at (list office(s) where AFR
members will serve). These AFR members will perform primary duties of:

         A. (Short description of each type of position along with a statement about how the
position benefits the AFR such as: "Incumbent will provide expertise in Reserve capabilities and
facilitate effective Reserve force employment decisions.)

4. CHAIN OF COMMAND AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURES

       A. The Director of (RE Directorate), AF/(RE Directorate), will retain administrative
       control over AF/(RE Directorate) personnel working within AF/(HAF Organization). In
       this case administrative control refers to administration and support, control of AFRC
       provided resources and equipment, personnel management, readiness, mobilization,
       demobilization, discipline, and other administrative matters pertaining to the management
       of these positions.

       B. AF/(HAF Organization) will exercise day-to-day operational direction and authority
       over the detailed and, usually, local direction and control of activities necessary to
       accomplish missions or tasks assigned. In other words, (HAF Organization here) will
       provide day-to-day oversight of activities to the incumbents. AF/(HAF Organization)
       agrees to provide appropriate workspace, computer, network access, and access to other
       office equipment and supplies.

5. ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT Note 1

       A. The (identify how many positions are part of this agreement) funded Active Guard
       and Reserve (AGR) authorizations/positions supporting this initiative will be retained in
       AF/RE. The incumbents will be assigned to AF/(specific RE division) and attached to
       AF/(HAF Organization). (Identify where these individuals will be seated on a daily basis
       and who these individuals are by name). (RE Directorate) reserves the right, as owners
       of the authorizations, to reassign the incumbents as needed.
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                         19


       B. TDY funding for the incumbent will be provided by the organization for which the
       TDY is requested and supports.

       C. (In this section provide details on who will rate each individual to include their senior
       raters, raters and senior raters will be within the AFRC chain of command.).

              1. UCMJ authority will remain with the Air Force District of Washington.

6. PERIODIC REVIEW BY DESIGNATED OFFICIALS: AF/(RE Directorate) and AF/(HAF
Organization) will provide periodic progress reviews of the activities associated with this MOA
and shall conduct a comprehensive review at the six-month point to determine status pursuant to
this MOA.

    Signature block for Director of RE                    Signature block for Director of HAF
    Directorate maintaining ADCON                         Organization

Note 1: If deemed appropriate by both organizations, the rating chain may also follow guidance
provided in AFI 36-2406, Officer/Enlisted Evaluation Systems, regarding different AF
components.
 20                                                             AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


                                        Attachment 6
        MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (MOA) FOR LNOS AT MAJCOMS

1. PURPOSE: The purpose of this agreement is to establish a basic working relationship
between AFRC/(Appropriate AFRC Organization here) personnel and (Other
MAJCOM/Appropriate MAJCOM Organization here). This MOA provides guidance and
documentation of both parties agreement to roles and responsibilities. Actions and agreements
herein apply only to the participating parties and are not intended to supersede existing
regulations or agreements. Use of AGRs under this agreement is in compliance with 10 U.S.C.
§12310.

2. AUTHORITY: AFI 36-2132, Full-Time Support (FTS) Active Guard Reserve (AGR)
Program (19 April 05), and other directives, as required.

3. SCOPE: This agreement addresses (number of positions) at (list office(s) where AFRC
members will serve). These AFRC members will perform primary duties of:

        A. (Short description of each type of position along with a statement about how the
position(s) benefits AFRC such as: "Incumbent will provide expertise in Reserve capabilities
and facilitate effective Reserve force employment decisions.)

4. CHAIN OF COMMAND AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURES

       A. The AFRC/(Appropriate AFRC Organization here), will retain administrative control
       over AFRC/(Appropriate AFRC Organization) personnel working within (Other
       MAJCOM/Appropriate MAJCOM Organization here). In this case administrative control
       refers to administration and support, control of AFRC provided resources and equipment,
       personnel management, readiness, mobilization, demobilization, discipline, and other
       administrative matters pertaining to the management of these positions.

       B. (Other MAJCOM/Appropriate MAJCOM Organization here) will exercise day-to-day
       operational direction and authority over the detailed and, usually, local direction and
       control of activities necessary to accomplish missions or tasks assigned. In other words,
       (Other MAJCOM/Appropriate MAJCOM Organization here) will provide day-to-day
       oversight of activities to the incumbents. (Other MAJCOM/Appropriate MAJCOM
       Organization here) agrees to provide appropriate workspace, computer, network access,
       and access to other office equipment and supplies.

5. ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT Note 1

       A. The (identify how many positions are part of this agreement) funded Active Guard
       and Reserve (AGR) authorizations/positions supporting this initiative will be retained in
       AFRC/(Appropriate AFRC Organization here). The incumbent(s) will be assigned to
       AFRC/(Appropriate AFRC Organization here) and attached to (Other
       MAJCOM/Appropriate MAJCOM Organization here). (Identify where these individuals
       will be seated on a daily basis and who these individuals are by name). (AFRC
AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012                                                                         21


       Organization) reserves the right, as owners of the authorizations, to reassign the
       incumbents as needed.

       B. TDY funding for the incumbent will be provided by the organization for which the
       TDY is requested and supports.

       C. (In this section provide details on who will rate each individual to include their senior
       raters, raters and senior raters will be within the AFRC chain of command.).

               1. UCMJ authority will be concurrent, (state appropriate organization within
AFRC or Other MAJCOM) will have primary responsibility and consult with the (the
organization not primary) commander when contemplating UCMJ action.

6. PERIODIC REVIEW BY DESIGNATED OFFICIALS: AFRC/(AFRC Organization) and
(Other MAJCOM/Appropriate MAJCOM Organization here) will provide periodic progress
reviews of the activities associated with this MOA and shall conduct a comprehensive review at
the six-month point to determine status pursuant to this MOA.


    Signature block for Director of AFRC                  Signature block for Director of Other
    Organization maintaining ADCON                        MAJCOM Organization

Note 1: If deemed appropriate by both organizations, the rating chain may also follow guidance
provided in AFI 36-2406, Officer/Enlisted Evaluation Systems, regarding different AF
components.
 22                                                            AFI36-2132 23 MARCH 2012


                                         Attachment 7
                   GEOGRAPHICALLY SEPARATED LNOS (GSLNO)

A7.1. Responsibility by organization is identified below:

Table A7.1. Determine status of Full-Time Support positions as identified by Law or
Policy
Air Force Reserve Command                        Active Component Unit
Create OL                                        Is the servicing FSM
Is the Rater                                     Manually inputs AFRC rater into MilPDS at
Build MOA(s)                                     in-processing
A7.2. Create a checklist for in-processing GSLNOs.
   A7.2.1. AFRC: Develop MOA (use template in Attachments 5 and 6) to reflect the
   agreement between the two organizations.
   A7.2.2. Servicing FSM will manually input the AFRC rater ID into MILPDS.
A7.3. Create Operating Locations (OLs): The OL will be based on where the LNO is physically
located. For example if AFRC/A3 wants to have an LNO at AMC/A3, then the OL will be at
AMC.
A7.4. The OL and the PAS Code are linked. PAS Code is 8 digits: First two digits ID the
base/servicing FSM. Second two digits ID the MAJCOM. Last four digits ID the unit. OL is
required because the individual should be linked back to AFRC.
A7.5. LNO’s Raters will be at AFRC. The servicing FSM would be at the location where the
LNO is physically located.
A7.6. Senior rater would be the first General Officer in the AFRC chain of command.
This automatically updates based on PAS code, so would need to be manually updated to reflect,
especially in AFPROMS if the person is eligible for promotion. Use MOA to document this.
AFRC Rater is manually input into MILPDS when LNO in-processes to organization. MILPDS
automatically updates based on PAS code. If deemed appropriate by both organizations, the
rating chain may also follow guidance provided in AFI 36-2406, Officer/Enlisted Evaluation
Systems, regarding different AF components.
 Geographically separated LNOs are AGRs and therefore checklist applicable to AGRs only.
