BY ORDER OF THE                                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1062
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                       1 JUNE 2005
                                                                                                 Certified Current 1 July 2010
                                                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                                                           ELECTRICAL POWER PLANTS
                                                                                                   AND GENERATORS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFCESA/CES (Dr Daryl Hammond)                                                           Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CC
                                                                                                          (Col Gus G. Elliot, Jr)
Supersedes AFI 32-1062, 11 February 2005                                                                             Pages: 28
                                                                                                                Distribution: F

This instruction implements the generated electrical power portion of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
32-10, Installations and Facilities. It provides acquisition and operation and maintenance (O&M)
requirements for power generation plants and individual real property installed equipment (RPIE) prime,
standby, and emergency generators. It also covers the mandatory requirements of a generator maintenance
program. This instruction applies to all personnel who operate and maintain RPIE electrical generators. It
emphasizes safe, cost-effective, reliable, and environmentally compliant methods and practices. Users
should send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through major commands (MAJCOM) to HQ AFCESA/CES, 139 Barnes Dr, Suite 1, Tyn-
dall AFB FL 32403-5319. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFPD 37-1, Information Management, and Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2005-1. This interim change clarifies the applicability of
this instruction to all generators, not limited to RPIE, and would require, as a minimum, annual oil
changes for all standby generators and biennial oil analysis for standby generators of 500 kilowatts (kW)
and greater, and mandates documentation of all oil analysis results on AF Form 719, Historical Record –
Diesel-Electric Generator and System (paragraph 10.); and adds detailed oil sample procedures and an
independent oil analysis lab report format to include comments or maintenance recommendations
(Appendix 3). A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.
      1.     Responsibilities Assigned. .........................................................................................    3
      2.     Acquiring Equipment. ................................................................................................   3
2                                                                                                         AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


     3.   Training. .....................................................................................................................      4
     4.   Technical Data and Procedures. .................................................................................                     4
     5.   Record Keeping and Analysis. ...................................................................................                     6
     6.   Operation. ..................................................................................................................        7
     7.   Maintenance. ..............................................................................................................          7
     8.   Preparation for Storage. .............................................................................................               7
     9.   Fuels. ..........................................................................................................................    7
    10.   Lubricating Oils. ........................................................................................................           8
    11.   Special Tools and Equipment. ...................................................................................                     8
    12.   Materials and Repair Parts. ........................................................................................                 8
    13.   Forms Adopted and Prescribed. .................................................................................                      8

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               10

Attachment 2— TYPICAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR DIESEL ENGINE
             GENERATING PLANTS                                                                                                                14

Attachment 3— TYPICAL INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS BY
             SYSTEM FOR DIESEL ENGINE GENERATING PLANTS                                                                                       16

Attachment 4— TYPICAL INSPECTION CHECKLISTS AND SCHEDULE FORDIESEL
             ENGINE GENERATING PLANTS                                                                                                         23

Attachment 5— IC 2005-1 TO AFI 32-1062, ELECTRICAL POWER PLANTS AND
             GENERATORS                                                                                                                       27
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                   3


1. Responsibilities Assigned. The base civil engineer Operations Flight Chief, or equivalent, ensures:
   1.1. Personnel operate and maintain power generation equipment following the manufacturer’s tech-
   nical information and recommendations, as a minimum.
   1.2. Safety of personnel and equipment by following industrial and electrical safe practices (see
   Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards, Air Force Occupational Safety &
   Health Standard [AFOSH STD] 91-10, Civil Engineering, AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Occupa-
   tional Safety Standard, AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, and Engineering Technical Letter
   (ETL) 04-15, Electrical Safety Guidance).
   1.3. Compliance with environmental legislation and regulations, particularly concerning restrictions
   on air emissions; petroleum, oils, and lubricants (POL); and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB).

2. Acquiring Equipment.
   2.1. Before acquiring, replacing, or upgrading power generation equipment, the system characteris-
   tics must be addressed. If a distribution study less than three years old is unavailable, Engineering
   Flight design engineers or Operations Flight maintenance engineers must either perform or obtain via
   contract an engineering study to determine feasibility before acquiring, replacing, or upgrading power
   generation equipment. The study must address, as a minimum, items contained in Paragraphs 2.1.1.
   through 2.1.11. of this document.
       2.1.1. Fault current.
       2.1.2. Quantity and quality of available power.
       2.1.3. Power reliability requirements.
       2.1.4. Load-flow.
       2.1.5. Availability history.
       2.1.6. Paralleling requirements.
       2.1.7. Commercial power interfacing.
       2.1.8. Load-shed plan, impending operational changes, and environmental restrictions such as
       new emission source requirements.
       2.1.9. Refueling plans to support generator operation during extended power outages at mission
       essential/critical facilities.
       2.1.10. Coordination of protective devices.
       2.1.11. Flash Hazard Analysis.
       2.1.12. Environmental impact study to ensure air quality standards are met
   2.2. Engineering Flight Design Engineers or Operations Flight maintenance engineers must insure
   that auxiliary power (or standby power) and transfer switches are properly configured and grounded
   in accordance with the National Electrical Code and IEEE Std 446-1995, Emergency and Standby
   Power Systems for Industrial and Commercial Applications. Four-pole transfer switches shall be used
   to avoid undesirable ground-fault and stray neutral current paths on idle systems. Use of three-pole
   transfer switches are permitted only if approved by the appropriate MAJCOM.
4                                                                            AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


3. Training. The base civil engineer Operations Flight Chief, or equivalent, must ensure base operators
and maintenance personnel receive training to qualify them for their duties. They must be technically
competent and thoroughly familiar with safe practices outlined in AFI 32-1064, AFOSH STD 91-10,
AFOSH STD 91-501, and ETL 04-15, Electrical Safety Guidance. The flight chiefs:
    3.1. Provide training to nonqualified personnel and other trainees through government and private
    industry schools and seminars.
    3.2. Encourage nonqualified personnel and other trainees, whether assigned or deployed to their
    bases, to observe and or participate when special temporary duty teams make repairs to infrastructure
    components.
    3.3. Advise base operators and maintainers of any operating permit restrictions.
    3.4. Provide ancillary training to non-power-production personnel assigned to operate emergency
    power generators. Training shall be provided by qualified power production personnel and not to
    include maintenance training, but should include items needed for switching between commercial and
    generator power sources. The training should also include visual location of potential water, fuel, and
    oil leaks so that required maintenance can be reported when needed.
    3.5. Ensure training is documented and that documentation is readily available upon request.

4. Technical Data and Procedures. Consult AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems, for additional infor-
mation.
    4.1. Power Plant Equipment O&M Manuals.
       4.1.1. The Engineering Flight Chief and Operations Flight Chief, or equivalent, during contract
       procurement or in-house purchase respectively, must obtain:
           4.1.1.1. A complete set of technical orders (T.O.) or manufacturer’s O&M procedures, recom-
           mended maintenance schedules, special tools, service and parts manuals for each make and
           model of engine and plant equipment acquired.
           4.1.1.2. Manufacturer's recommended acceptable fuels for each specific engine type and
           insure fuels are available through the Air Force inventory. For additional guidance, consult
           Paragraph 9. of this document.
           4.1.1.3. A summary of modifications to the generator system that have been made due to
           repair or changes in loads (e.g., major maintenance that resulted in a change in windings,
           added/replaced filters or water separators, such as when biodiesel fuels are used). This sum-
           mary should be posted in a readily visible location.
    4.2. Power production personnel will develop and document suitable schedules and procedures when
    manufacturers' information is not available, or to improve them to suit the specific situation. Consult
    AFI 32-1063 for additional requirements concerning maintaining, testing, and exercising engine-gen-
    erators.
    4.3. Performance Data. Maintenance engineering or power production personnel must obtain perfor-
    mance data recorded during the manufacturer's shop test or during initial operation on location. Data
    may be in either graphic or tabular form. Establish a baseline with this data to evaluate future engine
    performance. Minimum data must include:
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                  5


     4.3.1. Average cylinder exhaust temperature.
     4.3.2. Air pressure in engine intake manifold in kilopascals (kPa) or pounds per square inch (psi).
     4.3.3. Compression and firing pressures in kPa or psi.
     4.3.4. Fuel pump rack position.
     4.3.5. Fuel consumption at 50 percent, 75 percent, full load, and 10 percent overload (110 percent
     load).
     4.3.6. Emissions data for operation at prescribed load levels when needed to obtain operating per-
     mits. Maintain data according to MAJCOM, state, or local requirements, i.e. quarterly or monthly
     reports.
  4.4. Schematic Diagrams. The Operations Flight Chief, or equivalent, has the responsibility to:
     4.4.1. Develop and maintain detailed mechanical single-line diagrams of the emergency genera-
     tor, plant, and auxiliary piping systems, including water, oil, air, and fuel.
         4.4.1.1. Show emergency arrangements with the positions of controls (e.g., valves) positively
         identified for normal and emergency operation.
         4.4.1.2. Include alarm and safety systems and identify reset operations.
         4.4.1.3. Post copies of the diagrams in the plant for personnel to use. Posted copies of dia-
         grams and information should be inside plastic covers, laminated, or otherwise protected from
         damage.
     4.4.2. Develop and maintain detailed electrical single-line diagrams to include:
         4.4.2.1. Normal and emergency switching arrangements.
         4.4.2.2. Positively identified switch and circuit breaker positions.
         4.4.2.3. Notes, legends, and cautions as they apply to special equipment (e.g., interlocking cir-
         cuit breakers).
         4.4.2.4. Switching instructions when switching operations must pass through a central load
         dispatcher.
         4.4.2.5. Posting copies of the diagrams in the plant or adjacent to the emergency generator for
         personnel to use. Posted copies of diagrams and information should be inside plastic covers,
         laminated, or otherwise protected from damage.
     4.4.3. Affix a mimic bus graphics with circuit breaker open/close indicator lights to the front of
     the switchgear and switching stations to assist in both normal and emergency operations. This sin-
     gle-line diagram improves human interaction with the electric system. Opening or closing the
     wrong switch can cause the loss of the entire power system and be hazardous to personnel.
  4.5. Operating Procedures. Maintenance engineers and power production personnel must develop and
  post the following based upon manufacturer's recommendations with modifications and supplements
  to suit specific local conditions and equipment (these procedures should be reviewed and updated at
  least annually):
     4.5.1. Standard, step-by-step operating procedures.
6                                                                           AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


       4.5.2. Emergency stopping procedures, including shutdown of runaway engines.
       4.5.3. Environmental permit restrictions.

5. Record Keeping and Analysis. Base power production personnel and maintenance engineers main-
tain and analyze O&M records to ensure the mission receives support and equipment follows minimum
life-cycle cost trends. Follow MAJCOM policy regarding distribution of records for review, interval of
records review, and feedback procedures to base personnel. Records management for emergency genera-
tors and power plants can be found in the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule and is available on-line
at https://webrims.amc.af.mil. Consult administrative personnel at the base on procedures for the main-
tenance and disposal of records.
    5.1. Operating Logs. Generator operators shall record system performance during regular operation,
    inspection, and testing. A single form shall be used for each scheduled generator run at prime power
    plants, each scheduled emergency generator exercise, and each unscheduled power outage. A com-
    pleted copy shall be kept where maintenance personnel can find it easily and a duplicate shall be
    maintained at the plant or generator unit. Use the following forms:
       5.1.1. AF Form 487, Emergency Generator Operating Log (Inspection Testing), or other
       MAJCOM-approved form, for standby power plants or emergency generators.
       5.1.2. AF Form 1167, Daily Power Plant Operating Log (Diesel-Electric), for prime power
       plants and if the running time for standby power plants exceeds 8 hours.
       5.1.3. AF Form 3509, Daily Power Plant Operating Log (Gas Turbine-Electric), for steam and
       gas turbines, when appropriate.
       5.1.4. A custom log developed and used when the standard log is inadequate. Notify the Air Force
       Civil Engineer Support Agency, Technical Support Directorate (HQ AFCESA/CES) of changes
       made and provide a copy of the log.
    5.2. Maintenance Records. Record equipment condition and wear rates during inspections and main-
    tenance. Review this data periodically and when scheduling maintenance activities. Use the following
    forms to record the data: AF Form 731, Crankshaft Deflection Record; AF Form 734, Cylinder
    Liner and Ring Wear Record; AF Form 3507, Diesel Engine Inspection Data; AF Form 3508, Die-
    sel Cylinder Compression and Firing Tests; AF Form 3510, Automatic Transfer Switch Inspec-
    tion/Maintenance Report.
    5.3. Analyzing Performance. Monitoring engine performance data detects gradual changes that signal
    engine deterioration. Provide data to the maintenance engineer who will plot essential data versus
    time to graphically reveal performance trends. Include, as a minimum, the following data to the main-
    tenance engineer: compression pressure, cylinder-firing pressure, exhaust temperature, crankcase
    pressure (vacuum), lube oil consumption, and fuel consumption.
    5.4. Power Plant Logbook for Class A, B, and C plants. In addition to AF Form 1167, maintain a log-
    book at each plant to enter other pertinent information. Use it to record time of events, nature of
    abnormalities and malfunctions, physical measurements taken, adjustments made, oil samples taken,
    oil changed, maintenance performed, and weather information.
    5.5. Historical Records. Maintain AF Form 719, Historical Record – Diesel-Electric Generator
    and System, or MAJCOM approved equivalent, at the maintenance organization. Use it to show the
    date, the cumulative number of engine operating hours, a description of all maintenance and periodic
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                     7


   inspections (semi-annual or greater), and parts replaced. When transferring a generator set from one
   organization to another, send the associated historical records with it. Records will be kept for the life
   of the unit.

6. Operation. Users shall operate units within the manufacturer’s recommended speed (revolutions per
minute [rpm]), load limits, temperatures, and pressures, except in emergency situations where changes
have been made to the unit during repairs or local conditions and operations have justified deviations from
the manufacturer’s recommendations. Extended overload or underload reduces engine efficiency,
increases maintenance requirements, and may damage the unit. Record operating conditions in accor-
dance with AF Form 487, AF Form 1167, or AF Form 3509, whichever is applicable, and promptly take
corrective action for abnormalities. Do not exceed operating permit restrictions. Incorporate typical oper-
ating requirements from Attachment 2 into operating and inspection procedures for diesel-electric gener-
ators.

7. Maintenance. Power production personnel shall follow the manufacturer's recommendations on
scheduling and maintenance procedures unless local conditions and operations justify deviations. Sched-
ule engine overhauls based on actual operating data, not on the manufacturer's recommendations. Follow
AFI 32-1063 guidance for exercising power generation equipment. Follow safe practices and clearance
procedures in AFI 32-1064, and take proper precautions against accidental or unintentional starting when
working on an engine and insure disconnect switches are properly set. Use AF Form 979, Danger Tag,
and AF Form 982, Do Not Start. See Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard
446, Recommended Practice for Emergency and Standby Power Systems for Industrial and Commercial
Applications, for a typical maintenance schedule for emergency or standby systems; Attachment 3 for
typical inspection and maintenance requirements for power plants by system; and Attachment 4 for typ-
ical inspection checklists and schedule for prime and continuous duty (class A) units.

8. Preparation for Storage. Preserve engines that will be stored for more than 60 calendar days.
   8.1. Block off air and exhaust inlets with manufacturer-recommended covers/plugs or other approved
   items intended for this purpose to prevent air and moisture from entering the internal parts of the
   engine. Duct tape and or cardboard are not acceptable.
   8.2. Preserve corrodible exterior surfaces not protected by paint, galvanizing, or plating with a thin
   film of rust-preventive compound. Ensure compounds conform to current military specifications.

9. Fuels. Use fuel oils meeting Federal Specification VV-F-800E, Fuel Oil, Diesel, covering fuel grades
DF-A, DF-1, DF-2, or type I and II. Follow the specific temperature and applicable service conditions and
make sure sulfur content does not exceed environmental restrictions. Do not mix different grades of fuel.
NOTE: Biodiesel fuel shall not be used for standby generators. Consult Technical Order (T.O.)
42B-1-1, Quality Controls of Fuels and Lubricants, and Military Handbook (MIL-HDBK) 200, Quality
Surveillance Handbook for Fuels, Lubricants and Related Products, for additional information. Before
using jet fuels, consult the engine manufacturer to determine the proper modification and parts needed for
proper engine operation. Follow applicable environmental reporting and cleanup procedures in case of
spills and leaking storage tanks.
   9.1. Personnel will be trained in managing fuel storage tanks according to applicable standards out-
   lined in AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks. Storage tanks will be properly marked according to
   type fuel and warning signs located appropriately.
8                                                                             AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


    9.2. Fuel tank design shall comply with the latest version of NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible
    Liquids Code.

10. Lubricating Oils. Follow the engine manufacturer's recommendations for the type and grade of oil
as closely as possible. Lubricating oils meeting minimum military specifications MIL-L-2104, Lubricat-
ing Oil, Internal Combustion Engine, Combat/Tactical Service, and MIL-L-46167, Lubricating Oil, Inter-
nal Combustion Engine, Arctic, are acceptable for many diesel engines; however, these specifications
may not be adequate for some high-speed engines. Confirm the suitability of military specification lubri-
cating oils with the engine manufacturer before use.
    10.1. Change oil at manufacturer’s recommended intervals; however, as a minimum, change oil annu-
    ally on all standby generators regardless of size. Do not use oil analysis results to extend oil change
    intervals beyond one year.
    10.2. Analyze oil samples every two years for standby generators of 500 kW and greater in accor-
    dance with paragraph A3.4. and associated subparagraphs. Document oil analysis results and mainte-
    nance recommendations on AF Form 719, Historical Record – Diesel-Electric Generator and
    System.

11. Special Tools and Equipment. Maintain necessary tools, equipment and instruments as authorized
in Allowance Standard (AS) 464, Civil Engineer – Operations Flight Support Equipment. Use the basis of
issue and the AS preface to determine requirements. Request changes to the AS when allowances are
inadequate, excessive, or the equipment cannot support the local mission.

12. Materials and Repair Parts.
    12.1. Supply. Establish and maintain an adequate supply of materials and repair parts. Follow meth-
    ods and procedures for procuring, handling, storing and accounting of supplies and equipment in
    AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual.
    12.2. What To Store. Determine the type and quantity of parts, tools, and materials required for bench
    stock, supply point, special levels, and equipment accounts, based on the following factors:
       12.2.1. Plant or system classification.
       12.2.2. Number of identical systems or components maintained.
       12.2.3. Level of maintenance capability (depot, intermediate).
       12.2.4. Materials required for frequently encountered minor repairs.
       12.2.5. Low-failure-rate, long-lead items that can incapacitate the system without ability to
       bypass or substitute in an emergency situation (e.g., governors and fuel injectors).
       12.2.6. Geographical separation from supplier, particularly overseas units.

13. Forms Adopted and Prescribed.
    13.1. This publication prescribes the following forms: AF Form 487, Emergency Generator Oper-
    ating Log (Inspection and Testing); AF Form 719, Historical Record – Diesel-Electric Generator
    and System; AF Form 731, Crankshaft Deflection Record; AF Form 734, Cylinder Liner and
    Ring Wear Record; AF Form 1167, Daily Power Plant Operating Log (Diesel - Electric); AF
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                         9


  Form 3507, Diesel Engine Inspection Data; AF Form 3508, Diesel Cylinder Compression and Fir-
  ing Tests; AF Form 3509, Daily Power Plant Operating Log (Gas Turbine - Electric); AF Form
  3510, Automatic Transfer Switch Inspection/Maintenance Report.
  13.2. This publication adopts the following forms: AF Form 979, Danger Tag; AF Form 982, Do Not
  Start.



                                          DONALD J. WETEKAM, Lt. General, USAF
                                          DCS/Installations & Logistics
10                                                                     AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities
AFCAT 36-2223, USAF Formal Schools
AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems
AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks
AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual
AFPD 37-1, Information Management
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
AFOSH STD 91-10, Civil Engineering
AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
ETL 04-15, Electrical Safety Guidance
Federal Specification VV-F-800E, Fuel Oil, Diesel
IEEE Standard 446, Recommended Practice for Emergency and Standby Power Systems for Industrial
and Commercial Applications, The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., http://
www.ieee.org
MIL-HDBK-200, Quality Surveillance Handbook for Fuels, Lubricants and Related Products
MIL-C-10597, Cleaning Compound with Conditioner and Inhibitor for Engine Cooling Systems
MIL-L-2104, Lubricating Oil, Internal Combustion Engine, Combat/Tactical Service
MIL-L-46167, Lubricating Oil, Internal Combustion Engine, Arctic
NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code
NFPA 70B, Electrical Equipment Maintenance, National Fire Protection Association, http://
www.nfpa.org
AS 464, Civil Engineer – Operations Flight Support Equipment. Allowance Standards can be found on
the Air Force Allowance Standard Retrieval System (ASRS) website at https://earms2.wpafb.af.mil/
sites/asrs/Home.asp. Most generator authorizations can be found in AS 464.
T.O. 42B-1-1, Quality Control of Fuels and Lubricants

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCAT—Air Force Catalog
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                              11


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH STD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AS—allowance standard
ASRA—Air Force Allowance Standard Retrieval System
BOS—base operating support
ETCA—education and training course announcement
ETL—Engineering Technical Letter
HQ AFCESA/CES—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Engineering Support Directorate
IEEE—Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
ISO—International Organization for Standardization
kPa—kilopascals, unit of pressure per unit area (1 kPa = 0.1450376 psi)
kW—kilowatts, unit of actual (real) power (1000 watts = 1 kW)
MAJCOM—major command
MIL-HDBK—military handbook
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
O.D.—outside diameter
O&M—operations and maintenance
PCB—Polychlorinated biphenyls
POL—petroleum, oils, and lubricants
psi—pounds (pounds-force) per square inch
RPIE—real property installed equipment
rpm—revolutions per minute
T.O.—Technical Order
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
VAR—volt-ampere reactive

Terms
Auxiliary Power—Backup power for the primary power normally provided by a commercial utility.
Availability—The long-term probability of success with repair and scheduled maintenance of electrical
power plants, generators, and power systems. Calculate availability as the ratio in percentage of total
period minus repair downtime minus maintenance downtime to total period. The calculation assumes
power generated meets quality standards.
Bench Stock—A group of items required to perform routine, recurring work and items required for the
12                                                                           AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


most frequently encountered emergencies used regularly by maintenance personnel and usually in close
proximity to the maintenance area.
Circuit Breaker—A mechanical switching device capable of making, carrying, and breaking currents
under normal circuit conditions and also, making, carrying for a specified time, and breaking currents
under specified abnormal circuit conditions (for example, short circuits). The interrupting rating must be
larger than the largest expected abnormal condition. Circuit breakers may be oil, vacuum, or air type.
Class A Power Plant—Generates power on a continuous basis (over 4000 hours annually) and serves as
the sole or primary source of power. Class A plants usually have 100 percent generated power plus one
standby reserve unit and one maintenance reserve unit.
Class B Power Plant—Provides power on a standby basis for a significant number of hours each year
(between 1000 and 4000 hours annually) usually at sites that anticipate months of continuous operation.
Class B plants usually have 100 percent generated power for technical and selected essential nontechnical
loads plus one standby reserve unit. Class B plants for critical missions often have a second standby
reserve unit. A commercial power usually supplies the primary power at Class B locations.
Class C Emergency Power Plant—Consists of at least one quick-start unit to cover prime power
outages (less than 1000 hours annually). The units have manual or automatic start.
Class D Emergency Power—Uninterruptible (no-break) power using stored energy to provide
continuous power within specified voltage and frequency tolerances.
Continuous Power (International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Engine
Classification)—Power that a generator can continuously deliver for an unlimited number of hours per
year while following the manufacturer's stated maintenance intervals. Load rating is continuous or
nonvarying. Normally, a generator can operate at 110 percent of this rating for a limited period, usually 1
hour, with or without interruption, within a 12-hour period of operation. However, some generators do not
offer overload capability and designers have to specify it if required.
Disconnect Switch—A mechanical switching device used for changing the connections in a circuit or
system or for isolating a circuit or equipment from the source of power. It has no interrupting rating
(opens or closes the circuit only when negligible current is flowing) and operates after another mechanism
opens the circuit.
Mimic Bus—Mimic Bus graphics are a series of electrical symbols that are manufactured from a 15mil
polycarbonate material and Hi-Performance adhesive. Typically posted on electrical equipment to show
configuration of protective and/or transfer devices.
Prime Power (ISO Engine Classification)—The maximum power available during a variable power
sequence, which may run for an unlimited number of hours per year while following manufacturer's stated
maintenance intervals. The permissible average output during a 24-hour period cannot be more than a
specified percentage of the prime power rating. The manufacturer establishes this percentage, typically 80
to 90 percent. Prime power is a continuous operation with variable load rating. As with the continuous
power rating, some generators also have a 10 percent overload capability, which designers should specify
if required.
Protective Device—An individual device operating singly or with other devices that detects abnormal
conditions in the electric system and operates to prevent damage and injury.
Qualified Person—One who has skills and knowledge related to the construction and operation of the
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                   13


electrical equipment and installations and has received safety training on the hazards involved.
Supervisors shall set additional criteria as well as determine and document where each person within his
control is qualified.
Reliability—The long-term probability of success with repair of failed components but without
scheduled maintenance of electrical power plants, generators, and power systems. Calculate reliability as
the ratio in percentage of the mean-time-between-failure minus the mean-time-to-repair to the
mean-time-between-failure. This quantitative measure more nearly represents the power system during
critical periods of operation than any other quantitative measure. Another phrase for this term is "inherent
availability."
Supply Point—A storage location having items owned and controlled by base supply. Civil engineer
units must justify these low-usage, expendable items as specifically related to the needs of the
organization and near the activity supported. Supply points may normally keep any supply item except
equipment items.
Switchgear—An indoor or outdoor metal structure containing electrical switching and interrupting
equipment with buses and connections and associated control, instrumentation, metering, protective, and
regulating devices. The associated devices are in separate grounded metal compartments from the
switching and interrupting equipment.
14                                                                              AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


                                               Attachment 2

                           TYPICAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR
                             DIESEL ENGINE GENERATING PLANTS

A2.1. Unit Operation.
     A2.1.1. Prior to Starting. Perform a pre-start inspection.
        A2.1.1.1. Make sure any switching and automatic control equipment is in the correct position.
        A2.1.1.2. Check all fluid levels. Thoroughly check the lubricating system. Check sump level and
        filters and fill if necessary. If the engine has a separate oil pump, prime it. Check hydraulic gover-
        nor oil. Check coolant level.
        A2.1.1.3. Visually inspect for loose connections, leaks, and cracked hoses.
        A2.1.1.4. Inspect parts of engine system after any work; make sure work is complete, and all cov-
        ers and safety guards are in place.
        A2.1.1.5. Check all moving engine parts to see that they are clear for running.
        A2.1.1.6. Make sure all tools and other maintenance items are clear of the unit.
        A2.1.1.7. For cold weather operation, make sure oil, coolant, and/or jacket heaters are operating
        or follow recommended warm-up procedures.
        A2.1.1.8. Check all alarm and shutdown indicators ("lamp test").
        A2.1.1.9. Inspect the fuel oil service tank for water or sediment. Vent all air from fuel system
        using vent cocks.
     A2.1.2. During Operation:
        A2.1.2.1. Maintain temperatures and pressures within manufacturer's recommended normal lim-
        its. Record readings hourly. Frequently monitor system voltage and frequency.
        A2.1.2.2. Check the oil level in the sump regularly and check for water and contamination in the
        sump tank.
        A2.1.2.3. When units are operating in parallel or synchronized with the utility source, make sure
        all units are sharing load and volt-ampere reactive (VAR) output properly. Avoid circulating cur-
        rents that cause unstable alternator operation.
        A2.1.2.4. Watch for any abnormalities such as leaks, unusual noises, or vibrations. Promptly take
        corrective action. Record the actions in the operating log when time permits.
        A2.1.2.5. If you hear slight explosions in the crankcase, or notice popping of the relief valves,
        immediately shut down the engine. Do not remove any cover plate until the engine has cooled off.
        To prevent seizure open the indicator cocks and bar the engine over slowly.
        A2.1.2.6. If you notice overheating, remove the load from the engine as soon as possible. Over-
        load indications include excessive alternator or engine temperature, black smoke from the
        exhaust, excessive firing pressure, or engine knocking. Idle the engine while investigating the
        cause of overheating.
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                      15


       A2.1.2.7. When an engine is ready for normal shutdown, reduce the load gradually to allow the
       engine to cool gradually. Except in an emergency, allow at least 5 minutes for this process.
   A2.1.3. Shutdown. After removing load, continue to run the engine for a short period to allow tem-
   peratures to stabilize. Wipe the engine down and make sure it is ready for startup. If batteries are
   present, check to see if they are at the correct voltage or charging properly. Top off the fuel tank if pos-
   sible.

A2.2. Diesel Fuel Storage and Handling.
   A2.2.1. Handling and Storage. Keep all dirt, dust, water, and sediment out of the fuel. Prevent con-
   tamination by reducing the handling of fuel. Fuel delivery to a storage tank and pumping it directly to
   the engine day tank minimizes handling. Preserve fuel in storage and prevent sludge formation by fre-
   quently draining the water from the bottom of the tank, and keeping it full, especially during cold
   weather.
   A2.2.2. Inspection. Collect a sample in a clear glass bottle from every delivery of diesel fuel to stor-
   age, tag the bottle with the date, name and address of the supplier, and cap it tightly. Allow the sample
   to settle for at least 12 hours and compare it with previous samples for appearance (color), and amount
   of contaminants such as water, sediment, gasoline or kerosene. If the quality or identity of the fuel is
   in doubt, send a sample to an approved laboratory for analysis.

A2.3. Fire Equipment. Place dry chemical fire extinguishers conveniently near the engine. NEVER
THROW WATER ON THE ENGINE, GENERATOR, AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, OR SWITCH-
GEAR.

A2.4. Spill Containment Kit. Maintain spill containment and clean-up kits within the power plant.
16                                                                            AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


                                               Attachment 3

      TYPICAL INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS BY SYSTEM FOR
                      DIESEL ENGINE GENERATING PLANTS

Section A3A—Engine

A3.1. Fuel System.
     A3.1.1. Fuel Pump and Racks. When the engine is not running, check fuel pump racks, fuel control
     shaft bearings, and control linkages frequently for smooth motion. Lubricate and move each part back
     and forth a few times. When a pump malfunctions, replace the pump with a spare, and disassemble,
     inspect, and clean the components of the removed pump. Replace any worn or scored parts and check
     for hairline cracks.
     A3.1.2. Fuel-Injection Valves (Nozzles). If an injector is not functioning properly, replace it with a
     spare injector and inspect and clean the removed item. Dirt, water, or excessive heat cause most injec-
     tion problems.
     A3.1.3. Fuel Filters and Strainers. Do not change or clean filter elements when the minimum required
     fuel pressure to the engine is present and the pressure drop across the filter does not exceed manufac-
     turer's recommendations. To monitor condition of the filter elements and schedule cleaning or replace-
     ment, plot pressure drop (kPa or psi) across the filter at regular time intervals (days, weeks, or
     months).
     A3.1.4. Storage Systems. Keep storage tanks clean and well covered. Establish a regular cleaning
     schedule. Frequently check fuel levels and remove water. Keep all fuel handling equipment (e.g.,
     measures, funnels, and containers) very clean and covered when not in use. Periodically check opera-
     tion of fuel transfer pumps.

A3.2. Engine Governing Systems.
     A3.2.1. Governors. The two main requirements for dependable hydraulic governor operation are a
     vibration-free drive and periodic oil changes. Electronic governors require relatively little mainte-
     nance. Keep a spare governor assembly in a prime power plant.
     A3.2.2. Linkage. Check governor linkage and connections to the fuel pump racks for excessive play
     in the pivot bearings. Lubricate these components frequently.

A3.3. Alarm and Shutdown Systems. Temperature and pressure of coolant and lube oil are important
indicators of engine performance. Most engines have basic engine protective circuitry and monitoring
devices (for example, low lube oil pressure, high coolant temperature, overspeed). Some have alarms that
sound before shutdown to alert the operator to a problem requiring immediate attention. These switches,
along with the associated protective circuitry, are important to safe engine operation. Establish a schedule
to test alarm and shutdown systems annually and calibrate them following the manufacturer's specifica-
tions.

A3.4. Engine Lubricating Systems.
     A3.4.1. Lubricating Oil. Change oil in accordance with paragraph 10.1.
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                   17


       A3.4.1.1. Prime Power Generators. Analyze oil samples at every oil change or every 1,000 hours
       of operating time for prime power generators.
       A3.4.1.2. Standby Generators. Analyze oil samples every 24 months for standby generators of
       500 kW and greater in accordance with paragraphs A3.4.2. through A3.4.6.
   A3.4.2. Oil Filter. Replace filter elements at recommended intervals. Monitor the pressure drop
   across the filter between replacements. Clean the filter or replace the elements before the pressure
   drop exceeds the manufacturer's recommendations and reaches a level at which the bypass will open.
   Reduce the replacement intervals per operational experience. Check the used filter for signs of abnor-
   mal engine wear (bearing and other foreign material).
   A3.4.3. Engine Performance Indicators. Use the gradual change of oil pressure at the engine header
   as an indicator of the wear on engine bearings or of internal oil leaks. Spectrometric analysis (analysis
   of microscopic bits of metal in the oil) can detect abnormal engine wear. Consult the manufacturer on
   the results of spectrometric analyses to establish or adjust maintenance intervals.
   A3.4.4. Cold Weather Operation. At Class B or C power plants located where ambient temperature
   drops below 15.5 °C (60 °F), preheat engine lube oil to maintain operational readiness. Establish a
   schedule to check heater operation. Class D Emergency Power Plants used stored energy to provide
   continuous power.
   A3.4.5. Oil Sample Analysis. Use an independent oil analysis lab to check engine oil samples. As a
   minimum, each oil sample report shall include loss of viscosity, acid content (total acid and base num-
   bers), particulates (dirt, sand, metal and wear particles), water, other contaminants (fuel and combus-
   tion byproducts), and comments or recommended maintenance actions. Fuel oil dilution shall not
   exceed 5 percent and carbon contamination shall not exceed 15 percent from the new oil condition.
   Reduce oil change intervals if either of these limits is exceeded.
   A3.4.6. Oil Sampling Procedure. Adhere to the oil sampling procedures and guidance supplied with
   each oil sampling kit provided by the independent oil analysis lab. As a minimum, the following pro-
   cedures should be performed to ensure oil samples are not contaminated.
       A3.4.6.1. Allow the engine to reach operating temperature before sampling. This ensures insolu-
       ble and semi-soluble material is suspended evenly throughout the system.
       A3.4.6.2. Clean the valve or area around where the sample is to be taken. Collecting a clean and
       representative oil sample is critical to the oil analysis process.
WARNING: Engine crankcase oil temperatures can exceed 200 °F (93 °C). To avoid personal injury, use
protective equipment such as gloves, safety glasses and protective clothing.
       A3.4.6.3. Samples should always be taken in the same manner and from the same point. Do not
       sample a component directly after an oil change or after a large amount of makeup oil has been
       added.
       A3.4.6.4. Use a clean, dry container provided from the independent oil analysis lab. Never reuse
       containers or sampling tubing unless they have been thoroughly cleaned and dried.
       A3.4.6.5. Allow the oil to flow freely for 3 to 5 seconds when using a valve or petcock to catch a
       sample. This will allow any foreign materials in the valve to clear before the sample is captured.
18                                                                             AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


        A3.4.6.6. Capture a minimum of 4 ounces (118 milliliters) (or other amount required by the inde-
        pendent oil analysis lab) and seal tightly. Wipe the bottle clean.
        A3.4.6.7. Immediately label the sample identifying the applicable engine/generator set and follow
        the packaging procedures required by the independent oil analysis lab.

A3.5. Engine Cooling Systems.
     A3.5.1. Cooling Water Treatment. Industrial water treatment of the jacket cooling water controls
     scale from forming deposits that affect operation. For closed systems requiring no makeup water,
     inhibited antifreeze (ethylene glycol) provides the necessary protection. If necessary for corrosion
     control, various treatments are available to add to the antifreeze (check with the engine manufacturer
     first). For example, a blend of sodium nitrite–borax is effective in controlling cavitation corrosion of
     diesel engine cylinder liners.
     A3.5.2. Removal of Scale. Consult the base corrosion control engineer, command corrosion engineer,
     or HQ AFCESA/CESM before using chemicals to remove scale or corrosion from a cooling system.
     One packaged treatment using oxalic acid conforms to military specification MIL-C-10597, Cleaning
     Compound with Conditioner and Inhibitor for Engine Cooling Systems, is available through base sup-
     ply. Check with the engine manufacturer before using any chemical scale or corrosion removers. After
     cleaning, flush the system thoroughly and immediately add conditioners and then inhibitors to neutral-
     ize the chemical removers. Consult with environmental engineering for approved disposal procedures
     for used chemicals and system water at each step of the process.
     A3.5.3. Adding Coolant. Suddenly adding large amounts of cold water to a hot engine can cause
     cracks in the liners and heads or piston seizure. If you must add coolant to a running engine, add it at
     a trickle rate.

A3.6. Engine Starting System.
     A3.6.1. Air Starting. Establish a schedule to check pressure in the storage tank, drain condensation,
     and test the operation of the compressor.
     A3.6.2. Electric Motor Starting. Use a continuous cranking period of no more than 30 seconds. Equal
     cranking and rest periods of about 10 seconds up to a minute of cranking cycle are normal. Overheat-
     ing can damage starting motors if operated continuously for more than one minute.
     A3.6.3. Batteries. Keep batteries fully charged at all times. Check specific gravity with a hydrometer
     and keep terminals clean. Check battery charger operation when inspecting batteries.

A3.7. Air Intake and Exhaust Systems.
     A3.7.1. Air Filters. Inspect the filters often to determine the best service schedule. There is no com-
     mon rule for servicing air cleaners. The type of service depends on the air cleaner, air conditions and
     the application. Some engines use restriction indicators to signal when the filters require servicing.
     A3.7.2. Turbochargers and Blowers.
        A3.7.2.1. Turbochargers. Monitor the performance of turbochargers at regular intervals deter-
        mined from manufacturer's recommendations and operational experience. Maintain lubricating oil
        temperature and pressure within recommended limits. Keep the turbocharger oil clean by chang-
        ing the filter element on schedule. Check the water temperature to make sure the temperature rise
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                    19


       across the turbocharger stays within manufacturer's limits. Observe the engine to detect any
       noticeable vibration. If a vibration is present, shut down the unit and determine the cause. If the
       engine is operating under light load, check the intake manifold for oil fouling. Check the rotor end
       play and the radial clearance between the turbine blade outside diameter (O.D.) and either the inlet
       casing or nozzle ring when cold.
       A3.7.2.2. Blowers. Establish a schedule to check rotors for abrasions. Check the inlet screen for
       accumulation of dirt that will affect airflow. Inspect oil seals. Check for loose rotor shaft and dam-
       aged bearings. Check for excessive backlash between the blower and the timing gear.

A3.8. Exhaust System. Keep the moisture drain point on the silencer (muffler) clean to prevent moisture
accumulation that may cause severe engine damage. Establish a schedule to clean pyrometers and thermo-
couples.

A3.9. General Overhaul and Repair.
   A3.9.1. Common Practices.
       A3.9.1.1. Don't mix engine parts from the same or different engines. Mark for position and tag
       when disassembling.
       A3.9.1.2. Don't mix cap screws, bolts, and washers from the same or different engines.
       A3.9.1.3. Inspect engine parts carefully for abnormal conditions during disassembly.
       A3.9.1.4. Protect delicate parts and surfaces. Don't pile engine parts together. Apply oil to sur-
       faces subject to rust. Plug off passages likely to accumulate dust, machining chips, or other debris.
       A3.9.1.5. Clean the engine thoroughly. Once clean, keep it clean.
       A3.9.1.6. Work accurately. Use precision gages where needed. Follow tables of limits and tight-
       ening torque values.
       A3.9.1.7. Take positive steps to prevent unintentional starts when working on the engine. Block
       or lock the throttle and attach a safe clearance tag (either AF Form 979, Danger, or AF Form 982,
       Do Not Start) to the starting control. Disconnect the starting batteries or close the starter air sup-
       ply before beginning repairs.
       A3.9.1.8. Follow the manufacturer's recommendations.
   A3.9.2. Crankcase Alignment Inspection. Properly align all crankshaft main journals. Check align-
   ment during the original installation and during major inspection periods, or more often if encounter-
   ing bearing trouble. Deviations from correct alignment usually are due to wear and distortion,
   excessive wear of one bearing, wear of the associated journal, or crankcase distortion from uneven
   mounting surface. Record deflection readings on AF Form 731, Crankshaft Deflection Record.
   A3.9.3. Bedplate Inspection. Check for shifting of leveling wedges, loose foundation bolts, and
   deflection of skid mounts. With bedplates, the distortion of bearing saddles is generally a result of
   irregular support or cracking. Check crankshaft deflection after releveling the bedplate. When crank-
   shaft alignment is difficult to maintain, check the bedplate or crankshaft carefully for possible cracks.
   A3.9.4. Checking Crankshaft Thrust Clearance. Maintain thrust clearance at the values and limits rec-
   ommended in the manufacturer's instruction manual.
20                                                                               AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


     A3.9.5. Crankcase Inspection. After placing an engine in service, inspect the crankcase every 24
     hours for the first three or four days. Continue the inspection after taking the engine off the line.
        A3.9.5.1. Check for loose bolts, nuts, cotter pins, and broken lock wires. Also check condition of
        the camshaft drive gear train.
        A3.9.5.2. Check all main and connecting rod bearings for signs of bearing-metal squeezing out
        the sides, and for metal discoloration.
        A3.9.5.3. Operate the motor-driven lube-oil pump or hand-priming pump, and check for oil leaks
        and excessive flow around the crankshaft journals.
        A3.9.5.4. Check for water leaks, especially around the outside of the liners. Operate any
        motor-driven water-circulating pumps during the water check.
        A3.9.5.5. Check the crankcase for general cleanliness.
        A3.9.5.6. Check the crankshaft oil seal during operation and replace if necessary.
     A3.9.6. Inspection of Cylinder Liners. Measure liners for wear and check for dry spots, overheating,
     and scoring when removing cylinder heads. Record measurements of liner wear on AF Form 734,
     Cylinder Liner and Ring Wear Record, and retain it as a permanent record. Remove all lacquer and
     varnish deposits on liners. For slight scoring on a liner, polish it with a fine convex oil stone. If you
     find that cylinder liner wear and out-of-roundness is within manufacturer's limits and the cylinders are
     in good condition, do not replace the liners. Liner wear normally occurs most rapidly at right angles to
     the axis of the crankshaft; therefore, you can often increase liner life by rotating the liner 90 degrees
     within the block. Follow manufacturer's recommendations for break-in when you install new liners.
     A3.9.7. Inspection of Pistons and Piston Rings. Do not remove piston rings from the piston for clean-
     ing or inspection unless evidence indicates excessive wear or piston work needed. Measure and record
     gap clearance of new rings before installation, and keep measurement records of used rings and hours
     of operation on AF Form 734. The measurements serve for establishing ring wear and wear rates.
     After replacing rings, follow manufacturer's recommendation for break-in.
     A3.9.8. Inspection of Oil Control or Scraper Rings. Inspect the scraping edge of the rings closely. If
     the land width of the used ring is about twice as wide as the land of a new ring, or if nicks or burrs are
     present, replace the ring. Make sure that carbon or sludge does not clog the drain holes in the ring
     grooves of the piston.
     A3.9.9. Bearing Inspection. A drop in lube oil pressure to the engine, cranking speed changes, or
     crankshaft web deflection may indicate changes in bearing clearances. Foreign material and bearing
     material found in the lube oil filters or crankcase definitely indicate bearings in distress. Methods used
     for checking bearing clearance vary widely with engine size. Check main and connecting rod clear-
     ance on small high-speed engines using strips of PLASTIGAGE (a trademark of Perfect Circle) You
     may also use a dial indicator to check connecting-rod bearing clearance. An advantage to this method
     is that it does not require dismantling or disturbing the bearing. If there are frequent connecting rod
     bearing failures, check the respective connecting rods for straightness and bearing-bore out-of-round-
     ness. Check main bearing clearance using feeler gauges. If installing only one new bearing, break it in
     gently by idling the engine for about one hour and checking for overheating. If replacing all bearings,
     break them in gradually on several short runs at light load with an inspection of the temperature by
     hand touch after each run. Take crankshaft deflection readings after any bearing change.
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                    21


   A3.9.10. Crankshaft Size. Follow the manufacturer's manual for allowable limits on wear and
   out-of-roundness of crankshaft pins and journals. Where bearing failure scores or grooves crankshaft
   pins and journals, smooth the surfaces before installing new bearings and after checking that wear and
   out-of-roundness are not beyond the manufacturer's recommended limits. However, if not within man-
   ufacturer's limits and excessive scoring exists on the bearing surfaces, replace the shaft. Send the dam-
   aged shaft of engines 250 kilowatts (kW) and over in capacity to the factory for chromium plating.
   Chromium-plated shafts are much harder than carbon steel and the bearing pins and journals of the
   plated shaft are brought back to their original size. The chromium-plated shaft can then serve as a
   spare for the plant.
   A3.9.11. Generator Alignment. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for aligning generator and
   engine. Follow good alignment practices including proper shimming, correct torque on hold-down
   bolts, accurate dial indicator usage, allowances for bearing clearances, thermal growth, and other
   characteristics of the specific engine.
   A3.9.12. Startup and Break-In after Overhaul. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for startup and
   break-in after overhaul or replacing major components (e.g., cylinder liners, pistons and rings, and
   main and connecting-rod bearings).

Section A3B—Generator

A3.10. Brush Type Exciters. Use compressed air to blow out accumulated carbon, dust, and dirt. Pay
particular attention to the area behind commutator necks. Develop a schedule to check and maintain the
following items:
   A3.10.1. Drive belts (condition and tightness).
   A3.10.2. Commutator brushes (axial position, excessive arcing and chattering, and wear [replace
   when about half original length]).
   A3.10.3. Bearing lubricant.
   A3.10.4. Commutator (roughness, hard spots, and out-of-round condition).
   A3.10.5. Electrical connections.

A3.11. Alternator. Perform routine inspections and spot checks per the manufacturer's recommenda-
tions. Use a strobe light to inspect the condition of rotating parts during operation. Check for loose stator
iron, and the condition of the rotor wedges and bolts. Inspect bolts to be sure they are tight.
   A3.11.1. Windings. Inspect exposed insulation periodically and keep it clean and dry. Operate gener-
   ators under load at least once each month to be sure the windings are in good condition. Run them
   more frequently when the relative humidity is high. Otherwise, place heating lamps or heating resis-
   tors near the windings to keep them dry. Use compressed air or solvents to remove dirt, grease and oil.
   WEAR SAFETY GLASSES OR APPROVED FACE SHIELD AND AN APPROVED RESPI-
   RATOR WHEN USING COMPRESSED AIR FOR THIS PURPOSE. EXERCISE CAUTION
   TO AVOID DIRECT PERSONAL CONTACT WITH THE COMPRESSED AIR BLAST. Most
   cleaning solvents are toxic and may be flammable. Refer to AFOSH STD 91-66, General Industrial
   Operations, for information on the safe handling of solvents and to AFOSH STD 48-137, Respiratory
   Protection Program, for threshold limit values of airborne contaminants. Also consult the manufac-
22                                                                               AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


     turer's manual for compatibility with the generator insulation. After cleaning, dry the parts and revar-
     nish them with an approved insulating varnish.
     A3.11.2. Insulation Testing. Perform periodic electrical insulation resistance tests using a megohm-
     meter to determine the quality of armature and alternator field winding insulation, the contamination
     level of insulation by moisture, dirt or carbon, and to indicate the need for planned reconditioning
     before service failure. Test immediately following generator shutdown when the windings are hot and
     dry.
     A3.11.3. Outboard Bearings. Check the temperature of the outboard bearing by hand touch and the oil
     level in the bearing every hour. Change the oil every 6 months or 4000 hours of operation for class A
     units and every year for class B and C installations.
     A3.11.4. Collector Rings and Brushes. Check for sparking, which indicates improper brush and alter-
     nator-collector performance. Check the alignment of brushes on the ring periodically to make sure
     that a brush does not overhang the edge of the ring. Keep collector rings, brushes, and brush holders
     clean and free from carbon, dust, and oil. See that all brushes move freely in their holders. Remove
     sticking brushes and rub their sides with fine sandpaper. Thoroughly clean brush holders and collec-
     tors. Tighten any loose parts of the brush rigging. Check for proper spring tension. Remove black
     spots on the surface of the collector rings by carefully polishing the surface lightly with fine sandpaper
     and crocus cloth (a special abrasive). Tolerate light mottling after polishing. If rings become particu-
     larly rough, polish them with the unit running at idle speed. Use a dial indicator on the back of a brush
     while the unit runs at slow speed to check the roundness of rings. When the check indicates eccentric-
     ity, grind and polish the rings. Occasionally reverse the polarity of rings.

Section A3C—Switchgear

A3.12. Switchgear Defined. Switchgear” is a general term covering switching and interrupting devices
that control, meter, and protect the flow of electric power. The component parts include circuit breakers,
instrument transformers, transfer switches, voltage regulators, instruments, protective relays and devices,
and associated interconnections and supporting or enclosing structures.

A3.13. Switching and Interrupting Devices and Control Relays. See AFI 32-1063, Electric Power
Systems, for required exercising intervals and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70B, Electri-
cal Equipment Maintenance, for typical maintenance requirements. Follow manufacturer's recommended
procedures for the specific items.

A3.14. Voltage Regulator. Follow the manufacturer's literature for specific information on individual
voltage regulators. Develop a schedule to check:
     A3.14.1. Voltage.
     A3.14.2. Electrical connections.
     A3.14.3. Correct settings.
     A3.14.4. Weather-tightness of the enclosure.
     A3.14.5. Motor operation. (Also clean and lubricate.)
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                     23


                                              Attachment 4

                 TYPICAL INSPECTION CHECKLISTS AND SCHEDULE FOR
                        DIESEL ENGINE GENERATING PLANTS

A4.1. Scheduled Inspection and Maintenance. When preparing an inspection schedule for a particular
installation, follow the manufacturer's recommendations, especially during the warranty period. Deter-
mine if the units will be in continuous or intermittent service; if they operate at light or heavy loads; and
if they operate under extremely dusty or dirty conditions. The following information is a compilation of
manufacturers' recommendations and Air Force experience. These are the minimum actions to include in
developing a class A plant inspection checklist and schedule. Adjust these checklists for other classes of
generating plant.
   A4.1.1. Operational Hourly Inspections. Observe and record performance data on AF Form 1167,
   Daily Power Plant Operating Log (Diesel - Electric). Also, use local forms or the power plant log-
   book to record the engine pressures, fuel pump rack positions, and fluid levels during each shift.
   A4.1.2. Daily Inspections During Periods of Operation. Record applicable data on AF Form 1167.
   Perform the following and record using local forms or the power plant logbook to track information
   necessary for operator consistency or future analysis:
       A4.1.2.1. Check water, lube oil, fuel oil, and starting air systems for leaks.
       A4.1.2.2. Open vents in water, lube oil, and fuel oil systems to relieve trapped air.
       A4.1.2.3. Visually check high-pressure fuel injection systems for leaks at connections and
       high-pressure lines. Wear goggles during this check.
       A4.1.2.4. Check water level in cooling water surge tank.
       A4.1.2.5. Check alarm system with test switch.
       A4.1.2.6. Drain water and sediment from starting air and fuel tanks.
       A4.1.2.7. Hand-lubricate governor linkage and other wear parts not pressure-lubricated. Check
       freedom of movement of fuel pump racks, linkage, and control shaft while engine is running.
       A4.1.2.8. Wipe down engine.
   A4.1.3. Inspection After Approximately 250 Hours of Operation (New or Overhauled).
       A4.1.3.1. Once a week, look for broken lockwires, loose bolts, oil leaks, water leaks from around
       lower liner seals, fuel leaks from fuel pump compartment, and general uncleanliness. Continue
       this procedure until the unit accumulates approximately 1000 hours of operation from initial start
       or since last overhaul.
       A4.1.3.2. Inspect the cylinder head valve gear for proper lubrication of rocker bearings and valve
       stems.
       A4.1.3.3. Check water pump glands and adjust to maintain a slight drip while unit is running.
       A4.1.3.4. Check lubricating oil for water or fuel oil contamination. (Check visually using the set-
       tling and gage method.) Determine source of water or fuel.
       A4.1.3.5. Visually check air intake filter screens or oil bath filter sump for dirt accumulation.
24                                                                              AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


        A4.1.3.6. Inspect radiators and radiator fans for dust accumulation and clean if necessary.
     A4.1.4. Inspection After Approximately 1000 Hours of Operation.
        A4.1.4.1. Inspect the internal crankcase every 1000 hours of operation.
        A4.1.4.2. Check compression and firing pressures and enter results on AF Form 3508, Diesel
        Cylinder Compression and Firing Tests.
        A4.1.4.3. Check inlet valve, exhaust valve, and injector-valve tappet clearance; adjust as needed.
        If valve-tappet clearance is correct after the first 1000 hours of operation, perform this check every
        six months.
        A4.1.4.4. For engines with removable cam covers, inspect the camshaft cams and associated
        valve gear components for proper lubrication while operating the prelubrication pump. Check the
        cam for unusual wear and flat spots while the engine is not running.
        A4.1.4.5. Check viscosity of the crankcase lube oil. Take a sample of lube oil for analysis.
        A4.1.4.6. Check the governor drive gear for appearance and excessive backlash. For governors or
        actuators with independent oil pumps, drain and flush the device with the manufacturer's recom-
        mended cleaning solution. Refill with proper lubricant and compensate it.
        A4.1.4.7. Check all safety devices and circuits.
        A4.1.4.8. Check crankshaft deflection, crankshaft thrust clearance, and power takeoff alignment,
        including tightness of flywheel bolts. Record measurements on AF Form 731, Crankshaft Deflec-
        tion Record. If readings are within manufacturer's allowable limits after the first 1000 hours of
        operation since initial start or last overhaul, perform this check every six months.
        A4.1.4.9. Inspect the internal lower portion of the liner bore with the piston in the top position
        when checking the crankshaft. Check the exterior of main bearings, connecting rod crankpin bear-
        ing, and wrist pin area for bearing metal being squeezed out or discolored. Check for loose bearing
        caps. Check the rotor-to-stator air gap, and the main and connecting rod running oil clearance.
        Record measurements on AF Form 731. Do not disassemble bearings.
        A4.1.4.10. Check condition and tension of all belts.
        A4.1.4.11. Evaluate pressure differential across lube oil filter. Change filter elements if pressure
        differential approaches or exceeds manufacturer's recommendations.
        A4.1.4.12. Evaluate pressure differential across fuel oil filter. Change filter elements if pressure
        differential approaches or exceeds the limit recommended by the manufacturer.
     A4.1.5. Semiannual (or After Approximately 4000 Hours of Operation) Inspection.
        A4.1.5.1. Check foundation bolt nuts for tightness.
        A4.1.5.2. Check tie rods (when applicable) for tightness.
        A4.1.5.3. Check crankshaft deflection, thrust clearance, and power takeoff alignment; adjust as
        necessary. Record measurements on AF Form 731.
        A4.1.5.4. On two-cycle engines, check inlet and exhaust ports for excessive carbon formation
        around the edges. Use access openings to ports (when present) to avoid removing the cylinder
        heads.
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                   25


     A4.1.5.5. Remove and clean thermocouples. Check pyrometer selector switch and junction boxes
     for proper electrical connections. Perform operational check of pyrometer selector switch while
     the engine is running.
     A4.1.5.6. Check for scale in engine cooling water jackets.
     A4.1.5.7. Test pressure, speed and temperature sensors and all alarm and shutdown devices.
     Record results in the operating log.
  A4.1.6. Two-Year (or After Approximately 8000 Hours of Operation) Inspection.
     A4.1.6.1. Perform the 1000-hour and 4000-hour inspections plus:
         A4.1.6.1.1. Establish wear and wear rates (wear per 1000 hours) for all internal moving parts.
         Remove one cylinder head, piston, and connecting rod of the engine, then perform the follow-
         ing inspections.
         A4.1.6.1.2. Measure the connecting rod journal size and roundness, and record measurements
         on AF Form 3507, Diesel Engine Inspection Data.
         A4.1.6.1.3. Ensure proper tightness of connecting rod bolts. Measure the inside diameter of
         connecting rod bearings (crankshaft end) for size and out-of-roundness. Record results on AF
         Form 3507 to establish wear rate.
         A4.1.6.1.4. Inspect bearing surfaces (shaft and bearing shell). Look for evidence of dirt and
         damage (for example, overheating, scoring, wiping, and broken-out pieces of bearing metal in
         the shell). Record findings on the AF Form 3507. If the total wear of upper and lower shell
         halves is within permissible limits, you may interchange the shells with a given rod.
         A4.1.6.1.5. Measure the piston pin for size and roundness, and general condition. Check oil
         supply holes for obstructions. Record measurements and findings on the AF Form 3507.
         A4.1.6.1.6. Check inside diameter of wristpin bearing for size, out-of-roundness, and possible
         damage. Record measurements and findings on the AF Form 3507.
         A4.1.6.1.7. Check the rifle-drilled hole (if present) in the connecting rod for obstructions.
         A4.1.6.1.8. Check the cylinder liner bore for size and general condition of liner surface (lubri-
         cation, dry spots, scoring). Record measurements and findings on the AF Form 734, Cylinder
         Liner and Ring Wear Record.
         A4.1.6.1.9. Check the O.D. of the piston for size and roundness, and general condition. Check
         for dry spots, overheating, scoring, and accumulated carbon. Carefully inspect the pistons for
         cracks and general appearance. Record measurements and findings on the AF Form 3507.
         A4.1.6.1.10. Check compression rings groove clearance. Do not remove the rings from the
         piston for cleaning and inspecting except when replacing or working on the rings. Measure the
         radial thickness of the rings and establish the wear rate. Measure the ring by installing in lower
         portion of spare liner. If worn more than about six to eight percent of the original thickness at
         any point or if the gap is more than three or four times the original gap, don't reuse the ring.
         Record measurements and findings on AF Form 734 and AF Form 3507.
         A4.1.6.1.11. Check the condition of the oil control or scraper rings without removing the rings
         from the piston. The scraper edge should be sharp and free of nicks. If the land width of the
         scraper rings is about twice as wide as the original width, or has nicks or burrs, replace the
26                                                                       AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


        ring. Check the oil drain holes in the piston for possible clogging with carbon or sludge.
        Record findings on AF Form 3507.
        A4.1.6.1.12. Inspect intake and exhaust valve seats for wear, pitting, and warping.
        A4.1.6.1.13. Remove and inspect injection nozzle.
        A4.1.6.1.14. Remove and inspect starting air valve (where present).
        A4.1.6.1.15. The condition, wear, and wear rates of similar components in the remaining cyl-
        inders of an engine are normally about the same as those of the inspected cylinder. Determine
        the need to overhaul remaining cylinders on the basis of the established wear rates. You can
        estimate with reasonable certainty the replacement parts needed and the overhaul time
        required from the wear rates. Prepare for the overhaul while waiting for parts to arrive.
     A4.1.6.2. Check the fuel regulating linkage for lost motion (wear) or binding.
     A4.1.6.3. Check operation of pressure- and temperature-measuring devices, including thermostat-
     ically controlled valves; calibrate as necessary.
     A4.1.6.4. Check condition of all gears and shafting, such as governor gears or chains, and pump
     drive gears or chains. Measure backlash or observe slack. Record measurement and findings in the
     logbook.
     A4.1.6.5. Use the manufacturer's checklist to inspect the starting air compressor and system.
     Record findings and action taken in the logbook.
     A4.1.6.6. Check internal condition of the lube oil cooler for leaks, scale buildup, corrosion and
     clogging (8000-hour inspection only).
     A4.1.6.7. Inspect the turbocharger air impeller without dismounting. Remove air pipe section to
     turbo and inspect impeller for dirt accumulation. Spin rotor assembly by hand to check for smooth
     rotation.
AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                    27


                                              Attachment 5

       IC 2005-1 TO AFI 32-1062, ELECTRICAL POWER PLANTS AND GENERATORS
1 JUNE 2005
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2005-1. This interim change clarifies the applicability of
this instruction to all generators, not limited to RPIE, and would require, as a minimum, annual oil
changes for all standby generators and biennial oil analysis for standby generators of 500 kilowatts (kW)
and greater, and mandates documentation of all oil analysis results on AF Form 719, Historical Record –
Diesel-Electric Generator and System (paragraph 10.); and adds detailed oil sample procedures and an
independent oil analysis lab report format to include comments or maintenance recommendations
(Appendix 3). A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.
10. Lubricating Oils. Follow the engine manufacturer's recommendations for the type and grade of oil as
closely as possible. Lubricating oils meeting minimum military specifications MIL-L-2104, Lubricating
Oil, Internal Combustion Engine, Combat/Tactical Service, and MIL-L-46167, Lubricating Oil, Internal
Combustion Engine, Arctic, are acceptable for many diesel engines; however, these specifications may
not be adequate for some high-speed engines. Confirm the suitability of military specification lubricating
oils with the engine manufacturer before use.
10.1. Change oil at manufacturer’s recommended intervals; however, as a minimum, change oil annually
on all standby generators regardless of size. Do not use oil analysis results to extend oil change intervals
beyond one year.
10.2. Analyze oil samples every two years for standby generators of 500 kW and greater in accordance
with paragraph A3.4. and associated subparagraphs. Document oil analysis results and maintenance rec-
ommendations on AF Form 719, Historical Record – Diesel-Electric Generator and System.
A3.4. Engine Lubricating Systems.
A3.4.1. Lubricating Oil. Change oil in accordance with paragraph 10.1.
A3.4.1.1. Prime Power Generators. Analyze oil samples at every oil change or every 1,000 hours of oper-
ating time for prime power generators.
A3.4.1.2. Standby Generators. Analyze oil samples every 24 months for standby generators of 500 kW
and greater in accordance with paragraphs A3.4.2. through A3.4.6.
A3.4.5. Oil Sample Analysis. Use an independent oil analysis lab to check engine oil samples. As a min-
imum, each oil sample report shall include loss of viscosity, acid content (total acid and base numbers),
particulates (dirt, sand, metal and wear particles), water, other contaminants (fuel and combustion byprod-
ucts), and comments or recommended maintenance actions. Fuel oil dilution shall not exceed 5 percent
and carbon contamination shall not exceed 15 percent from the new oil condition. Reduce oil change
intervals if either of these limits is exceeded.
A3.4.6. Oil Sampling Procedure. Adhere to the oil sampling procedures and guidance supplied with each
oil sampling kit provided by the independent oil analysis lab. As a minimum, the following procedures
should be performed to ensure oil samples are not contaminated.
A3.4.6.1. Allow the engine to reach operating temperature before sampling. This ensures insoluble and
semi-soluble material is suspended evenly throughout the system.
28                                                                           AFI32-1062 1 JUNE 2005


A3.4.6.2. Clean the valve or area around where the sample is to be taken. Collecting a clean and represen-
tative oil sample is critical to the oil analysis process.
WARNING: Engine crankcase oil temperatures can exceed 200 °F (93 °C). To avoid personal injury, use
protective equipment such as gloves, safety glasses and protective clothing.
A3.4.6.3. Samples should always be taken in the same manner and from the same point. Do not sample a
component directly after an oil change or after a large amount of makeup oil has been added.
A3.4.6.4. Use a clean, dry container provided from the independent oil analysis lab. Never reuse contain-
ers or sampling tubing unless they have been thoroughly cleaned and dried.
A3.4.6.5. Allow the oil to flow freely for 3 to 5 seconds when using a valve or petcock to catch a sample.
This will allow any foreign materials in the valve to clear before the sample is captured.
A3.4.6.6. Capture a minimum of 4 ounces (118 milliliters) (or other amount required by the independent
oil analysis lab) and seal tightly. Wipe the bottle clean.
A3.4.6.7. Immediately label the sample identifying the applicable engine/generator set and follow the
packaging procedures required by the independent oil analysis lab.
