BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-1203
30TH SPACE WING
                                                                          30TH SPACE WING
                                                                                    Supplement
                                                                                  7 JULY 2009
                                                              Certified Current, 12 August 2011
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE GRIEVANCE SYSTEM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 30 FSS/FSMCE                                                      Certified by: 30 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Col Richard N. Wright)
Supersedes:   AFI36-1203_30SWSUP1,                                                      Pages: 4
              31 January 2002


AFI 36-1203 is supplemented as follows: This supplement implements and extends the
guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-1203, Administrative Grievance System. It describes
30 SW procedures for use in conjunction with the basic AFI. The OPR for this supplement is 30
FSS/FSMCE. Refer recommended changes and questions about this instruction to 30
FSS/FSMCE, 1031 California, Bldg 11777, Ste B103, VAFB CA 93437-6252, using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publications. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

3. Initial and/or final decisions on grievances filed under AFI 36-1203 and this supplement, will
be made by commanders and vice commanders assigned to US Strategic Command/JFCC; 614
Air and Space Operations Center and subordinate units; Headquarters 14th Air Force (14 AF); 30
Space Wing (SW); 30 SW group commanders; and 30 SW squadron commanders.

3.1. (Added)Responsibilities assigned to designated deciding officials under this supplement
may be carried out by another individual acting in the deciding official’s absence. In any case
where a designated deciding official is involved in the grievance or has a direct interest in the
2                                                          AFI36-1203_30SWSUP 7 JULY 2009


matter being grieved, the grievance will be forwarded to a designated deciding official at a
higher organizational level, on Vandenberg AFB, for a decision. All grievances will be
forwarded through the Civilian Personnel Office (CPO) to the appropriate deciding official.

4.1 (Added)Civilian Personnel representatives will review grievances to ensure they include all
information required by paragraph 11.2 of the basic AFI and paragraph 11.2.1 of this
Supplement. Civilian Personnel representatives will also ensure that established time limits for
processing grievances are met, and that delays are held to a minimum.

6.Members of the CPO, members of the Inspector General’s (IG) staff, attorneys in the Judge
Advocate’s (JA) Office, stewards or officers of a bargaining unit, and equal employment
opportunity (EEO) officials will not serve as employee representatives.

6.1. (Added)The Civilian Personnel Officer or designee may disallow the employee's choice of
a representative if:

6.1.1. (Added)Activities of the individual as a representative would cause a conflict of interest
or position.

6.1.2. (Added)Release of an employee from his or her official position to serve as a
representative would give rise to unreasonable costs to the government.

6.1.3. (Added)Priority work assignment of the individual precludes release to serve as a
representative.

6.2. (Added)Notification of disallowance of an employee's representative, including the reason
for the disallowance, must be delivered to the employee within seven calendar days after receipt
of notification of the employee's selection of a representative, or as soon as possible thereafter, if
the employee is not available to receive the disallowance within seven calendar days.

6.2.1. (Added)An employee may challenge the decision to disallow the choice of a
representative by addressing the challenge, through the CPO, to the designated official having
authority to make final written decisions on grievances. The challenge must be received by the
CPO within seven calendar days after receipt of the disallowance, and must provide an
explanation of why the employee believes the designation is proper and explain why the
disallowance is improper.

6.2.2. (Added)Within seven calendar days after receipt of the employee's challenge, the CPO
representative will send the file to the appropriate deciding official with an explanation of why
the employee's choice of a representative is disallowed. All action on the grievance will be held
in abeyance pending receipt of a decision on the representative disallowance issue.

6.2.3. (Added)The authorized official will issue a final decision based on review of the reasons
for disallowance of the representative, and the employee's explanation of why the employee
believes the designation to be proper. The decision, which will be sent to the employee through
the CPO, is not subject to further administrative review.

7. Employees and their representatives, if applicable, must make advance arrangements with
employees' supervisors for use of official time.

7.1. (Added)Allegations that an employee or the employee's representative did not receive a
reasonable amount of official time for preparation and presentation of a grievance will be
forwarded, through the CPO, to the designated official having authority to make final written
AFI36-1203_30SWSUP 7 JULY 2009                                                                       3


decisions on grievances. The allegation must be received by the CPO within seven calendar days
after the issue of reasonable official time is raised, and must provide details as to why the
employee (or the representative) believes a reasonable amount of time was not granted.

7.2. (Added)Within seven calendar days after receipt of the allegation, the CPO representative
will send the file to the appropriate deciding official with an explanation of why it is believed the
employee (or representative) has or has not been granted a reasonable amount of official time.

7.3. (Added)The authorized official will issue a final decision based on review of the reasons
for the denial of official time and the employee's explanation of why additional time was needed.
The decision, which will be sent to the employee through the CPO, is not subject to further
administrative review.

10. An employee may request, or agree to, the use of informal procedures to resolve a dispute
prior to filing a formal grievance. Both the grievant and the responsible management official
must agree to use the procedure. A request to attempt informal resolution of a dispute must: (1)
be in writing and addressed to 30 FSS/FSMCE, 1031 California Blvd., Suite B-103, Vandenberg
AFB CA, 93437-6252); (2) give the employee's full name, pay plan, occupational series, grade,
organization and office symbol, and duty phone; (3) contain sufficient details to clearly identify
the action being challenged and to clarify the reasons for challenging the action; (4) specify the
personal relief or remedy sought by the employee; (5) give the name, mailing address, and
telephone number of the employee's representative, if applicable; (6) contain a statement that the
employee has not filed an appeal or complaint concerning the same action under any other Air
Force appellate or complaint system or with any other agency; (7) include copies of any
documents related to other efforts to resolve the grievance, if applicable; and (8) be dated and
signed by the employee.

10.5. A copy of any decision rendered at the informal stage will be included in the official
grievance file, if the employee later files a formal grievance.

11.2.1. (Added)The grievance must also include the employee's full name, organization, a
telephone number at which the employee can be reached, a mailing address to which
correspondence is to be sent, and an explanation of efforts to resolve the grievance informally, if
applicable.

11.2.2. (Added)The written formal grievance will be filed with CPO 30 FSS/FSMCE. A
Civilian Personnel representative will review the grievance to ensure filing requirements are met,
and will forward it to the appropriate deciding official recommending that it be processed; or
recommending that it be rejected, canceled or temporarily suspended according to paragraphs
11.8 through 11.8.6 and 11.9 of the basic AFI, if appropriate.

11.4. Formal grievances accepted for processing will first be forwarded to an appropriate
deciding official for an initial decision. If the initial decision does not grant the relief sought, at
the grievant's request, the grievance may be forwarded to an appropriate official for a final
decision. The final decision will include the grievant's review options, if applicable.

11.7. A request for review must be submitted to the CPO, in writing, within 15 calendar days
after the date of receipt of the final decision being contested, and must fully and clearly explain
the reasons for disagreeing with that decision. The time limit may be extended when, in the
judgment of the CPO representative, the employee shows that circumstances beyond the
employee's control prevented a timely request for review. An employee may request a review of
a final decision on a formal grievance when: (1) the grievance is rejected, canceled, or otherwise
4                                                         AFI36-1203_30SWSUP 7 JULY 2009


terminated without a decision on its merits; or (2) the final decision does not grant the relief
sought and the grievance involved a suspension without pay or a removal.

11.7.1. (Added)Reviewing Officials:
11.7.1.1. (Added)In all cases, officials reviewing final decisions must be at a higher
organizational level than the official who made the final decision on the grievances. If to meet
this requirement it is necessary to elevate the grievance above base level, the deciding official
will be an individual in the next higher management level in the grieving employee’s chain of
command.

11.7.2. (Added)Within 7 calendar days after receipt of the request for review of the final
grievance decision, the CPO representative will send the request and the original grievance file
to the appropriate reviewing official. A copy of the transmittal memorandum will be sent to the
employee and the employee's representative, if applicable.

11.7.3. (Added)The reviewing official will normally make a decision concerning the matter
within 25 calendar days after receipt of the request for review and the grievance file. The file
will be returned to the CPO for appropriate action, as determined by the reviewer's decision. The
reviewing official's decision is final and the employee has no further review rights concerning
the grievance.

12.3. The official making an initial decision on a formal grievance shall issue a written decision
no later than 15 calendar days from the date the grievance was filed. The official making the
final decision on the formal grievance shall issue a written decision no later than 20 calendar
days from the date of the request for a final decision. The official reviewing the final decision on
the formal grievance shall issue a review decision not later than 25 calendar days from the date
of the request for review.



                                              DAVID J. BUCK, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
