BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-601
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING (1 SOW)

                                                                                 HURLBURT FIELD
                                                                                       Supplement
                                                                                        20 MAY 2010
                                                                   Certified Current 24 October 2012
                                                                                            Security

                                                              INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM
                                                                             MANAGEMENT

                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 1 SOW/IPC                                                                 Certified by: 1 SOW/IP
Supersedes: AFI31-601                                            (Mr. Patrick T. Cooper, YC-02, DAF)
            HURLBURTFIELDSUP,
            31 December 2005                                                                  Pages: 22


AFI31-601, 29 June 2005 is supplemented as follows:

This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-601,
Industrial Security Program Management. This publication establishes procedures for protecting
classified national security and sensitive unclassified information (regardless of its classification,
sensitivity, physical form, media or characteristics) and sensitive government resources entrusted to
classified contractor activities. It assigns responsibility for implementing and managing the Industrial
Security Program in accordance with Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-6, Industrial Security,
and AFI31-601. It requires on-base contractors to operate under AFPD31-4, Information Security,
and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-401, Information Security Program Management, via the
execution of a Visitor Group Security Agreement (VGSA). It applies to all activities assigned at
Hurlburt Field unless stated otherwise in the installation support agreement. This publication does
not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s
from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS), and Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name
 2                                                             AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication
does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect the transfer of responsibility of the Information Security
Program Manager (ISPM) from the Chief, Security Forces to the Chief, Information Protection;
provides direction to base units on the utilization of the Contractor Verification System for issuance
of Common Access Cards to contractors; identifies JPAS as the primary source for confirming
classified access eligibility; outlines Industrial Security documentation required to be maintained by
the Unit and provides guidance to commanders for actions that may be taken on contractors who fail
to comply with/sign the Visitor Group Security Agreement.

       13.2.   (Added) Adopted Forms: ...................................................................................................    8

Attachment 1—(Added) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       9

Attachment 3—(Added) INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING DD FORM 254                                                                                12

Attachment 4—(Added) AN ITEM-BY-ITEM INSTRUCTION FOR PREPARING THE DD FORM
             254                                                           13


           1. 6.1.1. The Chief, Information Protection (IP) and/or during his/her absence the Chief,
           Industrial Security acts on behalf of the installation commander for industrial security
           matters and is referred to as the Information Security Program Manager (ISPM).
           1.6.1.2. Include AFFARS clause 5352.204-9000, Notification of Government Security
           Activity and Visitor Group Security Agreement, in solicitation and contract documents for
           contractors operating on Hurlburt Field that require DD Form 254, DOD Contract Security
           Classification Specification in the performance of their contract. Hurlburt Field
           organizations Unit Security Managers (SM) will notify the Servicing Security Activity
           (SSA) 30 days prior to beginning work on Hurlburt Field for all contractors
           supporting/working on a classified contract.
           1.6.1.4. At Hurlburt Field, the Information Security Program Manager (ISPM) is
           responsible for supervision and oversight of on-base integrated visitor group contractors.
           The Chief, Industrial Security (1 SOW/IPC) is the Servicing Security Activity (SSA) and
           manages the Industrial Security Program on behalf of the ISPM. The AFSOC Special
           Security Office (SSO) AFSOC/A2S is responsible for the supervision and oversight of
           access to and protection of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) and intelligence
           required for contract performance at Hurlburt Field. The SSO is also responsible for
           supervision and oversight of collateral classified information maintained in SCI storage
           areas under its control. DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, AFI 14-303,
           Release of Intelligence to US Contractors, AFI 31-401, Managing the Information
           Security Program, AFI 31-401_HULBURTFIELDSUP, Information Security Program
           Management, and AFI 31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP, Industrial Security Program
           Management, will be used to provide oversight of collateral classified information. DoD
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                            3


        5105.21-M-1, Department of Defense Sensitive Compartmented Information
        Administrative Security Manual and AFMAN 14-304, The Security, Use and
        Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information (FOUO) will be used to provide
        oversight of SCI.
        1.6.2.2. Hurlburt Field organizations will notify the 1 SOW/IPC 30 days prior to
        beginning work on Hurlburt Field for all contractors supporting/working on a classified
        contract. The Program Manager (PM), Contracting Officer Representative (COR) and
        Unit Security Manager (SM) developing the contract requirements will coordinate with 1
        SOW/IPC to ensure security classification guidance is provided via the DD Form 254,
        Contract Security Classification Specification. Additional security requirements will be
        incorporated into the Statement of Work (SOW), Performance Work Statement (PWS)
        and Visitor Group Security Agreement (VGSA). 1 SOW/IPC will review all DD Forms
        254 before they are submitted to the Contracting Officer (CO). 1 SOW/IPC will be the
        final signature in block/item 13.
        1.6.2.5. The PM, COR and SM are responsible to ensure a Visitor Group Security
        Agreement (VGSA) is completed and signed within the suspense time given to meet local
        unique security requirements. The VGSA will be drafted by 1 SOW/IPC and forwarded
        as a tasker to the unit for coordination/signature.
        1.6.2.6. (Added) The PM, COR, and SM are the individuals appointed by the head of the
        organization to provide the necessary operational interface between the contractor and
        SSA. The Contractor Local Security Representative (LSR) is the designated on-base
        contractor employee who will serve as the company’s focal point for all security related
        matters.
            1.6.2.6.1. (Added) The Unit SM will maintain a listing of Program Managers and
            Contracting Officer Representatives assigned to classified contracts within their units.
            As a minimum, the listing will have the name, phone number, office symbol, contract
            number and name of Contractor Company. A copy of the list must be forwarded to 1
            SOW/IPC.
     1.6.6. (Added) The Unit Security Manager is responsible to manage the unit’s Industrial
     Security Program within their unit or staff agency. The SM will advise their commander or
     staff agency chief on Industrial Security issues pertaining to the unit or staff agency; attend
     ISPM hosted security manager meetings; update and remind contractor personnel of industrial
     security policies/procedures; draft/review DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification
     Specification (new, logical follow-on and/or solicitations) and contract documents to ensure
     appropriate security clauses and/or language is contained therein which address the protection
     of government information and sensitive resources; maintain and process visitor group
     documentation/files; develop and conduct a training plan tailored to the unit's industrial
     security program; provide required industrial security documentation to 1 SOW/IPC and
     ensure all suspenses are met.
        1.8.2.1. Visitor group personnel will notify the Unit Security Manager and 1 SOW/IPI of
        all security violations by end of the duty day on which the incident was discovered. 1
        SOW/IPI will notify 1 SOW/IPC of all security violations involving contractor personnel.
        If the security incident involves computer network, Communication Security (COMSEC),
        Computer Security (COMPUSEC), or Emanations Security (EMSEC), immediate
4                                          AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


       notification to the Base Information System Security Officer (ISSO) 1 SOCS/SCB is
       required. 1 SOW/IPI informs SSO AFSOC (AFSOC/A2S) of SCI-related or intelligence-
       related security incidents to include Communication Security. SSO AFSOC will assume
       jurisdiction for any SCI-related or intelligence-related security incident.
       1.8.2.4. (Added) The 1 SOW/IP Office, Unit Security Manager or SSO will notify the
       Contractor’s Facility Security Officer (FSO) and the local Defense Security Service
       representative of violations involving contractor personnel.
       2.1.3.4. (Added) A Contracting Officer (CO), who requires assistance in verifying a
       facility security clearance, will contact the 1 SOW/IPC for guidance.
    2.2.3. The CO forwards requests for National Interest Determinations (NIDs) to 1 SOW/IPC.
    2.3.5. (Added) Contractors requiring SCI access must have the Air Force Central
    Adjudication Facility (AFCAF) grant SCI eligibility following receipt of Top Secret
    Eligibility from Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO). Contact AFSOC/A2S
    for assistance.
    2.4.1. Unit Security Managers submit requests for contractor unclassified Automated
    Information System (AIS) personnel security investigations to the 1 SOW/IPP Office
    (Personnel Security) for processing IAW AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
    Management.
    3.1.4. Unit Security Managers will include visitor group contractor personnel in their security
    education program and document all training/awareness briefings. Sample training briefings
    are     available     on     the   1    SOW       Industrial    Security    SharePoint       at
    https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
       3.1.4.1. (Added) Contractors with local area network access will participate in the base-
       level Security Awareness, Training, and Education (SATE) Program.
       3.1.4.2. (Added) Contractor personnel will be issued the Common Access Card (CAC)
       per Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), which mandates policy for a
       common identification standard for all Federal employees and contractors.
       3.1.4.3. (Added) A National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) or equivalent national
       security clearance (e.g. National Agency Check with Local Agency Checks including
       Credit Check/NACLC) is required for permanent issuance of the credential. The
       credential may be issued upon favorable return of the FBI fingerprint check, pending final
       favorable completion of the NACI/equivalent, based on a commander/director risk
       management decision. An individual holding a valid national security clearance shall not
       require an additional submission of the NACI/equivalent.
       3.1.4.4. (Added) The Contractor Verification System (CVS) is the primary source used
       for issuance of the CAC. The Installation has three Registered Sites; HQ AFSOC, 1 SOW
       and 505 CCW. Each Site will appoint in writing a Site POC, who will provide oversight
       and guidance to personnel assigned. Each Site POC will appoint in writing a Primary and
       Alternate Trusted Agent Security Manager (TASM), who will manage assigned Trusted
       Agents (TA’s). Units (Group/Squadron) having contractors assigned or supporting their
       units will appoint in writing a Primary and Alternate TA. TA’s will be responsible for
       entering contractor personnel data/information into CVS. TA’s must verify a contractor
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                          5


        has as a minimum of a (NACI) or equivalent national security clearance prior to entering
        contractor information into CVS. TA’s will ensure the unit security manager has the
        following documents/forms are on file: Prime DD Form 254, Subcontractor DD Form
        254 (if applicable), Local Security Representative/Long Term Notification Memorandum,
        Statement of Work (SOW) and Visit Request (via Joint Personnel Adjudication System
        (JPAS). Information pertaining to CVS will be posted to the 1 SOW Industrial Security
        SharePoint at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
     3.2.4. (Added) The Unit Security Manager is responsible for inviting the Contractor LSR to
     attend security manager meetings and training hosted by the 1 SOW/IP. A copy of the
     meeting minutes and/or training material can be provided in lieu of attendance.
     4.2.3. The AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC) is responsible for providing security addenda
     outlining contractor security requirements for intelligence (SCI & Non SCI), establishing SCI
     facilities, granting SCI access, and coordinating on any DD Form 254 involving SCI and/or
     non-SCI intelligence prior to issuing a solicitation.
        4.2.3.1. (Added) Hurlburt Field agencies (Base Comm, COMSEC, For Official Use Only
        (FOUO), OPSEC, SCI, and Special Access) are responsible for reviewing and
        coordinating on all DD Forms 254 where the contractor will be required to have access to
        their specific programs. On Hurlburt Field, appropriate addendum satisfies this
        requirement and will be attached to the DD Form 254 as referenced in Block/Item 10, 11
        and 13.
     4.3.2. The Program Manager and Unit Security Manager will review classified contracts
     assigned to their units to include DD Form 254’s annually (November/December) in
     conjunction with the Annual Contract Validation or sooner if the contract security
     specification changes. The Unit Security Manager will provide 1 SOW/IPC with a copy of
     the Annual Validation Report NLT 1 January. The Unit Security Manager will ensure copies
     of all required Industrial Security Documentation are forwarded to 1 SOW/IPC immediately
     for any extensions, modifications or revisions.
        4.3.2.1. (Added) Identify the responsible Program Manager (PM) and SM by name,
        organization, address, and phone number in Block 13 of the DD Form 254. For DD Form
        254’s not awarded and/or initiated by Hurlburt Field, identify the responsible PM and SM
        by adding an addendum to the DD Form 254.
     4.5.1. Execute a VGSA with all contractor operations located on Hurlburt Field that will
     require access to classified information and whose work performance is more than 90 days.
     4.5.4. The VGSA used for Hurlburt Field Visitor Groups will be approved by 1 SOW/IPC
     and 1 SOW/JA. Any changes or modifications to the VGSA template will be coordinated and
     approved by both offices.
     4.5.5. As a minimum, the VGSA will be signed by the contractor’s designated representative,
     commander and/or deputy commander of the unit sponsoring the visit, 1 SOW/IPC and the
     ISPM. The ISPM (1 SOW/IPC in their absence) is the designated certifying official for the
     Installation Commander and is the final signing authority for the VGSA. The SSA forwards a
     copy of the executed/signed VGSA to the unit security manager, who in-turn will forward to
     the contract lead, contracting officer and program manager.
6                                           AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


    4.5.7. (Added) Visitor groups will sign and comply with the Hurlburt Field VGSA as a
    condition of access to Hurlburt Field. Failure to comply/execute the VGSA by the Visitor
    Group will result in immediate suspension of access to classified and AIS access (NIPRNET
    and SIPRNET). As a last resort the contractors can be removed from the installation and their
    access suspended.
    5.2.4. Contractor personnel will not be appointed as security managers for AF activities. This
    prohibition includes functioning as security manager for government sponsored classified
    meetings.
    5.3.1. (Added) Cleared facilities are not authorized at Hurlburt Field.
    5.5.1. (Added) The COR, PM or SM will notify 1 SOW/IPC, in writing, at least 30 days
    prior to contract completion. In the case of contract termination, the notification will be made
    as soon as the determination is made to terminate a contract.
    6.2.1. The 1 SOW/IPC conducts an Industrial Security Program Review once per year or as
    part of the supported organization’s Annual Information Security Program Review (ISPR).
    The 1 SOW/IPC conducts program reviews in accordance with DoD 5200.22R, AFI 31-601,
    local/MAJCOM supplements, and the VGSA. The sponsoring activity commander will
    receive a consolidated program review report. Visitor group LSRs will receive upon request
    that portion of the report that pertains to their contract activity from their unit security
    manager.
       6.2.1.1. (Added) Unit Security Managers will ensure on-base visitor groups are included
       in the supported organization’s self-inspection (SI) program. A contractor specific SI is
       not required. The government representative (civ/mil) will conduct the SI using the
       checklist provided by the1 SOW/IPC.
    6.2.4. 1 SOW/IPC, SM, and LSR will maintain visitor group security files as follows:
       6.2.4.1. Signed copy of DD Form 254 (Prime and Subcontractor) and all revisions: 1
       SOW/IPC, SM, and LSR, in visitor group file.
       6.2.4.2. Signed copy of the VGSA: 1 SOW/IPC, SM, and LSR, in visitor group file.
       6.2.4.3. Current listing of key on-base management officials to include the name, address
       and telephone number of program/project officer: 1 SOW/IPC, SM, and LSR, in visitor
       group file. See LSR, DD Form 254 and VGSA.
       6.2.4.4. Copy of the last program review: SM, in SM handbook, as part of the
       Information Security Program. ISPM, in supported unit information security folder. LSRs
       keep only copies of program review reports that pertain to their company. Discrepancies
       noted will be tracked until complete by the supported organization’s commander.
       6.2.4.5. Copies of last two security self-inspection reports: SM, in SM handbook, as part
       of the Information Security Program. ISPM, in supported unit’s Information Security
       folder. LSRs keep only copies of self-inspection reports that pertain to their company.
       Discrepancies noted will be tracked until complete by the supported organization
       commander.
           6.2.4.5.1. (Added) Copy of the JPAS visit authorization or a visit authorization letter
           from the company having no JPAS capability. SM in visitor group file.
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                               7


            6.2.4.5.2. . (Added) Copy of the Local Security Representative (LSR)/Contractor
            Long Term Notification Memorandum: 1 SOW/IPC, SM and LSR, in visitor group
            file.
            6.2.4.5.3. (Added) Copy of the Performance Work Statement (PWS) and or
            Statement of Work (SOW) detailing security requirements and work locations: 1
            SOW/IPC, SM and LSR, in visitor group file.
            6.2.4.5.4. (Added) Copy of the Annual Validation of Contracts Report: 1 SOW/IPC
            and SM in visitor group file.
     6.2.5. Brief commanders, directors, staff agency chiefs and contract lead on discrepancies or
     issues involving the visitor group and its personnel.
        6.2.5.1. At Hurlburt Field, the Contracting officer (CO) and/or COR will notify the
        contractor’s home office facility of major security program deficiencies or non-
        compliance with the VGSA.
     7.1.1. (Added) The installation commander grants access to visitor groups through the
     VGSA. A signed VGSA is required for visitor group access to Hurlburt Field. Contractor
     employees will be denied access to the installation, classified information,
     restricted/controlled areas, and AIS until the VGSA is signed.
     7.2.1. (Added) The ISPM and/or SSA is delegated the authority to establish visitor groups
     for the installation.
     7.2.2. (Added) JPAS is the primary source for confirming classified access eligibility for
     DOD employees and all contractor personnel.
     7.3.1. Visit processing and coordinating procedures are the responsibility of the
     visited/supported organization and must be included within the unit’s security operating
     instructions (OI). Contractors supporting classified contracts will submit visit request to the
     organizations (security managers) being visited via JPAS no later than 5 days prior to the
     arrival date of visiting contractor personnel. Security managers will provide copies to visit
     focal points. Security managers maintain copies of visit requests on file until expiration date
     indicated on request. All visit requests will be limited to the duration of the visit or one year,
     whichever is shorter.
     8.1.1. Prime contractors will issue subcontractors a separate DD Form 254 and sign a
     separate VGSA and/or VGSA Agreement Memorandum. A copy of the 254 will be provided
     to the host unit and 1 SOW/IPC and AFSOC/A2S, if applicable.
     9.1.3. All contractors accessing the base network must, at a minimum, have a completed
     National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) as required by DOD 5200.2-R and AFI 31-
     501.
     9.1.5. (Added) 1 SOCS is OPR for Automated Information System (AIS) certification and
     accreditation, Communication Security (COMSEC), Emanations Security (EMSEC)
     requirements, and Privacy Act information. AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC) is the OPR for AIS
     accreditation involving SCI systems.
     9.1.6. (Added) Non-SCI AIS used by visitor groups must be accredited and/or approved by 1
     SOW/CC. Contractors are responsible for the protection of government Sensitive but
 8                                           AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


       Unclassified, For Official Use Only, Privacy Act and Operation Security (OPSEC)
       information.
       9.1.7. (Added) On-base visitor group contractors will participate in the base-level
       COMPUSEC program to ensure all automated information systems meet standards for the
       protection of Air Force information.
       9.1.8. (Added) The organizational commander for whom the contractor is performing work
       is responsible for ensuring all Air Force-owned, contractor-operated AIS processing Air Force
       information is approved as appropriate. All contractor-owned, contractor-operated AIS
       processing Air Force information must meet criteria in AFI 33-202.
       9.1.9. (Added) Do not release COMSEC information or material to contractors without
       approval of the Base COMSEC Officer. Contractor “access to or storage” of COMSEC
       material or documents by a contractor must be approved by 1 SOCS/SCB.
       10.2.1. (Added-SCI and Non-SCI Intelligence) .             AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC) is
       responsible for the security and protection of SCI and non-SCI intelligence required for
       contract performance at Hurlburt Field. The SSO is also responsible for the security and
       protection of non-SCI classified information maintained in SCI facilities (SCIFs). DoD
       5105.21-M-1, Sensitive Compartmented Information Administrative Security Manual and
       AFM 14-304, The Security, Use and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information
       will be used to provide oversight of SCI. DoD 5200.1-R, AFI 14-303, Release of Intelligence
       to US Contractors, AFI 31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP, Information Security Program
       Management, and AFI 31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP, Industrial Security Program
       Management, will be used to provide oversight of collateral classified information.
       11. 2. 1. (Added) AFSOC/A2S is the Foreign Disclosure Office for AFSOC units.All
       requests to release military classified/unclassified information to foreign visitors must be
       coordinated with the Foreign Disclosure Officer in AFSOC/A2S at least 30 days in advance.
CHAPTER 13 (Added) Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

13.2. (Added) Adopted Forms:

DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification, Department of Defense
DD Form 1540, Registration for Scientific and Technical Information Services
DD Form 2345, Militarily Critical Technical Data Agreement
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           GREGORY J. LENGYEL, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                          9


                                      Attachment 1 (Added)
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Manual 5105.21-M-1, Department of Defense Sensitive Compartmented Information
Administrative Security Manual, August 1998
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
AFFARS 5352.204-9000, Notification of Government Security Activity and Visitor Group Security
Activity and Visitor Group Security Agreements, 26 October 2008
AFPD 31-4, Information Security, 1 September 1998
AFPD 31-6, Industrial Security, 1 April 2000
AFI 14-303, Release of Intelligence to U.S. Contractors, 1 April 1999
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 June 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 31-401_HURLBURTFIELDSUP, Information Security Program Management, 1 July 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCAF—Air Force Central Adjudication Facility
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
AIS— Automated Information System
ANG— Air National Guard
CAC— Common Access Card
CO— Contracting Officer
COMSEC— Communication Security
COMPUSEC— Computer Security
CSO— Cognizant Security Office
CSSO— Contractor Special Security Officer
CVS— Contractor Verification System
DISCO— Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office
DoD— Department of Defense
 10                                         AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


DTIC— Defense Technical Information Center
EMSEC—Emanations Security
FOUO— For Official Use Only
FSO— Facility Security Officer
IP— Information Protection
ISPM— Information Security Program Manager
ISSO— System Security Officer
JPAS— Joint Personnel Adjudication System
LSR— Local Security Representative
LIMDIS— Limited Dissemination Information
MAJCOM— Major Command
NACI—National Agency Check with Inquiries
NACLC— National Agency Check with Local Agency Checks
NATO— North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NIDs— National Interest Determinations
OI— Operating Instruction
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC— Operation Security
PCOs— Procuring Contracting Officers
PM— Program Manager
PR— Purchase Request
PWS— Performance Work Statement
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SAP— Special Access Program
SATE— Security Awareness, Training, and Education
SCI— Sensitive Compartmented Information
SI— Self-Inspection
SSO— Special Security Office
SM— Security Manager
SOOs— Statement of Objectives
SOW— Statement of Work
SSA— Servicing Security Activity
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                            11


TAs— Trusted Agents
TASM— Trusted Agent Security Manager
VGSA— Visitor Group Security Agreement

Terms
Classified National Security Information—(or “classified information”)—Information that has
been determined pursuant to Executive Order 12958, as amended, or any subsequent order, to require
protection against unauthorized disclosure and which is marked to indicate its classified status.
Collateral Classified Information—Classified information which is not Sensitive Compartmented
Information.
Contract—A mutually binding legal relationship obligating the seller to furnish the suppliers or
services (including construction) and the buyer to pay for them. It includes all types of commitments
that obligate the government to an expenditure of appropriated funds and that, except as otherwise
authorized in writing.
Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)—A type of intelligence requiring more restricted
dissemination and more protection to ensure that intelligence sources and analytical methods are
protected.
Sensitive Information—(or “sensitive unclassified information” or “controlled unclassified
information”)—Consistent with the Computer Security Act of 1987, “sensitive” information is
defined as any information the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of which could
adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which
individuals are entitled under Title 5, United States Code, Section 552a (The Privacy Act), but which
has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by Executive Order or an Act of
Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. (Note: Privacy
information also qualifies for protection under Title 5, United States Code, Section 552 Freedom of
Information Act of 1974).
 12                                            AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


                                       Attachment 3 (Added)
                     INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING DD FORM 254

A3.1. (Added) These instructions provide guidance to program officers/managers responsible for
initiating the DD Form 254. A DD Form 254 will be prepared for each contract requiring a contactor
to have access to classified information. Sample DD Form 254 template is available on the 1 SOW
Industrial Security SharePoint at https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/1SOW_IP/default.aspx.
A3.2. (Added) The government provides guidance to prime contractors for classified contracts
primarily by incorporating a DD Form 254, DoD Contract Security Classification Specification, into
every classified contract. The program or project manager prepares the DD Form 254 (use current
edition dated Dec 1999). The DD Form 254 tells the contractor what access is needed and what is to
be protected. The DD Form 254, with its attachments/addendums and incorporated references, is the
only authorized means for providing security classification guidance to a contractor. It should be
written as specifically as possible, and it should include only that information that pertains to the
contract for which it is issued. Use the appropriate paragraph in the Statement of Work (SOW),
Statement of Objectives (SOOs), Purchase Request (PR) or other description of the effort for
compliance documents. If access to a regulation is absolutely essential, cite the appropriate
regulation in the DD Form 254. The government program manager must ensure the contractor
receives a copy of the necessary regulation.
A3.3. (Added)Attachments to the DD Form 254 must not include classified information. Cite a
short unclassified title or use whatever means necessary to identify such instructions without inserting
classified information on the form.
A3.4. (Added) The base industrial security office, 1 SOW/IPC, must review and approve all DD
Forms 254 prior to their submission to the Contracting Officer after all other applicable security
discipline OPRs have coordinated. Email electronic copy of the DD Form 254 and Statement of
Work (SOW) to 1 SOW/IPC for review and approval. Attachments, addendums and coordination
sheets must accompany the form throughout the coordination cycle. SCI/Intelligence and SAP
Addendums will be provided by the respective POC during mandatory coordination/signature. 1
SOW/IPC will provide all other addendums, as applicable, during their review. Forms containing
errors will be returned for correction to the originator of the DD Form 254.
A3.5. (Added) The DD Form 254 must be an original, and all entries must be typewritten or
computer generated. Do not staple the DD Form 254 to any other document. Any changes/revisions
of the original DD Form 254 will require repeat coordination of all appropriate functional managers.
A3.6. (Added)The DD Form 254 is a legally binding document. It must contain the signature of the
certifying official prior to distribution. The contracting officer is responsible for ensuring proper
distribution of the form is made and the forms are maintained in accords to the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                             13


                                      Attachment 4 (Added)
       AN ITEM-BY-ITEM INSTRUCTION FOR PREPARING THE DD FORM 254

A4.1. (Added) ITEM 1: CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING:
   A4.1.1. (Added) Item 1a. Insert the highest level of facility clearance required by the contractor
   for performance of the contract. Use only the words “TOP SECRET,” “SECRET,” or
   “CONFIDENTIAL.”             Special caveats such as RESTRICTED DATA, FORMERLY
   RESTRICTED DATA, COMSEC INFORMATION, SCI, etc., are not appropriate for this item.
   The contractor must have a valid facility security clearance (FCL) at least as high as the
   classification indicated in this item.
   A4.1.2. (Added) Item 1b. Safeguarding and control of collateral classified is the responsibility
   of the supported USAF organization at Hurlburt Field. Therefore, enter “None” for contracts
   performing work only at Hurlburt Field.
   A4.1.3. (Added) Items 2 and 3. THIS SPECIFICATION IS FOR.
   A4.1.4. (Added) Item 2a.      Insert “X” (Contract number is entered at time of award by
   contracting official).
   A4.1.5. (Added) Item 2b. Do not use. For Prime Contractor use only.
   A4.1.6. (Added) Item 2c. Insert “X” (Solicitation or PR number, in block or enter the number in
   the MARGIN area of the form, in any instance do not enter “DUE DATE” number in date box.
   A4.1.7. (Added) Item 3a. Insert “X” in block before 3a and the current date (YYYYMMDD).
A4.2. (Added) For a Revised DD FORM 254:
   A4.2.1. (Added) Item 2a. Enter existing contract number.
   A4.2.2. (Added) Item 3a. Enter date of original DD 254 being revised.
   A4.2.3. (Added) Item 3b. Enter “X,” latest revision number, and current date (YYYYMMDD).
   Note: (Added) The date of the original will appear unchanged on each revised DD Form 254.
   Any change to DD Form 254, once it has been provided to a contractor either during the
   solicitation process or upon award, will be made by revising the form. Each time a revision is
   issued, it shall be given a sequential revision number.
      A4.2.3.1. (Added) For a Final DD FORM 254: Requires Original Classification Authority
      (OCA) and Installation Commander Approval.
   A4.2.4. (Added) Item 3a. Enter date of original. Item 3b. Enter latest revision number and date
   of latest revision (YYYYMMDD).
   A4.2.5. (Added) Item 3c. Enter “X” in 3c. and current date (YYYYMMDD). Note: When a
   final DD Form 254 is issued, Item 5 is always marked “YES.” Issue a final DD 254 only when a
   contract is completed and retention of the classified material has been authorized, or the material
   in question is declassified.
A4.3. (Added) ITEM 4: IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT:
   A4.3.1. (Added) This item pertains to follow-on contracts. To qualify as a follow-on contract,
   the new contract must be to the same contractor for the same item or service as the preceding
14                                               AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


     contract. Also, the previous classified effort must be completed prior to being identified as
     follow-on. When these conditions exist, enter “X” in the “YES” box, and enter the preceding
     contract number in the space provided. This item authorizes the contractor to transfer classified
     material received or generated under the preceding contract to the current contract. It is assumed
     that the contractor will require access to the same information for performance of the follow-on
     contract as required for the previous contract. If the preceding contract is not complete, transfer
     of accountability is not permitted; enter “X” in “NO”. An active contract justifies possession of
     the classified material.
A4.4. (Added) ITEM 5: IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254:
     A4.4.1. (Added) Issue a final DD Form 254 only when a contract is complete and retention of
     the classified material has been authorized, or the material in question has been declassified. If a
     final DD Form 254 is being issued, enter “X” in the “YES” box, the date of the contractor’s
     request for retention and the authorized period of retention in the spaces provided. Retention
     period will not extend beyond 2 years. Final DD Form 254 requires OCA and Installation
     Commander approval. If a final DD Form 254 is not being issued, enter “X” in “NO”.
A4.5. (Added) ITEM 6: CONTRACTOR:
     A4.5.1. (Added) This item is completed by the contracting official when the contractor has been
     determined. Enter the same address of the prime contractor in Item 6a. as it appears on the
     contract. Enter the contractor’s Cage Code in 6b. and the name and address of the appropriate
     DSS cognizant security office (CSO) in 6c. See attached listing for DSS (CSO) operating
     locations information.
A4.6. (Added) ITEM 7: SUBCONTRACTOR:
     A4.6.1. (Added) This item is completed by the Prime Contractor when subcontracting off a
     prime contract requiring a DD Form 254. Enter the address of the subcontractor in 7a. Enter the
     subcontractor’s Cage Code in 7b. and the name and address of the appropriate DSS Cognizant
     Security Office (CSO) in 7c. See attached listing for DSS (CSO) operating locations information.
     Enter “N/A” in 7a., b., and c. This item is used by a contractor only when subcontracting off of a
     prime contract requiring a DD Form 254.
A4.7. (Added) ITEM 8: ACTUAL PERFORMANCE:
     A4.7.1. (Added) If work will be performed at another government installation, enter in item 8a,
     or if necessary, enter “See Item 13” in 8a, and list performance location in Item 13, or attach a list
     identifying the different locations where contract performance will occur. Location must identify
     the work location, unit supported, to include bldg, room, etc. (Note: If the contract requires SCI
     accesses DO NOT include the SCIF number in this block.) The CSO is always the DSS operating
     location that has jurisdiction over the geographical area in which the contractor is located--no
     other activity should be shown in this block. If security reviews will be conducted by someone
     other than CSO, enter “See Item 15” in 8c. and enter that information in Item 15. (See instructions
     for Item 11a. for additional information).
A4.8. (Added) ITEM 9: GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT:
     A3.8.1. (Added) Enter a brief yet complete unclassified statement to identify the nature of the
     procurement. Use a general description of the procurement. Do not use stock numbers or part
     numbers.
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                           15


A4.9. (Added) ITEM 10: THIS CONTRACT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS TO:
  A3.9.1. (Added) These items are marked “yes or “no” according to the requirements of each
  contract. Justification for access is the responsibility of the program/project manager. For each
  item requiring additional explanation in Item 13 or an attachment (addendum), preface the remark
  with “Ref Item #”.
  A4.9.2. (Added) Item 10a. COMMUNICATION SECURITY (COMSEC) INFORMATION. A
  contractor who requires access to COMSEC material/information must submit a request to the
  supported organization through the Program Manager and contracting office. If applicable, mark
  this item “YES.” COMSEC information includes accountable or non-accountable COMSEC
  information and controlled cryptographic items (CCI). If COMSEC information is involved, the
  contractor must be supported by a COMSEC account and Item 11h should be marked “YES.”
  This imposes the requirements of the COMSEC Supplement to the National Industrial Security
  Program Manual (NISPOM) on the contractor for safeguarding the COMSEC information. If
  checked “yes” the COMSEC addendum must be attached to the 254.
  A4.9.3. (Added) Item 10b. RESTRICTED DATA. This item will be marked “YES” if access
  to RESTRICTED DATA, information classified and controlled under the Atomic Energy Act of
  1954, or CRITICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON DESIGN INFORMATION (CNWDI) is required.
  This item will always be marked “YES” if Item 10c. is marked “YES.” Access to RESTRICTED
  DATA requires a final U. S. Government clearance at the appropriate level.
  A4.9.4. (Added) Item 10c. CRITICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON DESIGN INFORMATION.
  This item will be marked “YES” if access to CNWDI is required. Permission of the Air Force is
  needed prior to subcontracting CNWDI. Special briefings and procedures are also required.
  Access to CNWDI requires a final US Government clearance at the appropriate level.
  A4.9.5. (Added) Item 10d. FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA. This item will be marked
  “YES” if access to FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA is required. Access to FORMERLY
  RESTRICTED DATA requires a final US Government Clearance at the appropriate level.
  A4.9.6. (Added) Item 10e. INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION. AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC) is
  the office responsible for all contracts issued at Hurlburt Field requiring access to intelligence
  information (SCI and non-SCI). AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC) coordination is required on all DD
  Forms 254 for contracts involving access to any type of intelligence prior to 1 SOW/IPC
  coordination. If a determination is made that the contractor will require access to intelligence
  information during contract performance, the contract program manager prepares the DD Form
  254 and routes it through AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC) for coordination and instructions on
  release of intelligence information to contractors. (AFSOC/A2S will provide the most current
  addendum on request if access to SCI/non-SCI intelligence is required. DO NOT reuse addenda
  from previous contracts.) If item 10e (1) and/or 10e (2) are/is marked "YES", contact
  AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC) to obtain the necessary special instructions (Addendums) which
  apply. AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC) is the point of contact for all intelligence issues (SCI and
  non-SCI). The Contracting Officer’s Representative/Program Manager must coordinate with the
  contractor’s Facility Security Officer (FSO) and/or Contractor Special Security Officer (CSSO) to
  ensure employees assigned to the contract are eligible for the appropriate security clearances.
  Special Note: Refer to AFI 14-303, Release of Intelligence to US Contractors, as supplemented
  by AFSOC, for guidance when contractors will require access to the SIPRNET. Refer questions
  regarding intelligence information to AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC).
16                                              AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


     A4.9.7. (Added) Item 10f. SPECIAL ACCESS PROGRAM INFORMATION. A special
     access program (SAP) is one which is established and approved by the Secretary of the Air Force
     to control access, distribution, and to provide protection for particularly sensitive classified
     information beyond that normally required for Top Secret, Secret, or Confidential information. A
     “carve out” is a classified contract awarded by the Air Force in connection with a SAP in which
     the Servicing Security Activity (1 SOW/IPC) has been relieved of security and/or oversight
     responsibility in whole or in part. Prior approval of the contracting activity is required for
     subcontracting. Access to SAP information requires a final US Government clearance at the
     appropriate level. Due to the unique requirements of each program, an addendum is not available.
     Coordination/Signature of the SAP program manager is mandatory if this block is checked “yes”.
        A4.9.7.1. (Added) If the contractor is required to have access to a SAP (which is not a
        “carve out”), mark 10f. “YES,” and enter the following statement in Item 13: “SAP program
        manager is (name/office symbol), unclassified SAP nickname is (insert nickname). Inspecting
        Industrial Security Representative must be briefed into the SAP by the government program
        manager or designated representative prior to granting or being granted access to the SAP
        material. The contractor must adhere to the special access requirements and procedures
        developed by the OPR”.
        A4.9.7.2. (Added) If the contractor is required to have access to a “CARVE OUT” classified
        contract, mark Items 10f. and 14 “YES” and enter the following statement in Item 14,
        addendum or continuation page: “Ref 10.f.: Industrial Security representative has no security
        responsibility for (insert unclassified nickname) SAP material. (Insert AF symbol and
        address) has exclusive security responsibility for all SAP material released or developed under
        this contract”. Note: (Added) It is advisable to confer with the appropriate SAF/AQ program
        security officer for the SAP before preparing the DD Form 254.
     A4.9.8. (Added) Item 10g. NATO INFORMATION: This means information belonging to,
     and circulated by, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Special briefings are required
     for access to NATO. Prior approval of the contracting activity is required for subcontracting.
     Access to classified NATO information requires a final US Government clearance at the
     appropriate level.
     A4.9.9. (Added) Item 10h.          FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION.                        Foreign
     Government Information is information provided to the United States by a foreign government,
     but not including NATO. The contractor is permitted access to Foreign Government Information
     in the performance of this contract. Access to Foreign Government Information requires a US
     Government clearance at the appropriate level. Comply with the Foreign Government
     Information requirements in the NISPOM, Chapter 10, Section 3. Prior approval of the
     contracting activity is required for subcontracting. Access requires final U.S. Government
     clearance at the appropriate level. Prior approval of contracting and foreign disclosure officer is
     required before subcontracting. If checked “yes”, attach Foreign Disclosure addendum.
     A4.9.10. (Added) Item 10i.    LIMITED DISSEMINATION INFORMATION (LIMDIS).
     LIMDIS has been eliminated. Mark “NO” in all cases.
     A3.9.11. (Added) Item 10j. FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY INFORMATION (FOUO). FOUO is
     information that is not classified, but which may be withheld from Public Disclosure under the
     criteria of the Freedom of Information Act, Title 5, USC, Section 552. When this item is marked
     “YES”, the Air Force is responsible for providing the contractor with the safeguards and
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                               17


   procedures necessary for protection of the information. If checked “yes”, attach FOUO
   addendum.
   A4.9.12. (Added) Item 10k. OTHER. Type in Automated Information Systems. Checked “yes”
   if contract employees will require access to the Local Area Network or other unclassified network
   systems or databases. Indicate NIPRNet and SIPRNet as appropriate.
A4.10. (Added) Item 11: IN PERFORMING THIS CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR WILL:
Note: For each item requiring additional explanation in Item 13 or an attachment, preface the remark
with “Ref Item ___”.
   A4.10.1. (Added) These items are marked “YES” or “NO” according to the requirements of
   each contract. An explanation of each item follows this illustration. Note: Only one of 11a, b, or
   c. may be marked. The other two must be marked “NO”.
   A4.10.2. (Added) Item 11a. HAVE ACCESS ONLY AT ANOTHER CONTRACTOR’S
   FACILITY OR AT A GOVERNMENT ACTIVITY. Note the word ONLY. This means there
   will be no access to classified information related to this contract at the contractor’s off base
   facility. If this item is marked “yes,” then 11b thru 11d must be marked “no.” Insert the
   following statements in items 14, 15, and 17 of the DD Form 254 if contract performance will be
   on another government installation (including overseas):
   A4.10.3. (Added) Item 14. Mark this item “yes” and enter: Provide the information requested
   by the Notification of Government Security Activity and Visitor Group Security Agreements
   Clause, AFFARS 5352.204-9000, to the Servicing Security Activity indicated in Item 13 above (1
   SOW/IPC). Refer to the contract document for these clauses. The visitor group will operate per
   DoD 5200.1-R, AFI 31-401, AFI 31-601, supplements thereto, and unit security program
   operating instructions, plans and procedures”.
   A4.10.4. (Added) Item 15. Mark this item “yes” and enter: “Long term visitor groups will be
   inspected as part of the supported organization’s annual Information Security Program Review,
   conducted by the 1 SOW/IPC, while operating on an Air Force Installation. The contractor will
   comply with the VGSA provided by the USAF Program/Project Manager at the performance
   location. The above does not apply to intelligence, SCI and SAP. See appropriate addendum”.
   A4.10.5. (Added) Item 17. Insert the Servicing Security Activity’s address at the operating
   location. If there is more than one address that applies, list the additional addresses in Item 13 or
   use a continuation sheet. Note: If contract performance at Hurlburt Field is longer than 90 days,
   the program/project manager must contact 1 SOW/IPC to ensure a VGSA is prepared IAW AFI
   31-601 and provide it to the contractor security representative upon arrival. Contact 1 SOW/IPC
   as soon as possible if a VGSA is required.
   A4.10.6. (Added) Item 11b. RECEIVE CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS ONLY. Note the word
   ONLY. This means the contractor will receive classified documents at a cleared company
   facility, but is not expected to generate classified information or have any classified hardware in
   performance of the contract. The classification markings shown on the documents will provide
   the necessary guidance. If the “YES” box is marked for this item, it is understood the contractor
   will receive classified documents for reference only; however, if any classified information is
   generated in performance of this contract, it shall be derivatively classified and marked consistent
   with the source material.
18                                              AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


     A4.10.7. (Added) Item 11c. RECEIVE AND GENERATE CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
     This means that the contractor is expected to receive and generate classified information
     (documents and/or hardware) at a cleared company facility and will require detailed security
     classification guidance for performance of the contract. If the “YES” box is marked for this item,
     detailed security classification guidance must be provided to the contractor by the program
     manager and supported USAF organization. References to security classification guides should
     include the title, date, and a list of all changes and dates. The guidance may be included in Item
     13, attached to the DD Form 254, forwarded under separate cover, or included in the contract
     document itself. If all access to classified information will be at a government facility or at
     another cleared contractor facility, check “NO” and check item 11a “YES”.
     A4.10.8. (Added) Item 11d.            FABRICATE, MODIFY, OR STORE CLASSIFIED
     HARDWARE. If “YES and the hardware is of a size and/or quantity that prohibits storage in a
     standard (2 cubic feet) container, the contractor must be provided adequate storage for classified
     hardware to the level required.
     A4.10.9. (Added) Item 11e. PERFORM SERVICES ONLY. “YES” in this item will require a
     statement in the statement of work or addendum to explain the services and to provide appropriate
     guidance. Sample statements are given below. These are samples only. For service-type
     contracts not covered, add any appropriate statement in the statement of work or attachment that
     explains why the contract is a classified contract and provide guidance as necessary to ensure
     protection of the classified information.
     A4.10.10. (Added) For ENGINEERING SERVICES, add the following statement:
        A4.10.10.1. (Added) Reference 11e. Contract is for engineering services. Classification
        markings on the material to be furnished will provide the guidance necessary for performance
        of the contract.
        A4.10.10.2. (Added) For EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICES, add the following
        statement:
        A4.10.10.3. (Added) Reference 11e. Contract is for equipment maintenance services on
        equipment which processes classified information. Actual knowledge, generation, or
        production of classified information is not required for performance of the contract. Cleared
        personnel are required to perform this service because access to classified information cannot
        be precluded by escorting personnel”.
        A4.10.10.4. (Added) For a service contract in which the contractor is only required to be
        physically present in an area containing classified information and security measures which
        are in force do not prevent the gaining of knowledge of classified information, add the
        following statement:
     A4.10.11. (Added) Reference 11e. Actual knowledge, generation, or production of classified
     information is not required for performance of the contract. Cleared personnel are required to
     perform this service because security measures which are in force do not preclude access to
     classified information.
     A4.10.12. (Added) Reference 11f. HAVE ACCESS TO U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
     OUTSIDE THE US, PUERTO RICO, US POSSESSIONS AND TRUST TERRITORIES. If
     “YES,” indicate the city and country of overseas performance in Item 13. A copy of the DD
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                            19


  Form 254 must be provided to the US Air Force servicing security activity responsible for
  overseas inspections. Under 17d. type (Example Only)“USAFE/IP,” or “PACAF/IP,” as
  applicable.
  A4.10.13. (Added) Reference 11g. BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE SERVICES OF DTIC
  OR OTHER SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION CENTER. “YES” in this item means the
  contractor is authorized to use the services of the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC)
  and will require the contractor to prepare and process a DD Form 1540, Registration For
  Scientific and Technical Information Services, and a DD Form 2345, Militarily Critical Technical
  Data Agreement. In authorizing the use of this service, the contracting official must critically
  review and clearly establish a contractor’s need-to-know for DTIC information before approving
  the DD Forms 1540 and DD Form 2345. The contracting official, with the concurrence of the
  program/project manager, must ensure specific fields of interest are identified only as they relate
  to the contract.
  A4.10.14. (Added) Reference 11h. REQUIRE A COMSEC ACCOUNT. If accountable
  COMSEC information will be provided to the contractor, enter an “X” in the YES box. If non-
  accountable COMSEC information is involved, enter an “X” in the NO box. (See Item 10a.).
  A4.10.15. (Added) Reference 11i.           HAVE EMSEC (TEMPEST) REQUIREMENTS.
  Contractors are required to comply with EMSEC requirements according to AF Instructions and
  the NISPOM. If EMSEC requirements for the contract are over and above those normally called
  for in the NISPOM, the government program manager and contracting official must ensure such
  requirements are specifically included in the contract. Contractor shall not impose any EMSEC
  requirements on a subcontractor without prior approval of the Air Force. If EMSEC requirements
  are in addition to those specified in the addendum, contact the Hurlburt Field EMSEC
  (TEMPEST) focal point, 1 SOCS/SCBN, 884-6605.
  A4.10.16. (Added) Reference 11j. HAVE OPSEC REQUIREMENTS. OPSEC requirements
  are required on all classified contracts working on Hurlburt Field. Therefore, mark 11j as “YES”
  and attach OPSEC addendum.
  A4.10.17. (Added) Reference 11k. AUTHORIZED USE OF THE DEFENSE COURIER
  SERVICE. Mark “No”, since transmission and receipt of classified information is the
  responsibility of the supported unit.
  A4.10.18. (Added) Reference 11l. OTHER (SPECIFY). Use this term to add any additional
  performance requirements (i.e., Automated Information Systems (AIS) processing) not covered
  above. Item 13 should be appropriately annotated to provide any necessary remarks. If there are
  no “other” performance requirements, mark this item “no”.
A4.11. (Added) ITEM 12: PUBLIC RELEASE.
  A4.11.1. (Added) The contractor must obtain permission from the supported organization,
  contract office and 1 SOW/PA, prior to public release of any information, regardless of
  classification, under the contract. Enter “X” in the THROUGH block and the following in the
  space provided:
  A4.11.2. (Added) 1 SOW/PA, Hurlburt Field, FL 32544
 20                                              AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


      A4.11.3. (Added) If release is not authorized, enter “NONE AUTHORIZED”. Note: For
      contracts involving SCI or non-SCI intelligence, add the Item 12 information included in the
      addendum provided by AFSOC/A2S (SSO AFSOC).
A4.12. (Added) ITEM 13: SECURITY GUIDANCE.
      A4.12.1. (Added) This is the most important part of the entire DD Form 254. This item, when
      properly completed, will convey to the contractor the applicable classification, reason for
      classification, declassification instructions, and any applicable declassification exemption codes.
         A4.12.1.1. (Added) If a security classification guide exists, reference it in this item. List all
         guides if more than one applies. The reference must include the title, date of guide, and
         changes that have been made since the last review date. If the entire guide does not apply to
         this contract, cite only the specific portions which apply, such as “Only Section IV of the
         security classification guide applies to this effort”.
         A4.12.1.2. (Added) NEVER insert specific guidance, such as “Transmitter frequency
         classified SECRET”.
         A4.12.1.3. (Added) If specific guidance is required, and there is no guide for the program,
         develop a letter guide. An authorized original classification authority must sign all guides, no
         matter the form.
         A4.12.1.4. (Added) Enter the name, title, office symbol, address, and telephone number of
         the USAF Program/Project Manager in the bottom left of Item 13. Ensure this item has been
         signed prior to submitting to 1 SOW/IPC for coordination. (See Table A3.1).
         A4.12.1.5. (Added) Enter the name, office symbol, address, and telephone number of the
         USAF Servicing Security Activity (1 SOW/IPC) in the bottom right of Item 13. The base
         industrial security program manager will indicate coordination by signing here. (See example
         below). Note: (Added) There should be no changes made to the form after coordination from
         1 SOW/IPC.
         A4.12.1.6. (Added) The following table is an example of how the identification of the USAF
         Program/Project Manager, Host Security Manager, and the USAF Servicing Security Activity
         information should appear in Item 13 of the DD Form 254. Place this information inside and
         as near to the bottom of Item 13 as possible and be sure to allow room for the appropriate
         signatures.
Table A4.1. EXAMPLE (Added)


Program Manager/Project            Unit Security Manager             Chief, Servicing Security Agency
Officer
1 SOMOS/MXG                        1 SOMOS/MXG                       1 SOW/IPC
Hurlburt Field, FL 32544           Hurlburt Field FL 32544           Hurlburt Field, FL 32544
DSN: 579-XXXX                      DSN: 579-XXXX                     DSN 579-5143
Comm: (850) 884-XXXX               Comm: (850) 884-XXXX              Comm: (850) 884-5143
AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010                                                            21



A4.13. (Added) ITEM 14. ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   A4.13.1. (Added) Mark this item “yes” and insert, as a minimum, the following statement:
   Provide the information requested by the Notification of Government Security Activity and
   Visitor Group Security Agreements Clause, AFFARS 5352.204-9000, to the Servicing Security
   Activity indicated in Item 13 above (1 SOW/IPC). Refer to the contract document for these
   clauses. The visitor group will operate per DoD 5200.1-R, AFI 31-401, AFI 31-601, Industrial
   Security Program Management, Hurlburt Field supplements and unit security program operating
   instructions, plans and procedures.
A4.14. (Added) ITEM 15: INSPECTIONS.
   A4.14.1. (Added) Mark this block “yes” and insert, as a minimum, the following statement:
   Long term visitor groups will be inspected as part of the supported organization’s annual
   Information Security Program Review, conducted by the 1 SOW/IPC, while operating on an Air
   Force Installation. The contractor will comply with the VGSA provided by the USAF
   Program/Project Manager at the performance location. The above does not apply to intelligence,
   SCI and SAP. See appropriate addendum.
A4.15. (Added) ITEM 16: CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE.
   A4.15.1. (Added) The contracting official completes the requested information in this item.
   Exception: Prime Contractors prepare and sign DD Form 254’s for their subcontractors as
   required. The DD Form 254 is not considered a valid document unless this item has been
   completed.
A4.16. (Added) ITEM 17: REQUIRED DISTRIBUTION.
   A4.16.1. (Added) If contract performance will occur overseas enter “X” in 17.d. and, for
   example “USAFE/IP” or “PACAF/IP” and any other geographic location where work will be
   performed (see 11a. and f. for these instructions). If Item 10e. (1) or (2) are marked “YES,” add
   “AFSOC/A2S” to this item and obtain AFSOC/A2S coordination prior to submitting to 1
   SOW/IPC for coordination. If contract performance will occur at a military installation (other
   than overseas), add the address of the servicing security activity for that location and the
   responsible installation security forces office. This requirement also includes Air Force Reserve
   and Air National Guard (ANG) bases. If contract performance will occur at many locations, type
   in “SEE ATTACHED” in Item 17 and attach a list of locations with the address of the servicing
   security activity for each. You may also put your office symbol in this block to receive a copy of
   the DD Form 254 for the awarded contract. Note: Procuring Contracting Officers (PCOs) or their
   designated representatives are responsible for appropriate distribution of the DD Form 254,
   reference AFI 31-601, paragraph 4.4.3.

Table A4.2. Defense Security Service (DSS) Addresses (Added)
Reference Item 6c of the DD Form 254.
DSS West Region
One World Trade Center, Suite 622 2211
Long Beach, CA 90831-0622
 22                                         AFI31-601_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 20 MAY 2010


DSS Capitol Region
South Clark Street, Suite 1100
Arlington, VA 22202-3712
DSS Southeast Region
2300 Lake Park Drive, Suite 250 5800
Smyrna, GA 30080-7606
DSS Central Region
E Campus Cir Dr, Ste 110A
Irving, TX 75063-2739
DSS Northeast Region
495 Summer Street
Boston, MA 02210
Note: To determine the appropriate DSS Cognizant Security Field
Office (Item 6c of the DD Form 254), visit http://www.dss.mil.
