BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3107
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           27 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                   PERSONNEL

                                                           VOTING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Air Force forms are available for downloading or
               ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.
               National Guard Bureau forms are available for downloading or ordering
               on the NGB Publications & Forms Library website at
               http://www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1S                                                               Certified by: SAF/MR
                                                                         (Mr. Gordon O. Tanner)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-3107, 10 September                                               Pages: 15
               2003


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-31, Personal Affairs,
Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 1000.04, Federal Voting Assistance Program
(FVAP), and the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act of 1986 (UOCAVA, as
amended) that applies to members of the uniformed Services, Merchant Marine, their spouses
and dependents, and United States citizens who are temporarily residing outside the territorial
limits of the US. This instruction applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve
personnel activated or mobilized. In collaboration with the Chief of the Air Force Reserve (HQ
USAF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for
Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) develops voting policy for the Air Force Voting
Assistance Program. This publication may be supplemented at any level; all MAJCOM level
supplements must be approved by the Human Resource Management Strategic Board (HSB)
prior to certification and approval. Requests for waivers must be submitted through chain of
command to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. The authorities to waive
wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)
number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
 2                                                          AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014


and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This publication has
been streamlined and the majority of day to day Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP)
specific operational items have been removed as they are covered in the FVAP and the Air Force
Voting Action Plans (VAPs). Voting Assistance Officers at all levels are required to comply
with the current AF VAP requirements as they pertain to standardized task execution, current
OSD direction and annual legislative changes to Title 42 United States Code (USC). This
instruction informs personnel about voting and the opportunities to exercise the right to vote,
including opportunities for absentee voting. Tier waiver authorities as approved by the Inspector
General Advisory Board have been included per AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management.
AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    3



                                          Chapter 1

                            ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will
   1.1.1. Designate a Senior Service Voting Representative (SSVR) and Air Force (AF)
   Services Voting Action Officer (SVAO). See Attachment 2 for SSVR and SVAO grade
   requirements.
   1.1.2. Plan program actions and establishes goals and/or milestones.
   1.1.3. Ensure basic training emphasizes and advertises voting assistance programs to
   encourage junior service members to register and subsequently vote, and include instruction
   on voting rights, responsibilities, and procedures on absentee registration and voting.
   1.1.4. Ensure command support at all levels for the FVAP.
   1.1.5. Continually evaluate command voting programs.
   1.1.6. Designate AFPC/DPSIMF civilian as the AF SVAO. See Attachment 2 for SVAO
   grade requirement.
1.2. AFPC/DPSIMF (SVAO) will
   1.2.1. Issue a biennial Voting Action Plan (VAP)
   (http://www.afpc.af.mil/library/airforcevoting/index.asp). The AF VAP remains in effect
   (with version updates) until superseded by the new plan issued in general election years only.
   The VAP provides the Voting Action/Assistance Officers at all levels the operational
   guidance to effectively execute the voting assistance program.
   1.2.2. Act as the liaison between FVAP, USAF Installation leadership and the Voting
   Assistance Officers (VAOs) at Major Commands (MAJCOM) and installations.
   1.2.3. Develop written policies or instructions to support all eligible military personnel and
   their family members, including those in deployed, dispersed, and tenant organizations
   (including units from other services and Reserve components).
   1.2.4. Establish metric tracking and reporting as directed by FVAP.
   1.2.5. Provide responses to problems that cannot be answered by IVAOs or their respective
   MAJCOMs.
   1.2.6. Establish and maintain a Voting Assistance Program homepage on the AFPC website.
   1.2.7. Provide after-action reports and lessons learned reports in accordance with DoDI
   1000.04, in the format specified by FVAP.
1.3. Air Force Inspector General (SAF/IG) will
   1.3.1. Include the voting program as an annual item for review to evaluate the effectiveness
   of the AF Voting Assistance Program at every level of command to ensure compliance with
   DoD regulations and public law (see AFI 90-201, Air Force Inspection System).
 4                                                            AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014


     1.3.2. Focus on various areas of the program, with special interest given to the Installation
     Voter Assistance Office (IVA Office) and issues of importance specified by OSD/FVAP,
     DoD IG, and the AF SVAO.
     1.3.3. Provide DoD IG a report of assessment in accordance with DoDI 1000.04.
1.4. MAJCOM/A1s will
     1.4.1. Monitor, evaluate, and ensure the success of the FVAP for the MAJCOM
     Commander.
     1.4.2. Designate in writing a Primary and Alternate MAJCOM Voting Action Officer
     (MVAO) to coordinate the programs conducted by subordinate units within their command.
     See Attachment 2 for MVAO grade requirements. Minimum grade requirements for an
     MVAO should go no lower than O-3 if an officer; E-7 if a Senior Noncommissioned Officer;
     or GS-09 if a civilian. MAJCOM/A1 has full waiver authority for these grade requirements.
     1.4.3. Ensure the appointed MVAO receives FVAP training within time standards set by the
     SVAO in the current AF Voting Action Plan. MVAOs should attend the training workshops
     conducted by the FVAP when unit temporary duty (TDY) funds are available. If unable to
     attend a training workshop, use an alternate FVAP training medium.
1.5. MAJCOM VAO (MVAO) will
     1.5.1. Maintain a current listing of IVAOs within their MAJCOM in coordination with the
     SVAO.
     1.5.2. Ensure each base IVAO completes an FVAP designated training workshop or
     alternate media training course, as specified by the FVAP and AF SVAO within time
     standards set by the SVAO in the current AF Voting Action Plan.
     1.5.3. Submit after action reports and lessons learned as directed by the SVAO.
1.6. National Guard Bureau/CF. Will appoint a headquarters-level voting assistance officer
(VAO) to coordinate with the SSVR and the Director, FVAP, and to maintain a contingency
absentee voting program for Air National Guard units and personnel who have been activated
and mobilized. See Attachment 2 for VAO grade requirements.
1.7. Air Force Reserve Command. Will appoint a headquarters-level voting assistance officer
(VAO) to coordinate with the SSVR and the Director, FVAP, and to maintain a contingency
absentee voting program for Air Force Reserve units and personnel who have been activated and
mobilized. See Attachment 2 for VAO grade requirements.
1.8. Installation Commanders will
     1.8.1. Appoint a primary and alternate IVAO in writing and send to SVAO with an info copy
     to the MAJCOM VAO. See Attachment 2 for IVAO grade requirements. Appointment
     memorandum requirements are contained in the template in the current AF VAP. For
     continuity, individuals assigned as IVAOs should (optimally) serve for 18 months beginning
     in October of the year immediately prior to a regularly scheduled general election for Federal
     offices and concluding in March of the year immediately following a regularly scheduled
     general election for Federal offices. IVAOs and UVAOs will be provided the time and
     resources needed to perform their voting assistance duties. (T-0)
AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    5


  1.8.2. Set up an installation voting committee (if needed) to develop and administer the local
  voting program. The committee will be chaired by the IVAO and should consist of
  representatives listed in the AF VAP.
  1.8.3. Ensure the IVAO receives FVAP training and all training is documented within time
  standards set by the SVAO in the current AF Voting Action Plan. (T-0)
  1.8.4. Ensure unit commanders appoint, in writing, one UVAO per approximately 250
  military members assigned, for units with 25 active duty members or more. Smaller units
  may be serviced by another larger squadron on base. Unit commanders should designate
  UVAOs in writing at the O-2/E-7/GS-07 level or above. It is preferable to assign an
  enthusiastic volunteer who is outside this rank and grade guidance rather than assign a less
  enthusiastic member who meets the criterion. Commanders will ensure VAOs are available
  and equipped to assist voters for all elections. VAOs shall be provided the time and
  resources needed to perform their voting assistance duties. See Attachment 2 for more
  information on grade requirements/waivers. (T-0 for appointment; T-3 for grade waiver)
  1.8.5. Ensure the base Staff Judge Advocate provides answers to legal questions regarding
  residency issues and the right to vote. (T-1)
  1.8.6. Ensure voting registration materials and assistance information is continually available
  at a well-advertised and fixed location on the installation such as the Airman & Family
  Readiness Center or Military Personnel Section. (T-0)
  1.8.7. Ensure all personnel deploying in excess of six months are briefed on the absentee
  voting process and are afforded the opportunity to complete a Standard Form (SF) 76,
  Federal Post Card Application (FPCA). (T-0)
  1.8.8. Establish an Installation Voter Assistance Office, designated as a “Voter Registration
  Agency” (per Title 42, United States Code (USC) Section 1973gg-5, Voter Registration
  Agencies) aligned directly under the installation headquarters organization and utilizing
  “VO” as the office symbol under the host wing, reporting directly to the installation
  commander. Criteria for establishing an IVA Office and listing of USAF installations are
  contained in the AF VAP. Using the template for the appointment memorandum in the AF
  VAP, the Installation Commander should also grant IVAOs authority to appoint “Core
  UVAOs” to assist in Installation Voter Assistance Office (IVA Office) duties. Core UVAOs
  may be Group VAOs or serve dual duty as Core UVAO and squadron UVAO.
     1.8.9. The IVA Office is responsible to:
     1.8.9.1. Offer voting assistance services to all in and out processing personnel for PCS or
     deployment of six months or longer; assigned personnel changing their mailing address;
     and upon request by military, civilian, contractors or any U.S. citizen with access to the
     Installation and IVA Office. Members PCSing in/out and deployers will be provided a
     voting assistance information sheet (template found in AF VAP). (T-0)
     1.8.9.2. Notify uniformed service members who are being released from active duty that
     they should notify their local election office that they are no longer covered in accordance
     with the provisions of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Voters Act. These departing
     service members will be provided the opportunity to submit a National Mail Voter
     Registration Form. (T-0)
 6                                                            AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014


        1.8.9.3. Provide the National Mail Voter Registration Form to Federal civilian
        employees and other U.S. citizens who have access to the IVA Office within the United
        States, and to uniformed services voters who currently reside in their voting districts. (T-
        0)
        1.8.9.4. Offer to mail completed voting registration forms (SF76 or National Mail Voter
        Registration Form). If voter decides to leave the form with the IVA Office to be mailed,
        the form must be mailed within 5 calendar days of completion. (T-0)
        1.8.9.5. Maintain, collect and forward voting program metrics as prescribed by the
        SVAO. Metrics processing procedures will be included in the AF VAP. (T-0)
        1.8.9.6. Establish/maintain a standard organizational email address of the form,
        vote.base@us.af.mil or similar format. The IVA Office will also be equipped with a
        dedicated telephone with voicemail. (T-0)
        1.8.9.7. Ensure all small and geographically separated units are provided voting
        assistance. (T-0)
1.9. Installation Voting Assistance Officer (IVAO) will
     1.9.1. The Primary and Alternate IVAO will establish a voting assistance program and
     ensure compliance with this instruction, the current AF VAP, and the Federal Voting
     Assistance Program (FVAP), IVA Office Handbook and chair the Installation Voting
     Committee if established by the installation commander. The AF VAP and the Voting
     Action Guide is available on the FVAP website. The IVAOs will be responsible for
     management of the IVA Office.
     1.9.2. Chair the Installation Voting Committee. See the AF VAP for list of representatives.
     The committee should formulate and conduct aggressive base-level publicity on voting
     information for the entire period of the VAP.
     1.9.3. If granted authority, in writing, by the Installation Commander, appoint “Core
     UVAOs” either from the pool of UVAOs, or initiate “Group UVAOs” to assist in manning
     and performing duties in the IVA Office. (Note: Core/Group UVAOs must be trained to the
     level of IVAOs before assuming the duties of a Core UVAO in the IVA Office).
     1.9.4. Assist personnel (military and civilian) assigned to other uniformed services and
     geographically separated units (GSU) with voting matters. IVAOs are responsible for
     providing voting materials and training support to GSUs serviced by their installation and
     tenant units located on their installation, regardless of MAJCOM or service affiliation. Unit
     Commander’s Support Staff will provide the UVAOs with a list of personnel. (T-1)
     1.9.5. Ensure all UVAOs are trained within time standards set by the SVAO in the current
     AF Voting Action Plan (AF VAP). In even numbered years with elections for Federal
     offices, UVAOs should attend the training workshops conducted by the FVAP when unit
     TDY funds are available. If unable to attend a training workshop, use alternate FVAP
     training. Monitor the FVAP or AFPC websites for dates and locations. Training
     requirements for IVAOs, UVAOs and Core UVAOs are enumerated in the current AF VAP.
     (T-0)
     1.9.6. Require UVAOs to maintain training certificates in UVAO continuity folders and train
     replacements as needed. (T-0)
AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    7


  1.9.7. Ensure UVAOs provide all armed forces personnel at least one briefing, training
  period, or information period of instruction devoted to absentee registration and voting,
  annually. Special emphasis should be given to providing training to junior enlisted personnel
  and those who have not previously used an absentee ballot to vote. UVAOs should keep
  written documentation to reflect the briefing/training period and track attendance numbers.
  Use internal information media to emphasize the availability of voting information,
  supporting materials, personal assistance, and the importance of voting. Retain training logs,
  including dates and number of attendees (no names or PII), at the unit level for at least one
  calendar year. (T-0)
  1.9.8. Track installation metrics. Refer to the current AF VAP for metrics and format to
  track during the current voting season. Submit one report at the end-of-year voting season as
  directed by the SVAO. Ensure a courtesy copy is provided to the MVAO. (T-0)
  1.9.9. Develop a system to ensure the in-hand or electronic delivery of FPCAs to all eligible
  voters. The system of record keeping may include numbers or percent contacted, but may
  not include names (or any other identifying information) of individual citizens. This
  distribution is required by the DoDI 1000.04 to ensure ballots are requested. SFs 76 must be
  issued between 1-15 January of each calendar of year to eligible voters and their voting age
  dependents. During even-number years, also issue the SFs 76 between 1-15 July to eligible
  voters, (including DoD civilian employees and voting age dependents who reside outside the
  territorial limits of the U.S.). Refer to the current AF VAP for specific guidance pertaining
  to Continental United States (CONUS) and Overseas (OCONUS) installations. (Note: If E-
  mail is used, UVAOs are to be directed to utilize either delivery or read receipts to determine
  a count and percentage for their records). (T-0)
  1.9.10. Provide a plan for Armed Forces Voters Week (Overseas Citizen Voters Week for
  overseas bases) and Absentee Voters Week to the SVAO by the date specified in the current
  AF VAP. Conduct Voters Week events. Publicize the importance of early action to obtain
  ballots for elections well in advance of election deadlines. Report results of Armed Forces
  Voters Week to SVAO (see current AF VAP for format and suspense date). (T-0)
  1.9.11. Provide registration materials and a briefing on the absentee voting process at all
  Individualized, Newcomer, Treatment, and Orientation (INTRO) programs (newcomer’s
  orientation). This duty can be rotated among all VAO at the installation. (T-0)
  1.9.12. Distribute materials to the UVAOs. Voting materials, both electronic and paper,
  include the VAGs, electronic messages, SF 76, and SF 186, Federal Write-In Absentee Ballot
  (FWAB). (T-0)
  1.9.13. Have enough SF 76s and SF 186s in paper format to support voters week events and
  times when electronic means are restricted. Local unit accounts are not charged for these
  forms. (T-0)
  1.9.14. Distribute the VAG to UVAOs electronically, and order enough paper copies to
  support voting week events and times when electronic means are restricted. (T-1)
  1.9.15. Assist FVAP in a Post-Election Survey in the manner specified by the Director,
  FVAP. Do not poll members on their choice of or their vote for a specific candidate. (T-0)
 8                                                              AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014


     1.9.16. Maintain and keep current, a continuity book which will be passed on to the
     succeeding IVAO. Recommended continuity book content (electronic or paper) is
     enumerated in the current AF VAP. (T-1)
     1.9.17. Refrain from contacting State and local government officials about voting policy
     matters. Issues should be addressed to the SVAO for legislative and other policy matters
     involving voting assistance and elections. IVAOs may contact local election officials to help
     resolve any specific problem involving voter registration or absentee voting on behalf of the
     voter, or to engage appropriate local election official assistance for a voter registration drive
     or similar event on an installation. (T-0)
     1.9.18. IVAOs at Lackland AFB, USAFA and Maxwell AFB must offer voting assistance to
     new inductees into the Air Force before graduation from their respective courses (BMTS,
     USAFA, OTS) ensuring voters don’t use temporary addresses on the SF76 which may delay
     ballot delivery. (T-0)
     1.9.19. Maintain a voting assistance page on the installation’s public website, year-round.
     Page will include links to the USAF and FVAP voting websites as well as the installation
     voter assistance office organizational email address.
1.10. Unit Voting Assistance Officers (UVAOs). Will carry out the duties outlined in the
VAG, this instruction and the AF VAP and will:
     1.10.1. Provide voting assistance through one-on-one contact with the people they will
     serve. UVAOs will ensure that all small and geographically separated units (GSUs) are
     assisted. When military personnel (including noncommissioned officers) are designated in
     writing as VAOs, DoDI 1000.04 authorizes them to administer oaths in connection with
     voter registration and voting. While civilians are authorized to become UVAOs, law and
     DoD policy don’t give oath administration rights to civilians. (T-0).
        1.10.1.1. Obtain paper copies of the SF 76 and SF 186 through the IVAO. A minimum
        number of 25 each should be maintained per unit in case computer access to PDF and
        digital forms is lost. (T-0).
        1.10.1.2. Make in-hand or electronic delivery of SFs 76 to all assigned personnel of
        voting age. Make SFs 76 available to all eligible individuals, including dependents, for
        use in general, primary, and special elections. Issue the SFs 76 between 1-15 January of
        each calendar year to eligible voters and their voting age dependents. Additionally,
        during even-number years, issue the SFs 76 between 1-15 July to eligible voters,
        (including DoD civilian employees and voting age dependents who reside outside the
        territorial limits of the U.S.) (Note: If E-mail is used, UVAOs are to utilize either
        delivery or read receipts to determine a count and percentage for records). Refer to the
        VAG for instructions on the SF 76. (T-0).
        1.10.1.3. Provide SF 76 and SF 186 to absent uniformed services personnel and their
        family members seeking assistance (within and outside of the united States) and to
        Federal civilian employees and other U.S. citizens seeking assistance, who have access to
        an IVA Office or UVAO outside the United States. (T-0).
        1.10.1.4. Provide individuals with absentee voting information for their home states,
        including (but not limited to) election dates, absentee registration, and voting rules.
AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                         9


       Election officials within a state determine eligibility requirements. State guidelines are in
       the VAG. (T-0)
       1.10.1.5. File an after action report and lessons learned as directed by the IVAO. (T-0).
       1.10.1.6. Assist IVAO in conducting Post Election Survey in the manner specified by the
       Director, FVAP. Do not poll members on their choice of or their vote for a specific
       candidate. (T-0).
       1.10.1.7. Assist IVAO with Armed Forces Voters Week and Absentee Voters Week.
       Publicize the importance of early action to obtain ballots for elections well in advance of
       election deadlines. (T-1).
       1.10.1.8. Refrain from contacting State and local government officials about voting
       policy matters. Issues should be addressed to the IVAO (to pass on to the SVAO) for
       legislative and other policy matters involving voting assistance and elections. (T-0)
1.11. Military Personnel Section (MPS) will
   1.11.1. Include the IVA Office on in and out processing checklists for deployers, inbound
   personnel, and outbound personnel. (T-0)
   1.11.2. Refer members changing their address to the IVA Office for assistance in updating
   their information with local election officials. (T-0)
   1.11.3. Sit on Installation Voting Committee, if the Installation Commander forms one.
   1.11.4. Support IVAOs’ requests for products, lists, etc., of personnel serviced by the MPS
   (including tenant units, GSUs, OLs, etc.), sorted by unit, then by alpha. (T-1)
1.12. Voters (Voting by Absentee Ballot) will
   1.12.1. Use the SF 76 to register and to request an absentee ballot. Type or print each entry
   on the SF 76.
   1.12.2. Complete the ballot according to the instructions received with the ballot. See AFI
   51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary, and Preventative Law Programs and the VAG on
   notary/witness requirements for each state and territory. Enlisted personnel serving as VAO
   are authorized to administer oaths in connection with voting registration and voting IAW
   DoDI 1000.04.
Note: All persons assisting in the voting process shall take all necessary steps to prevent fraud
and to protect voters against any coercion.
 10                                                         AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014



                                           Chapter 2

                                 VOTING INFORMATION

2.1. Where to Get Information on Elections. Air Force specific voting information can be
found on the AFPC website: (http://www.afpc.af.mil/library/airforcevoting/index.asp).
Information on specific elections and application procedures can be found at the Federal Voting
Assistance Program website: http://www.fvap.gov. This information assists IVAOs and
UVAOs in carrying out their voting responsibilities.
   2.1.1. Refer to the following DoD publications available at http://www.fvap.gov.
       2.1.1.1. The Voting Assistance Guide (VAG) (issued biennially), available in hard copy.
       2.1.1.2. Voting News Releases (available website only) are periodic, time sensitive
       notices that alert citizens of special elections and other important voting issues.
       2.1.1.3. The Voting Information News (available via the FVAP’S website, or E-mail) is
       a free, monthly newsletter published by the FVAP.
   2.1.2. The DoD Voting Information Center (VIC) provides information on elections and
   recorded messages from candidates, governors, US Senators, and US Representatives.
   Callers can have their call forwarded to an FVAP staff member, leave a message for the
   FVAP or have their call forwarded to their Senator’s, Representative’s, Governor’s or State
   Chief Election Official’s office. The VIC also answers questions concerning voting,
   elections, candidates, or issues that cannot be answered locally. Refer to the current edition
   of the VAG for telephone numbers and calling instructions.
   2.1.3. The FVAP Ombudsman Service (toll free from most countries) puts voting
   representatives, citizens and local election officials directly in touch with the FVAP. Calling
   instructions are available from the VAG, embassies, consulates, and international telephone
   operators in the US.
   2.1.4. Voters may subscribe to hometown newspapers, write to state and local political
   groups for information, or refer to the FVAP website.
AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                       11


                                             Chapter 3

                        RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING ACTIVITIES

3.1. Restrictions on Voting Activities. In addition to the below information on restrictions,
military members and Voting Assistance Officers should be familiar with AFI 51-902, Political
Activities by Members of the U.S. Air Force. Certain activities associated with voting are federal
crimes, including the following:
   3.1.1. Commissioned, noncommissioned, warrant, or petty officers in the Armed Forces may
   not use military authority to:
       3.1.1.1. Influence or attempt to influence the vote of a member of the Armed Forces.
       3.1.1.2. Require or attempt to require a member of the Armed Forces to march to a
       polling place (Title 18, USC § 609, Use of Military Authority to Influence Vote or
       Member of Armed Forces).
   3.1.2. No member of the Armed Forces may:
       3.1.2.1. Prescribe or fix, or attempt to prescribe or fix, the qualifications of voters.
       3.1.2.2. Prevent or attempt to prevent by any means (including advice) any qualified
       voter from fully exercising the right to vote.
       3.1.2.3. Order or compel, or attempt to compel, any election officer to receive a vote
       from a person not legally qualified to vote.
       3.1.2.4. Impose or attempt to impose any regulations for conducting elections different
       from those prescribed by law.
       3.1.2.5. Interfere in any way with an election officer’s discharge of duties (Title 18 USC
       § 593, Interference by Armed Forces).
   3.1.3. No person in the civil or military service of the US may cause or require any troops or
   armed personnel to be at any place where an election is held, unless such force is necessary
   to repel armed enemies of the US (Title 18 USC § 592, Troops at Polls).
   3.1.4. No person may:
       3.1.4.1. Intimidate, threaten, coerce or attempt to intimidate, threaten or coerce voters
       (Title 18 USC § 594, Intimidation of Voters).
       3.1.4.2. Offer to pay another either to vote or withhold a vote, or to vote for or against
       any candidate.
       3.1.4.3. Solicit, accept, or receive any payment to vote or withhold a vote (Title 18 USC
       § 597, Expenditures to Influence Voting).
       3.1.4.4. Poll any member of the Armed Forces at any time with reference to the
       member’s choice of vote for any candidate.
12                                                       AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014



     3.1.4.5. State, publish, or release any result of any purported poll taken from or among
     the members of the Armed Forces, or include within it the statement of choice for such
     candidate or votes cast by any member of the Armed Forces. (Title 18, USC § 596,
     Polling Armed Forces) “Poll” means any oral or written request for information which
     requires or implies the need for an answer, made with the intent to compile the results
     obtained for personal use, for association or corporation, or to publish it orally, by
     electronic transmission, or in information necessary to measure participation in absentee
     voting by AF members and civilian employees of the AF. If any such member is polled,
     that event shall be reported through the chain of command to the Director, FVAP. This
     does not preclude conducting official surveys to report to the President and the Congress
     the effectiveness of the assistance provided to eligible voters, including a statistical
     analysis of Uniformed Service voting participation, a general assessment of overseas non-
     military participation, and a description of State and Federal cooperation.




                                          GORDON O. TANNER, SES, SAF/MR
                                          Deputy Assisstant Secretary of the Air Force,
                                          Manpower and Reserve Affairs
AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  13


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act of 1986, as amended
DoDI 1000.04, Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP), 13 September 2012
AFPD 36-31, Personal Affairs, 2 April 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary, and Preventative Law Programs, 27 October 2003
AFI 51-902, Political Activities by Members of the U.S. Air Force
AFI 90-201, Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP) website: www.fvap.gov
AFPC website: http://www.afpc.af.mil/library/airforcevoting/index.asp
Title 42, USC § 1973gg-5, Voter Registration Agencies
Title 18, USC § 592, Troops at Polls
Title 18, USC § 593, Interference by Armed Forces
Title 18, USC § 594, Intimidation of Voters
Title 18, USC § 596, Polling Armed Forces
Title 18, USC § 597, Expenditures to Influence Voting
Title 18, USC § 609, Use of Military Authority to Influence Vote of Member of Armed Forces
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF 76, Federal Post Card Registration and Absentee Ballot Request
SF 186, Federal Write-in Absentee Ballot

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FVAP—Federal Voting Assistance Program
 14                                                 AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014


HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IVAO—Installation Voting Assistance Officer
IVA Office—Installation Voter Assistance Office
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SSVR—Senior Service Voting Representative
SVAO—Air Force Services Voting Action Officer
TDY—Temporary Duty
UOCAVA—Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act of 1986
US—United States
USC—United States Code
USAF—United States Air Force
UVAO—Unit Voting Assistance Officer
VAG—Voting Assistance Guide
VAO—Voting Assistance Officer
VAP—Voting Action Plan
AFI36-3107 27 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                                   15


                                              Attachment 2
VOTING ASSISTANCE OFFICER GRADE REQUIREMENTS AND GRADE WAIVER
                           AUTHORITY

Table A2.1. Voting Assistance Officer Grade Requirements and Grade Waiver Authority
                               Voting Assistance Officer Grade Requirements

                                       and Grade Waiver Authority

AF/A1 Senior Service Voting      The SSVR must be a general officer. The SVAO should be a GS-12 or higher,
Representative (SSVR) and        if a civilian, 0-4 or higher, if an officer, or E-8, if an enlisted member.
AF Voting Action Officer
(SVAO)

AFPC/DPSIMF Service              Should be a civilian general schedule GS-12 or higher. If a military member is
Voting Action Officer (SVAO)     assigned as the VAO, that officer should hold the rank of 0-4 or higher.
                                 Alternates should hold the rank of E-7 or higher. Where possible, VAOs should
MAJCOM VAOs (MVAO)               serve at least 2 years and through a general election year. This guidance is not
(Includes NGB and AFRC)          absolute, and may be modified to meet local conditions. It is preferable to
Note 1                           assign an enthusiastic member who does not meet the criterion than appoint a
                                 nonvolunteer who meets the criterion. The goal is to assign quality individuals
Installation Voting Action
                                 with enough authority as VAOs to get the job done. This leniency in applying
Officer (IVAO) Primary and
                                 the DoDI and AFI guidance, however, should not be used as license to degrade
Alternate
                                 the integrity of the program by assigning VAOs that do not carry the rank and
                                 experience needed to lead other VAOs and discuss the voting issues with
                                 commanders.

Unit Voting Action Officer       Recommend 0-2/E-7/GS-7 level, but left up to the discretion of the Commander.
(UVAO) Primary and               Civilians may be appointed as UVAOs, but are not granted authority to
Alternate                        administer/witness an oath (if required by the voter’s state). Only military
                                 UVAOs and IVAOs are granted the authority to administer the oath. N/A for
                                 the Air National Guard.

IVAO Primary and Alternate       Grade waivers may be granted by the Installation/Wing Commander and be
grade waivers                    included in the IVAO appointment letter. The Installation/Wing Commander
                                 grants the waiver for a specific individual in whom the commander has placed
                                 his/her trust to perform IVAO duties.

Note 1: MAJCOM VAO minimum grade recommendations and waiver authority are contained
in paragraph 1.5.1.
