BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 38-101
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                          Supplement

                                                                                          9 JULY 2009
                                                                       Certified Current 8 August 2013
                                                                          Manpower and Organization
                                                                       AIR FORCE ORGANIZATION


                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:           Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                         e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFMC/A1MO                                                         Certified by: HQ AFMC/A1M
                                                                           (Colonel Mark S. Whinnery)
Supersedes:   AFI38-101_AFMCSUP,                                                             Pages: 16
              31 July 2000


AFI 38-101, 4 April 2006, is supplemented as follows: This supplement implements AFPD 38-1,
Organization. This supplement does not apply to the Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units
and members. Units are not authorized to further supplement this Command supplement. Questions
regarding this supplement should be referred in writing to HQ AFMC/A1MO, 4375 Chid law Road,
Room S228, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5006. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES:

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Clarifies Air Force
Research Laboratory (AFRL) approval level for organization change actions; revises policy on
organization approval level for Center commanders; adds policy on when organization change
ceremonies can be held; removed Integrated Weapon Systems Management (IWSM) policy statement
and related Organization Change Request (OCR) question; identifies the designation of Air Base Wing
(ABW) Commander as Installation Commander; identifies standard functions for Center staff and Air
Base Wing (ABW) staff; revises and adds multiple attachments.
1.3.1.1. (Added) HQ AFMC and the Centers work toward meeting AFMC and Air Force organization
goals. The Director of Manpower, Personnel and Services, HQ AFMC/A1, is responsible for
recommending Command organization policy to AFMC/CC, and monitoring progress toward
organization goals. HQ AFMC functional chiefs give assistance in their functional areas.
1.3.3.1. (Added) For Centers, Field Operating Agencies (FOA), and Direct Reporting Units (DRU)
wanting to deviate from standard HQ USAF and AFMC organization structures as detailed in AFI 38-
 2                                                            AFI38-101_AFMCSUP           9 JULY 2009


101, AFMC’s Organization Blueprint, and this supplement, an Organization Change Request (OCR)
must be submitted to HQ AFMC/A1M. To determine whether an OCR is needed, see attachment 5
(Added), OCR Requirement Flow-Chart.
1.3.5. (Added) The servicing manpower office will advise and assist commanders in organization
matters. They must review, validate, and coordinate on OCR packages and are the channels through
which OCRs flow to HQ AFMC/A1M. Functional chiefs at the Center or HQ AFMC level provide
assistance on OCR development in their functional areas.
2.2. Standard Levels of Air Force Organization. Certain functions performed within AFMC units are
commercial activities. When these functions are competed through the A-76 process or become High
Performing Organizations (HPO), the resulting organization has an automatic blanket waiver to deviate
from standard organization structure (reference AFI 38-203, para 11.2.2.3.).
2.2.6.3.1. (Added) Within AFMC, there are several types of specialized mission wings. These include
but are not limited to: systems, sustainment, test, and supply chain management.
2.2.8. A standard support squadron (within an Air Base Wing) must have a minimum of 38 organic
authorizations, unless a higher minimum has been identified (e.g., a Logistics Readiness Squadron must
have no less than 50 authorizations). A mission squadron must have 38 organic authorizations unless its
program size and complexity; dollars managed; scope of the program managed (joint or otherwise); new
or expiring missions; and geographical considerations warrant further consideration, in which case the
organic total can be no less than 25 organic authorizations. Organic authorizations include officer,
enlisted and civilian authorizations. Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) and Contractor (CME) positions are
not considered organic authorizations.
2.2.9.1.1. (Added) AFMC will not use numbered or named flights.
2.2.9.3.1. (Added) In AFMC, a functional flight is used as a subordinate organization of a squadron, and
is authorized only in numbered/named wing, group and squadron structures. When an officer heads a
flight, the position is a flight commander (duty title and rating chain only). When an enlisted member or
civilian heads a flight, the position is a flight chief.
2.2.9.3.2. (Added) A functional flight commander does not obtain C-coded commander status. Duty
titles should list the commander title at the end. For example, it should not be “Commander,
Intelligence Flight,” but should be listed as “Intelligence Flight Commander.”
2.2.9.3.3. (Added) To perform organization changes on functional flights and below controlled by AFI
38-101 (e.g., flights under Logistics Readiness Squadrons/Divisions; reference AFI 38-101, chapter 3
for a complete list) an OCR must be submitted to HQ AFMC/A1M. Approval for creating new
functional flights and below not controlled by AFI 38-101 (i.e., those in AFMC specialized mission
wings such as Supply Chain Management or Armament Systems flights) must be requested through the
servicing manpower office and approved by the Center commander.
2.2.10.1. (Added) AFMC/CA or his/her designee will approve all Center staff element changes at the 2-
and 3-letter organization level (directorate and division level). The approval authority for organization
changes at 4-letter and below within the Center is delegated to the Center commanders or his/her
designee. If the Center commander has not delegated that responsibility to DP-level, the request must be
coordinated through the servicing manpower office. Office symbol codes (OSC) must be requested
through appropriate functionals, the servicing manpower office, communications unit, and
HQ AFMC/A1MO. This authority does not include reorganizations that cross functional lines (i.e., from
one 2-letter to another) or 4-letter and below organization structures that are controlled by AFI 38-101
AFI38-101_AFMCSUP             9 JULY 2009                                                                 3


(i.e., wings, groups, squadrons, flights, or their equivalents). Reorganizations that cross functional lines
require an OCR submitted to HQ AFMC/A1M.
2.3.1.1.3.3.3.1. (Added) AFRL’s 711th Human Performance Wing was established as a medical unit.
With approval of this unit, AF/A1M, in coordination with AF/JA, approved a waiver to allow a civilian
director, medical or non-medical, to lead the organization. Additionally, a non-medical military
commander may also lead this unit based on the approved waiver.
2.3.1.1.3.5.3. (Added) Commanders and directors leading units receive a special duty title code in the
Manpower Programming and Execution System (MPES). The code for commander will be 113 and for
director will be 143. Reference Attachment 6 (Added) for a chart depicting leadership office symbols
and duty titles.
2.3.1.3.1. (Added) At AFMC installations, the ABW commander is the Installation Commander.
Exception: At Arnold AFB TN, the AEDC/CC is the Installation Commander. In addition, by
memorandum 6 April 2004, the Secretary of the Air Force delegated civilian appointing authority under
Title 5, U.S.C., Section 302, to Air Force Materiel Command Center Commanders rather than to
relevant AFMC Installation Commanders. By memorandum 23 February 2005, HQ USAF/DPP
approved AFMC’s request to authorize the Center DP to administer the Commander’s Title 5, U.S.C
civilian appointing authority on behalf of the Center Commander where the Center DP structure is
established, as the CPO.
2.3.1.5. (Added) Executive Director. The senior-level civilian position authorized at HQ AFMC and at
AFMC Center level. The position will use the office symbol CA.
2.3.1.6. (Added) Director. The duty title for civilians in charge of “units” or directorates, Divisions and
branches under directorates will use the title Chief. This is not to be confused with the OSC “CL,”
which means Civilian Unit Leader. The OSC for a director in charge of a directorate (vice unit) will use
the functional OSC that applies to that mission area. For example, the Director of Manpower,
Personnel, and Services will use A1 at MAJCOM-level and DP at Center-level (A-staff structure not to
be used below MAJCOM level).
2.3.2.5.1. (Added) In AFMC, divisions can be subordinate to groups. The organization’s program size,
complexity, dollars managed, scope of the program managed (joint or otherwise), or geographical
considerations may not be sufficient to warrant squadron status in which case a division may be
warranted. The individual leading the division is called a division chief. The sub-organization levels of
branch, section, and element will be used if further breakout is warranted. An OCR is required to be
submitted to HQ AFMC/A1M to create a new division. HQ AFMC/A1 will be the approval authority
for a division and coordination will be obtained from the appropriate functional community.
2.3.2.7. (Added) Office. Normally refers to Center, wing or certain group staff organizations, but may
also be used for homogeneous work of a staff nature performed by a small number of workers.
Commander’s staff elements or organizations that serve a functional or staff-related mission (e.g.,
contracting, financial management, quality assurance, and engineering) in wings and groups will use the
organization title “Office.” Offices may be further subdivided into sections and elements, headed by
chiefs. Sections and elements should generally have a supervisor worker ratio of 1:7 or greater.
3.1. Organization Structure. Office Symbol Codes (OSC). Organizations should use standard Air Force
OSCs contained in MPES. Sub-command coded OSCs will no longer be input into MPES. Changes,
additions and deletions to OSCs must be approved by the appropriate functional community, vetted
through the servicing manpower office and then submitted to HQ AFMC/A1MO for review, and sent to
HQ USAF/A1MO for approval/submission to MPES. The scope of information required to obtain an
 4                                                              AFI38-101_AFMCSUP            9 JULY 2009


OSC is case dependent and most OSC requests are contained in an OCR. For cases where an OCR is
not required, contact HQ AFMC/A1MO for guidance. At a minimum, requests should contain the OSC,
title, short definition, and justification statement on the need for the new OSC. Additional information
on the authorization impact to units/offices with the creation of the new OSC may be required.
3.3.2.4.1. (Added) Within AFMC, the JA office is placed on the Center staff reporting directly to the
Center Commander.
3.3.2.9.1. (Added) Within AFMC, the Equal Opportunity (EO) office is placed on the Center staff
reporting directly to the Executive Director (CA) (for functional reporting, see AFMCI 36-2645, Center
Functional and Unit Roles and Responsibilities).
3.4. (Added) Standard Center. Within AFMC, Centers have an AFMC/CC-approved standard structure
for their staff functions and direct reports. See Figure 7.1. (Added) and Figure 7.2. (Added) for the
standard Center staff structure, for details of functions contained within the standard structure, reference
HQ AFMC PPlan 07-02, Implementation of the AFMC Commander’s Direction to Standardize Center
Staffs and Air Base Wing Functions, 26 October 2007. Deviation requires an Organization Change
Request (OCR) as outlined in Chapter 5 of AFI 38-101.
4.3.3. HQ AFMC/A1M controls the establishment, activation and inactivation of operating locations
(OL) and detachments (DET). Submit requests with the information and format provided in
Attachment 8 (Added) of this supplement. Parent organizations (i.e., HQ AFMC, FOAs, Centers, and
Labs) of DETs and OLs are required to conduct an annual review of their DETs and OLs to validate the
continuing requirement for the activity. A report of the DET/OL review submitted by the manpower
office will be forwarded to HQ AFMC/A1MO each calendar year. HQ AFMC/A1M will initiate the
DET/OL review tasking, but at anytime during the year, Centers can and should submit DETs and OLs
for creation or deletion, as needed.
4.3.3.1.7. (Added) Requests for a DET will be sent to HQ AFMC/A1MO. Justification will include the
specific need for command authority (UCMJ). A numbered unit may be more suitable for larger
organizations rather than creating a DET. Requests for a DET must be approved by the Center
Commander, Vice Commander, or Executive Director for DETs assigned to wings or groups assigned to
the Center. The wing commander/director is the approval level for DETs assigned to squadrons.
Additionally, requests for DETs must be approved by the gaining Installation Commander or his/her
designee. The servicing manpower chief will indicate the required approvals have been received in the
letter/email containing the request forwarded to HQ AFMC/A1MO.
4.3.3.1.8. (Added) The unit to which DETs are assigned must be led by a military commander in order
to be able to delegate UCMJ authority to the DET/CC (reference AFI 51-604, Appointment To and
Assumption of Command). If the leadership changes within the parent unit from a commander to a
civilian director, the Center must immediately remove UCMJ authority from the DET/CC. If the parent
unit is slated to have a civilian leader for an extended period of time, the Center must submit a request to
HQ AFMC/A1MO to inactivate the DET and create an OL in its place, if the geographically separated
function is still needed.
4.3.3.2.6. (Added) Requests for an OL will be sent to HQ AFMC/A1MO. A numbered unit may be
more suitable for larger organizations rather than creating an OL. Requests for an OL must be approved
by the Center Commander, Vice Commander, or Executive Director for either OLs assigned to wings or
groups assigned to the Center. The Wing Commander/Director is the approval level for OLs assigned to
squadrons. Additionally, requests for OLs must be approved by the gaining Installation Commander or
his/her designee. The servicing manpower chief will indicate that the required approvals have been
received in the letter/email containing the request that is forwarded to HQ AFMC/A1MO.
AFI38-101_AFMCSUP            9 JULY 2009                                                              5


4.3.3.2.7. (Added) OLs will not be assigned to a DET at the same geographic location. HQ
AFMC/A1MO will consider exceptions to this policy on a case-by-case basis or when a separate PAS
code is required for administrative purposes (e.g., senior rater establishment).
4.3.3.3.6. (Added) Requests for PAS codes for units, staff elements, DETs, and OLs must be sent to HQ
AFMC/A1MO for approval. Normal staffing to approve a new PAS code or make a change to an
existing PAS code takes about 2 weeks.
5.2. Organization Change Request (OCR). Detailed information and analysis must be provided in the
OCR to support the proposal. Issues to discuss include: program size and complexity; dollars managed;
scope of the program managed (joint or otherwise); new or expiring missions; and geographical
considerations. These OCR details should be addressed within the framework of the nine questions
required by AFI 38-101. Complete the OCR checklist detailed in Attachment 9 (Added). Complete
the OCR data sheet that details program size and scope in Attachment 10 (Added). Additional issues to
consider: (1) OCRs that impact other AFMC Centers and/or HQ USAF standard organization structures
must be coordinated with the other Centers before sending the request to HQ AFMC/A1M. The request
will contain the results of the field coordination, to include the comments and/or recommendations of
the other Center Commanders; (2) Centers submit variation requests to standard Air Force and AFMC
organization structures to HQ AFMC/A1M in accordance with Chapter 5, AFI 38-101. Requests must
be reviewed by the servicing manpower office and be approved by the Center Commander, Vice
Commander or Executive Director. The request, after Center approval, will be forwarded by the
servicing manpower office to HQ AFMC/A1M in an editable format for staffing and
approval/disapproval; (3) Any OCR that requires inactivation, activation, or redesignation of a unit, or
affects an organization structure covered by AFI 38-101 will require HQ USAF level approval. Allow
approximately 30 - 45 days for processing/staffing of OCRs to be approved by HQ AFMC/A1 or
AFMC/CC and do not require HQ USAF/A1 approval. An additional 60-90 days should be added to the
processing time for OCRs that must be forwarded to HQ USAF/A1 for approval. AFRL 2-letter OCRs
must be approved by HQ AFMC/A1 and SAF/AQ.
5.2.5. Include requests for new OSCs required to implement the proposed actions contained in the OCR
in this section.
5.2.8. A thorough and complete accounting of all costs associated with the proposal must be furnished to
include, but not limited to, manpower, civil engineering, moving, equipment, and administrative
(letterhead, signage, banners, caps, etc.) expenses. Use the OCR cost template depicted in Attachment
11 (Added).
5.2.10. (Added) In addition, AFMC OCRs must answer the following questions if the unit contains
ACAT I, II, or III programs:
5.2.10.1. (Added) How does the reorganization make the acquisition process more efficient and what
efficiencies are to be gained? This will be question 10 of the OCR package if required.
5.2.10.2. (Added) If OCR requests to create new wings/groups/squadrons: Do the sizes of the proposed
wings, groups or squadrons have sufficient resource responsibility (people in the unit, dollars managed,
contractors providing support, etc.)? This will be question 11 of the OCR package if required.
5.2.10.3. (Added) Does the reorganization create redundancies in staff functions among squadrons,
groups, and wings. Provide an explanation even if the answer is no. This will be question 12 of the
OCR package if required.
5.2.10.4. (Added) Where is the funding coming from for support contractors and what functions are
they performing? This will be question 13 of the OCR package if required.
 6                                                           AFI38-101_AFMCSUP          9 JULY 2009


5.4. (Added) Approval authority for 2-letter changes in AFRL is SAF/AQ through HQ AFMC/A1 and
HQ USAF/A1M. Approval authority for AFRL 3-letter organizational changes and below is delegated to
the AFRL Commander/Director.
5.5. (Added) Realignment of manpower authorizations into any new organization requiring the approval
of HQ AFMC/A1 or HAF must not take place until HQ AFMC/A1 approval is obtained.
5.6. (Added) No organization event or ceremony is authorized until formal approval is obtained from
AFMC/CC/CV/CA, his/her designee, or HQ USAF/A1, depending on appropriate level. HQ AFMC
will not sanction premature activation/inactivation events or ceremonies which conflict the above USAF
and AFMC organization policy.
6.4. (Added) MPES updates must be implemented within 90 days of selected date of action as identified
in the signed special order for an approved OCR assuming all union bargaining obligations are met.




                                           MARVIN T. SMOOT, JR., Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Director, Manpower, Personnel and Services
                                           Air Force Materiel Command
AFI38-101_AFMCSUP           9 JULY 2009                                                  7


                                          Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program, 20 June 2008
AFI38-101, Air Force Organization, 4 April 2006
AFI51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, 26 November 2003
AFI 51-604, Appointment To and Assumption of Command, 4 April 2006
AFPD 38-1, Organization, 1 June 1996
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 15 October 2007
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMCI 36-2645, Center Functional and Unit Roles and Responsibilities, 22 April 2008
HQ AFMC PPlan 07-02, Implementation of the AFMC Commander’s Direction to Standardize Center
Staffs and Air Base Wing Functions, 26 October 2007
 8                                                  AFI38-101_AFMCSUP   9 JULY 2009


                                  Attachment 5 (Added)
                         OCR REQUIREMENT FLOW CHART

Figure A5.1. OCR Requirement Flow Chart.
AFI38-101_AFMCSUP              9 JULY 2009                                                     9


                                          Attachment 6 (Added)
                      LEADERSHIP OFFICE SYMBOLS AND DUTY TITLES

Figure A6.1. Leadership Office Symbols and Duty Titles.




* Units above Wing-level must have a Military CC per AFI 38-101, para 2.3.1.1.3.3.4
** MPES DTY refers to the Manpower Programming & Execution System Duty Title code on the UMD
 10                                                                                                                  AFI38-101_AFMCSUP          9 JULY 2009


                                                                               Attachment 7 (Added)
               CENTER STAFF OVERVIEW TEMPLATE AND CC/CL DIRECT RESPONSE

Figure A7.1. Center Staff Overview Template.

                             Center Staff Overview Template

                                                                                CC, CV, CA



              AQ 3                       EN                               SB                           XR    2                  XP
       Acquisition                 Engineering              Small Business                      Capabilities Mgt         Plans & programs




               PK                         DP                          EO                              JA                        FM
       Contracting                   Personnel                 Equal Opp                        Judge Advocate             Financial Mgt


                                                                                    CS
                                                                               Chief of Staff



                         CSH                           SES            1            CCP                      CCX      4            HO
                  HQ Operations                Systems Safety                    Protocol                CC Action              History
                    Support                                                                               Group


      1.   System Safety applies only to ASC.
      2.   See XR Center chart for Guidance
      3.   Not all Centers will have a stand alone AQ.
      4.   CCX also includes Program Executive Group (PEG)
      5.   AFFTC and AAC SE office will reside on the Center Staff.
                                                                                                                                            1
AFI38-101_AFMCSUP                                 9 JULY 2009                                                                          11


Figure A7.2. Center CC Direct Reports.

                                         Center CC Direct Reports
                                                  CC Decision 15 Aug 07
                              CC: CV/DV, CA, CS, ABW/CC, Mission WG/CCs/CLs,
                              CR, CZ (CHIEF TECHNOLOGIST - AFRL, AEDC, AFFTC), CG (OC, OO, & WR), JA

                                                                        STANDARD
          CV/DV or CA                              If CV/DV, then Center CC, selects whether CV/DV or CA is       CV/DV or CA or CS
                                                           Deputy for Mission or Deputy for Support

 DEPUTY FOR MISSION                                                APPROVED VARIANCE
                                                                                                                DEPUTY FOR SUPPORT
       XR, EN, PK, AQ*                                   If no CV/DV, then CA Deputy for Mission and
                                                                    CS Deputy for Support
                                                                                                                     XP, DP, FM

                                                                      PERMANENTLY
       CA: SB, EO, ADR                                                  ASSIGNED                              CS: CSH, CCP, CCX, HO
*Product Centers: AQ at ASC and ESC, dual-hatted as EN/AQ at AAC
*Test Centers and ALCs: AQ subordinate to XR. If no XR, then subordinate to XP



                                        ABW/CC: PA, IG, HC, IT/SC (Deputy-CIOs TBD), SE
  Notes:
  - Centers that do not have a CV/DV, CA, and/or CS construct may implement this guidance in a manner that fairly distributes
  workload across their leadership (requires AFMC/CS approval).
  - This model may be adjusted in the event the CV/DV, CA, or CS is junior in rank to a 2-Ltr Director for rating purposes. However,
  adjustments will be to move only those senior ranking Directors under the other Deputy on a case-by-case basis, and will revert
  to standard immediately once the rank imbalance ceases (requires AFMC/CS approval).

                    Commander’s Intent: Enable Center CCs to focus maximum attention on Center mission by
                               realigning direct reports in a standard way across the Command
V20
 12                                                               AFI38-101_AFMCSUP      9 JULY 2009


                                          Attachment 8 (Added)
                                       DET/OL REQUEST FORM

1. DET/OL Designation (include Functional OPR)
2. Location (include functional OPR)
3. Action to be taken:
  Activation/Inactivation or Amendment (used when updating mission)
4. Effective Dates (Beginning or Ending Dates)
5. Function (Complete Mission Statement)
6. Manpower Summary:
  (Officer, Enlisted, Civilian, Total--5-year projection, include CMEs)
7. Justification (authority or reason for function)
8. End products (or services performed)
  a. Specific Duties (List):
  b. End Products (List):
  c. Principal Users (List):
9. How is each DET or OL essential to mission accomplishment?
  Why must it be at the indicated locations (specific details)?
10. Certification by servicing manpower chief that gaining installation commander agrees and will
provide support needed
11. Signature of Center servicing manpower chief
AFI38-101_AFMCSUP             9 JULY 2009                                                               13


                                         Attachment 9 (Added)
                                           OCR CHECKLIST

OCR Q and A

1. Determine the customer requirement. Translate that requirement into an OCR package, i.e., help
them write it if necessary.
2. Ensure acronyms and parenthetical titles are spelled out the first time they are used in the OCR.
3. If you need a new unit number(s), put ### in the OCR. The MAJCOM historian, along with AFHRA,
will research available numbering with nomenclature.
4. Compare the request against standard nomenclature. Reference AFPD 38-5. Strive to use existing
nomenclature. If new nomenclature is required, submit justification and mission definition per AFPD
38-5, paragraph A1.2.3.6.
5. Answer “not applicable” if any of the AFI 38-101 questions do not apply to your particular OCR.
6. Determine impact on Rated Position Identifiers (RPI), grades, ceilings, etc.
7. Determine the cost in terms of dollars and manpower; reference OCR question 8 and attachment 7 of
this supplement.
8. Include current and proposed mission statements of impacted units.
9. If a division and a squadron are under the same group, explain why the other organization cannot be a
squadron.
10. Include justification when increasing the size of staff offices (i.e., FM, PK, EN, OB, OM, etc.).
11. If funding for programs is moving from one organization to another (with authorizations), ensure
Q&A reflect the acknowledgment of transfer of work or PEC funding.
12. If moving an organization to a non-AFMC base, ensure MOU/MOA with the gaining location’s
installation commander is addressed in the package.
13. Address any military to civilian leader changes, if applicable.
14. Don’t put auth numbers in the OCR that have not been approved through the POM process.
15. Ensure the OCR is not being proposed for personnel reasons.
16. Ensure all applicable Center functional staff offices have received the coordination. Staff it
electronically to simultaneously obtain coordination from all applicable offices versus hard copy to save
time.
17. Provide justification in the OCR if a group will exist with only one subordinate squadron or a wing
with only one subordinate group.
18. Authorizations provided in the OCR should reflect End of FY (EOFY) UMD data for the current FY
if submission date is within the first 3 quarters of the FY. During the last quarter of the FY, submit the
EOFY data from the following FY.
19. Ensure the rank of the proposed unit leader is appropriate with the unit level requested. For example,
Lt Cols may not lead groups or wings.
 14                                                             AFI38-101_AFMCSUP            9 JULY 2009



Current and Proposed Org Charts
1. If inactivating or reassigning a unit, make BLACK lines around the box in 2.5 pt weight on the
current chart.
2. If activating or redesignating a unit, make BLUE lines around the box in 2.5 pt weight on the
proposed chart.
3. Ensure authorized Officer (O), Enlisted (E), Civilian (C), and Totals (T) are in each unit block.
Ensure (O/E/C/T) numbers add up
Include rank of unit leaders
Keep “chartsmanship” in mind, i.e., boxes should be same size, easy to read, lines straight, etc.
4. Ensure the O/E/C/T count does not include CMEs. The CME count should be displayed under the
O/E/C/T count.
5. If CMEs are in the squadron as well as group, they should be displayed in the squadron unit box in the
chart. Group and Wing staff should be on one line in the group/wing-level box with the cumulative
group/wing total displayed underneath the staff line in the box.
6. Functional offices such as FM, PK, EN are all considered staff offices and should be reflected in the
chart as a wing/group staff office box.
7. Divisions not considered a staff office can appear as their own organization box.
8. Do not use RED on the organization charts. Red has a negative connotation, follow the template.
9. Ensure organization charts reflect ADCON and OPCON lines of communication/reporting to
SAF/AQ, if applicable.
10. An OCR should not be used to increase the grade of an individual. If the rank of a leader changes,
include the reason(s) why in the OCR under question 8, “manpower.” Highlight the grade change in
BLUE on the proposed organization chart.
11. If changing the parenthetical name of an organization, reflect those changes in BLUE
12. Org charts should display DETs and can display OLs, if necessary.
13. Org charts should show impact to one level up the organization structure for AFI 38-101 standard
units (e.g., if requesting a Civil Engineer Squadron increase to group status, show impact to Mission
Support Group).
AFI38-101_AFMCSUP                     9 JULY 2009                                                                        15


                                                   Attachment 10 (Added)
                                                    OCR DATA SHEET

Table A10.1. OCR Data Sheet.

                            Rank of    MDA           PM
             Name of        Leader     Reporting     Responsibility   ACAT        Auth      Auth       Auth       Auth
 UNIT        Program        Mil/Civ    Level         Level            Level       Officer   Enlisted   Civilian   CME
 e.g., 399   e.g., Long                SAE, DAE      SSM, DSM, or     I, II, or
 AESG        Range Strike   Col        or PEO        SPM              III




MDA = Milestone Decision Authority
DAE = Defense Acquisiton Executive
SAE = Service Acquisition Executive
PEO = Program Executive Officer
PM = Program Manager
SSM = System Support Manager
DSM = Development System Manager
SPM = System Program Manager
ACAT = Acquisition Category
 16                                                            AFI38-101_AFMCSUP          9 JULY 2009


                                       Attachment 11 (Added)
                                      OCR COST TEMPLATE

Table A11.1. OCR Cost Template.
What is the cost of the request in terms of dollars and resources?
Dollars: No increases in budget authority or annual expenditures are envisioned nor planned in future
POM submissions. There will be some minor relocations costs to accommodate the new
organizational construct, but these will be accommodated from existing AFMC funds.
Manpower: There are no manpower plus ups in this reorganization. These new organizations will be
funded/staffed from manpower that is realigned from existing (ENTER AFFECTED CENTER or
WING NAME) manpower resources.
Other: The following is an estimate of the costs to reorganize, and will be borne within AFMC
resources: Please fill in appropriate cost.

ITEM                                                                 ESTIMATED
                                                                     COST
Unit Flag(s)/Guidon(s)                                               $ 0.00
Hats w/ Unit Designation                                             $ 0.00
Unit Patches Artwork & AFHRA Approval ($425 each new unit)           $0.00
Unit Patches                                                         $ 0.00
Exterior Signage                                                     $ 0.00
Interior Signage                                                     $ 0.00
Office Moves                                                         $ 0.00
Industrial Moves (Minimize)                                          $ 0.00
Ceremonies                                                           $ 0.00
Transition Issues (Plan, Conduct, Evaluate & Troubleshoot) &
Communication Changes (Phones, Phone Books, Radios)                  $ 0.00
LAN Connectivity                                                     $ 0.00
TOTAL ESTIMATED OTHER COSTS                                          $ 0.00
