BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-322
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             7 OCTOBER 2003
                                                                TYNDALL AIRFORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                          25 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                     RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILCXE                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/ILCX
Supersedes: AFI 33-322,                                                   (Col Hollace D. Lyon)
            1 December 1998.                                                          Pages: 21
                                      (TYNDALLAFB)
OPR: 325 CS/SCOK                                                       Certified by: 325 CS/CC
Supersedes: AFI33-112/TAFBS1,                                         (Clorinda Trujillo, Lt Col)
            9 JUN 2005                                                                   Pages:8


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 37-1, Air Force Information
Management (will become AFPD 33-3). It establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for life-
cycle management (i.e., creation, maintenance and use, and disposition) of information as
records in all media through the Air Force Records Management Program. The instruction also
implements Title 44, United States Code (U.S.C.), Public Printing and Documents, Chapters 29,
Records Management by the Archivist of the United States and by the Administrator of General
Services; Chapter 31, Records Management by Federal Agencies; Chapter 33, Disposal of
Records; and Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy; Title 36, Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR), Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and
Records Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management; Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources; Title 18 U.S.C.,
Crime and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 101, Records and Reports, Section 2071,
Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation Generally; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD)
5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000; DoD Standard 5015.2 (DoD
5015.2-STD), Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software
Applications, June 2002; DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and
Subordinate Joint Commands, November 15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000. This instruction
 2                                   AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


applies to all Air Force military, civilians, and contractor personnel under contract by the DoD
who maintain records in their area of responsibility. Failure to observe the prohibitions and
mandatory provisions of this instruction in paragraph 3.2.1 by military personnel is a
violation of Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation, Uniform Code of Military
Justice. Similarly, failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this
instruction in paragraph 3.2.1 by civilian employees may result in administrative
disciplinary action under applicable civilian personnel instructions without regard to
otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Additional
records management publications are listed on the Air Force website at Uniform Resources
Locator: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil, under Electronic Publications. Air Force Directory
(AFDIR) 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology, explains other
terms. Direct questions or conflicts on the contents of this instruction, through appropriate
command channels, to Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF/ILCXE), 1030 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1030. Refer recommended changes or comments to
Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency (HQ AFCA/ITXD), 203 West Losey Street,
Room 1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222, through appropriate channels, using Air Force (AF)
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Provide an information copy to HQ
USAF/ILCXE. Refer to Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
Maintain and dispose of records according to Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-139, Records
Disposition Schedule. Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program, affect this publication.

(TYNDALLAFB) AFI 33-322, 7 October 2003, is supplemented as follows. This instruction
applies to all assigned and attached units on Tyndall AFB. It does not apply to Defense
Commissary Agency or the Army and Air Force Exchange Service. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. It applies to individuals at all
levels who prepare, manage, review, certify, approve, disseminate and/or use official Air Force
publications and forms, including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
(ANG) units, except where noted otherwise. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. . Contact supporting records
managers as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a total rewrite of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322. It redefines roles and
responsibilities at all levels; deletes the requirement for joint commands to appoint a records
manager (RM), requires all field operating agencies (FOA) to appoint a RM (paragraph 3.4);
revises support provided to joint commands; and updates electronic record-keeping
responsibilities throughout. The bar (|) preceding the publication title indicates a major revision
from the previous publication.
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                                                   3


(TYNDALLAFB) Added requirement for Functional Area Records Managers (FARM) to
ensure AETC Form 67 is completed prior to submitting Records Custodian (RC) for classroom
training.  Added requirement for account deletion from AFRIMS and notification sent to
squadron commander and/or FARM for failure to complete training. Added requirement that
only Chief of Record (COR) may sign AETC Form 67 appointing RC and only Squadron
Commander may sign AETC Form 67 appointing FARM. Added annual CBT training for
Records Professionals

       1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    3
       2.      Definition of Records. ............................................................................................            4
       3.      The Air Force Program Guidance. .........................................................................                      4
       4.      The Air Force Records Officer. .............................................................................                   5
       5.      Command Records Managers and Agency Records Managers. ............................                                             6
       6.      Base Records Manager (RM). ................................................................................                    7
       6.      (TYNDALLAFB) Base Records Manager (RM). .................................................                                      7
       7.      Functional Area Records Managers (FARM). .......................................................                               9
       7.      (TYNDALLAFB) Functional Area Records Manager (FARM). ..........................                                                9
       8.      Chief of the Office of Record (COR). ...................................................................                      10
       9.      Records Custodian (RC). .......................................................................................               11
       10.     Contractor Records. ...............................................................................................           11
       10.     (TYNDALLAFB) Contractor Records. .................................................................                            11
       11.     Support Agreements. .............................................................................................             12
       12.     Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools (IMT). 12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               14

Attachment 2—(Added-TYNDALLAFB) UNIT/STAFF AGENCIES                                                                                          17

Attachment 3—(Added-TYNDALLAFB) FARM HANDBOOK INSTRUCTIONS                                                                                   19

Attachment 4—(Added-TYNDALLAFB) CHIEF OF RECORDS WAIVER OF TRAINING                                                                          21


1. General. Records play a vital role in managing and operating Air Force activities. In simple
terms, records document official business, serve as the memory of the organization, a record of
past events, and are the basis for future actions. Every Air Force activity must manage its records
to comply with legal accountability requirements. The key to an effective records management
program is the integrity of the filing system--a system that ensures a standard methodology for
filing, storing, retrieving, and ultimately disposing of records according to published retention
and disposition schedules. Criteria for establishing a filing system can be found in AFMAN 37-
123, Management of Records.
 4                                   AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


     1.1. Commanders and staff agency chiefs must implement records management programs in
     order to comply with this instruction and protect the rights of the U.S. Government and
     persons directly affected by Air Force actions.
     1.2. This instruction applies to contractors performing records management support and
     where contractors perform duties/services/functions in place of U. S. Government
     employees. Performance work statements must include record keeping requirements (see
     paragraph 10).
     1.3. Air Force units at all levels must manage records systematically to make sure they are
     complete, accurate, trustworthy, and easily accessible. Air Force units at all levels must
     document their organization, function, and activities and preserve their records by
     implementing effective life-cycle management procedures within their areas of
     responsibility.
2. Definition of Records. “…all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable
materials, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or
received by an agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with
the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or
its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions,
procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational
value of data in them. Library and museum material made or acquired and preserved solely for
reference or exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents preserved only for convenience of
reference, and stocks of publications and of processed documents are not included.” (Title 44
U.S.C., Public Printing and Documents, Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section 3301,
Definition of records).
3. The Air Force Program Guidance.
     3.1. The Air Force Director, Communications Operations (HQ USAF/ILC) oversees the Air
     Force records management program and appoints the Air Force Records Officer to
     administer the program, represent the Secretary of the Air Force on records management
     issues, and oversee the legal requirements of records disposal.
     3.2. Air Force Personnel, Civilian Employees, and Contractors:
        3.2.1. Must not conceal, remove, mutilate, obliterate or destroy records without proper
        authority. Unauthorized concealment, removal, mutilation, obliteration or destruction of
        records, or any attempt to do so, is a violation of Title 18, U.S.C., Section 2071 and may
        be punished by up to three years confinement and a fine. Failure to obey the
        prohibitions in this paragraph is also a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of
        Military Justice. Failure of civilian employees to follow the prohibitions in this
        paragraph may also result in administrative disciplinary action under applicable
        civilian personnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or
        civil sanctions.
        3.2.2. Must inform officials of any actual or potential unlawful removal, change, or
        destruction of Air Force records.
        3.2.3. Must distinguish Federal records from non-record materials and maintain personal
        papers separately.
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                      5


   3.3. The Air Force requires an organized network of Record Managers (RM) at major
   commands (MAJCOM), direct reporting units (DRU), field operating agencies (FOA), and
   bases for managing the program and ensuring compliance at all levels.
      3.3.1. Each MAJCOM (commander or senior communications and information official)
      must appoint a command records manager (CRM). Upon appointment or subsequent
      change of RM, notify HQ USAF/ILCX of the name, grade or rank, telephone number,
      office symbol, and organizational electronic mail address of the appointee.
      3.3.2. Each DRU (commander or senior communications and information official) must
      appoint a RM. CRM responsibility applies to Air Force DRUs and Air National Guard
      for the purposes of executing the Air Force Records Management Program. The 11th
      Wing supports offices of record in the Secretariat, HQ USAF, and at Bolling AFB DC
      and should develop a headquarters operating instruction outlining National Capital
      Region procedures.
      3.3.3. Each FOA (commander or senior communications and information official) must
      appoint an agency records manager (ARM).
      3.3.4. Each Air Force base (commander or senior communications and information
      official) must appoint a base RM and notify the CRM, providing the same information as
      in paragraph 3.3.1. At levels below MAJCOM, where there is a communications
      squadron, the RM is the chief of the office of records (COR) function.
4. The Air Force Records Officer.
   4.1. Works with the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and General
   Services Administration (GSA) using the guidelines from Titles 36 CFR and 41 CFR, Public
   Contracts and Property Management.
   4.2. Develops and issues policies governing life-cycle management of Air Force records
   according to AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and AFI 37-138, Records
   Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities.
   4.3. Works with the Archivist of the United States in applying standards, rules, and
   techniques to improve managing automated and manual records, to improve how the Air
   Force identifies, maintains, and protects permanently valuable records, and separates and
   disposes of records of temporary value under guidelines in Titles 36 and 41 CFR.
   4.4. Certifies to the Archivist of the United States that records no longer of value to the Air
   Force are disposable.
   4.5. Reports to the Archivist of the United States potential unlawful removal, change, or
   destruction of Air Force records.
   4.6. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure the Air Force properly creates and
   preserves records that document all aspects of its business to protect the rights of the United
   States Government and of persons directly affected by Air Force actions.
   4.7. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure all records, including databases and those
   in automated information systems, generated by processes and prescribed in Air Force
   publications are scheduled.
 6                                    AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


     4.8. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure system developers include records
     management requirements in automated information systems development and redesign.
     4.9. Applies DoD records management functional and system requirements to all electronic
     record-keeping systems.
     4.10. Obtains written approval or concurrence from the Comptroller General of the United
     States to dispose of records of claims and demands by or against the United States
     Government or accounts affecting the United States Government.
     4.11. Negotiates agreements to transfer Air Force records to NARA, Federal records centers
     (FRC), other Federal agencies, or private organizations.
     4.12. Implements agreements to store, service, dispose of, access, or use records.
     4.13. Publishes a records disposition schedule authorizing disposal of agency records and
     directing prompt and proper disposition of temporary records and retirement of permanent
     records.
     4.14. Directs evaluations of the Air Force’s Records Management Program, during staff
     assistance visits (SAV) or Inspector General (IG) team visits, ensuring compliance with
     Federal, DoD, and Air Force requirements.
     4.15. Issues guidance on authenticating records according to AFI 33-321, Authentication of
     Air Force Records.
     4.16. Maintains awareness of developments in the field of records technology and systems,
     and potential application to the Air Force’s record systems..
        4.16.1. Provides, upon request, a copy of any report submitted to NARA, GSA, OMB, or
        the Congress, to the Director of Administration and Management (DA&M), Office of the
        Secretary of Defense (OSD).
        4.16.2. Advises the DA&M, OSD of any matters pertaining to records management that
        may have DoD-wide implications.
        4.16.3. Provides combatant commands with requested administrative and logistical
        support for records management as specified in DoDD 5100.3.
        4.16.4. Advises personnel on recovery or reconstruction of records.
5. Command Records Managers and Agency Records Managers.
     5.1. Manage the records program within their command or agency as specified in Federal
     laws, NARA guidelines and applicable Air Force 33- (and 37-) series publications.
     MAJCOM/FOA/DRU internal record-keeping programs will comply with host base
     guidelines for storage, staging, retrieval, and training.
     5.2. Establish and manage a training program for newly appointed base RMs and for
     continuing training and education.
     5.3. Provide guidance on document imaging and electronic record-keeping requirements. If
     records are to be maintained electronically, establish and implement command-wide process
     for electronically storing records having a retention of 10 years or less, with manual
     application of disposition, where a DoD 5015.2-STD compliant system is not implemented.
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                 7


   Records with a retention of more than 10 years are not authorized for electronic storage
   without a compliant system or approval of HQ USAF/ILCX.
   5.4. Ensure records generated by command or agency directives and information collections
   (forms) are scheduled. When a command or FOA is designated as the office of primary
   responsibility (OPR) for an Air Force publication, the CRM or ARM ensures records
   generated by the prescribed processes are scheduled. Send documentation to support this
   action to HQ USAF/ILCX.
      5.4.1. Provide instruction to the OPR on submitting records disposition recommendation
      (AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation).
      5.4.2. Agency record managers must ensure functional series records dispositions are
      current. At a minimum, during the month of September review applicable tables and rules
      in AFMAN 37-139 and submit changes or a negative reply, as applicable, through their
      functional Air Force OPR to HQ USAF/ILCX. When processes change, are deleted, or
      new ones implemented, submit records scheduling information as previously stated.
   5.5. Coordinate contract record-keeping requirements with MAJCOM contracting office (see
   paragraph 10).
   5.6. Review each base RM program at least once every 24 months.
   5.7. Work with the IG to:
      5.7.1. Identify areas requiring special review by command IG teams.
      5.7.2. Provide compliance evaluation criteria and standards for functional area
      inspectors.
      5.7.3. Establish crossfeed procedures to ensure command units are aware of records
      management evaluation contained in IG reports. Send a copy of procedures to HQ
      USAF/ILCX.
   5.8. Establish a local support agreement with the host base RM, when deemed necessary, for
   program assistance, training, electronic records storage (where applicable), staging, or
   records shipping services.
6. Base Records Manager (RM). The RM administers the installation program. Their duties
fall into three major areas: providing assistance, managing staging areas, and training.
6. (TYNDALLAFB)Base Records Manager (RM). As designated, the Base Records Manager
(RM) is the Base Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Manager and Privacy Act (PA) Officer
responsible for conducting FOIA and PA training as required for all base personnel.
   6.1. Providing Assistance.
      6.1.1. Implements the Air Force Records Management Program across the base and
      provides assistance in the Air Force 33- and 37-series publications and guidance
      published by NARA.
      6.1.2. Makes recommendations on records storage issues. Provides guidance on using
      document imaging systems for records storage and authorized disposition of paper-based
      records following imaging.
8                                   AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


       6.1.3. Provides guidance on electronic record-keeping requirements and implements
       MAJCOM/local procedures for creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of
       electronic records.
       6.1.4. Reviews OPR proposals for electronic storage and document imaging of records,
       makes recommendation to improve processes, and sends the proposal to the CRM before
       implementation.
       6.1.5. Implements the Records Information Management System according to AFMAN
       37-123.
       6.1.6. Establishes and implements procedures for processing and approving file plans not
       specified by the CRM.
       6.1.7. Investigates incidences of lost records and unauthorized destruction of records.
           6.1.7.1. Provides guidance and assistance to reconstruct lost/destroyed records.
           6.1.7.2. Makes recommendations to management on preventing future records loss.
           6.1.7.3. Provides report as prescribed by AFI 37-138.
       6.1.8. Reviews base directives and forms/Information Management Tool (IMT) before
       publication to ensure compliance with records management directives.
       6.1.9. Provides instruction to the OPR on submitting AF Form 525, Records Disposition
       Recommendation, for new or revised records schedule.
       6.1.10. Provides records management administrative and logistical support for combatant
       commands where a support agreement exists.
       6.1.11. Ensures offices of record receive a SAV at least every 24 months.
    6.2. Managing Staging Areas.
       6.2.1. Manages a staging area for temporary storage of records pending destruction or
       transfer to a FRC including centralized storage of electronically stored inactive records.
       6.2.2. Provides records staging service for tenant activities, if provided for in a support
       agreement.
       6.2.3. Maintains custody of and accountability for staged records, and accountability for
       records transferred to other agencies or FRCs by maintaining copies of the Standard
       Forms (SF) 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, as prescribed in AFI 37-138.
       6.2.4. Makes the determination as to whether records have met criteria for disposition.
       Where required, the base RM negotiates contracts for the disposal of paper-based records
       stored in the staging area.
    6.3. Training.
       6.3.1. Train all personnel within 3 months of assignment, including tenant activities’
       personnel. ANG personnel will be trained within 6 months of assignment.
       6.3.1. (TYNDALLAFB) FARMs will ensure AETC Form 67 is completed in its
       entirety to include AFRIMS account created for new RCs, updated ERM permission
       letter sent to 325 CS/SCOK Records Management, and completion of all required
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                   9


       Records Management CBTs. User must be able to access AFRIMS prior to being signed
       up for any Records Management Training Class. If FARMs/RCs fail to complete CBTs
       and classroom training requirement within the AFI mandated timeframe (90 days), the
       FARM/RC accounts will be deleted from AFRIMS. CORs must complete all CBT
       training within 3 months of assignment or can waive the CBT training (sample waiver
       attached); hands- on training is not required for Chief of Office of Records (CORs).
       Failure to complete training within the prescribed timeframe will have their accounts
       deleted in AFRIMS. All CBT training for records professionals will be on an annual
       basis after initial training is completed.
       6.3.2. Training must cover command-unique or local operating procedures or
       requirements, particularly where electronic storage processes are implemented.
       6.3.3. Include instruction on requirement to identify personal papers, how to identify
       personal papers, and requirement to maintain them separately from official records.
       6.3.4. Notify supervisors of the training completion and requirement to record training
       on their Supervisor’s Employee Brief for civilian employees and on AF Form 623A, On-
       The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet for military personnel.
       6.3.4. (TYNDALLAFB) The FARM will ensure that supervisors are notified when a
       Record Custodian completes training. Supervisors will annotate RC training completion
       on the AF Form 623 (Military) and/or Training Business Area (TBA); Supervisor
       Employee Brief (Civilians). FARMs will also update training information in AFRIMS
       for each user that completes training within their unit.
7. Functional Area Records Managers (FARM). Each base-level unit, principal staff office
within an Air Force organization, or contractor appoints a FARM. One or more FARMs may be
required based on the span of control, the complexities of the mission, and the size of the
organization’s functional areas. Where a MAJCOM-approved electronic records management
process or application has been implemented, a designated workgroup manager may perform a
combination of FARM and records custodian duties. The FARM:
7. (TYNDALLAFB)Functional Area Records Manager (FARM). To maintain continuity of
the Records Management, FOIA, and PA programs, which often have short-notice suspenses, all
units/groups must also appoint an alternate FARM. The alternate FARM must complete the
Record Custodian and FARM Training Classes. AETC Form 67, Designation of Records
Management Personnel, must be used to appoint a FARM or RC. A copy of this form can be
found on the Tyndall’s Records Management Community of Practice.         COR is the only
authorized person to appoint RC and must digitally or physically sign AETC Form 67 when
submitting form to FARM. Squadron commander is the only authorized person to appoint a
FARM and must digitally or physically sign AETC Form 67 when submitting form to RM.
   7.1. Serves as the point of contact for and monitors the records management program of their
   unit or functional area and serves as liaison with the base RM.
   7.2. Guides and assists assigned personnel in maintaining and disposing of records.
   7.3. Assists in preparing files maintenance and disposition plans.
   7.4. Ensures each office of record receives a SAV at least once every 24 months. Follows up
   with the COR on corrective actions for discrepancies noted during visits.
 10                                 AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


   7.4. (TYNDALLAFB) FARMS will schedule all offices for evaluation and e-mail a copy
   of their FARM SAV schedule to the 325 CS/SCOK Organizational Mailbox no later than 1
   February each year and advise 325 CS/SCOK Records Management of any rescheduled visits
   or follow-up visits. The FARM will e-mail a copy of all completed SAVs (AF-Wide SAV
   Checklist) and follow-up visit reports to the 325 CS/SCOK no later than the 10 workdays
   after completing the SAV. Maintain SAV reports in each office visited until the next
   comparable visit by either the FARM or the base records management office. FARMs will
   also update information in AFRIMS after they have conducted a SAV.
   7.5. Ensures offices of record promptly retire eligible records and maintain accountability of
   such records.
   7.6. Schedules training for all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records.
   7.7. Assists the RM in providing guidance on using document imaging systems and
   electronic storage media for records. Evaluates the effect of document imaging and electronic
   storage on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of office records. Reports
   problems to the COR and RM.
   7.8. (Added-TYNDALLAFB) FARMs will maintain a FARM Handbook in accordance
   with the instructions in Attachment 2.
   7.9. (Added-TYNDALLAFB) FARMs will be the points of contact for the FOIA and PA
   programs for their unit, no additional appointment letter is needed.
8. Chief of the Office of Record (COR).
   8.1. Responsible for physical and legal custody of all records the office creates or receives,
   regardless of their physical characteristics, including identifying appropriate disposition
   authorities (AFMAN 37-139) for records the office maintains according to AFI 37-138.
   8.1. (TYNDALLAFB) The COR is the senior person assigned to the office (responsible for
   the functions of the office) and cannot delegate this responsibility to another person for
   purposes of maintaining records. The COR ensures OPRs identify the appropriate records
   disposition schedule from the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) for each
   Tyndall AFB form and other Tyndall AFB records prescribed in a Tyndall AFB standard
   publication. For Tyndall AFB forms, include the RDS in block 13 of DD Form 67, Form
   Processing Action Request. For records not covered in the RDS, the COR prepares and
   submits an AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation, in accordance with AFI 33-
   364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities, paragraph 11.2.
   8.2. Ensures the office creates only essential records, permanently preserves valuable
   records, and disposes of temporary records according to AFMAN 37-139.
   8.3. Ensures each office of record under their purview develops a file plan.
   8.4. Appoints a records custodian (RC).
   8.5. Ensures RCs attend records management training. The COR briefs the RC on office
   functions to include the reason why the office keeps records.
   8.6. Submits proposals for establishing electronic records storage and document imaging
   systems to the RM.
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                    11


   8.7. Assists the FARM or RM in reviewing and evaluating automated information systems
   for their effect on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of records.
   8.8. Ensures all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records attend records
   management training.
9. Records Custodian (RC). The RC maintains, services, and disposes of the office records.
RCs must learn the functional mission of the office of record that the records support and know
the purposes the records serve. The RC:
   9.1. Maintains the office file plan and accountability for active and inactive records.
   9.2. Ensures eligible records are promptly and properly prepared to retire or transfer.
   9.3. Must be proficient on the equipment used for storing and retrieving the records from the
   files.
   9.4. Knows and implements the records maintenance, use, and disposition policies and
   procedures for records maintained.
   9.5. Adjusts office records maintenance practices to provide accurate and effective reference
   service to the users of the records.
   9.6. Consults with the COR, and when necessary with the FARM, on problems that affect
   creating, maintaining, using, and disposing of records.
   9.7. (Added-TYNDALLAFB) All record custodians should be appointed for a term of no
   less than 1 year. Summer hire and temporary employees, whose term of employment is
   known to be less than 1 year, will not be appointed to records management duties except
   under extenuating circumstances.
10. Contractor Records. Records management oversight of a contractor’s records is necessary
to ensure all Air Force record-keeping requirements are met. Agencies or organizations initiating
contracts must coordinate them with the applicable command or base RM.
10. (TYNDALLAFB)Contractor Records. Contract office of collateral responsibility ensures
records management procedures, when applicable, are identified in the Statement of Work or
Performance Work Statement to meet the requirement of managing contractor records as
outlined in AFI 37-138, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities.
   10.1. Contractors performing Congressionally mandated program functions must create and
   maintain records to document these programs. The contract must include requirements for
   the delivery of all pertinent documentation of contractor program execution.
   10.2. Many other types of contracts involve creating background data that may have value to
   the United States Government. Whenever appropriate, agency officials should require the
   delivery of such background data in addition to a final product. The contractor assigns the
   appropriate file identification and disposition instructions to all records delivered to the
   United States Government.
       10.2.1. Contracts to produce statistical analyses specify the delivery of background data
       that may have value to the contracting agency or to other agencies.
       10.2.2. Contracts to produce reports that represent Air Force policy specify the delivery
       of background data needed to verify assertions or justify conclusions.
 12                                 AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


       10.2.3. Research contracts specify the delivery of background data that have value to the
       contracting agency.
   10.3. Background electronic data and records specified for delivery to the contracting
   agency must be accompanied by sufficient technical documentation to permit the Air Force
   to use the data.
   10.4. A deferred ordering and delivery data clause should be included in the contract to
   acquire any data and records that may have value to the Air Force but were not identified in
   advance.
   10.5. Contracts must list records management instructions and directives for contractor
   compliance.
11. Support Agreements. Base RMs will provide support to any and all organizations
authorized to receive administrative or logistical support. To validate and defend availability of
resources, a support agreement is an essential tool. Local support agreements for records
management services can be between the host and Air Force tenants of other MAJCOMs, other
services, or DoD components and non-DoD agencies. Normally it is the responsibility of the
receiving activity to assess and generate requests for support. If a support agreement is
necessary, the RM must work with the base communications unit plans flight to modify an
existing agreement or create a new one. Follow the procedures in AFI 25-201, Support
Agreements Procedures.
12. Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools (IMT).
   12.1. Information Collections: No information collections are created by this publication.
   12.2. Records: Records pertaining to disposition recommendations, on-the-job training,
   support agreements, transmittal and receipt are created by this publication. Retain and
   dispose of records created by this publication according to AFMAN 37-139, Table 37-19,
   Rules 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8.01, 12, 17 and Table 37-15, Rules 7, 8, 9, and 10.
   12.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
       12.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs: AF Form 525, Records Disposition
       Recommendation; AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Records Continuation
       Sheet; AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; and SF 135,
       Records Transmittal and Receipt.
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                            13


     12.3.1. (TYNDALLAFB) Forms or IMTS Adopted: AF Form 623, Individual Training
     Record Folder, AETC Form 67, Designation of Records Management Personnel, DD
     Form 67, Form Processing Action Request, and AF Form 525, Records Disposition
     Recommendation
     12.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No forms are prescribed by this publication.




                                         MICHAEL E. ZETTLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         DCS/Installations and Logistics

                                         (TYNDALLAFB)

                                         MICHAEL F. FLECK, Col, USAF
                                         Commander, 325th Mission Support Group
 14                                 AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
Title 18, U.S.C., Crime and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 101, Records and
Reports, Section 2071, Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation Generally
Title 44, U.S.C., Public Printing and Documents, Chapter 29, Records Management by the
Archivist of the United States and by the Administrator of General Services
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 31, Records Management by Federal Agencies
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section 3301, Definition of Records
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Part 1234, Electronic Record Management
Uniform Code of Military Justice, Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources
DoD 5015.2-STD, Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software
Applications, June 2002
DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000
DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands,
November 15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management (will become AFPD 33-3)
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures
AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records
AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities
AFDIR 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDIR—Air Force Directory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                    15


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ARM—Agency Records Manager
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
COR—Chief of an Office of Record
CRM—Command Records Manager
DA&M—Director of Administration and Management
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FRC—Federal Records Centers
GSA—General Services Administration
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAJCOM—Major Command
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
RC—Records Custodian
RM—Records Managers
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Chief of Office of Record (COR)—Person designated as head of an office where records are
created, received, or maintained; has responsibility for physical and legal custody of records.
This can be at staff level (division chief, branch chief, director) wing, squadron, or flight.
Command Records Manager (CRM)—Records managers at MAJCOM, specific FOAs,
DRUs, and Combatant Commands for which the Air Force is the executive agent.
Disposable—Temporary and approved by NARA for disposal, either immediately or after a
specified retention period.
Disposition—(1) A comprehensive term that includes destruction, salvage, or donation; transfer
to a staging area or records center; transfer from one organization to another; (2) Actions taken
 16                                   AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


with inactive records. These actions may include erasure of data, transfer to a records center, or
transfer to the National Archives (Title 36, CFR, Chapter XII, Part 1234).
Disposition Instructions—Precise instructions in AFMAN 37-139, specifying the date or event
for cutoff, transfer, retirement, or destruction of records.
File—An organized collection of related data, usually arranged into logical records that are
stored together and treated as a unit.
Information Management Tool (IMT)—Information Management Tool, formerly referred to
as a form. The new nomenclature reflects the expanded capability brought on by the new
technology.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Personal papers—Documentary materials belonging to an individual that are not used to
conduct agency business. Related solely to an individual’s own affairs or used exclusively for
that individual’s convenience. Must be clearly designated as such and kept separate from the
records.
Records—(See paragraph 2)
Records Custodian (RC)—Person designated within an office of record to manage the internal
record keeping program, having guardianship and control of records.
Retire—The transfer of inactive records to a base records storage area or a Federal records
center.
Scheduled—Having final disposition approved by NARA. Scheduling provides mandatory
instructions for what to do with records (and nonrecord materials) no longer needed for current
Government business.
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                      17


                        Attachment 2 (Added-TYNDALLAFB)
                              UNIT/STAFF AGENCIES

325th Fighter Wing, which includes the 325 FW Command Staff
325th Comptroller Squadron, which includes 325th CPTS Staff

325th Operations Group, which supports the 325 OG Squadrons
325th Operations Support Squadron
325th Air Control Squadron
43rd Fighter Squadron
944 Fighter Squadron, Det 1

325th Maintenance Group, which supports the 325 MXG Squadrons
325th Maintenance Squadron
325th Maintenance Operations Squadron
325th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron

325th Medical Group responsible for 325 ADS, 325 MDOS, and 325 MDSS

325th Mission Support Group, which includes the 325 MSG Command Staff and 325th
Logistics Readiness Division
Det 1, 325th Fighter Wing (Pensacola NAS FL)
325th Communications Squadron
325th Security Forces Squadron
325th Force Support Squadron
325th Civil Engineer Squadron which includes CE Contractor
325th Contracting Squadron
Contractor Supply/Transportation

AFNORTH which includes AFRCC
702d Computer Systems Squadron and NSSF
101st Air Operations Control
FLANG HQ Det 1

Headquarters, Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency

53d Test Support Squadron includes FARM responsibilities for 53d Weapons Evaluation
Group
81st Range Control Squadron
82d Aerial Targets Squadron
83d Fighter Weapons Squadron

Airey NCO Academy
Det 1, 823rd RED HORSE Squadron
 18                             AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


Det 4, 372d Training Squadron

23rd Flying Training Squadron
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                      19


                           Attachment 3 (Added-TYNDALLAFB)
                           FARM HANDBOOK INSTRUCTIONS

Each FARM will maintain a continuity binder. The binder will consist of both electronic and
paper items to help maintain documentation that reflects actions taken to fulfill their duties. The
below index is the recommended setup for information that will be maintained in these binders
as well as the recommended format to keep the data (ERM Server or Physical Binder).


   Electronic Continuity Binder on ERM Server:

   a. Maintain Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) schedules in this section.             Recommend a
   spreadsheet be used and updated as appropriate.

   b. Keep a copy of SAV reports documented on the AF-Wide SAV Checklist, Report of
   Records Management Staff Assistance Visit as well as a record of any follow up actions.
   Keep reports in the office of record order as listed on your RIMS Office Information Report.
   Remember to e-mail the Base RM an information copy of each SAV report. Electronic (e-
   mail) signature with attachment of completed AF-Wide SAV Checklist to the office
   inspected is acceptable as a record copy. The SAV checklist can be found on
   https:\\afrims.amc.af.mil

   c. Maintain a copy of any SAVs performed by the Base RM.

   d. Maintain a training certificates to document training conducted by the Base RM and any
   training conducted within your organization. You may also keep copies of letters notifying
   supervisors of training completion.

   e. Maintain the current ERM Permissions Letter for each office of record.

   f. Maintain any approved waivers, vital records plans for each office, etc.

   g. Maintain any miscellaneous guidance or documentation received from 325 CS/SCOK
   Records Management that assists you in performing your duties.

    Physical Continuity Binder:

   a. Maintain a copy of the AETC Form 67, Designation of Records Management Personnel,
   sent to the RM appointing you as a FARM. Keep a copy of each RC appointment (AETC
   Form 67).

   b. Maintain a copy of all SF 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, generated within your
   organization. FARMs must input information into the Staging Area Module within
   AFRIMS. After all information has been put into AFRIMS an email will be forwarded to
   Base RM for review and assignment of location numbers prior to bringing records to the
   staging area. A sample of how to input information into the AFRIMS staging area module is
20                                  AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011


  provided on the Records Management Community of Practice. Remember to delete items
  from the staging area module as the records are scheduled for destruction. When an office
  sends a shipment to the staging area, a copy of the printed SF 135 will be kept with the
  records. The FARM will maintain one copy and the Record Custodian will maintain the
  other. If you send 9-year to permanent records to the staging area, the RM will send the
  FARM two copies of the SF 135 used to forward the records to the Federal Records Center.
  The FARM will provide one copy to the Record Custodian.

  c. Maintain any miscellaneous hard-copy records management material here.
AFI33-322_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                    21


                          Attachment 4 (Added-TYNDALLAFB)
                     CHIEF OF RECORDS WAIVER OF TRAINING



   1. Who is a Chief of Record?
      1.     The most senior person in an office of record.
      2.     Cannot be delegated down

   2. What is a Chief of Record Responsible for?
      1.     All records, legally and financially. The maximum penalty is a $2,000 fine, 3
             years in prison, or both, and loss of office and disqualification from holding any
             US office. Civilian employees are subject to administrative disciplinary action
             under civilian personnel instructions
      2.     Ensuring RC attends training

   3. What does a Chief of Record do?
      1.    Appoints the Records Custodian
      2.    Signs the AETC IMT Form 67
      3.    Signs the Cover Sheet on a File Plan
      4.    Works with the Records Custodian in the maintenance and disposition of records

   4. What kind of training is required?
      1.    Level 1 and Level 2 Records Management Training under the Skillsoft Portion of
            the IT E-Learning Website. Can be accessed via the AF Portal or a waiver on file.
            A waiver on file with the FARM and BRM will also suffice.
      2.    Does not need to attend hands-on training
      3.    Training requirements are mandated by AFMAN 33-363

   5. I understand that as the Chief of Record (COR) of Organization/Office Symbol I will be
      held accountable for any lost records.



________________________________                    ___________________________
Chief of Record Signature                           Date
