BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-401
66TH AIR BASE WING
                                                                                 66TH AIR BASE WING
                                                                                           Supplement
                                                                                             28 MAY 2008

                                                                                     Information Security

                                                                            INFORMATION SECURITY
                                                                            PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 66 SFS/SFP                                            Certified by: 66 SFS/CC (Maj Tamara Mayer)
Supersedes AFI31-401_ESCSUP, 15 May 2007                                                     Pages: 2

This supplement applies to all units supported by Electronics Systems Center (ESC). It does not apply to
the Air National Guard (ANG) or US Air Force Reserve (USAFR) units and members. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Dis-
position Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.mil.
AFI 31-401, 1 November 2005 and AFMC Sup 1, 16 April 2007, are supplemented as follows:
1.3.4. The servicing Information Security Program Manager (ISPM) for ESC is the Chief, Security Pro-
gram Protection Flight, 66 SFS/SFP.
1.3.6.2. The ESC CenterNet at https://abw.hanscom.af.mil/sfp/ includes operating instructions common
to all ESC, ABW, and tenant programs. Separate operating instructions will be developed if unique pro-
gram circumstances dictate. Forward unique requirements to 66th SFS/SFP for review.
1.5.1.1. ESC/CV and commanders who report directly to the ESC Commander are delegated this author-
ity.
2.1.2.3.4. ESC/CD is the acting Original Classification Authority (OCA) in the absence of ESC/CC.
5.5.2.2. Foreign visits must be sent through the ESC Foreign Disclosure Office, 753 IS/ISF. All uncleared
visitors to areas where classified information is stored or processed must be escorted. Access to buildings
where classified information is stored or processed is controlled by local base badging policy provided by
the local Security Forces.
5.8.1.1. Designated Top Secret Control Officers (TSCO) will be active duty military or DoD civilian per-
sonnel. If delegated to contractors the accountability of the Top Secret material is transferred to the con-
tractor. A contract vehicle must be in place to incorporate the work and a National Industrial Security
Program Operating Manual Visitor Group Security Agreement with storage capability must be generated
30 days prior to classified performance.
2                                                              AFI31-401_66ABWSUP 28 MAY 2008


5.12.1. The overnight repository for classified material is the Command Post, 66 ABW/CP.
5.27.2. The week beginning with the last Monday in April is designated as annual clean-out week.
6.8. Military members and government civilians do not require an exemption notice or courier card/
authorization letter when handcarrying between the MITRE Bedford complex and Hanscom AFB. This
procedure is authorized only when not passing through an Entry Control Point where bags and packages
are checked for contraband. For this purpose, MITRE Bedford complex is considered part of the base. All
other requirements regarding receipting and wrapping are still required. Refer to https://
abw.hanscom.af.mil/sfp/InfoSec/Sub-WebPages/Hand-Carrying.htm for appropriate procedures.
8.1. Unit training managers should use the information presented at the Quarterly Staff Agency Security
Meetings on the CenterNet for recurring training at https://abw.hanscom.af.mil/sfp/InfoSec/
Sub-WebPages/SASM_Mtgs-Slides.htm and the refresher training located https://center-
net.hanscom.af.mil/Training/Train2000/code/defaultf.asp. To reach this site go to the main CenterNet
home page and select “Training” then “On-Line Training.” The Quarterly Refresher Trainings may be
found under “Other Training.” Suggested methods of reinforcing security education and awareness
include unit staff meetings, military training days and Commander’s calls. Mandatory Training such as
Security Awareness Newcomer’s Training, OPSEC, NATO, CEP and Derivative Classifier training is also
available on the CenterNet Training site located at https://centernet.hanscom.af.mil/Training/
Train2000/code/defaultf.asp. The requirements list is located under “Training Requirements” “Manda-
tory Training” on the On-Line Training page.
8.9.1.1. Security newsletters disseminated to all security managers and Distribution D recipients are
maintained on the CenterNet at https://abw.hanscom.af.mil/SFP/InfoSec/Sub-WebPages/
SASM_mtgMinutesNewsletters.htm.
8.9.1.2. Other than mandatory training conducted on the CenterNet which automatically documents train-
ing, suggest the tools available on Outlook such as read receipt listings be used to document training sent
via e-mail. Keep attendance sheets for all other meeting forums.
9.9.3. The preliminary inquiry official will forward the report to 66th SFS/SFP for a technical review
within 10 duty days from appointment.
8.7. The Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) for Hanscom AFB is the Commander of the 753rd Intelligence
Squadron.



                                               THOMAS J. SCHLUCKEBIER, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 66th Air Base Wing
