BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-360
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                                         COMMAND
                                                                          Supplement

                                                                      27 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                           Communications and Information

                                                            PUBLICATIONS AND FORMS
                                                                      MANAGEMENT

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFNIC/EAMS                                      Certified by: AETC/CSS (Lt Col Michael
                                                                                W. Moyles)
                                                                                  Pages: 12


This supplement implements and extends the guidance in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, 18 May 2006 (Incorporating through Change 3, 11 June 2009). It applies to all Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) personnel who prepare, manage, review, certify,
approve, or use standard publications. With the exception of associate personnel and units
assigned to AETC, this publication does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve
Command. Base and wing publications managers must send an electronic copy of their
supplement to AFNIC/EAMS for coordination prior to certification and approval. Submit
suggested improvements to this supplement on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through publishing channels. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF
Flight Manuals Program (FMP). Refer to that publication and the AETC supplement for
guidance on filling out the form.) Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information.

Note: For the purpose of this publication, references to AETC or MAJCOM publications include
19th Air Force (19 AF) and Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) publications.
 2                                              AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011



1.1. Overview. This supplement establishes guidance and procedures for command-wide
publications and forms management, to include the publishing process. AETC organizations at
all levels must ensure publications and forms comply with this guidance.
1.1.1. Official AETC publications are accessible through the Air Force Portal (http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/).
1.2.2.2.2. The Air Force Departmental Publishing Office (AFDPO) does not operate and
maintain the online ordering system in support of base and wing publications and forms. Base
and wing offices of primary responsibility (OPR) will distribute physical publications and forms,
as required.
1.2.3. The AETC Publications and Forms Managers are located at AFNIC/EAMP, Scott AFB IL
(afniceampf@us.af.mil), DSN 779-5587/5849.
1.2.3.1. Flight chiefs and personnel responsible for publishing functions reporting directly to this
headquarters send a memorandum with the required information, to include the defense switched
network (DSN) fax number, to AFNIC/EAMS, 203 W. Losey St., Rm 1100, Scott AFB IL
62225-5222, or to the organizational boxafniceampf@us.af.mil. Submit changes as they occur.
Newly assigned publications and forms managers should review the Publications and Forms
Manager’s        Training       on      the      MAJCOM           Support      Division        CoP
(https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-SC-CA-44) or contact
AFNIC/EAMS for additional guidance (afniceampf@us.af.mil, DSN 779-5587/5849).
1.2.4.2. (Added) Forms managers at activities that receive forms management support from
AFNIC/EAMS implement the procedures outlined in Table 1.2 (Added):

Table 1.2. (Added) FormsManagers’ Responsibilities.


I A                                                                                 B
T                                                                                   Wing/Base
E
M Functions
1 Refer to the Air Force e-Publishing site (http://www.e-                           X
  publishing.af.mil/) to determine if the proposed form duplicates an
  existing higher headquarters (HHQ) (Air Force or AETC) form. If the
  proposed form is determined to be unnecessary, return it to the
  originator with proper comments.
  Ensure the request (AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action                X
2 Request) is properly completed and signed by the approving authority
  (according to established local procedures). Return the request to the
  originator for correction, if necessary.
3 Coordinate the request, as required in Table 3.2 of the basic instruction
  and this supplement before submitting it to AFNIC/EAMP.                           X
AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                              3


   Ensure forms affected by the Privacy Act are processed according to
   paragraph 3.10 of the basic instruction and Under Secretary of Defense          X
   Directive-Type Memorandum (DTM) 07-015-USD (P&R) – DoD Social
   Security Number (SSN) Reduction Plan, when collecting SSN.
1.2.4.3. (Added) Forms monitors/analysts will analyze the proposed form for essentiality and
cost effectiveness. Table 1.3 (Added) provides monitors’/analysts’ responsibilities.

Table 1.3. (Added) Forms Monitors’/Analysts’ Responsibilities.
If the proposed form is:                                                            Wing/Base
1 Being considered for possible command-wide adoption, notify the forms
    monitor and annotate the request accordingly. A command study is                X
    generated to determine the possibility of developing a command form.
    After completing the study, inform the originating activity of the
    findings.
2 Determined to be nonessential, disapprove the request and return it to            X
    the originating activity.
3 Approved for local use, assign it a number, design the form, complete             X
    AF Form 673, and return it to the originating activity.
1.2.5.2.1. (Added) Ensure the publication refers to and places tables, figures, and attachments in
numerical sequence.
1.2.5.7. AFNIC/EAMP maintains the official record sets for MAJCOM publications and forms.
AETC CSS/SCMM maintains the official record sets for any Air Force-level publications and
forms for which AETC is lead MAJCOM. Field unit publishing functions (publications and
forms) maintain the official record sets. POCs maintain the official record sets for special
publications (see paragraph 2.30).
1.2.6. Certifying officials for AETC publications and forms are, as a minimum, the division-
level.
1.2.7.1. Approving officials for AETC publications and forms are the director of staff, directors,
deputy directors, chiefs of special staff, and deputy chiefs of special staff for new publications,
including interim changes (IC), which pertain to their functional area. (EXCEPTION: For 19 AF
and AFRS publications and forms, the approving authority is the 19 AF Commander or Vice
Commander and the AFRS Commander or Vice Commander.) Base or wing commanders may
establish levels of certifying and approving authorities for unit publications. The SC, XP, Group
Commanders, etc., are considered senior leader offices at base or wing organizations.
1.2.7.1.4.1. The AETC publications and forms delegation of approval authority memorandum
will remain on file at AFNIC/EAMP.
2.2. Validity of a Publication . Wing/base publications dated prior to 23 September 2009 can
continue to be maintained on their local web page/portal page until updated. (Note: These
publications must be updated at their next two-year review.) Once updated, these publications
must be removed from their local site unless they are restricted. Restricted publications must
have permissions assigned unless distributed by the OPR.
    4                                        AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011


2.4.2. Coordinate all AETC publications with HQ AETC/RF. Send an electronic copy of your
draft publication along with your AF Form 673 and a Comment Resolution Matrix, to AETC/RF
DSWORKFLOW: aetc.rf.dsworkflow@randolph.af.mil. HQ AETC/RF will forward the
publication to the appropriate AFRC functional OPR to obtain coordination.
2.5.1. All MAJCOM publications must be reviewed for applicability to ANG units. To
determine ANG applicability, coordinate all AETC publications according to instructions in the
basic publication.

Table 2.1. Publications Types and Descriptions.
Item      Publication Name         Applicability       Issued By           Description
6         Guidance                 Field               MAJCOM,             Obtain coordination
          Memorandums (GM)                             FOA, DRU, and       using the AF Form 673.
                                                       below               If the GM is new
                                                                           guidance, maintain the
                                                                           record set as if it were a
                                                                           new publication. If it is
                                                                           issued to update an
                                                                           existing publication,
                                                                           maintain the record set
                                                                           as if it were an interim
                                                                           change.
7         Operating                Headquarters        Headquarters        AETC does not publish
          Instructions                                                     headquarters operating
          (OI)                                                             instructions (HOI).
                                   Issuing Unit        Units below         OIs are not mediums to
                                                       headquarters        present supplemental
                                                                           information. OI
                                                                           guidance at the group
                                                                           and squadron levels can
                                                                           exist, but can only
                                                                           incorporate information
                                                                           that is not covered in any
                                                                           form in a parent
                                                                           publication. Write
                                                                           supplemental
                                                                           information against the
                                                                           HHQ publication and
                                                                           not as all inclusive OIs.
                                                                           Guidance contained in
                                                                           an OI applies only to
                                                                           that specific
                                                                           organizational element;
                                                                           guidance cannot cross
                                                                           functional lines. For
                                                                           example, if a branch
AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                          5


Item      Publication Name         Applicability       Issued By            Description
                                                                            publishes an OI,
                                                                            guidance contained in
                                                                            the OI applies only to
                                                                            personnel in that branch.
                                                                            Designate OIs with the
                                                                            office symbol (A6OI 33-
                                                                            1), select the appropriate
                                                                            series, assign a control
                                                                            number, and format in
                                                                            the same manner as an
                                                                            instruction. Start control
                                                                            numbers with the Arabic
                                                                            number 1 for each series.
                                                                            The POC determines the
                                                                            title based on overall
                                                                            content. The signature
                                                                            block (name, grade, and
                                                                            title) (NOT the
                                                                            signature) of the chief of
                                                                            the organizational
                                                                            element appears on the
                                                                            last page of the OI
                                                                            before the attachments.
                                                                            Coordinate the OI using
                                                                            an AF Form 673;
                                                                            maintain record sets
                                                                            accordingly. Maintaining
                                                                            a Product Index for OIs
                                                                            is optional. Examples
                                                                            can be found on the
                                                                            MAJCOM Support
                                                                            Division CoP.
17        Visual Aids (VA)         Departmental        All Levels           For a permanent AETC
                                   and Field                                VA, explain the purpose
                                                                            and provide a rough
                                                                            sketch or ideas on the
                                                                            completed AF Form 673,
                                                                            Section V, Block 25.
2.8.6.4. (Added) Do not include a blank form in a publication. Do not use joke or gag names for
people, bases, or office designations. Fill in the forms using a common name rather than an
unusual name. In referring to the location, use the actual name of an Air Force base, including
state and Zip Code. The activity mentioned need not exist at the base.
 6                                             AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011


2.9. Technical training groups and operations groups will submit/process supplements through
the base publications managers. This will ensure the guidance is integrated with the HHQ
publication.
2.9.1. Unless directed otherwise by the parent AFI, AETC units will use the paragraph
supplement method to augment HHQ information. This method allows AFDPO the ability to
integrate the supplementary material with the HHQ publication. The paragraph supplement
method enables the users to see both the HHQ (departmental and MAJCOM) and local
information in one integrated file, rather than force the reader to access separate publications.
Note: AETC units will not normally use the "reserved chapter" format for supplementing
(Exception: AFI 11-2MDS specific Volume 3s). If, and only if, supplemental material cannot be
referenced against a paragraph from the basic publication, should a unit add a chapter with that
information after the last chapter within the affected publication.
2.10.5. AFNIC/EAMP assigns the control number for MAJCOM-level publications and forms.
Number all standard publications, except OIs, sequentially after the parent Policy Directive (PD);
that is, if the parent PD is numbered 33-1, the first AETC publication under this PD will be 33-
101. Publications published under the same parent PD thereafter will be numbered 33-102, 33-
103, 33-104, etc. (See Table 2.1, item 7, as supplemented, for guidance on numbering OIs.
2.12. Format the Draft . See the MAJCOM Support Division CoP for sample formats.
2.12.1. All AETC OPRs, to include field units, will include an Attachment 1, Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.
2.18. Coordination . If you use electronic coordination, POCs must attach a copy of the
coordinator’s E-mail or fax showing concurrence or nonconcurrence, and any comments, to the
original AF Form 673. The preferred method is to use a comment resolution matrix. These
documents must be contained in the electronic document received by the POC as they become
part of the record set.
2.18.2.2. Determine 20 percent based on word changes.
2.19. Technical/Functional Coordination . Coordinate publications with AETC/DS only when
the guidance directly impacts AETC/DS or when AETC/CC or AETC/CV coordination or
approval is required.
2.22.3. Per SAF/AAX waiver, MAJCOM and field organizations are authorized to delegate the
certifying official responsibility for biennial and special reviews only. AETC certifying
officials for biennial/special reviews will be a minimum of one organizational level above the
point of contact (POC) vice one organizational level above the office of primary responsibility.
2.23. Requesting a Waiver . For AETC publications, POCs provide AFNIC/EAMP the waiver
to file in the record set.
2.24. Revising a Publication . Field unit POCs must process changes through the base
publications manager. Tenant units process changes through their unit publications manager.
2.24.3. (Added) Flight Crew Information Files (FCIF) . FCIFs are messages and directives of a
temporary nature directly pertinent to the safe conduct of flight, designated by the MAJCOM
director of intelligence, operations, and nuclear integration, or the operations group commander
(as required) to be read before flight. For general information on FCIFs and for processing
AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                               7


procedures, consult AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, and
its AETC supplement.
2.25.2.1. For command ICs, AFNIC/EASP assigns a number to each change.
2.25.2.4. Flying training and technical training field units must also obtain HHQ coordination.
2.25.2.5. Field units are authorized to use AETC Form 446, Flight Crew Information File, as the
notification document for the IC.
2.30.1. MAJCOM OPRs obtain approval to create the special publications system from
AFNIC/EAMP. After obtaining approval, follow the procedures in the basic instruction to
develop a prescribing directive for the specific system.
2.31.4.1. For command standard publications and forms, AFNIC/EAMP maintains the official
record sets. Record sets for departmental publications authored at AETC will be maintained in
AETC CSS/SCMM (publishing function). For field units, the publishing function maintains the
official record sets.
2.31.4.8. (Added) A copy of all prescribed forms within the publication. Also, keep copies of
AF Forms 673 or previous approval documents for each prescribed form.
2.35.1. (Added) Posting a Revised Basic Publication When the Supplement Has Not Been
Revised . In many cases the basic publication’s paragraph numbering has changed and will not
align with the supplement’s paragraph numbering; therefore, do not post the supplement to the
revised basic publication. Instead, annotate the first page of the AFI to read: See AETC
Supplement. File the supplement behind the basic publication.
2.35.2. (Added) Posting and Filing a Change :
2.35.2.1. (Added) Post and file changes in the order in which they are issued. File ICs to
departmental publications with the basic publication; posting is optional. If a line, sentence,
paragraph, or section is changed, line through it and write in the word “Deleted” or “Replaced.”
Write the words over the lines or in the margin. In the margin, identify the authorizing change by
writing the change number (for example, IC 2009-1 to AFI 33-360, etc.). Note: If the decision is
not to post each single entry, alert users by entering a comment (such as “see IC 2010-X”) on the
front page, top margin of the publication being changed. For large publications that change
frequently, you may keep a record of the changes on a separate sheet of paper and file it behind
the appropriate volume, part, or chapter. If the decision is to post guidance memorandums or
messages, write in the authority/originator (for example, HQ AETC/A3FV Memo) and date. File
FCIFs and guidance memorandums or messages behind any ICs by the date issued with the most
recent change as the last item. (Note: Posting may be done in any color or medium as long as
posting marks can be easily erased to update posting marks.)
2.35.2.2. (Added) If a paragraph is added, write in its number and the word “Added.” Identify
the change in the left margin.
2.35.2.3. (Added) If you posted a supplement to a removed page, write “see supplement” at the
top of the new page, or post the supplement to the new page.
2.35.2.4. (Added) File the change transmittal page, followed by message changes in the order in
which they are issued behind the basic publication. If the change pertains to a specific volume,
file it behind that volume.
 8                                            AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011


2.35.2.5. (Added) When you receive an IC to a field publication, post the change. Write the IC
control number in the margin next to the changed portion of the publication.
2.35.2.6. (Added) See Figure 2.4 (Added) for posting publications.

Figure 2.4. (Added) Example for Posting Publications.




3.1.4. (Added) As the MAJCOM Publications and Forms Manager, AFNIC/EAMS provides
forms management support to HQ AETC staff, 19 AF, flying training wings, fighter wings, Altus
and Goodfellow AFBs, Air Force Recruiting Service, 80 OSS, 58 SOW, 306 FTG, 336 TRG,
381 TRG, and 479 FTG. Support includes assistance and guidance on forms management
procedures, interpretation of forms management guidance, and any other forms management-
related issues.
3.1.5. (Added) Flight chiefs and personnel responsible for forms functions at the base, Air Force
Recruiting Service, 80 OSS, 58 SOW, 306 FTG, 336 TRG, 381 TRG, and 479 FTG must
designate a forms manager to administer the local forms management program. Send a
memorandum with the required information, to include the DSN fax number, to AFNIC/EAMS
AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                            9


(afniceampf@us.af.mil). Submit changes as they occur. Newly assigned publications and forms
managers should visit the AFNIC/EAMS CoP for Publications and Forms Manager’s training
(https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-SC-CA-44). Individual
training can be provided, upon request, at the expense of the organization requesting training.
3.1.5.1. (Added) The field forms manager may provide forms management support to
organizations attached to or tenanted on their base. Review the host-tenant agreement to
determine the type of support provided. Proposed forms used to support a tenant unit's mission
are numbered and designated according to instructions furnished by the tenant unit's MAJCOM
forms manager. The host and tenant organizations determine manpower assistance required to
perform this service.
3.1.5.2. (Added) Keesler AFB provides forms management support to the 2 AF staff; designate
these forms 2 AF FORM XXXX.
3.1.5.3. (Added) Maxwell provides forms management support to the HQ Air University staff;
designate these forms AU FORM XXXX.

Table 3.1. Types and Descriptions of Forms.
Prescribed Forms
Type                 Description                                         Issued by
Field                Forms may also be prescribed in approved            Field
                     agreements negotiated under AFI 36-701,
                     Labor Management Relations, if appropriate.

                     Base Forms:
                     GOODFELLOW AFB FORM 135, 20080104
                     VANCE AFB FORM 230, 20080104

                     Activity Forms:
                     19 AF FORM 10, 20080201
                     80 OSS FORM 20, 20080201
                     381 TRG FORM 15, 20080202
3.2.1. (Added) All certificates in AETC are controlled as numbered forms.
3.2.2. (Added) Material required to administratively control students' progression, evaluate
students, instructors, and facilities, record students' accomplishments, summarize scores, etc.,
meets the criteria of a form. Control these as forms.
3.3.6. (Added) Items of training literature identified as worksheets, handouts, numbered pages of
study guides, workbooks, etc., used for student responses to assignments. Instead, a course
number assigned by the originator identifies this material.
3.3.7. (Added) Form memorandums used to disseminate information rather than to collect or
record it. Guidelines for preparing form memorandums are in AFMAN 33-326, Preparing
Official Communications.
3.6. Creating a Form . For MAJCOM forms, POCs contact AFNIC/EAMS as soon as the need
for a new or revised form is known.
 10                                             AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011


3.7.4.1. (Added) The local forms manager must approve each overprint. Additionally, if the
overprint solicits Privacy Act information, the Privacy Act manager must coordinate on the
overprint.
3.7.4.2. (Added) Make sure to use the most current edition of the form being overprinted. Verify
its currency by downloading the most current edition of the form from the Air Force e-
Publishing site.
3.7.4.3. (Added) Give each overprint a pertinent title for clear distinction.
3.7.4.4. (Added) Insert the OPR’s complete office symbol, followed by the word “Overprint,”
and the date in the lower right corner of the form; for example, 59 MDSS/MSII Overprint
20100118.
3.7.4.5. (Added) Reproduce physical copies of overprints through DAPS. DO NOT use office
copiers to reproduce copies of overprints.
3.9. Form Software Licenses . In AETC, only the forms management functions with functional
account codes (FAC) 16G1 at Keesler, Lackland, Maxwell, and Sheppard AFBs, Wilford Hall
Medical Center (WHMC), and the Defense Language Institute, English Language Center
(DLIELC) may use the Air Force-approved software for designing electronic forms.
AFNIC/EAMS assists these activities with forms management-related matters, provides
guidance, and interprets forms management policies, as required.
3.10.5. (Added) Public Use Forms. Information collected from members of the public by the
Federal Government requires Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approval and licensing.
If a form collects information from the public, the POC must coordinate the form request with
the appropriate ICR Manager, as required in Table 3.1. (Note: See AFI 33-332 and AFI 33-
332/AETC Sup 1.)
3.10.5.1. (Added) Public use forms display an OMB control number and expiration date in the
upper right corner of the form design, and the agency disclosure notice (ADN) statement
immediately below the form title (see AFI 33-324 and AFI 33-324/AETC Sup 1).
3.10.5.2. (Added) The OPR requests the appropriate forms management staff to develop a draft
of the proposed form for coordination purposes. The appropriate forms management staff
prepares a draft of the form with a block for an OMB control number, expiration date, and
Agency Disclosure Notice (ADN) statement. The OPR coordinates the form, along with the
request for OMB approval according to AFI 33-324. Allow at least 6 months to process a request
for OMB approval.

Table 3.2. Mandatory Coordination for Forms.
R              A                        B                         C
U              Coordinate
L
E              Departmental
               forms with:              Field forms with:         To address:
5 (Added)                               MAJCOM:                   Publications containing
                                        AETC/A6OK                 postal permits, mailing
                                        Bases: Postal             addresses or functional
AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                11


                                        Management                address identifiers;
                                        function                  prescribes the use of a
                                                                  specific class or service
                                                                  of mail.
3.14.3.1. AFNIC/EAMP maintains the official record sets for AETC forms. At field units, the
publishing function (publications and forms) maintains the official wing or base record sets.
Arrange the material in each folder chronologically, with the most recent date on top.
3.14.3.4. Include a copy of the latest printing specifications and print request, if applicable.




                                               MONA LISA D. TUCKER, Colonel, USAF
                                               Director of Communications
 12                                        AFI33-360_AETCSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 9 December 2006
AFI 36-701, Labor Management Relations, 27 July 1994
Adopted Forms
AETC Form 446, Flight Crew Information File, 1 March 2007
AF Form 130, Application for Approval of Report, 1 December 1995
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request, 1 April 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
19AF—19th Air Force
ADN—-Agency Disclosure Notice
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
DLIELC—Defense Language Institute English Language Center
DSN—defense switched network
DTD—Document Type Definition
EMC—Emergency Message Change
FAC—Functional Account Code
fax—facsimile
FCIF—Flight Crew Information File
HHQ—higher headquarters
I—Instruction
JA—Judge Advocate
MAN—Manual
POC—Point of Contact
SUP—Supplement
WHMC—Wilford Hall Medical Center
