                             Template modified:    27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1012
AIR FORCE                                                                                  22 July 1994

                                                                               CIVIL ENGINEERING

                                                               RESERVE COMPONENT FACILITIES
                                                                                 PROGRAMS


                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: NGB/CEP                                            Certified by: SAF/MII (Mr. John O. Rittenhouse)
       (Lt Col Raymond H. Willcocks)
Supersedes AFR 86-12 and AFR 91-29.                                                             Pages: 7
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This implements AFPD 32-10, Installations. It provides guidance and procedures for participating in and
conducting Joint Service Reserve Component Facility Board (JSRCFB) meetings and for acquiring and
retaining facilities for the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserves (AFRES) in the 50 states,
District of Columbia, Guam, Virgin Islands and Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This issuance aligns the instruction with AFPD 32-10.



1. Responsibilities and Authorities.
   1.1. The Secretary of the Air Force will:
       1.1.1. Provide required reports on Reserve component facilities, including a biennial ’Reserve
       Component Military Construction Unfunded Proposals Report,’ RCS:DD-RA(BI) 1768 to
       OASD(RA).
       1.1.2. Provide required facilities according to law and based on authorized strength of assigned
       units, quantity and type of equipment and supplies, and established facilities criteria.
       1.1.3. Approve operation and maintenance funded minor construction, maintenance and repair
       projects according to law.
       1.1.4. Approve projects using funds specifically identified as minor construction (P-341) accord-
       ing to law and DoD policy, including requirements for congressional notification.
       1.1.5. Coordinate with other Military Departments to ensure greatest practicable use of any facil-
       ity.
       1.1.6. Request the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense approval for major land acquisitions.
   1.2. HQ AF/CC. The HQ AF/CC must provide replacement facilities when the Air Force displaces a
   permanently housed Guard or Reserve unit or activity. The Air Force must provide replacement facil-
   ities consistent with current Reserve component criteria and mission needs and must be acceptable to
   the Chief of the displaced Reserve component.
   1.3. HQ AF/CE. The HQ AF/CE must provide membership for each JSRCFB which does not have
   an AFRES member assigned.
   1.4. The Chief, NGB and Chief, AFRES must:
       1.4.1. Establish plans, programs, budgets, and accounting procedures to support facilities con-
       struction and maintenance programs and submit reports.
       1.4.2. Develop and maintain management information systems to control the use of funds
       1.4.3. Execute a cooperative agreement, Attachment 1, that establishes the equities and obliga-
       tions between the United States Government and each state (including political subdivisions, port
       authorities, US territories, and possessions and the District of Columbia) for a military construc-
       tion project on state-owned land.
   1.5. Governors. The Governors of each state, territory, and Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the
   Commanding General of the National Guard of the District of Columbia should provide ANG mem-
   bership (other than the Adjutant General) to each JSRCFB. The members must be either full-time
   military or technicians.
   1.6. Chief, AFRES. The Chief must provide AFRES membership to each state board where an
   AFRES unit exists. The members must be either full-time military or technicians with AFRES.
   1.7. Base Civil Engineer. The Base Civil Engineer proposing a military construction (MILCON)
   program must annually submit a DD Form 2162 ’Joint Service Reserve Component Facility Board
   Project Analysis’ for each project to his respective JSRCFB for recommendations.

2. Res erve Compo nent Mi lita ry Cons truction Unfunded Proposals Report, RCS:
DD-RA(BI)1768. Use this report to substantiate and analyze the Reserve component’s military construc-
tion proposals that are not funded. Submit the report biennially to the OASD(RA) by April 30 of the even
numbered years.
   2.1. Report Format, Part 1 - Project Listing.
       2.1.1. Provide a project listing of all military construction projects by state, location, project title,
       current working estimate, category and type of construction.
       2.1.2. Include on the list all military construction projects currently proposed to be constructed in
       support of an approved mission. Also include construction proposals that have not been autho-
       rized through the current fiscal year MILCON Acts. For example, the list submitted April 30,
       1994 should not include fiscal year 1995 projects under consideration by Congress, but should
       include all projects included in the FY 1996-2001 Program Objective Memorandum and projects
       in the Long Range Construction Program.




                                                  2
   2.1.3. Divide the projects into two broad categories: those that support NEW missions and/or
   weapon systems, and those that support CURRENT missions and weapon systems. Within the
   two categories, classify projects according to three types:
       • Modernization. Projects for major repairs, alterations or criteria upgrades, and/or addi-
          tions to an existing facility with minimal changes in functional purpose and size.
       • Replacement. Projects for the construction of a facility to perform similar tasks already
          being accomplished in structure(s) which cannot be reasonably modernized.
       • New Construction. Projects for the construction of a new facility or additions to an exist-
          ing facility.
2.2. Report Format, Part 2 - Construction Summary. Use the format of Figure 1.
2.3. Joint Service Reserve Component Facility Boards.
2.4. General.
   2.4.1. The Joint Service Reserve Component Facility Board for each state, hereafter referred to as
   the 'board', considers the joint use of facilities by units of two or more reserve components to the
   greatest practicable extent for efficiency and economy.
   2.4.2. The board's composition should be such that collectively it has knowledge of the majority
   of DoD and state military facilities and lands within its state.
   2.4.3. The board reviews each proposed Reserve component construction project annually and
   comments on its joint-use potential. The board should consider all excess Government properties
   as well as all installations to be affected by closure or realignment actions. All MILCON projects
   proposed to be included in an annual Reserve Forces Military Construction Program must be
   reviewed by the respective boards before being submitted to the OSD. If the project is not
   included in the program for the fiscal year which it was first proposed, the board must review the
   project again before it is included in the program for any subsequent fiscal years.
   2.4.4. While conducting the reviews, boards may contact offices, Agencies, and individuals in
   the DoD that have responsibility for Reserve components facilities matters. Boards may initiate
   separate studies and surveys, and report their recommendations through appropriate channels to
   the Secretaries of the Military Departments concerned. Boards are encouraged to share lessons
   learned with other boards and the Military Departments.
   2.4.5. The board is not limited to review of proposed projects. It may as a body make recommen-
   dations to the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Reserve Affairs) on any facility needs of the
   Reserve components of that state that would enhance readiness and provide, in their view, a signif-
   icant return for the investment.
   2.4.6. The board prepares and submits its minutes to the OASD(RA), in the format of FIGURE
   2, by 15 August of each year.
2.5. Board Memberships.
   2.5.1. Each board should consist of up to six principal members and six alternate members repre-
   senting the six Reserve components. Each board must consist of at least Navy, Army and AF
   membership.



                                            3
      2.5.2. The Commandant of the Coast Guard may designate a representative to serve in a non-vot-
      ing capacity on boards in states where Coast Guard Reserve training units are located and when
      the Coast Guard is operating as a Service in the Department of Transportation.
      2.5.3. The Chair of each board shall rotate annually among the principal members. If a member
      is reassigned while serving as Chair, the board membership must choose a Chair for the unexpired
      term.
   2.6. Rules of Procedure.
      2.6.1. Each board must convene at the call of its Chair, but will meet at least once every 12
      months in either the 2nd or 3rd quarter of the Fiscal Year.
      2.6.2. A quorum consists of all principal members. An alternate member is deemed a principal
      member if the respective principal member is absent.
      2.6.3. Actions of the board must be by majority vote with each principal member having one
      vote.
      2.6.4. Board review and analysis of each Reserve component project shall be recorded on the
      Base Civil Engineer’s submitted DD Form 2162, JSRCFB Analysis.’ Copies of the completed
      form shall be retained by the Base Civil Engineer. Electronic generation of DD Form 2162 is
      authorized provided that the design integrity of the form does not add, delete or alter data ele-
      ments nor change their sequential presentation.
      2.6.5. Minutes of board meetings, reports, and studies approved by the board shall bear the signa-
      ture and title of each member.
      2.6.6. Any voting member who disagrees with the majority opinion may require that a minority
      report be included in the records of the board’s proceedings.
      2.6.7. Copies of the minutes or summaries of meetings, studies, surveys, or reports and recom-
      mendations prepared by boards shall be furnished to each principal and alternate member.
      2.6.8. The Chair must forward one information copy of the board meeting minutes, by August of
      each year, directly to:
             ASD(RA)
             Attn: DASD(M&F)
             Defense Pentagon
             Washington, DC 20301-1500

3. Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities for ANG Occupied Facilities.
   3.1. ANG. The ANG is responsible for all O&M costs of its exclusive use (licensed) facilities includ-
   ing ANG units which are tenants on military installations. The host is responsible for all O&M costs
   of jointly used areas which are not licensed to the ANG. O&M costs for unlicensed facilities used by




                                               4
ANG personnel performing an active duty mission shall be provided by the MAJCOM responsible for
the mission.




                                   JAMES E. McCARTHY, Brig General, USAF
                                   The Civil Engineer




                                         5
                                               Attachment 1

 CRITERIA FOR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTSCOVERING CONTRIBUTIONS OF FED-
        ERAL FUNDSTO THE STATES FOR NATIONAL GUARD FACILITIES

A1.1. A Cooperative Agreement must be executed for each MILCON project to be constructed on
state-owned land.

A1.2. All MILCON work on state land must be done according to the laws of the state concerned and
under the supervision of state officials. These and other projects must be inspected and approved by
SAF/MII or a designee. Such inspection and approval must ensure that work supported by Federal funds
complies with approved plans, specifications, criteria, and standards.

A1.3. The state shall certify that:
   A1.3.1. It has the legal authority and necessary funds (if applicable) to accomplish its share of design
   costs before design initiation and construction costs before construction bid authorization.
   A1.3.2. It has perfected title to, or other adequate property interest in, acceptable real estate located in
   an area where local laws and ordinances shall permit the intended use.
   A1.3.3. The agreement is legal and binding and that its execution is duly authorized.

A1.4. Plans, specifications, and cost estimates shall be approved by the Federal Government.

A1.5. The agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the full term of the agreement or upon
appropriate termination.

A1.6. When a facility is to be used jointly by two or more Reserve components, the agreement shall:
   A1.6.1. Identify all space, both inside and outside the building or buildings, to be used and main-
   tained exclusively by federally designated Reserve components or to be used jointly by all Reserve
   components assigned to the facility.
   A1.6.2. Prescribe the Federal and state shares of the cost of maintaining the common-use space, both
   inside and outside the buildings.
   A1.6.3. Prescribe schedules for the use of the facilities by the various Reserve components, including
   procedures for resolving scheduling conflicts.

A1.7. The state contract shall be let in accordance with the state laws and under applicable Federal regu-
lations. All contracts, change orders, and supplemental agreements involving a contribution of Federal
funds shall be subject to prior approval by the Federal Government.

A1.8. The Federal Government shall:
   A1.8.1. Determine which Federal costs incurred or to be incurred are allowable under the terms and
   conditions of the agreement.
   A1.8.2. Advise the state of this determination, in writing, before the state executes any contract,
   according to applicable DoD military construction policies and criteria.
                                                  6
A1.9. The state shall maintain an accounting system that is acceptable to the Federal Government. This
system shall cover both the construction work and the subsequent maintenance and operation of those
facilities supported with Federal contributions, including those facilities to be used jointly by other
Reserve components.

A1.10. When a facility is to be constructed or operated by state contract:
   A1.10.1. A commitment of DoD appropriations shall be recorded based on a signed agreement with
   the state.
   A1.10.2. An obligation of DoD appropriations shall be recorded based upon receipt of a signed con-
   tract issued by the state to construct the facility.
   A1.10.3. Federal funds shall be provided upon approval of contractor’s requests for progress and final
   payments. Approval of requests for payments shall be based on state government certifications of
   payment for work completed on the facility.

A1.11. The agreement shall contain a clause, and existing agreements may be so amended, to permit ter-
mination of the agreement before expiration of the fixed term and subject to the approval by SAF/MII
provided that:
   A1.11.1. When the existing facility is adequate and still required by one or more of the assigned
   Reserve components, the state agrees to replace the facility in-kind without further Federal contribu-
   tion and executes an agreement on the replacement facility for the unexpired term of the agreement to
   be terminated.
   A1.11.2. When the existing facility is no longer required by any of the assigned Reserve components,
   the State agrees to reimburse the Federal Government for its equity in the facility, calculated as that
   proportion of the Federal contribution as the unexpired term of the agreement bears to the full term of
   the agreement. SAF/MI may waive this clause for individual facilities when he or she determines
   reductions in the strength of the Reserve component(s) will cause an undue financial hardship on the
   state.




                                                7
Figure A1.1. RESERVE COMPONENT MILITARY CONSTRUCTION UNFUNDED PROPOS-
ALS SUMMARY

RESERVE COMPONENT MILITARY CONSTRUCTION UNFUNDED PROPOSALS SUMMARY


RESERVE COMPONENT:
REPORT DATE:

                                   TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION

                                                 ($)
CATEGORY: MODERNIZATION               REPLACEMENT         NEW CONSTRUCTION            TOTAL

New Missions and/or
Weapon Systems



Existing Missions and/or
Weapon Systems

Figure A1.2. BOARD MEETING MINUTES FORMATMEETING MINUTES OF THEJOINT
SERVICE RESERVE COMPONENT FACILITY BOARD(STATE, COMMONWEALTH, TER-
RITORY, OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA)
A. CONVENING THE BOARD
In accordance with DoD Directive 1225.7, dated November 8, 1991, the board held a meeting at
hours on       at
B. ATTENDANCE
1. Principal members present: (Rank, Name, Service).
2. Alternate members or others present: (Rank, Name, Service).
C. ACTION ON MINUTES OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS.
D. PROJECT SUMMARIES.
1. Number of projects reviewed ________________________________________
2. Number recommended for joint construction ____________________________
3. Number of recommended for unilateral construction ______________________
4. Number not recommended for construction _____________________________



                                             8
E. PROJECT RECOMMENDATIONS.
1. For each DD Form 2162 "Joint Service Reserve Component Facility Board Project Analysis" consid-
ered by the board, provide a statement of acquisition alternative considered and basis for each rejection
leading to the chosen option such as:
     a. Maximum use of facilities identified as excess by active and Reserve components during base
closure and realignment actions as allowed by law.
     b. Full use of existing, partially used facilities of other Reserve components and the active compo-
nents.
    c. Use of existing real property facilities excess to the needs of the Military Departments or other
Federal Agencies by transfer, use agreement, or permit.
      d. Lease or donation of privately or publicly owned facilities that meet the need or can be modified
at reasonable cost to meet the need.
      e. Construction of additions to existing Reserve component and active component facilities, or on
property controlled by them, with provision for maximum joint or common use of existing space and
facilities.
     f. Purchase of existing real property facilities that meet the need without uneconomical remodeling
or renovating.
     g. Joint construction of a new facility by two or more Reserve components or with an active compo-
nent. If such construction at a single location cannot be done concurrently for some presently irreconcil-
able reason, the design and siting of the initial structure shall include provisions for future expansion.
     h. Unilateral construction of a new facility by one Reserve component only when supported by a
Joint Service Reserve Component Facility Board that has carefully reviewed all other acquisition methods
and found them impracticable or uneconomical.
2. If recommending unilateral construction, include a statement explaining why the project was not rec-
ommended for joint construction.
F. OTHER BUSINESS. In this section summarize any other business or recommendation of the board.
G. NEXT MEETING. Provide a statement of the planned date for the next meeting and place.
H. ADJOURNMENT. Provide a statement noting completion or disposition of all matters before the
board and time of adjournment.
I. AUTHENTICATION. Signatures of principal (or acting alternate) members including their current
mailing addresses and phone numbers (Defense Switched Network and commercial).




                                                9
