BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3503
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  10 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                                Certified Current 2 February 2012
                                                                                       Personnel
                                                                          SUPPORT OF CADET
                                                                 DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1DO                                         Certified by: AF/A1D (Mr. Joseph McDade)
                                                                                     Pages: 21

This instruction implements various Secretary of Defense (SECDEF), Secretary of the Air Force
(SECAF) and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) requirements documented in AFPD 36-35,
United States Air Force Academy, by identifying support requirements and responsibilities for
the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
(AFROTC) and supporting MAJCOMs, bases and wings with regard to cadet development
activities in the operational Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does not apply to the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.”

1. Description. USAFA and AFROTC operate multiple cadet development programs (CDPs)
during the summer months of each year that require the support of every available Air Force
installation and organization. Increasing the diversity of cadet development experiences is an
Air Force priority designed to focus and orient our future officers on Air Force institutional
competencies related to their primary operational duties and to increase cultural and regional
awareness. The goal of these programs is to familiarize cadets with the operational Air Force,
enhance their academic learning experience, increase retention, cultivate cultural awareness and
foreign language proficiency and increase cadet effectiveness as leaders of character in the
 2                                                          AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009

operational Air Force. Many of the programs listed in this instruction involve both USAFA and
AFROTC cadets. Unless otherwise specified, the term “cadet” refers to cadets from both
institutions.

1.1. USAFA cadets should engage in an operational AF experience each summer. Prior to
commissioning, USAFA cadets should complete 50 days of operational experience. Credit may
be granted for operational AF experiences other than Operation Air Force for participation in any
CDPs at the discretion of USAFA leadership.

1.2. AFROTC cadets should participate in as many activities that provide operational Air Force
exposure as their class, field training and scheduling will allow.

2. Program Descriptions. There are various CDPs with distinct management and funding
processes operated as joint or independent activities by USAFA and AFROTC.

2.1. Operation Air Force (OPS AF). The jointly operated USAFA and AFROTC OPS AF
program is the largest single CDP among AF commissioning sources.

2.1.1. Program Objectives. The overall OPS AF program is based on two strategic objectives:

2.1.1.1. To focus and orient Air Force cadets on Air Force missions and culture through direct
exposure to and experience with Air Force units.

2.1.1.2. To utilize existing cadet skill sets to contribute to host unit mission accomplishment.

2.1.2. OPS AF is separated into centrally managed and funded internship courses for cadets. The
individual syllabi for each course contribute to distinct goals and competencies.

2.1.3. AFROTC cadets may attend an OPS AF program before their sophomore and senior years.
Dependent on annual resources, all AFROTC cadets are encouraged to participate in OPS AF
while maintaining their AFROTC contract obligations.

2.1.4. Each OPS AF installation should expect to host between 80-120 cadets over the 9-week
summer period starting approximately the first full week of June each year. Each summer period
is divided into three, 3-week sessions that normally include less than 40 cadets per base during
any single OPS AF period. Refer to Attachment 3 for timeline.

2.1.5. More information can be found at USAFA’s OPS AF web site:
https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-ED-AF-20

2.2. Operation “Civil Engineering” Air Force (OPSCEAF). OPSCEAF is a 2-week program
focused on the application of civil engineering practices in the Air Force. It includes first class
(senior) and second class (junior) USAFA and AFROTC cadet participants.

2.2.1. Program Objectives. Cadets are deployed to operational bases where they are given the
opportunity to:
 AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                  3

2.2.1.1. Appreciate the supporting role of the Civil Engineer Squadron (CES) toward the wing’s
overall mission accomplishment.

2.2.1.2. Interact with base-level civil engineer officers and NCOs to better understand the roles
and expectations of junior officers while participating as active members of a CES.

2.2.1.3. Gain experience that will be used upon return to USAFA during the hands-on
construction portion of the Field Engineering and Readiness Laboratory (FERL).

2.2.1.4. Experience base-unique missions.

2.2.2. OPSCEAF is the first of a 2-phase academic course (Civil Engineering 351) consisting of
a 2-week temporary duty (TDY) assignment and a 3-week field experience at the USAFA FERL.
Cadets spend the first 2-week period at a government facility working in a civil engineer
organization to gain exposure to the civil engineer career field through being assigned to a
specific project. In the absence of a suitable project, cadets will be provided an in depth
orientation to the operations of a civil engineer organization.

2.2.3. OPSCEAF deploys flights of cadets to both overseas and CONUS bases. Each flight
consists of approximately 15 cadets including a cadet-in-charge (CIC) chosen from the previous
year’s CE 351 participants.

2.3. AETC Leadership Program (AETCLP). The AETC Leadership Program includes
specially selected second class and first class USAFA cadets. Cadets are given the opportunity
to lead and influence every facet of a flight of approximately 55 basic trainees through six weeks
of Basic Military Training (BMT) at Lackland AFB, Texas.

2.3.1. Program Objectives. Cadets gain a better understanding of the enlisted force and a deeper
appreciation for the competencies expected of an enlisted member upon entering the Air Force.
Cadets are expected to use their experience working side-by-side with Military Training
Instructors (MTIs) during BMT in the following summer during USAFA Basic Cadet Training.

2.3.2. AETCLP is conducted during two overlapping 6-week periods of USAFA summer
military training. During each 6-week period, approximately 80 cadets deploy to Lackland AFB,
TX. Each period will have one first class CIC who is selected from the previous year’s AETCLP
cadre. Each CIC is responsible for planning and executing the program in conjunction with
USAFA. CICs are also the POC for all cadet issues in their respective cadre.

2.4. Cadet Summer Research Program (CSRP). CSRP provides opportunities for
competitively selected first class USAFA cadets to work on real world research projects for up to
five weeks at various military, government and civilian facilities.

2.4.1. Program Objectives. CSRP is integrated with independent research courses within the
cadets’ academic majors to enrich their educational experience and reinforce the operational
relevance to their academic studies. Some cadets may continue research begun during CSRP for
academic credit as part of their academic major.
 4                                                        AFI36-3503      10 FEBRUARY 2009

2.4.2. Resource and support requirements are dependent on host organization sponsorship and
USAFA academic department funding availability. The program is designed to be entirely host-
unit funded. Additional resources may be arranged by USAFA departmental representatives on a
case-by-case basis. Each USAFA academic department determines the program focus for each
cadet in concert with the host organization.

2.5. Cadet Summer Language Immersion Program (CSLIP). CSLIP provides an opportunity
for USAFA and AFROTC cadets, as well as select faculty escorts, to participate in 3-6 week
language immersion programs. Language Immersion Programs include Arabic, Chinese
(Mandarin), French, German, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish opportunities.

2.5.1. CSLIP encourages the services to create foundational language and regional expertise in
the officer ranks for both Active and Reserve components.

2.5.2. Cadet flights consist of approximately 8-12 cadets and are accompanied by a faculty
member OIC at each location.

2.5.3. CSLIP primarily utilizes off-base support. However, in some instances, such as in
Germany and Japan, cadets may stay at US military installations and participate in US military
operated language instruction. In such cases, required support may consist of lodging, meals and
language instruction.

2.6. AFROTC Field Training. Each summer AFROTC sends between 2,000 – 3,000 cadets to
Field Training (FT) at Maxwell Air Force Base. FT is congressionally required for
commissioning through ROTC. Reference AFI 36-2011, Air Force Reserve Officer Training
Corps, for additional requirements associated with AFROTC Field Training.

2.6.1. Program objectives. FT is designed to evaluate and stratify cadet performance. Secondary
objectives include orientation to Air Force standards, demonstration of basic proficiency in
expeditionary skills and knowledge, motivation towards an Air Force career and an emphasis on
a physically fit lifestyle.

2.6.2. FT is typically conducted between a cadet’s sophomore and junior years and lasts four
weeks (with one extended FT unit offered each summer for those cadets needing to make up
ROTC academics accreditation). AFROTC instructors organize and execute the FT at Maxwell.
Cadets who perform exceptionally well at FT may be selected to return the following summer as
Cadet Training Assistants.

2.7. Advanced Course in Engineering (ACE). During this program, also known as “Cyber
Boot Camp,” where AFROTC cadets spend 10 weeks at the Air Force Research Laboratory
(AFRL) in Rome, New York, to gain hands-on experience with network security and cyber-
warfare.

2.7.1. Program objectives. The primary objective of ACE is designed to serve as an internship in
an active duty Air Force environment where cadets receive hands-on training and practical
knowledge about what it takes to fight and win in cyberspace.
 AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                 5

2.7.2. ACE is conducted between a cadet’s junior and senior years. Attendees must be computer
science/engineering or electrical engineering majors with a 3.0 cumulative grade point average
and a SECRET security clearance. Cadets receive instruction on information warfare, network
attack/defense, cryptography, malicious code and wireless security, in addition to weekly officer
professional development briefings. Cadets submit weekly papers and may receive transferable
college credit. To culminate the course, the group divides into teams and participates in a 3-day
cyberspace war game. Approximately 30 AFROTC cadets attend ACE along with
cadets/midshipmen from the other services and certain civil service employees.

2.8. Nurse Orientation Program (NOP). AFROTC sends cadets majoring in nursing to
Wilford Hall Medical Center, Texas, for exposure to hospital operations. Cadets earn clinical
hours while assigned (the acceptance of transferred credits is dependant upon host institution’s
approval).

2.8.1. Program objectives. NOP is a 4-week program designed to serve as an internship in an
active duty Air Force hospital where cadets receive hands-on training and practical knowledge
about service as an Air Force nurse.

2.8.2. NOP is conducted between the cadet’s junior and senior years. Between 12 and 20
AFROTC cadets participate in NOP each summer. The program director at Wilford Hall rotates
the cadets through different hospital wards to maximize exposure to hospital operations.

2.9. Jet Orientation (JETO). AFROTC sends cadets for 3-day orientation flight opportunities
primarily at various 19 AF flight training bases. JETO may be completed as a stand-alone event
or combined with OPS AF scheduling, if required by AFROTC. Group size is usually 10-40
cadets, accompanied by an OIC.

2.9.1. Program objectives. The JETO program is designed to expose cadets to flying and flight
line operations and offer a unique motivational retention experience.

2.9.2. The number of JETO flights available is determined by the 19 AF program director.
AFROTC coordinates with the 19 AF base directors to schedule flights and determine medical
clearance guidelines. The AFROTC coordinator also arranges travel to/from the JETO base
along with lodging support.

2.10. Georgetown Summer Internship (GSI). GSI provides opportunities for 5-7
competitively selected USAFA cadets to participate in a 9-week (Washington D.C. area) or 3-
week (European location) internship program. GSI is funded entirely by the AFA Foundation
through a perpetual endowment.

2.10.1. Program Objectives. Gain in-depth understanding of government organization and
processes including how economics and international relations influence political and military
policies.

2.10.2. Cadets travel unaccompanied to CONUS and overseas locations as part of a Georgetown
University-sponsored internship program. Normally no MAJCOM support is required.
 6                                                           AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009

2.11. Other Orientation Flight or Tour Requests (not related to CDP-authorized activities).
While not a formal or funded program, USAFA cadets on leave status and AFROTC cadets not
assigned to another summer program may request opportunities for development activities (e.g.
orientation flights, base and facility tours, etc.) at most military installations. Cadets on leave or
non-TDY status may also qualify for consideration. IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation Management,
Table 1.1, Line 14, Note 14, “Cadets and midshipmen are authorized orientation flights while on
leave status.” USAFA cadets are further required to obtain a memorandum from their Air
Officer Commanding (AOC) stating that the cadet is authorized and eligible for a flight
dependent upon compliance with supporting base policies, flight availability and other
requirements in this instruction. Similarly, AFROTC cadets must receive authorization from
their detachment by completing AETC Form 327, Orientation Flight Request, prior to requesting
a flight. Bases are encouraged to support these requests on a space-available basis only. While
cadets are authorized to participate in orientation flights and other activities on a military
installation, the support requirements of this instruction are not directive for cadets on leave or
non-TDY status.

3. Responsibilities.

3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction and oversight for all matters
pertaining to the formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, programs and budgets
addressing Cadet Development Programs.

3.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1) develops policy,
implements guidance, monitors program progress and provides support for commissioning
sources, MAJCOMs and host installations to coordinate the training, lodging, feeding,
transporting, medical care and disciplinary issues arising as a result of cadet participation in the
various cadet development programs.

3.3. The Superintendent, USAF Academy (USAFA/CC), and the Commander, Jeanne M. Holm
Officer Accession and Citizen Development Center:

3.3.1. Share responsibility for budget development and training funds management related to
their component CDPs. This responsibility may be delegated to the USAFA Commandant of
Cadets (USAFA/CW) or the USAFA Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF), for USAFA component
CDPs; and to the Commander, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC/CC), for
AFROTC CDPs.

3.3.2. Will maintain supplements to this instruction with detailed program guidance.

3.4. USAFA and AFROTC CDP staffs will:

3.4.1. Determine cadet and cadre allocations for installations based on resources agreed upon by
supporting MAJCOMs and units with the CDP staffs. Attempt to use participating MAJCOM
installations to the fullest extent practical based on their capacity to host cadets to ensure the
broadest potential exposure for participants. Specific numbers and distribution of cadets among
 AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                   7

installations varies each year, commensurate with the following support limitations of each
facility:

3.4.1.1. Mission demands.

3.4.1.2. Capability to support cadets' projected Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSCs).

3.4.1.3. Development mission and support capabilities.

3.4.1.4. Force protection issues.

3.4.1.5. Other operational or resource considerations.

3.4.2. Distribute program timelines and requests for support to participating installations. This
information should be coordinated and centralized to the maximum practical extent.

3.4.3. Coordinate all requests and provide program information through designated cadet
development "directors" at the MAJCOM and base levels.

3.4.4. Manage liaison activities with supporting installations.

3.4.5. Provide administrative support for TDY cadets.

3.4.6. Conduct MAJCOM-level planning and program review conferences (if appropriate).

3.4.7. Disseminate specific program guidance to ensure MAJCOMs and installations have
complete and correct information including detailed course syllabi/program objectives and an
operations plan (OPLAN) explaining individual program execution procedures and restrictions.

3.4.8. Ensure cadet participants maintain required documentation or complete prerequisite
training prior to departing for their program. Prerequisite items may include, but are not limited
to, the following:

3.4.8.1. Travel orders.

3.4.8.2. Program-specific requirements (e.g. AETCLP cadre training).

3.4.8.3. Current information protection training certificate.

3.4.8.4. Anti-terrorism training.

3.4.8.5. Law Of Armed Conflict training.

3.4.8.6. Office of Special Investigation brief (OCONUS only).

3.4.8.7. Intel brief (where required by Foreign Clearance Guide).

3.4.8.8. The following additional documentation is required for participation in orientation
flights (CDP-related or by individual request):
 8                                                         AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009

3.4.8.8.1. AF Form 1887, Aeronautical Order (PA) Aviation Service.

3.4.8.8.2. AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendation for Flying or Special Operations Duty.

3.4.8.8.3. AF Form 1274, Physiological Training.

3.5. MAJCOMs will:

3.5.1. Assign a specific agency as Executive Agent for CDPs within the MAJCOM.
Additionally, MAJCOMs should appoint, at a minimum, one primary and one alternate program
director with authority to affect action throughout the MAJCOM's wings and other subordinate
organizations. At MAJCOM discretion, appointees may serve as directors for multiple CDPs or
for singular program management within the MAJCOM. Appointees will come from existing
manpower resources.

3.5.2. Coordinate with CDP staffs regarding levels of support to be provided annually by the
MAJCOM.

3.5.3. Encourage program participation within their wings and other subordinate organizations
and assist with coordinating base support allocations to meet CDP needs.

3.5.4. Act as a liaison between supporting MAJCOM units and CDP staffs.

3.5.5. Provide information support to supporting MAJCOM units.

3.5.6. Coordinate with other MAJCOMs to resolve shared support issues between host
MAJCOM and tenant MAJCOM units.

3.5.7. Acknowledge group travel country clearance requests (as required).

3.5.8. Establish guidance for cadet orientation flights and/or incentive flights to supplement
paragraph 2.11 of this instruction and AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, if necessary, which
promotes cadet involvement in flight activities without jeopardizing safety of flight or mission
objectives.

3.6. Supporting installation host wings will:

3.6.1. Appoint a primary and alternate base director for all supported CDP activities. Primary
base directors should be field grade officers. Alternate base directors can be of any grade, as
deemed appropriate by local commanders. At commander discretion, appointees may serve as
directors for multiple CDPs or for singular program management within the base.

3.6.2. Coordinate with tenant units for CDP support, where applicable. If necessary, request
MAJCOM-to-MAJCOM coordination to resolve support agreements between host base and
tenant units.
 AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                 9

3.6.3. Provide levels of support coordinated through MAJCOM and CDP staffs IAW
requirements of this AFI. This includes but is not limited to: lodging, transportation, meals,
AFSCs available to shadow and security clearance restrictions.

3.6.4. Host installation tenant units will support host wings in accordance with their existing
support agreements or as directed by their MAJCOMs.

3.6.5. The AEF Center will coordinate deployment locations, materiel, and transportation with
Central Air Forces (AFCENT) or other participating unified combatant commander air
component headquarters in support of Brevet Lieutenant-Deployed.

3.7. CDP Staffs. Beyond the standard staff responsibilities in paragraph 3.4. above, cadet
development staffs also have the following program-specific responsibilities and representation:

3.7.1. OPS AF. The OPS AF Staff is comprised of the USAFA Chief of Training
(USAFA/CWTT) and the Director of OPS AF (USAFA/CWTTA), working in coordination with
the Director of Operations, AFROTC (AFROTC/DO), and the AFROTC Chief of Training
(AFROTC/DOT). The collective OPS AF Staff can be contacted through their shared global
address listing of "Ops Air Force" or ops.airforce@usafa.edu.

3.7.2. OPSCEAF. The Department Head, USAFA Department of Civil Engineering
(USAFA/DFCE), will appoint a point of contact (POC) annually to manage OPSCEAF. This
single POC is responsible for all CDP staff requirements as identified in this instruction.

3.7.3. AETCLP. USAFA/CWT is the POC for AETCLP and is responsible for all CDP staff
requirements as identified in this instruction. USAFA/CWT will:

3.7.3.1. Coordinate a POC directly with Lackland AFB via 737 TRG/CC and 737 TRG/CCS.

3.7.3.2. Solicit two MTIs for TDY to USAFA to conduct cadre training, funded entirely by
USAFA.

3.7.4. CSRP. The USAFA Director of Research (USAFA/DFER) will appoint the director of
CSRP annually. USAFA academic Department Heads will also appoint representatives as
appropriate. The CSRP director and departmental representatives will comply with CDP staff
requirements as identified in this instruction.

3.7.4.1. The CSRP director and USAFA academic department representatives coordinate directly
with host laboratory/organization POCs annually to determine research requirements and
availability of cadets with the proper background.

3.7.4.2. USAFA academic department representatives will ensure each cadet is academically
prepared for their research project.

3.7.5. CSLIP. The USAFA Office of International Programs (USAFA/DFIP) is responsible for
all CDP staff requirements as identified in this instruction.
10                                                          AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009

3.7.5.1. One USAFA CIC will be selected for each cadet flight and will be responsible for
ensuring that each flight member receives all pertinent travel information, completes a travel
journal, video log, and trip report, and files a travel voucher IAW local directives. The CIC will
also ensure each flight submits a trip report summarizing their experience to USAFA/DFIP for
program assessment and publicity purposes.

3.7.5.2. USAFA/DFIP coordinates with MAJCOM/A1s for program support and appointment of
MAJCOM Program Directors.

3.7.6. AFROTC Field Training. AFROTC/DOTF coordinates with the applicable representatives
at Maxwell which provides support IAW AFI 36-2011 and applicable base support agreements.

3.7.7. ACE. AFROTC/DOTT coordinates ACE with AFRL which executes the program.
AFROTC/DOTT and AFRL jointly assign cadets to the program.

3.7.8. NOP. AFROTC/DOTT coordinates NOP directly with Wilford Hall which executes the
program. AFROTC/DOTT assigns cadets to the program based on the criteria provided by
Wilford Hall.

3.7.9. JETO. AFROTC/DOTX coordinates JETO with 19 AF which executes the program.
When JETO is done in conjunction with another summer program, the effort is also coordinated
with AFROTC/DOTT.

3.7.10. GSI. The USAFA Dean of the Faculty will appoint the director of GSI annually. The
GSI director will accomplish all CDP staff requirements identified in this instruction.

4. Resources. In addition to guidance in AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders, the following
considerations will be taken:

4.1. Air travel:

4.1.1. Air travel to and from host base primary airports will be funded by the cadets’ respective
organizations (i.e., USAFA or AFROTC).

4.1.2. Military air may be utilized to maximize exposure to flight operations. If mil-air is
utilized, cadets will travel as duty passengers. Host units with flight operations are encouraged
to synchronize off-station trainer opportunities with CDP travel needs IAW applicable 11-series
instructions. Brevet Lieutenant-Deployed participants will use mil-air as directed to meet AEF
Center requirements.

4.2. Ground Transportation:

4.2.1. Within the parameters of Air Force and DoD guidance covering transportation, host
installations will provide transportation to and from airport facilities and for all missions
requiring local transportation during program execution.

4.2.2. USAFA cadets will not normally be authorized rental vehicles on USAFA fund cites
except in unusual circumstances. CDP staffs will be the approval authority for exceptions to this
AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                   11

rule. Host installations will not direct cadets to rent vehicles without specific prior approval
from the applicable CDP staff. CSRP host units may directly fund rental vehicles at their
discretion.

4.2.3. AFROTC cadets are not permitted to acquire rental cars on the AFROTC fund cite.
AFROTC/DOT (through the OPS AF Staff) will be the approval authority for exceptions to this
rule. Host installations will not direct cadets to rent vehicles without specific prior approval
from AFROTC/DOT.

4.2.4. Both AFROTC and USAFA cadets are authorized to rent vehicles at their own expense
according to local rules and installation/unit commander policies. Costs associated with
personal-use rental vehicles or privately owned vehicles (POV) will not be reimbursed unless
such POV use is directed by individual travel order.

4.3. Meals:

4.3.1. Government meals are directed for all cadets hosted on military installations. Exceptions
to this policy will be made by the applicable CDP staff on a case-by-case basis.

4.3.1.1. Host wings requesting a waiver to this policy for a one-time event (e.g. Dining Out) must
provide a waiver request to the applicable CDP staff via email 20 days prior to the cadets' arrival.
If host units plan to have cadets perform duties requiring them to miss a meal, they must either
make meals available to the cadets (e.g. box lunches) or provide the applicable CDP staff with a
fund cite and authorization for per diem (i.e., meals and incidentals) at the appropriate rate.
USAFA/AFROTC may also fund this type of activity, but require prior notification and approval
from applicable CDP staff, based on program demands and budget considerations.

4.3.2. USAFA and AFROTC cadets will be on TDY orders authorizing them to eat without
charge in military dining facilities IAW the Joint Federal Travel Regulation. Dining facilities
must ensure a separate AF Form 79, Headcount Record, is used for USAFA and AFROTC
cadets, as these agencies have different billing procedures. Units will receive memoranda from
the USAFA and AFROTC CDP staffs stating how reimbursement requests are routed and
processed.

4.3.2.1. Reimbursement procedures for meals consumed by cadets is developed and disseminated
by AFSVA/SVOHF, USAFA/FMF, and AFROTC/DOS.

4.3.2.2. Procedures for AFROTC and USAFA cadets will be as similar as possible.

4.3.3. Host units will make boxed meals available to all cadets as necessary to support their first
return travel day.

4.3.4. Bases without a dining facility serving three meals a day, seven days a week will either
designate a non-appropriated funds facility as an essential dining facility or otherwise not host
cadets.

4.4. Billeting
12                                                            AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009

4.4.1. Cadets should be billeted on base if at all possible to decrease lodging and transportation
costs and immerse cadets thoroughly in the base community.

4.4.2. Cadets may be housed in dormitories, visitors lodging (officer or enlisted), or other on-
base facilities as required. This includes use of contingency dormitories or "tent city" solutions
if necessary.

4.4.3. Cadets should be directed to share rooms when practicable. Shared rooms should be billed
equally to both cadets.

4.4.4. If a need for off-base lodging is forecasted or required due to unforeseen circumstances,
base directors should coordinate with the applicable CDP staff as soon as possible to determine
the best course of action. (AFROTC/DOT requires 3 duty days of notice prior to lodging
AFROTC cadets off-base.)

4.4.5. Payments must be processed differently for AFROTC and USAFA cadets. All cadets
should be required to present their individual TDY orders at check-in to establish expected
methods of payment.

4.4.5.1. USAFA cadets must be billed individually upon departure. They will pay using their
individual government travel card and will be reimbursed through their travel voucher upon
return from TDY. Cadets will not, under any circumstances, pay a lodging bill that is not their
own.

4.4.5.2. Billeting for AFROTC cadets will be charged to the central fund cite on their travel
orders. Payment will be made through and records maintained at AFROTC/DOS.

4.5. TDY Within a TDY:

4.5.1. If the mission requires or allows cadets to perform a TDY within a TDY (e.g. travel on a
military flight supporting off-station training, an operational mission, etc.), the host installation
will notify the applicable component of the applicable CDP staff no later than 72 hours prior to
departure for case-by-case approval. USAFA and AFROTC may pay additional costs, as
funding allows. Prior coordination is mandatory to determine how TDY costs will be covered.
Host installations may also fund these activities or split the cost with USAFA/AFROTC on a
case-by-case basis.

4.5.2. Dual lodging is authorized if cadets perform an approved TDY within a TDY.

4.5.3. The host installation Financial Services Office (FSO) must contact the USAF Academy
FSO before making any per diem payments to USAFA cadets on any TDY claims submitted.

4.5.4. The limits of cadet participation in TDYs will be reviewed annually and periodically
throughout all CDPs. Decisions will be made to keep cadets safe and not interfere with
operational missions. Participation limits will be published annually in the application program
OPLAN (e.g. cadets will/will not be allowed to fly in Afghanistan or Iraq), and updated through
MAJCOM POCs as changes occur. Cadets’ respective organizations (i.e., USAFA or AFROTC)
must ensure prior coordination with host units for necessary resources required while TDY.
AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                   13

These resources include but are not limited to personnel to conduct training, training area
availability, ammunition for training or qualification as needed, and other base support functions
requiring forecasting.

5. Command and Control. To clearly define the levels of command and control over cadets
participating in these programs, the terms Operational Control (OPCON), Administrative Control
(ADCON) and Tactical Control (TACON) are utilized. AFROTC and USAFA retain OPCON
and ADCON of their respective cadets. The authority to administer judicial and nonjudicial
punishment, handle personnel issues, remove cadets from the program, and release cadets from
specific program requirements rests with USAFA or AFROTC. TACON during cadet
development activities is program-specific.

5.1. USAFA and AFROTC will make available a centralized command and control plan for CDP
participants.

5.2. Forward concerns regarding cadet order and discipline to the applicable CDP staff as soon as
practical.

5.2.1. OPCON will be with the applicable CDP staffs. Decisions on whether a cadet shall be
removed from a CDP shall include input from host base/wing leadership and deployed program
OICs, but shall remain solely under the discretion of the applicable program staff.

5.2.2. ADCON of USAFA cadets will remain with their Air Officer Commanding (AOC) at all
times. CDP staffs will coordinate with AOCs to ensure all disciplinary actions and cadet
performance evaluations are properly documented.

5.2.3. TACON, in this context, refers to the ability to task, set expectations, designate work hours
and govern daily activities within the context of the course specific syllabi, unit mission
requirements, and other official guidance. Three potential TACON conditions may apply to
CDPs:

5.2.3.1. Local TACON. Using this condition, supporting units retain the authority to assign
participants to a duty position and location, to determine hours of duty and to interact directly
with participants. This level of control is usually exercised through the base director for the
supporting unit, but it also extends to the chain of command for the position of assignment.

5.2.3.2. OIC/CIC TACON. In this condition, duties of participants are determined by an OIC or
CIC. While a base director or development provider has direct influence on duty assignments,
cadets are ultimately responding to the orders of their OIC or CIC.

5.2.3.3. No TACON. This condition describes participants who are either on leave or under
tactical control of the primary CDP staff at AFROTC or USAFA.

5.2.3.4. Specific program TACON rules.

5.2.3.4.1. Cadets participating in OPS AF fall under Local TACON of their host units from time
of arrival at the host installation until departure. An exception to this rule is AFROTC cadets
accompanied by AFROTC active duty cadre remain under OIC/CIC TACON of their cadre.
14                                                           AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009

5.2.3.4.2. Each contingent of OPS AF, OPSCEAF, and AETCLP cadets will have a designated
CIC and, in some circumstances, an OIC. As a minimum, a CIC will be designated for each base
of assignment. When USAFA and AFROTC cadets are assigned to the same location, both a
USAFA cadet and an AFROTC cadet will be assigned as CICs and will serve as the central POC
for their cadet issues. Direct responsibilities include coordinating with base directors (and the
base OIC if applicable), maintaining accountability during duty and non-duty situations, and
providing feedback regarding any issues not involved with a specific chain of command. CICs
are responsible for all cadets at the assigned base.

5.2.3.4.3. The Brevet Lieutenant-Deployed course will have a USAFA OIC and
Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) assigned to the deployed theater. This team is
responsible for supervising and evaluating all aspects of the course. The OIC and NCOIC may
be utilized within the AOR in additional roles, but their primary duty is to attend to OPS AF
program needs.

5.2.3.4.4. AFROTC officers may be assigned to bases hosting the Noncom course for AFROTC
sophomore cadets.

5.2.3.4.5. CSRP cadets will report directly to their assigned mentors at their host installation for
TACON.

5.2.3.4.6. CSLIP cadets will report to their faculty OIC for TACON. In addition to the program
OIC, each cadet CSLIP flight will have a designated CIC. Direct CIC responsibilities include
coordinating with OICs, language instructors or culture trainers, maintaining accountability
during duty and non-duty situations, and providing feedback regarding any issues not involved
with a specific chain of command.

5.2.3.4.7. GSI cadets will report directly to their mentors at their assigned location for TACON.

5.3. Cadets involved with OPS AF, OPSCEAF, or AETCLP will not be issued leave or 72-hour
passes unless extenuating circumstances exist. Lost duty time and training can be made up at the
discretion of the base director. Prior approval of the applicable CDP staff is required. Cadets are
normally expected to remain in the local area (as defined by the host base) even if 4-day
weekend situations arise.

6. Emergency Situations.

6.1. If a cadet is involved in an emergency--deal with the emergency first, then follow guidance
for the applicable CDP, and contact the applicable CDP staff for final resolution.

6.2. In the event an emergency leave situation should develop, contact the applicable CDP staff
for guidance. Since cadets do not accrue leave, procedures are different from active duty
personnel actions. If possible, cadets will be transported as required by the emergency situation
and returned to duty at their assigned installation. However, if the applicable CDP staff
determines that the cost of returning a cadet would exceed the benefit of returning them, they
have the option of simply cutting the cadet’s tour short and not returning them to their
installation. This will be decided on a case-by-case basis.
AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                  15

6.3. The general guidance for emergency situations is to use host base/wing emergency situation
procedures to the maximum extent practical and contact the applicable CDP staff for resolution
of issues that fall outside those guidelines.

7. Security Clearances. All USAFA cadets and AFROTC senior cadets participating in CDPs
should hold at least an interim SECRET clearance. AFROTC sophomore cadets will typically
not have security clearances established. If cadets arrive without needed clearance verification
for the duties that they will be performing, your local/unit’s security manager can verify USAFA
cadet security clearance status via the Joint Personnel Adjudication System.

8. Safety.

8.1. Host installations will provide local area safety briefings to all cadets. Cadets will comply
with all on-duty safety precautions required of their host unit instructors/mentors. Additionally,
cadets participating in off-duty activities are required to comply with the most conservative
guidance if a discrepancy between host unit guidance and USAFA/AFROTC guidance exists.

8.2. Cadets driving beyond a 150-mile radius from their assigned installation are required to
submit a driving itinerary to the group CIC (OIC for CSLIP) and the base POC for approval. The
itinerary will include the planned destination, address, and telephone number where the cadet can
be reached, or the telephone number of someone who will know the cadet's whereabouts and can
contact the cadet. It is the cadet’s responsibility to notify the CIC/Base POC of any changes.
This guidance is intended to parallel direction found in AFCWM 36-3501, Cadet Sight Picture,
and the AETC Supplement to AFI 91-202, Air Force Mishap Prevention Program. All cadets
will comply with these instructions or host unit policies, whichever are more restrictive.

8.2.1. USAFA cadets may submit a memorandum with this information to the base POC and
CIC, or they may use an AFCW Form 99, Request to Exceed Limits/Special Pass.

8.2.2. AFROTC cadets will submit this information on an AETC Form 29B, Pre-Departure
Safety Briefing, in accordance with the AETC supplement to AFI 91-202.

8.3. High-Risk Activities. Any cadet who wishes to participate in a hazardous activity must have
approval from their Base OIC/CIC, squadron AOC, and/or AFROTC cadre prior to engaging in
the activity. A high-risk activity is any activity not directly supervised by host installation staff
and involves above average exposure to a hazard which could result in injury. Some examples
include, but are not limited to, parachuting, rodeo riding, rock climbing, water skiing and
hunting.

8.3.1. USAFA cadets will follow procedures as described in the Cadet Sight Picture prior to
engaging in high-risk activities. USAFA cadets will coordinate with their squadron AOCs as
required or requested by base directors.

8.3.2. AFROTC cadets will submit an AETC Form 410, High Risk Activity Worksheet, to their
base director or AFROTC cadre, in accordance with the AETC supplement to AFI 91-202.

9. Evaluating Performance.
16                                                       AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009

9.1. Cadets will have their personal performance evaluated in accordance with the applicable
program syllabus. Performance appraisal format will be made available to MAJCOM and base
directors through the applicable CDP staff. Cadets who display a poor attitude or unprofessional
behavior may be removed from training by their respective program staff based on inputs from
supporting units, on-station OICs/CICs or other reports. Those who are removed for cause may
be investigated for disenrollment from USAFA or AFROTC. Brevet Lieutenant-Deployed
cadets will be evaluated by their deployed OIC and NCOIC.

9.2. The OPS AF, OPSCEAF, and AETCLP programs will also be evaluated annually by OPS
AF staff, MAJCOM directors, base level facilitators, and by cadets themselves. Surveys will be
adjusted annually to capture feedback on changes for the year, in the manner deemed most
effective by the applicable CDP staffs. Each staff will use this feedback to strengthen their
programs and update syllabi accordingly. MAJCOM and base director surveys will be provided
within two weeks of program completion.

9.2.1. Findings from annual surveys and debriefings will be reported to USAFA/CW,
USAFA/DF, Holm Center/CC, and AF/A1D within 120 days of annual program completion.
Reports should include all elements of feedback, fund use, syllabi evaluation, and recommended
changes for succeeding year's program.

10. OPS AF. The OPS AF Staff will utilize TDY evaluation teams that visit host bases to
evaluate program effectiveness. Findings will be used to modify program guidance and improve
methodologies.

11. CSRP. CSRP will use trip reports and a survey from each participating cadet to evaluate
program utility and to make improvements for the next year.

12. CSLIP. CSLIP will use trip reports and individual travel journals from each participating
cadet to evaluate program utility and to make improvements for the next year.

13. AFROTC Field Training.

13.1. Cadets attending FT will be evaluated by their Flight Training Officer utilizing a Field
Training Performance Report template which the Field Training Unit (FTU) commander or vice-
commander must endorse. Those cadets who receive below an overall “Satisfactory” will be
considered for removal from AFROTC. All cadets must successfully complete FT before being
authorized to commission through AFROTC.

13.2. FTU staffs will be evaluated by the AFROTC/DOTF staff as well as other TDY teams as
determined by AFROTC/DO.

14. ACE. Cadets who fail to turn in two weekly reports on time will be removed from ACE.
ACE is observed on a periodic basis through prior coordination with AFRL.

15. NOP. NOP is observed on a periodic basis through prior coordination with Wilford Hall.

16. JETO. JETO execution is evaluation on a periodic basis by TDY teams from
AFROTC/DOT or by other personnel as determined by AFROTC/DO.
AFI36-3503      10 FEBRUARY 2009                                                            17

17. GSI. The GSI director will coordinate directly with Georgetown University representatives
to document program outcomes and any academic course credit received.

18. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 79, Headcount Record

AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendation for Flying or Special Operations Duty

AF Form 1274, Physiological Training

AF Form 1887, Aeronautical Order (PA) Aviation Service

AFCW Form 99, Request to Exceed Limits/Special Pass

AETC Form 327, Orientation Flight Request

AETC Form 29B, Pre-Departure Safety Briefing

AETC Form 410, High Risk Activity Worksheet




                                           RICHARD Y. NEWTON III, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel
18                                                    AFI36-3503       10 FEBRUARY 2009


                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 7 March 2007
AFI 36-2011, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Program, 18 December 2006
AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders, 5 August 2005
AFI 91-202, Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel, 13 March 2001
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 1 February 2007
DODI 1215.08, Senior Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Programs, March 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACE- Advanced Course in Engineering
AEF-Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AETC-Air Education and Training Command
AFRL-Air Force Research Laboratory
AFROTC-Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
AOC-Air Officer Commanding
BMT-Basic Military Training
CDP-Cadet Development Program
AFCENT-Central Air Forces
CES-Civil Engineer Squadron
CGO-Company Grade Officer
CIC-Cadet-in-Charge
CSLIP-Cadet Summer Language Immersion Program
CSRP-Cadet Summer Research Program
FERL-Field Engineering and Readiness Laboratory
FSO-Financial Services Office
FT-Field Training
GSI-Georgetown Summer Internship
Holm Center-Jeanne M. Holm Officer Accession and Citizen Development Center
JETO-Jet Orientation
AFI36-3503     10 FEBRUARY 2009                 19

MAJCOM-Major Command
NCO-Noncommissioned Officer
NCOIC-Noncommissioned Officer-in-Charge
NOP-Nurse Orientation Program
OIC-Officer-in-Charge
OPLAN-Operations plan
OPS AF-Operation Air Force
OPSCEAF-Operation Civil Engineering Air Force
POC-Point of contact
POV-Privately Owned Vehicle
TACON-Tactical Control
TDY-Temporary duty
USAFA-USAF Academy
20                                                     AFI36-3503      10 FEBRUARY 2009


                                    Attachment 2
                             CADET SUMMER PROGRAMS

A2.1. Operation AIR FORCE

A2.1.1. Brevet Lieutenant-Deployed. An Air & Space Expeditionary Force-based program for
selected USAFA first degree (senior) cadets. Approximately 100 USAFA cadets attend each
year.

A2.2. Other Cadet Development Programs

A2.2.1. AFROTC Field Training. Each summer AFROTC sends between 2,000 – 3,000 cadets
to Field Training at Maxwell Air Force Base. Field Training is congressionally required for
commissioning. Reference AFI 36-2011, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps, for
additional requirements associated with AFROTC Field Training.

A2.2.2. OPSCEAF. Intended for civil engineering majors, USAFA sends approximately 60
cadets and AFROTC sends approximately 12 cadets to active duty bases for 2 weeks to gain
exposure to operational civil engineer squadrons.

A2.2.3. Advanced Course in Engineering (ACE). Also known as “Cyber Boot Camp,”
approximately 30 AFROTC cadets spend 10 weeks at the Air Force Research Laboratory in
Rome, New York to gain hands-on experience with network security and cyber-warfare.

A2.2.4. Nurse Orientation Program (NOP). AFROTC sends 12-20 cadets majoring in nursing to
Wilford Hall Medical Center, Texas for exposure to hospital operations. Cadets earn clinical
hours while assigned.

A2.2.5. Cadet Summer Research Program. USAFA cadets conduct research at an active duty
base or other facility pertaining to their academic major. Approximately 200 USAFA cadets
participate each year.
AFI36-3503      10 FEBRUARY 2009                                           21



                               Attachment 3
                          ANNUAL OPS AF TIMELINE

Table A3.1: Annual OPS AF Timeline
 Date Prior to Coming
 Summer                      Activity Completed           OPR

                             MAJCOM
                             Directors/Alternate
                             names forwarded to
NLT 1 November               USAFA                        MAJCOMs


                             Base Directors/Alternate
                             names forwarded to
NLT 1 December               MAJCOMs/USAFA                MAJCOMs/Bases
                             Base Capabilities due to
Mid-January                  USAFA                        MAJCOMs

                             MAJCOM Director
Mid-January                  Conference at USAFA          USAFA
                             USAFA specifies bases
                             to be used for each
Mid-February                 summer period                USAFA/AFROTC

                             Assign USAFA
March (NLT 1 April)          CICs/AFROTC Cadre            USAFA/AFROTC
                             Assign cadets to specific
Mid-April                    bases                        USAFA/AFROTC

Sunday (after Memorial       1st cadets arrive at bases
Day)                         for Summer Period 1          USAFA/AFROTC/Bases

Approximately 60 days        Last cadet departs base
later                        after Summer Period 3        USAFA/AFROTC/Bases
                             MAJCOM Director Hot
Mid-September                Wash                         USAFA/AFROTC
