BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-114
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                             AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
COMMAND (AFSOC)                                                              COMMAND
                                                                              Supplement

                                                                           16 OCTOBER 2008
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 23 November 2011

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                                  SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.af.mil/e-publishing.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A6OI                                                 Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A6O
                                                                         (Lt Col Kyna R. McCall)
                                                                                         Pages: 8


AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004, is supplemented as follows: This
supplement clarifies commander involvement in the AFSOC Small Computer Software
Licensing Program. It implements enterprise license and personal computer-common operating
environment considerations, Base Software License Manager (BSLM) responsibilities, Unit
Software License Manager (USLM) responsibilities, Client Support Administrator (CSA)
responsibilities, Trusted-User responsibilities, Small Computer user responsibilities, and specific
requirements for placing software on stand alone and networked systems. It applies to Air-
Force-procured COTS software and software developed for unique purposes. Note: This
supplement also applies to Air Force Special Operations Command units assigned to non-
AFSOC bases. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or the Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF Form 847s from the field through HQ
AFSOC/A6NZ, 100 Bartley Street, Suite 137E, Hurlburt Field, FL 32544-5273.
 2                                               AFI33-114_AFSOCSUP 16 OCTOBER 2008


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change reduces the software training requirement on every Air Force user. The Air
Force has reduced its overall manning and needs to minimize some of the requirements of every
Air Force user. Software licensing is covered in the Information Assurance and Information
Protection CBTs, which are required annually. This change also updates the Client Support
Administrators to Client Support Technicians consistent with their career field title. A margin
bar indicates newly revised material.
4.5. (Added) Command Software License Manager (CSLM). Designate a primary and an
alternate Command Software License Manager (CSLM) to develop and manage the command
software license program. The primary Command Software License Manager will:
4.5.1. (Added) Develop the guidelines Base Software License Managers (BSLM) will use to
conduct their base programs.
4.5.2. (Added) Incorporate the software licensing program into command Inspector General
reviews.
4.5.3. (Added) Ensure requirements of Section 1(c) of Executive Order (E.O.) 13103, Computer
Software Piracy, are met, as indicated below:
4.5.3.1. (Added) The E.O. requires government contractors and recipients of Federal grants and
loans to have “appropriate systems and controls in place to ensure that Federal funds are not used
to acquire, operate, or maintain computer software in violation of applicable copyright laws.”
The E.O. further provides that if an agency becomes aware that contractors or recipients are
using federal funds to acquire, operate, or maintain unlicensed software and determines that such
actions may affect the integrity of the agency’s contracting and financial assistance processes,
the agency is required to “take such measures, including the use of certifications or written
assurances, as the agency head deems appropriate and consistent with the requirements of law.”
4.5.3.2. (Added) Each agency must take appropriate measures to ensure government contractors
and recipients of grants and other federal funding comply with applicable copyright laws,
regulations, instructions, directives, E.O.s, and Air Force and Air Force Special Operations
Command (AFSOC) requirements and guidelines.
19. (Added) AFSOC Small Computer Software Licensing Program . Specific responsibilities
under this program are contained in paragraphs 19.1. (Added) through 19.7. (Added) of this
supplement, as follows:
19.1. (Added) Communications Squadron Commander Responsibilities . Each communications
squadron commander will:
19.1.1. (Added) Designate primary and alternate BSLMs to manage the wing and base software
license programs. Commanders of Air Force Special Operations Command units assigned to
non-AFSOC bases will appoint an individual to act as BSLM for that unit and manage the
software license program as if a host BSLM does not already exist. AFSOC Communications
Squadron Commanders that are tenants on a non-AFSOC base may appoint, at their discretion,
an individual to act as BSLM for that unit and manage the software license program as if a host
BSLM does not already exist.
19.1.2. (Added) Forward BSLM appointment memorandums to the CSLM.
AFI33-114_AFSOCSUP 16 OCTOBER 2008                                                            3


19.1.3. (Added) Annually certify in writing to the CSLM an annual software inventory was
accomplished and the provisions of this AFI have been met. Due to the CSLM NLT the
anniversary date of the BSLM’s appointment.
19.1.4. (Added) Will ensure USLMs are provided automated software inventory listing from
System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) for their unit annually and ensure USLMs are
notified within 90 days of their inventory anniversary date.
19.1.5. (Added) Will ensure Client Support Technicians (CSTs) install only host-base enclave
approved software.
19.2. (Added) Unit Commander Responsibilities. Each unit commander will:
19.2.1. (Added) Appoint a primary and alternate USLM to administer the software license
program for the unit. May appoint Trusted Users if needed. Reference paragraph 19.7. below.
19.2.2. (Added) Forward appointment memorandums to the BSLM.
19.2.3. (Added) Ensure outgoing and incoming software license managers conduct a joint
inventory of all licensed software and endorse all inventories.
19.2.4. (Added) Annually certify to the BSLM an annual inventory was accomplished for all
unit computer software. Accomplish certification by signing the annual inventory list or
memorandum and indicate the unit’s annual software license inventory has been accomplished.
Complete this certification each year no later than the day the USLM was officially appointed or
when directed by the BLSM.
19.2.5. (Added) Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective USLM and
the host-base Communications Requirements system (e.g., PWRR, etc) prior to purchase.
19.2.6. (Added) Ensure USLM is notified of all deliveries of new software licenses and copies
of licensing material is provided to the USLM. Ensure the software is added to the unit’s
software inventory.
19.2.7. (Added) Ensure necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
software purchased or developed by the unit.
19.2.8. (Added) Ensure the Air Force enterprise license agreement contracts are used to procure
common-user desktop software on new PC orders.
19.3. (Added) BSLM Responsibilities. Each BSLM will:
19.3.1. (Added) Ensure a host-tenant support agreement directs all base units to participate in
the host-base software license program if they use Air Force command, control,
communications, and computer (C4) systems or are connected to Air Force local area networks.
19.3.2. (Added) Ensure USLM training is provided on a recurring basis and USLMs are
notified once they are within 90 days of their training anniversary date.
19.3.3. (Added) Provide software license training for newly appointed BSLMs, USLMs and
CSAs. Utilize the base Intranet to the maximum extent possible as a tool to educate all users.
This training will include, but should not be limited to:
 4                                               AFI33-114_AFSOCSUP 16 OCTOBER 2008


19.3.3.1. (Added) Ensuring all are familiar with their responsibilities as listed in paragraphs
19.4. (Added) and 19.5. (Added) of this supplement, and paragraph 9 of the basic AFI, which
covers the disposal of excess or superseded Commercial Off-The-Shelf Software (COTS).
19.3.3.2. (Added) Ensuring all USLMs and CSTs are familiar with AFNIC Air Force E/APL for
NIPR software and SOCOM/AFSOC listing for SIPR software.
19.3.3.3. (Added) Ensuring all USLM's complete the US Air Force Software License
Management and Anti-Piracy computer-based training.
19.3.3.4. (Added) DELETED.
19.3.3.5. (Added) Explain the basics of software licenses and The Copyright Act.
19.3.4. (Added) Ensure each unit maintains a software inventory of all government
owned/COTS software in use within their unit.
19.3.5. (Added) Ensure each unit performs an annual inventory of all software, licenses, and
corresponding documentation of unit software. Ensure the unit commander endorses and
forwards a copy to the BSLM.
19.3.6. (Added) Perform periodic compliance visits to base units and AFSOC tenant
organizations. Inspect at least 50 percent of unit accounts annually and inspect each unit at least
once every two years.
19.3.7. (Added) Conduct annual software licensing meetings for USLMs.
19.3.8. (Added) Maintain a current list of all USLMs.
19.3.9. (Added) Ensure automated tools are used to the maximum extent possible for tracking
software installed on the base network.
19.3.10. (Added) Ensure the software is approved via the AFNIC Air Force E/APL for NIPR
software and SOCOM/AFSOC listing for SIPR software. Follow the AFSOC policy on stand-
alone computer systems exempt from CTOs.
19.3.11. (Added) Verify new acquisitions against the EPL. Do not approve acquisitions without
a valid CTO. Functional areas requesting approval to purchase software not on the EPL must
follow the established process to obtain a CTO unless the software is exempt from requiring a
CTO.
19.3.12. (Added) Publish a formal “Base Software Users Guide” that provides implementation
information on how to obtain software and methods to cross check installed copies of software
with licenses held. Reference: AFSOC Software Management Guide/Template furnished by the
CSLM.
19.3.13. (Added) Will provide all required assistance to USLMs to expedite software acquisition
when short notice high priority requirements are received for items not yet approved for use.
19.4. (Added) USLM Responsibilities. Each USLM will:
19.4.1. (Added) Become familiar with license agreements of software used in his or her
organization.
19.4.2. (Added) Coordinate with the BSLM, functional system administrators, Client Support
Administrators, users, and/or purchasers on all software acquisitions.
AFI33-114_AFSOCSUP 16 OCTOBER 2008                                                            5


19.4.3. (Added) If possible, combine software acquisitions.
19.4.4. (Added) Monitor delivery of all new software, update software inventory list, inform the
BSLM in a timely manner, and become familiar with license agreements.
19.4.5. (Added) Store evidence of license agreements or licenses (e.g., user manuals, purchase
documentation, CD-ROMs, etc.) and physical software media in a secure centralized location
(e.g., locked drawer, file cabinet, room, etc.). Contact local FARM or Base Records
Management Office to ensure proper retention and disposition of official records and for
approval of records in the office file system.
19.4.6. (Added) Ensure the legal acquisition and use of all software. All new software
acquisitions will be coordinated through the host-base Communications Requirements system
(e.g., PWRR, CIPS, etc) prior to purchase.
19.4.6.1. (Added) Ensure each COTS application has a license.
19.4.6.2. (Added) Ensure use of software corresponds to the applicable license agreement.
19.4.7. (Added) Identify software without associated licenses, assemble proofs of purchase, and
request replacement licenses from publishers, as needed.
19.4.8. (Added) Act as liaison between Small Computer users and the BSLM.
19.4.9. (Added) Respond to the BSLM as necessary.
19.4.10. (Added) Coordinate training with the BSLM, as needed.
19.4.11. (Added) DELETED.
19.4.11.1.   (Added) Promote user awareness of unauthorized or illegal use of computer
software.
19.4.11.2. (Added) Explain how and to what extent the user may be held liable for unauthorized
or illegal use of computer software.
19.4.11.3. (Added) Train users on procedures for acquiring new software.
19.4.11.4. (Added) Make users aware of the importance of identifying unauthorized or illegal
software on their systems.
19.4.12. (Added) Circulate software licensing information as needed throughout the
organization.
19.4.13. (Added) Support and implement the base software license program.
19.4.14. (Added) Maintains a hard or soft copy of the software license inventory and “Proof of
License Ownership” of all government owned/COTS software in use within their unit. Proof
may consist of hardcopy or softcopy documentation from the supplier such as a manual,
purchase documentation, or distribution media. Inventory must include:
19.4.14.1. (Added) “Purchase Data” (Vendor Name, Purchase Order or Delivery Order Number,
Description, Version, Cost, Quantity Purchased, License ID Number(s), Funding Data, Date
Purchased, Expiration/Renew by Dates).
19.4.14.2. (Added) “Issued to Data” (Organization, POC, Date, Quantity Issued, License
Number(s)).
 6                                               AFI33-114_AFSOCSUP 16 OCTOBER 2008


19.4.14.3. (Added) “Quantity Installed Data” (Item T/M/S, and if “Quantity Installed Data”
different than “Issued to Data”; Organization, POC, Date, Total Issued, and License Number(s)).
The use of an automated tool to track installed copies is acceptable.
19.4.15. (Added) Perform an annual inventory of all software licenses and cross check with
installed software. Complete this certification each year no later than the anniversary date of the
USLM’s official appointment. Ensure the unit commander endorses the report.
19.4.16. (Added) Perform a joint inventory of all software licenses and cross check with
installed software before transferring responsibility to another software license manager. Ensure
the unit commander endorses the report.
19.5. (Added) Client Support Technician (CST) Responsibilities. Each Client Support
Technician (CST) will:
19.5.1. (Added) Verify with USLM the validity of the software license.
19.5.2. (Added) Verify with Wing Information Assurance Office the approval/certificate to
operate on the host-base enclave.
19.5.3. (Added) Monitor computers to ensure Small Computer users do not install or remove
any software application.
19.5.4. (Added) Respond to the USLM as necessary.
19.6. (Added) Small Computer User Responsibilities. Each Small Computer user will:
19.6.1. (Added) Assist USLMs with software inventories on PCs as required.
19.6.2. (Added) Not install or remove any software application without the specific
authorization of the CSA in coordination with the USLM.
19.6.3. (Added) Not make any illegal copies of copyrighted software.
19.6.4. (Added) DELETED.
19.6.5. (Added) Report all unauthorized or illegal software on his or her system to the CSA and
the USLM for resolution.
19.6.6. (Added) DELETED.
19.7. (Added) Trusted User Responsibilities. “Trusted Users” (Computer users with unique
requirements that require administrative privileges).
19.7.1. (Added) Must be appointed in writing by unit commanders.
19.7.2. (Added) Will follow all the software license requirements outlined for CSAs and
USLMs pertaining to their unique system/requirements.




                                             ANTHONY W. FAUGHN, Colonel, USAF
                                             Director, Communications and Information
AFI33-114_AFSOCSUP 16 OCTOBER 2008                                                                   7


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 8510.01, TITLE
Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
(DIACAP)
AFI 33-114, Software Management
CFETP 3A0X1, Information Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
BSLM—Base Software License Manager
CSLM—Command Software License Manager
CSA—Client Support Administrator
COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf Software
CTO—Certificate to Operate
DIACAP—DOD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
EPL—Enterprise Products List
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
PC—Personal Computer
SCB—Systems Flight Commander
USLM—Unit Software License Manager
SMS—Systems Management Server Software
WM—Workgroup Manager

Terms
Accreditation—Formal declaration by the DAA that an information system is approved to
operate in a particular security mode using a prescribed set of safeguards and controls.
Certificate to Operate (CTO)—Issued by the AFSOC CIO or designee as a result of a
favorable assessment that has verified the system is information technology (IT) ready.
Designated Approval Authority (DAA)—An official with the authority to formally assume
responsibility for operating an information system or network within a specified environment.
License Agreement—A contract between the software publisher and the user which instructs
and limits how the software is to be used. When software is purchased, the purchaser acquires a
license to use it, but the publisher retains full rights to the software and can further distribute and
reproduce it. AFSOC’s license agreements generally fall into one of the following categories:
 8                                              AFI33-114_AFSOCSUP 16 OCTOBER 2008


Enterprise License—The DOD and Air Force Enterprise Software Initiatives (ESI) and the
Enterprise software agreements (ESA) entered into by DOD components who manage the
acquisition of commercially available software at the DOD Enterprise level to reduce the cost of
acquiring and maintaining software products. By aggregating requirements and leveraging
DOD’s buying power together with the buying power of related communities of interest, the
DOD is able to achieve the most favorable terms and pricing for COTS software and
maintenance.
Individual License—A license for use on a single machine only.
Network License—A license that allows every member of the network to access the software.
Site License—A license defined by a geographic restriction, such as a building, unit, wing, or
base.
Small Computers—Computer systems from standard PCs running MS windows and connected
to the NIPRNet and SIPRNet systems to stand alones and specialized computer system. Does
not include mainframes or servers.
Trusted-User—Computer users with unique requirements that require administrative privileges.
They manage unique computer operations such as modeling and simulation computer systems,
standalone systems or computers with unique software/operational requirements when the CSA
is unable to provide adequate assistance.
Client Support Administrator—Client Support Administrator (CSA) is a new term for
Workgroup Manager (WM).
