BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2226
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                        AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                        SUPPLEMENT

                                                               KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           SUPPLEMENT
                                                                           22 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                  COMBAT ARMS PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 377 SSPT/S4C                                                     Certified by: 377 SFG/CC
                                                                           (Col Paul K. Barney)
Supersedes:   SFOI 36-2226, 21 Oct 2010                                                 Pages: 6


This publication supplements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2226 AFMCSUP_I, Combat Arms
Program and establishes responsibilities and procedures to be followed during the operation of
Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB) Firing Ranges and KAFB Backup force emergency supply
point. It is applicable to all sections and personnel assigned to the 377th Security Forces Group
(SFG). This publication does apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the Air
National Guard (ANG) when on KAFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional's chain of command. Ensure that all records as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.

2.2.5.9. Transport ammunition in the cargo area of approved government vehicle‟s only. The
government vehicle must have at least two serviceable 31class 2A 10 BC portable fire
extinguishers.
 2                     AFI36-2226_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 22 FEBRUARY 2013


2.2.5.9.1. (Added) An approved AF Form 2047, Explosives Facility License, must be posted
inside the storage facility. Appropriate fire symbol signs will be posted and visible. Storage of
packing material, empty boxes and other similar materials inside the Combat Arms vault must be
disposed of in a timely manner. Storage of flammable liquids inside the Combat Arms vault is
not authorized. Store ammunition in approved containers only. Identify and mark partial
containers with “LITE BOX” markings affixed to the exterior along with the quantity, type, lot
number, caliber, date and packers initials. There will be only one lite container and one box per
weapon caliber. Properly close open containers before storing. Stack ammunition on dunnage
and separate by lot number, type, stock number and caliber.
2.2.5.9.2. (Added) In the event of a mishap, immediately make contact with Law Enforcement
Desk (LED) or Site Security Control Center (SSCC) and relay information concerning the
incident (location, type and area of involvement) and have them contact the fire department ext.
911 or Cell Phone 853-9111. Additionally, contact the Unit Explosive Safety Representative and
the Wing Safety Office.
2.2.5.9.3. (Added) A maximum number of 8 personnel are authorized in the Combat arms
vault.
2.2.5.10. During inclement weather conditions, the Non-Commission Officer in Charge
(NCOIC), Combat Arms or the Security Forces commander has authority to suspend or cancel
firing. As a guide, during winter months, firing may be canceled when the temperature reaches
20 degrees or lower. Rain, snow, ice, hail, wind, severe dust storm, etc., depending on the
severity may be grounds for canceling or suspending firing. If there is notification of lightning
within 5 nautical miles, all firing will be cancelled. As a general rule, any condition, which may
hinder visibility or safety, may be considered grounds for cancelation or suspending firing.
Personnel will be rescheduled for the next available class.
2.2.14.4.1. (Added) Use of the Impact Range will be scheduled through Security Forces
Logistics Combat Arms (377 SFG/S4C) and the Wing Safety Office (377 ABW/SEW) for
incorporation into the Controlled Firing Area Committee (CFAC) schedule.
2.3.2.7.1. (Added) A minimum of 2 personnel (1 tower operator and 1 student ) will be on
sight when using the Impact Range at KAFB. Depending on what the fire condition is for the
area on the day of firing, 2 spotters may be required. A range inspection for smoke/fires will be
performed prior to leaving the Heavy Weapons Range. A minimum of 5 extinguishers should be
on hand when on the Heavy Weapons Range, but more are recommended. Ensure you know
what the fire condition is for the area on the day of firing.
2.3.2.7.2. (Added) In the event of a fire, immediately make contact with LED or SSCC and
relay information concerning the incident (location, type and area of involvement) and have them
contact the fire department ext. 911 or Cell Phone 853-9111. Additionally, contact the Unit
Explosive Safety Representative and the 377 ABW/SEW.
AFI36-2226_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 22 FEBRUARY 2013                                               3


                                       Chapter 7 (Added)

                          COMBAT ARMS VAULT OPERATIONS

7.1. (Added) Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means to prevent and/or
deter the theft of United States government owned weapons and small arms ammunition stored
in the KAFB Combat Arms alarmed storage facility. It outlines specific procedures pertinent to
storage, control, issue and security of Combat Arms weapons and ammunition.
7.2. (Added) Opening Accountability and Inventory of the Combat Arms Vault. Before
entering the Combat Arms Vault, personnel must arm with the M9 guard weapon located in the
class III safe. Accountability and inventory will be completed at the beginning and end of each
day. All weapons, and equipment will be accounted for and signed for by armorer on the AF
Form 1473, Gun Equipment Room Inventory, and ammunition will be accounted for using the
individual ammunition tracking logs. The armorers will print their name and sign in the
appropriate block, titled signature of the armorer. All items listed in either the „Issued‟ or
„Maintenance‟ columns of the log require documents indicating their location and disposition.
All discrepancies will be immediately reported up the chain to the NCOIC. Justification for
discrepancies will be annotated in the „Remarks‟ section. Under no circumstances will arms,
ammunition or equipment be issued without proper documentation.
7.2.1. (Added) Weapons Issue. Weapons issued to personnel for training will be documented
via the AF Form 710, Combat Arms Training Record, prior to the start of the class.
7.2.2. (Added) Equipment Issue. AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, or locally
developed computer tracking log will be utilized to account for all equipment that is issued.
7.2.3. (Added) Seal Inventory. All sealed containers will be checked each shift, by the on-
coming armorer. Seal numbers will be reflected on AF Form 1473. Any discrepancies will be
checked against previous inventory. If discrepancy cannot be resolved, the container must be
opened and inventoried.
7.2.4. (Added) Key Inventory. All keys will be physically counted at the beginning and end of
each day, and documented on the AF IMT 2432, Key Issue Log. When departing the armory for
latrine breaks or official duties, the armorer will maintain the rack key(s) on their person. Spare
keys to the Combat Arms Vault are secured in a sealed container at Confinement. At no time
will the weapon racks or cabinet keys be issued to anyone other than armory personnel or
removed from the armory except by the on-duty. Locks will be secure when weapons racks are
open to prevent theft, loss or substitution of the locks. Weapon racks may be unlocked 30
minutes prior to class start time.
 4                    AFI36-2226_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 22 FEBRUARY 2013


                                      Chapter 8 (Added)

                  BACK-UP AUGMENTATION FORCE PROCEDURES

8.1. (Added) Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures for Combat Arms
personnel during activation of the alternate arming point.
8.2. (Added) If the Combat Arms facility is open, Combat Arms personnel will immediately
man the vault and prepare the area for issue of Backup Augmentation Force (BAF) weapons,
ammunition and equipment. If the facility is not open, the 377 Security Forces Squadron
Armory personnel will be dispatched to open the facility and prepare the area for arming.
8.3. (Added) Prior to issuing weapons to 377 SFG personnel, the issuing official will verify the
individual‟s authority to bear firearms via Master Arming Roster, and Do Not Arm Roster
located on the 377 SFG Share Drive/SharePoint. If an individual has had their authority to bear
firearms suspended, the issuing official will not issue that person a weapon. AF Form 1297 or
locally developed computer log will be utilized to account for all weapons and equipment that is
issued.
AFI36-2226_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 22 FEBRUARY 2013                                            5


                                      Chapter 9 (Added)

                 ALARM SYSTEM AND DURESS TEST PROCEDURES

9.1. (Added) Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures for authorized
personnel to conduct monthly alarm and duress tests on the Combat Arms Vault.
9.2. (Added) Test all duress switches and alarms monthly. At a minimum, 2 personnel will be
present to conduct the test. One instructor will maintain contact with the Law Enforcement
Alarm Monitor as the other instructor conducts the test.
9.3. (Added) Contact the Law Enforcement Alarm Monitor and notify them of the test.
9.4. (Added) Test the vault door by slowly opening the door until the Law Enforcement Alarm
Monitor advises the alarm has sounded. The alarm should activate when the door is opened.
Enter the storage facility, close the door and remain motionless so the alarm can be reset. Then
move to different locations within the vault to test the motion sensors. The Law Enforcement
Alarm Monitor will advise when the alarm sounds. After completion of the motion sensor test,
each duress switch will need to be tested. Verify with the Law Enforcement Alarm Monitor that
each duress switch is working properly.
9.5. (Added) If no discrepancy exists, make an annotation on the AF IMT 2530, Alarm System
Test Record, located in the Combat Arms Vault, annotating time, date and type of alarm test.
9.6. (Added) If the alarm is not working properly, ensure the Law Enforcement Alarm Monitor
contacts Alarm Maintenance immediately. Also, contact the Combat Arms NCOIC as soon as
possible.
9.7. (Added) If Alarm Maintenance conducts any repairs or maintenance to the
Weapons/Ammunition Storage Facility an alarm test must be accomplished as stated above.




                                            JOHN C. KUBINEC, Col, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                    AFI36-2226_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 22 FEBRUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
        GLOSSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2226 AFMCSUP_I, Combat Arms Program, 28 Jan 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2047, Explosives Facility License
AF Form1473, Gun Equipment Room Inventory
AF Form 710, Combat Arms Training Record
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
AF IMT 2432, Key Issue Log
AF IMT 2530, Alarm System Test Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW- Air Base Wing
BAF- Back Up Augmentation Force
CFAC- Controlled Firing Area Committee
KAFB- Kirtland Air Force Base
LED- Law Enforcement Desk
SEW- Wing Safety Weapons
SFG- Security Forces Group
SFOI- Security Forces Office of Investigations
SSCC- Site Security Control Center
SSPT- Security Support
S4C- Security Forces Logistics Combat Arms
