BY ORDER OF THE INSTALLATION                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-815
COMMANDER
                                                                            6TH AIR MOBILITY WING
                                                                                        Supplement
                                                                                          20 JULY 2006
                                                                    Certified Current on 10 October 2012
                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                                ABSENCE AND LEAVE


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 6 MSS/DPCE                                                 Certified by: 6 MSG/CC (Col Moriarty)
Supersedes AFR40-630_MACDILLAFBSUP1,                                                        Pages: 4
           12 February 1990

AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002, is supplemented. This publication establishes
responsibilities and guidance for the MacDill Air Force Base (AFB) Absence and Leave Program. This
supplement applies to all assigned, tenant, and attached units/staff agencies serviced by the Civilian Per-
sonnel Flight at MacDill AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Man-
agement of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this pub-
lication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
Paragraph 1.2.1. designates the Civilian Personnel Officer (CPO) as the overall administrator of the civil-
ian leave program. Paragraph 1.2.2. designates the first level supervisor as the leave approving official.
Paragraph 2.10. provides information regarding leave restoration. Paragraph 2.10.3. reflects that employ-
ees must request restoration within 45 days after the end of the leave year. Paragraph 3.5.3.1. (Added)
provides procedures if a supervisor suspects sick leave abuse. Paragraph 3.10.1. (Added) implements
procedures for requesting leave without pay (LWOP) for an on-the-job injury. Paragraph 4.1.2.2.1.
(Added) implements procedures for documenting the Request for Personnel Action (RPA) when an
employee requests LWOP to accompany spouse on a permanent change of station (PCS). Paragraph
4.5.1. (Added) implements procedures for activated Reservists. Paragraph 7.6.4. (Added) outlines proce-
dures if MacDill AFB must be evacuated due to unforeseeable circumstances. Paragraph 8.9.6. (Added)
clarifies procedures for employees attending luncheon meetings. Paragraph 8.15. (Added) adds guidance
on excused absence for participation in physical fitness activities. Paragraph 9.2. designates the CPO as
2                                                                     AFI36-815_6AMW 20 JULY 2006


the approving official for the Leave Transfer Program. All paragraphs have been renumbered and revised
to coincide with the basic instruction.
1.2.1. The Civilian Personnel Officer is designated to act for the Wing Commander in the overall admin-
istration of the civilian leave program.
1.2.2. The first level supervisor is authorized to approve leave.
2.10. Restoration of Forfeited Annual Leave. The Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) will advise supervi-
sors and employees of the requirements for restoration of annual leave at least once during the leave year.
2.10.3. Restoration requests must be submitted to the CPF within 45 days after the end of the leave year.
3.5.3.1. (Added) When an employee is believed to be abusing sick leave, the supervisor may require a
medical certificate for any period of alleged illness by using the following procedures: Issue a letter to the
employee advising him/her of the reason for requiring a medical certificate. Identify the length of time
that the employee must provide such a certificate for the use of sick leave, i.e., one hour, one day, etc.
Identify the expected duration of restriction or future circumstances that may dictate when the supervisor
may consider lifting the restriction. Supervisor will coordinate the letter with the 6th Mission Support
Squadron, Labor Relations (6 MSS/DPCE). Forward a copy of the signed letter to the CPF.
3.10.1. (Added) When an employee is placed in a leave without pay (LWOP) status as the result of an
on-the-job injury, the supervisor will submit a Request for Personnel Action (RPA) to the CPF. Upon the
employee's return to duty, the supervisor will submit a return to duty RPA terminating LWOP. This is
required to assure that LWOP due to the on-the-job injury is recorded as this is fully creditable time for
within-grade increases, etc.
4.1.2.2.1. (Added) When an employee submits a request for not more that 150 days of LWOP to accom-
pany spouse of military, civilian, or a non-federal employee on a permanent change of station (PCS), the
following statement will be placed in Part D of the RPA:
“I request ____ days of LWOP, effective ___________, to accompany my spouse who has received per-
manent change of station (PCS) orders. I understand that if I am not appointed to the Government’s rolls
during this period, my resignation will become effective the day after the LWOP expires.”
4.5.1. (Added) Employees must notify their supervisor when they receive notification that they will be
activated in the Reserves. The supervisor or employee will then notify the CPF. The employee must pro-
vide a copy of their orders and complete the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) checklist. The supervi-
sor will initiate an RPA placing the employee on Leave Without Pay – Uniformed Services (LWOP-US).
The CPF will process the RPA to HQ AFPC and fax the orders and completed checklist to the Benefits
and Entitlements Service Team. When the Reservist returns to civilian status, the supervisor must initiate
a return to duty (RTD) RPA and forward it to the CPF. The employee then completes the AFPC RTD
checklist to reinstate the employee’s benefits.
7.6.4. (Added) The CPF will notify employees serviced by the MacDill CPF through organizational com-
manders and the appointed civilian liaisons if the base must be evacuated due to inclement weather or
unforeseeable circumstances. If the base is to be closed for a day or more, supervisors are responsible for
contacting affected employees to advise them not to report to work.
8.9.6. (Added) Luncheon meetings for base employees, supervisors, and managers featuring guest speak-
ers sponsored by the CPF, by an activity of the Equal Employment Opportunity Program, or similar offi-
cial base organization, are presented as training activities. Absences to attend those functions will not
AFI36-815_6AMW 20 JULY 2006                                                                                  3


exceed two (2) hours, and can immediately precede or follow the normal lunch hour of the employee con-
cerned. These absences will be considered official duty without charge to leave. Employees must obtain
approval from their immediate supervisor prior to attending these functions. Supervisors will normally
approve such requests based on mission requirements. If attendance cannot be approved, supervisors will
explain to their employee the reason for such denial and what impact such an absence would have upon
the organization.
8.15. (Added) Absences for Participation in Physical Fitness Activities. MacDill AFB has a policy in
place that provides employees the opportunity to participate in officially sanctioned events while in a duty
status. Activities that are specifically physical fitness in nature are limited to three (3) hours per week for
certain employees. Contact 6 MSS/DPCE for the specific procedures for participating in this program.
9.2. Administrative Procedures. The Civilian Personnel Officer is designated as approving official for
the leave transfer program.
4                                                    AFI36-815_6AMW 20 JULY 2006


                                      Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records



                                       MARGARET H. WOODWARD, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
