                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                         HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                  WASHINGTON DC




                                                                     AFI36-2406_AFGM2014-04
                                                                        17 SEPTEMBER 2014


MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
           MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: SAF/MR
      1040 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington, DC 20330-1040

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum (AFGM) to AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted
         Evaluation Systems

1. By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this AFGM immediately changes AFI 36-
2406. Compliance is mandatory and effective upon the publication date of this AFGM. To the
extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein
prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. This AFGM mandates the following actions for immediate implementation:

a.     The commander will ensure complaints of sex-related offenses against the Airman
assigned to their command, regardless of grade, resulting in conviction by court-martial,
non-judicial punishment or punitive administrative action (for purposes of this GM a
punitive administrative action is defined as a Letter of Reprimand) are annotated in the
Airman’s evaluation, specifically, on the enlisted performance report, officer performance
report or permanent training report which will be filed in the Airman’s personnel service
record. This responsibility will ordinarily be conducted by the immediate commander of
the Airmen at the lowest unit level. These responsibilities will not be delegated.

b.    The effective date for the notation is 26 Dec 13. If a complaint of a sex-related
offense, resulting in conviction by court-martial, non-judicial punishment, or punitive
administrative action occurred on or after 26 Dec 13, and the offense was not previously
documented on the Airman’s performance or training report that closed out prior to the
implementation date of this AFGM, the commander must ensure the sex-related offense is
documented in the Airman’s next evaluation.

c.    This policy to annotate sex-related offenses in the evaluation and make it part of the
Airman’s permanent record does not limit or prohibit the Airman from challenging or
appealing such action using the existing appeal process IAW this instruction or through the
Air Force Board of Correction to Military Records.

d.    The commander of a unit will review the personnel record of every Airman,
regardless of grade, assigned and/or transferred into his or her command to ensure
knowledge of and familiarization with the Airman’s history of sex-related offenses in order
to reduce the likelihood that repeat offenses will escape the notice of subsequent and higher
level commanders. This responsibility will be conducted by the immediate commander of
the Airman at the lowest unit level. These responsibilities will not be delegated.


e.     Sex-related offenses include violations of Article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice (rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual contact and abusive sexual contact), Article 125
(forcible sodomy, which is forced oral or anal sex, bestiality), Article 120a (stalking), Article 120b
(rape and sexual assault of a child), Article 120c (other sexual misconduct, which includes indecent
viewing/recording/ broadcasting, forcible pandering, and indecent exposure) or attempts to commit
any of those offenses.

3. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through appropriate functional chain of command. The OPR for this
publication is the Air Force Personnel Center, AFPC/DPSIDE, 550 C Street West Suite 10,
Randolph AFB, TX 78140-4712 (e-mail to afpc.DPPPE@us.af.mil). Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).

4. This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the implementation date or
upon publication of an Interim Change (or rewrite) of the affected publication, whichever is sooner.



                                             DANIEL R. SITTERLY
                                             Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
                                             (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)

Attachment:
Guidance Changes
                                      ATTACHMENT

                          Guidance Memorandum Change #4

The below changes to AFI 36-2406, dated 3 September 2014, are effective immediately.


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS:

(CHANGE) 1.1. Purpose. The Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems have varied purposes.
The first is to provide meaningful feedback to individuals on what is expected of them, advice on
how well they are meeting those expectations, and advice on how to better meet those
expectations. The second is to provide a reliable, long-term, cumulative record of performance
and potential based on that performance. The third is to provide officer Central Selection
Boards (CSB), senior NCO evaluation boards, the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS)
and other personnel managers’ sound information to assist in identifying the best qualified officers
and enlisted personnel as well as other personnel management decisions. The fourth is to
document in the permanent record any complaint of a sex-related offense against an Airman,
regardless of grade, resulting in conviction by courts-martial, non-judicial punishment, or punitive
administrative action. For the purpose of documenting sex-related offenses, a punitive
administrative action is defined as a Letter of Reprimand. Sex-related offenses include violations
of Article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual
contact and abusive sexual contact), Article 125 (forcible sodomy, which is forced oral or anal sex,
and bestiality), Article 120a (stalking), Article 120b (rape and sexual assault of a child), Article
120c (other sexual misconduct, which includes indecent viewing/recording/ broadcasting, forcible
pandering, and indecent exposure) or attempts to commit any of those offenses. NOTE:
Documenting sex-related offenses in the evaluation will not limit or prohibit the capacity of the
Airman to challenge or appeal the placement of a notation or location of placement of a notation in
the Airman’s personnel service record.

*(ADD) 1.6.1. Commander: The commander of a unit must review the record of all personnel,
regardless of grade, assigned to/or transferred into his or her command to ensure knowledge of and
familiarization with the Airman’s history of sex-related offenses resulting in conviction by courts-
martial, non-judicial punishment, or punitive administrative action in order to reduce the likelihood
repeat offenses will escape the notice of current, subsequent, or higher level commanders. This
responsibility will be conducted by the immediate commander of the Airman at the lowest unit
level. Sex-related offenses include violations of Article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice (rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual contact and abusive sexual contact), Article 125
(forcible sodomy, which is forced oral or anal sex, and bestiality), Article 120a (stalking), Article
120b (rape and sexual assault of a child), Article 120c (other sexual misconduct, which includes
indecent viewing/recording/ broadcasting, forcible pandering, and indecent exposure) or attempts
to commit any of those offenses. These responsibilities will not be delegated.

(CHANGE) 1.6.2. General Evaluator/Reviewer Responsibilities. All evaluators and reviewers are
responsible for performing an administrative review of all evaluations and if necessary, return them
for correction/completion before sending them to the next level. As a minimum, this review must
ensure:

(CHANGE) 1.6.2.1. All applicable blocks are completed (marked, dated, and signed).

(CHANGE) 1.6.2.2. Evaluations contain accurate information (particularly in the ratee
identification and job description sections).

(CHANGE) 1.6.2.3. Spelling accuracy and proper bullet structure.

(CHANGE) 1.6.2.4. Evaluations do not contain inappropriate comments or recommendations.

(CHANGE) 1.6.2.5. The information in the evaluation is accurate and not inflated.

(CHANGE) 1.6.2.6. Evaluations are properly referred, when necessary.

(CHANGE) 1.6.2.7. Evaluations are accomplished IAW this AFI.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3. Rater.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.1. Must have a minimum number of days supervision; see the applicable Table
for the type of evaluation be prepared.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.2. Ensures the ratee is aware of who is in his or her rating chain.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.3. Must provide feedback IAW Chapter 2. Official documented feedback does
not preclude a rater from performing day-to-day verbal feedback. Additionally, raters are required
to perform feedback at the time the evaluation is presented to the ratee. This feedback, at the time
the evaluation is presented, may be, but is not required to be officially documented on a PFW. If
geographically separated, feedbacks can be performed electronically or telephonically.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.4. Must consider the contents of any Unfavorable Information File (UIF) and/or
Personal Information File (PIF), if applicable, before preparing the performance evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.5. Assess and documents the ratee’s performance, what the ratee did, how well he
or she did it, and the ratee’s potential based on that performance, throughout the rating period. The
rater differentiates through an evaluation of performance.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.6. Gets meaningful information from the ratee and as many sources as possible
(i.e. LOEs from those who previously supervised the ratee during the reporting period, the First
Sergeant, etc.), especially when the rater cannot observe the ratee personally. The ratee is
encouraged to provide the rater with inputs on specific accomplishments. For Reservists, they
should provide information to the supervisor to assist in the preparation of the evaluation. This may
include end-of-tour evaluations.
(CHANGE) 1.6.3.7. Considers the significance and frequency of incidents (including isolated
instances of poor or outstanding performance) when assessing total performance.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.8. Differentiates between ratees with similar performance records; especially
when making promotion, stratification, assignment, Developmental Education (DE) and retention
recommendations when not prohibited by this AFI or other special program specific guidance.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.9. Although some evaluators may not know any other ratee serving in a
particular grade and Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), they may rate according to their opinions
and impressions of the general level of performance of Air Force personnel in the various grades.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.10. Records the ratee’s performance for the rating period on the applicable form.

(CHANGE) 1.6.3.11. A rater’s failure to perform one or more of the above responsibilities alone
will not form the basis for a successful appeal.

(CHANGE) 1.6.4. Additional Rater.

(CHANGE) 1.6.4.1. There is no minimum number of days supervision required. Exception: See
paragraph 1.7.2.

(CHANGE) 1.6.4.2. Must be aware of the contents of any UIF and/or PIF, if applicable, and
returns evaluation to the rater for reconsideration, if appropriate, to ensure an accurate, unbiased,
and an uninflated evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.4.3. Completes Section V of the OPR or Section VI of the EPR by concurring or
nonconcurring with the rater and making comments.

(CHANGE) 1.6.4.4. Assumes the responsibilities of the rater when paragraph 1.7. applies. Note:
This does not include PCS, PCA, Separation or Retirement of the rater.

(CHANGE) 1.6.4.5. See paragraph 1.7. if the additional rater changes after the close out date of the
evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.5. Reviewer/Senior Rater/Final Evaluator. See paragraph 1.5.2.3.

(CHANGE) 1.6.5.1. There is no minimum number of days supervision required.

(CHANGE) 1.6.5.2. Must be aware of the contents of any Unfavorable Information File (UIF)
and/or Personal Information File (PIF), if applicable, and returns evaluation to the rater for
reconsideration, if appropriate, to ensure an accurate, unbiased, and an uninflated evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.5.3. Obtains additional information, if necessary, from competent sources such as
the ratee’s second and third line supervisor, etc.
(CHANGE) 1.6.5.4. When appropriate, nonconcurs with previous evaluators and makes
comments.

(CHANGE) 1.6.5.5. Approves (SR) unit mission descriptions for the PRF.

(CHANGE) 1.6.5.6. Directs the additional rater to assume rater’s responsibilities when paragraph
1.7. applies.

(CHANGE) 1.6.5.7. Completes performance evaluations as required. See applicable chapters
and/or references cited in paragraph 1.2.1.

(CHANGE) 1.6.6. First Sergeant or Designated SNCO.

(CHANGE) 1.6.6.1. Will not assume rater/additional rater responsibilities. Exception: There is
absolutely no one else available.

(CHANGE) 1.6.6.2. Will be aware of the contents of the UIF and/or PIF if applicable, on all
enlisted evaluations and returns the evaluation to the rater for reconsideration, if appropriate, to
ensure an accurate, unbiased, and an uninflated evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.6.3. Will review all enlisted evaluations before the commander’s review and
advise the commander of any quality force indicators. Not applicable for ANG.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7. Unit Commander, Civilian Director or Other Senior Official Designated in
Writing.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.1. Conducts the commander’s review on EPRs (see Table 3.2.).

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.2. Must be aware of the contents of any Unfavorable Information File (UIF)
and/or Personal Information File (PIF), if applicable, and returns the evaluation to the rater for
reconsideration, if appropriate, to ensure an accurate, unbiased, and an uninflated evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.3. The review will be conducted only by the administrative commander/civilian
directors/other authorized reviewers. Example: Civilians who lead units in a squadron commander
position, commanders/squadron section commanders, or in their absence, an officer so designated
on G-series orders having administrative jurisdiction(i.e., control roster action, Article 15
jurisdiction, etc.) of the ratee’s assigned organization. See Attachment 1 for definitions.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.4. Flight commanders do not qualify. See paragraph 1.7.1.2.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.5. Commandants for SNCOA/NCOA designated in writing by the commander
may perform the commander’s review on EPRs.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.6. Manages the performance evaluation program for the organization.
(CHANGE) 1.6.7.7. Ensures all evaluations accurately describe performance and make realistic
recommendations for advancement.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.8. Prepares and maintains the unit mission description for the PRF.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.9. Determines the rating chain for assigned personnel based on Air Force and
ML policy.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.9.1. The ratee’s parent ML must approve rating chains that involve evaluators
from other MLs.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.9.2. The following applies to flight commander and flight chief rating chains and
applies to both the operational and functional communities. When an officer heads a flight, the
position is flight commander and is rated by the squadron commander. When an enlisted person or
civilian heads a flight, the position is a flight chief.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.9.3. NAFs: Support functions (i.e., protocol, comptroller, public affairs, and
historian) and Director of Staff positions not be placed in NAFs. Support functions will be obtained
from the host wing (i.e., authorizations are within the host wing with assigned personnel working
for the wing as well as supporting the NAF) and that Director of Staff positions are limited to
MAJCOM Headquarters. The rating chain/Senior Rater for the individuals filling these support
billets originates and resides in the wings, not the NAF.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.9.4. For rating chain deviations see paragraph 1.7.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.10. Ensures first-time supervisors receive specific, mandatory training within 60
days of being assigned supervisory duties and ensures all unit members receive general OES/EES
training on a recurring basis. To assist commanders in fulfilling this responsibility, the OES/EES
Training Guides were developed and are available on the Evaluations Web site through the HQ
AFPC Web Page.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.11. Ensures that no member is in the rating chain of his or her spouse or other
relative.

(CHANGE) 1.6.7.12. Ensures the first sergeant (or designated senior NCO) conducts a quality
force review on all EPRs before conducting the commander’s review.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8. Functional Examiner, Acquisition Examiner and Air Force Advisor.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.1. Functional/Acquisition Examiner/Air Force Advisor Block

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.1.1. For evaluations that do not include an examiner/advisor block, an AF Form
77 will be completed.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.1.2. Functional/Acquisition Examiners or Air Force Advisors who desire to
make comments may attach an AF Form 77.
(CHANGE) 1.6.8.1.3. Comments are not mandatory. However if used, the intent of these
comments are to provide clarification and ensure the evaluation is written in accordance with Air
Force policy and standards in a joint environment or to clarify functional or acquisition-related
considerations; not to list additional accomplishments or voice disagreement with an evaluator’s
assessment. Comments are limited to five lines.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.1.4. Functional/Acquisition Examiners or Air Force Advisors will not change
any statement or rating on the performance evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.1.5. The AF Form 77 will be prepared and electronically forwarded along with
the electronic evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.1.6. If the Functional/Acquisition Examiner and the Air Force Advisor are both
the same person, both positions will be indicated; both the Functional Examiner and Air Force
Advisor blocks will be marked on the OPR/EPR. For evaluations that do not include the
Examiner/Advisor block, i.e. TRs, the Examiner/Advisor will indicate both positions on the AF
Form 77.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.1.7. When the Examiner and Advisor are two different people on an OPR/EPR,
the person who receives the evaluation first will complete the Functional Examiner/Air Force
Advisor block on the OPR/EPR and the next person will complete an AF Form 77. For evaluations
that do not include the Examiner/Advisor block, (i.e. TRs), an AF Form 77 will be prepared for
each.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2. Air Force Advisor Program.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.1. When the final evaluator on an OPR, EPR or TR is not an Air Force military
member or civilian employee, an Air Force Advisor will be designated to advise raters on matters
pertaining to Air Force performance evaluations. Exception: When the ratee is a Non-EAD ANG
officer.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.1.1. Normally, a senior Air Force military member on duty with the activity or
agency assumes this position. However, the Management Level (ML) may designate any Air Force
member or DAF official meeting the grade requirement with the activity or agency to serve as
advisor.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.1.1.1. For officers, the advisor will be serving in the grade of colonel or above.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.1.1.2. For senior NCOs, the advisor will be serving in the grade of major or
above.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.1.1.3. For TSgts and below, the advisor will be serving in the grade of MSgt or
above.
(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.1.1.4. For IMAs and participating IRR members, the advisor is the person
appointed by the ML for the active force.
(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.1.2. Where an agency (i.e., DoD departments, non-Air Force schools or units,
etc.) has only one Air Force member assigned, the ML for that activity appoints an advisor.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.1.3. If the commander or other senior official designated in writing by the
commander who completes the "commander's review" on an EPR is senior to the last evaluator on
the evaluation, (or is also the designated advisor for the unit), and is an Air Force officer or DAF
official who meets the grade requirement in paragraph 1.6.6.3 the commander doesn't need to
complete an advisor statement.
(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.2. The advisor will sign after the final evaluator regardless of rank.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.3. An Air Force Advisor will have, or be able to obtain, knowledge of the
ratee, be higher in grade than the ratee, and, when feasible, be equal to or higher in grade than the
senior rater (officers) or final evaluator (enlisted). Additionally, an O-6 cannot sign on another
O-6.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.2.4. If the last evaluator, the Air Force Advisor sends the performance evaluation
to the rater to finalize the evaluation.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.3. Functional Examiner. Designated to ensure functional oversight is provided
for individuals in specific career fields. The Examiner accomplishes the examination after the
entire rating chain has completed the performance evaluation. If an Air Force Advisor review is
also required, the examiner forwards the evaluation to the advisor. Otherwise, the examiner
forwards the evaluation to the rater to finalize the evaluation. (Note: The examiner will not change
any statement or rating on an evaluation nor will any comments be used for accolades,
recommendations, etc. If comments are used the examiner is limited to five lines placed on AF
Form 77).

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.4. Acquisition Examiner.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.4.1. In accordance with Title 10 U.S.C. Section 1722 (g), an opportunity is
provided for review and inclusion of comments on any performance evaluation of a person serving
in an acquisition position by a person serving in an acquisition position in the same acquisition
career field. In most instances, this opportunity is inherent in the completion of the performance
evaluation by acquisition officers in the rating chain. However, in the event neither the rater,
additional rater, nor reviewer are on acquisition-coded positions in the same acquisition position
category, the ratee may request that the performance evaluation be examined by a qualified
acquisition officer from outside the rating chain (i.e., an Acquisition Examiner).

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.4.2. Review by an Acquisition Examiner is completed only when the ratee
requests a review, and is filling an acquisition-coded position and neither the rater, additional rater
nor reviewer are on a coded position in the same acquisition position category.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.4.3. Acquisition positions are identified on the unit manpower document and are
also identified on the evaluation notice generated when an evaluation is required.
1.6.7.4.4. The Acquisition Examiner must be a person in an acquisition-coded position within the
same acquisition position category as the ratee. If the ML does not have anyone who meets the
criteria herein, the ML can forward the evaluation to the Air Staff functional or SAF/AQX to
identify an acquisition examiner. The minimum grade of the examiner will be:

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.4.4.1. O-6 or civilian equivalent on a Critical Acquisition Position (for officers).

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.4.4.2. O-4 or civilian equivalent (for enlisted).

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.4.5. The Acquisition Examiner accomplishes the acquisition examination after
the entire rating chain has completed the performance evaluation and reflects the examination in
Section VII of the AF Form 707 and AF Form 910, and in Section X of the AF Form 911.

(CHANGE) 1.6.8.4.6. Comments are not mandatory, but if desired for clarification about
acquisition-related considerations, the examiner prepares an AF Form 77 according to Table 4.1.
for attachment to the performance evaluation. The examiner will not change any statement or rating
on the evaluation, nor will an AF Form 77 be used simply to include additional comments,
accolades, recommendations, etc. If used, comments are limited to five lines.

(CHANGE) 1.6.9. Ratee.

(CHANGE) 1.6.9.1. The ratee is equally responsible for ensuring they know their rating chain and
that they receive feedback IAW Chapter 2.

(CHANGE) 1.6.9.2. For OPR/EPR responsibilities see Chapter 3.

(CHANGE) 1.6.9.3. For PRF responsibilities see Chapter 8.

(CHANGE) 1.6.9.4. For appeals see Chapter 10.

(CHANGE) 1.6.9.5. Ratee Review. Some evaluations require the evaluation to be reviewed by the
ratee prior to becoming a matter of record. This is the time to review for typos, spelling and
inaccurate data and bring it to the attention of the rater. However, if the data is administratively
accurate and it is just a matter where the ratee disagrees with the content, the rater is not required to
change their assessment. When the ratee signs the evaluation, he or she is not concurring with the
content, rather they are acknowledging that the rater has performed a feedback session in
conjunction with presenting them with the evaluation and they have reviewed the evaluation for
administrative errors. If the ratee disagrees with the content (comments and/or ratings) they may
file an appeal IAW Chapter 10, after the evaluation becomes a matter of record. Note: A PFW is
not required at this time; the OPR/EPR is the official documentation of the feedback.

(CHANGE) 1.6.10. Base Level Military Personnel Section.

(CHANGE) 1.6.10.1. The MPS will administer the base Officer/Enlisted Evaluations System
(OES/EES) for units and Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) under their control. This includes
reviewing all evaluations for administrative accuracy and policy compliance prior to forwarding
the evaluation to AFPC/ARPC. Exception: USAFR/ANG MPSs process evaluations IAW PSD
Handbook.

(CHANGE) 1.6.10.2. Send performance evaluation notices to the rater and, when applicable, attach
any Letters of Evaluation (LOEs) for the reporting period to the notices.

(CHANGE) 1.6.10.3. Provide technical assistance to the commander and evaluators.

(CHANGE) 1.6.10.4. When applicable, update data into the appropriate system according to the
PSD handbook.

(CHANGE) 1.6.10.5. When applicable, evaluations will be routed within the unit and MPS through
final processing and then forwarded to AFPC or ARPC as appropriate, via the CMS evaluation
application or the vPC-GR for digitally signed evaluations. Wet signature evaluations headed to
AFPC will be hand carried or mailed. Wet signature evaluations headed to ARPC will be scanned
via vPC-GR or CMS with certified true statement.

(CHANGE) 1.6.10.6. When applicable, ensure all hard copy evaluations (previous edition and
current edition) are updated in the appropriate system and distributed in accordance with Table
3.5., Table 3.6., and Table 3.9.
(CHANGE) 1.6.11. Major Commands (MAJCOM). Unless specifically stated elsewhere in this
AFI the MAJCOM has limited responsibilities.

(CHANGE) 1.6.12. The Management Level (ML) and their servicing personnel activity.

(CHANGE) 1.6.12.1. Designate senior rater positions and determine civilian equivalency for senior
rater designations. Note: If CV is assuming CC responsibilities and the ML wants them to have
senior rater responsibilities, the ML must appoint the CV senior rater responsibilities.

(CHANGE) 1.6.12.2. Manage the performance evaluation program for their activity, and at their
option, quality review OPRs and return them for correction, when necessary.

(CHANGE) 1.6.12.3. Print copies of digitally signed evaluations from the Automated Records
Management System (ARMS). Exception: See Table 3.5., Table 3.6., and Table 3.9.

(CHANGE) 1.6.12.4. Approve evaluators to be from a different ML than that of the ratee IAW ML
policy.
(CHANGE) 1.6.12.5. Appoint Air Force Advisors in writing and ensure these individuals are
current on evaluation policies and procedures.

(CHANGE) 1.6.12.6. Appoint Acquisition Examiners and establish OPR routing procedures when
the examination cannot be accomplished within the existing rating chain.

(CHANGE) 1.6.13. United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and
Services (USAF/A1). Establishes and approves policy regarding the Air Force Officer/Enlisted
Evaluations System (OES/EES).
(CHANGE) 1.6.14. Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center Evaluation Programs Section (HQ
AFPC/DPSIDEP).

(CHANGE) 1.6.14.1. Manages the Air Force Officer/Enlisted Evaluations System (OES/EES)
program Air Force-wide.

(CHANGE) 1.6.14.2. Receives all active duty digitally signed evaluations via CMS, and wet
signed evaluations via mail.

(CHANGE) 1.6.14.3. Reviews all referral evaluations on officers (lieutenant through lieutenant
colonel), SNCOs and a random selection of all other evaluations for compliance with policy
directives and this instruction. When necessary, returns them for correction.

(CHANGE) 1.6.14.4. Forwards all RegAF evaluations to ARMS.

(CHANGE) 1.6.14.5. File the OPR in the HQ USAF OSR and file the EPR (MSgts through
SMSgts) in the NSR. Colonels/CMSgt evaluations will be filed with AF/DPO and DPE.

(CHANGE) 1.6.15. Headquarters Air Force Reserve Personnel Center (HQ ARPC).

(CHANGE) 1.6.15.1. Manages the performance evaluation program for Active Guard/Reserve
(AGR), LEAD members, Non-EAD officers, and enlisted members Air Force-wide. NGB/A1P will
provide guidance on the performance evaluation program for enlisted personnel.

(CHANGE) 1.6.15.2. Receives all evaluations for Active Guard/Reserve (AGR), LEAD members,
Non-EAD officers/enlisted members.

(CHANGE) 1.6.15.3. Reviews all referral evaluations on officers (lieutenant through colonel),
SNCOs and a random selection for AGR, LEAD members, non-EAD officers/enlisted members
and return them for correction, if necessary.

(CHANGE) 1.6.15.4. Updates all evaluations into MILPDS.

(CHANGE) 1.6.15.5. Forwards evaluations to ARMS at ARPC.

(CHANGE) 1.6.15.6. Files evaluation in the OSR at HQ ARPC.

(CHANGE) 1.6.16. Joint Forces Headquarters Human Resources Office (HQ/HRO). Joint Forces
Headquarters, Human Resource Office, in coordination with each assigned wing, will be
responsible for effectively managing the performance evaluation program for applicable AGR
enlisted personnel.

1.8. Evaluator Accountability
*(ADD) 1.8.1. Complaints of sex-related offenses against a member, regardless of grade, resulting
in conviction by courts-martial, non-judicial punishment, or punitive administrative action require a
mandatory notation on the member’s next EPR, OPR, or TR. Sex-related offenses include
violations of Article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (rape, sexual assault, aggravated
sexual contact and abusive sexual contact), Article 125 (forcible sodomy, which is forced oral or
anal sex, and bestiality), Article 120a (stalking), Article 120b (rape and sexual assault of a child),
Article 120c (other sexual misconduct, which includes indecent viewing/recording/ broadcasting,
forcible pandering, and indecent exposure) or attempts to commit any of those offenses. The
effective date of the requirement for notation is 26 Dec 13.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2. Adverse Information. If a member has been convicted by a court-martial,
comments relating to the ratee’s behavior are mandatory on the ratee’s next OPR, EPR or TR and
the evaluation becomes a referral. However, comments on individuals who have been found guilty,
pled guilty or nolo contendere (no contest), of a reportable civilian offense as described
below are strongly encouraged.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.1. Self-reporting of Civilian Offenses. To assist supervisors in preparing
evaluations, all Airmen above the pay grade of E-6 are required to report information about civilian
offenses to their supervisors (Ref: National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year
2006, Public Law 109-163, §554, 119 Statue 3136, 3264-65). For guidance on interpreting this
paragraph and sub-paragraphs, supervisors and commanders should consult the servicing staff
judge advocate.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.1.1. All commissioned officers, and enlisted members above the pay grade of E-
6 (E-7 and above), who are on active duty or in an active status in a Reserve Component, shall
report in writing any conviction of such member for a violation of a criminal law of the United
States—whether or not the member is on active duty or in an active status at the time of the
conduct that provides the basis for the conviction— to the member’s first-line military supervisor
or summary court-martial convening authority, or in the case of a member of the individual ready
reserve, standby reserve, or ANG to the Air Reserve Personnel Center or Air National Guard
Bureau, whichever is applicable, in accordance with the requirements below.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.1.2. For purposes of this policy, the term “conviction” includes a plea or
finding of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere (no contest), and all other actions tantamount to a
finding of guilty, including adjudication withheld, deferred prosecution, entry into adult or
juvenile pretrial intervention programs, and any similar disposition of charges.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.1.3. For purposes of this policy, a criminal law of the United States includes any
military or other Federal criminal law; any State, district, commonwealth, or territorial or
equivalent criminal law or ordinance; and any criminal law or ordinance of any county, parish,
municipality, or local subdivision of any such authority, other than motor vehicle violations that do
not involve a court appearance.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.1.4. Active duty members shall submit reports under this policy within 15 days
of the date the conviction is announced, even if sentence has not been imposed or the member
intends to appeal the conviction. Reserve Component members not on active duty but in an active
status shall submit reports under this policy at the first drill period after the date the conviction is
announced, or within 30 days of the date the conviction is announced, whichever is earlier, even if
sentence has not been imposed or the member intends to appeal the conviction. All members who
must submit evidence of their conviction, must maintain evidence of compliance with this
requirement.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.1.5. In the event a commander or military law-enforcement official receives
information that a covered member of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of another military
department has become subject to a conviction for which a report is required by this section, the
commander or military law-enforcement official receiving such information shall forward it to
the member’s immediate commander. If the member’s immediate commander cannot be readily
identified, the commander or military law-enforcement official receiving the information shall
forward it to the office designated by the member’s military department identified as required
below.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.1.6. Each Service shall institute procedures to ensure that the members covered
by the law comply with its requirements and the policy set forth in this memorandum. These
procedures shall include points of contact for other military departments to comply with the
notification requirements above. Each Service shall also establish points of contact to which
Reserve Component members in the individual ready reserve or standby reserve who may not
know the identity or address of their first line military supervisor or summary court-martial
convening authority may provide information of a conviction covered under this policy.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.2. For PRFs, if a member has been convicted by a court-martial, comments
relating to the ratee’s behavior are mandatory on the ratee’s next PRF. However, comments on
individuals who have been found guilty, pled guilty or nolo contendere (no contest), of a reportable
civilian offense as described above are strongly encouraged.

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3. When making the decision to record adverse information in evaluations,
evaluators must consider the following:

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3.1. Impact of the misconduct on the Air Force mission (Did the mission suffer
in any way? Was unit morale affected?).

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3.2. Impact of the misconduct on the Air Force as an institution (Did it bring
discredit on the Air Force?).

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3.3. Impact of the misconduct on, and its relationship to the ratee’s duties (Did it
affect the member’s ability to fulfill his or her duties?).

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3.4. Grade, assignment and experience of the ratee (Is the ratee in a “sensitive”
job? Did the ratee “know better”?).

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3.5. Number of separate violations and frequency of the misconduct (Is this an
isolated or repeated incident?).

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3.6. Consequences of the misconduct (Did it result in death, injury, or loss
of/damage to military or civilian property?).
(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3.7. Other dissimilar acts of misconduct during the reporting period (Is the ratee
establishing a pattern of misconduct?).

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.3.8. Existence of unique, unusual or extenuating circumstances (Was the
misconduct willful and unprovoked, or were there aggravating factors or events?).

(CHANGE) 1.8.2.4. In all cases, when comments are included in performance evaluations, they
must be specific, outlining the event and any corrective action taken. Comments such as “conduct
unbecoming…” or “an error in judgment led to an off-duty incident…” are too vague. Examples
of valid comments are “MSgt Smith drove while intoxicated, for which he received an Article 15”
and “Capt Jones made improper sexually suggestive and harassing comments to a squadron
member, for which he received a letter of reprimand.”

*(CHANGE) 1.8.3. Organizational Climate: Organizational climate is defined as the way in
which members in a unit perceive and characterize their unit environment. All Airmen are
responsible for creating an organizational climate in which every member is treated with dignity
and respect, and one that does not tolerate unlawful discrimination, sexual harassment, or sexual
assault in any form. NCOs and officers are not only responsible for creating this environment but
are also accountable for it. NCOs and officers can build a healthy organizational climate by:
communicating clear direction at all levels of supervision; adhering to and enforcing standards; not
tolerating and, when necessary, appropriately responding to any form of sexual harassment, sexual
assault, hazing, unlawful discrimination, or any other conduct harmful to the good order and
discipline of the unit; being accountable for their actions; and cultivating an environment where
teamwork, unity and cohesiveness are the standard practice.

*(CHANGE) 1.8.3.1. All NCO and officer evaluators will assess their ratee(s) on what the
member did to ensure a healthy organizational climate.

*(CHANGE) 1.8.3.2. Commanders at every level have an even greater responsibility to create a
healthy climate in their command. Additionally, they are responsible for ensuring adherence to
Sexual Assault Prevention (SAPR) Program directives. Command climate, just like organizational
climate, is the perception of a unit’s environment by its members.
Commanders are ultimately responsible for the good order and discipline in their unit and have
unique responsibility and authority to ensure good order and discipline. Therefore, evaluators must
take this special responsibility and authority into consideration when
evaluating a commander’s effectiveness in ensuring a healthy command climate.

(CHANGE) 1.8.4. Equal Opportunity and Treatment (EOT). The expectation is fair and equal
treatment of all and enforcement of the same behavior in subordinates. Evaluators must consider a
member’s commitment to EOT when evaluating performance and making a promotion
recommendation. The goal is to ensure fair, accurate, and unbiased evaluations to help ensure the
best qualified members are identified for positions of higher responsibility. Evaluations must
reflect serious or repeated occurrences of discrimination, to include sexual harassment, as
prescribed in AFI 36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) Program. Evaluators must also
consider commenting on a ratee’s membership in groups that espouse supremacist causes or
advocate unlawful discrimination, as prescribed in AFI 51-903, Dissident and Protest Activities.

(CHANGE) 1.8.5. Fitness Testing and Education and Intervention Programs. All personnel must
meet established standards IAW AFI 36-2905. Failure to meet fitness requirements or minimum
fitness scores will result in a referral evaluation, unless exempt from fitness, see paragraph
1.4.10.3. Additionally, failure to progress satisfactorily in the Education and Intervention
Programs reflects poorly on the Air Force and the Airman. Unsatisfactory progress in the FIT
program should be considered and should be documented on any evaluation by providing
specific comments on the behavior that led to the unsatisfactory progress and/or failure, with
compatible ratings on OPRs/EPRs.

(CHANGE) 1.8.6. Management Control. All personnel must manage resources and ensure
funds, property, and other government assets are protected against waste, loss, unauthorized use, or
misappropriation. Comments about failures in inherent or assigned internal control responsibilities,
or noteworthy accomplishments in improving internal controls, are mandatory. AFI 65-201,
Manager’s Internal Control Program Procedures, provides specifics of the Management Control
Program.

(CHANGE) 1.8.7. Productivity. While related to internal management control, productivity gains
are often a result of improved efficiency rather than establishing or administering policies.
Productivity gains can have measurable monetary or manpower savings and are of significance to
the Air Force and Air Reserve components. Give consideration to the ratee's achievements in
implementing Defense Management Report principles and recommendations, taking into
account the ratee's opportunity, or lack of opportunity, for such achievements. Many suggestions
approved under AFI 38-401, The Air Force Innovative Development Through Employee
Awareness (IDEA) Program fall in this category.

(CHANGE) 1.8.8. Occupational Safety and Health. Consider how commanders, managers, and
supervisors discharge their responsibilities under AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program.

(CHANGE) 1.8.9. Security of Classified Information. Consider how well ratees who handle or
have access to classified information discharge security responsibilities. When appropriate,
comment on any action, behavior, or condition that is reportable under security regulations.

(CHANGE) 1.8.10. Awarding Contracts to Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, Historically
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Minority Institutions (Section 806, Public Law 100-
180). If you rate an officer who holds a warrant as a contracting officer and who has the
opportunity to increase the award of contracts to small disadvantaged business concerns, HBCUs,
and minority institutions, you must consider the ratee's ability to increase awards.

(CHANGE) 1.8.11. General Accounting Office (GAO), Office of the Inspector General, and Air
Force Audit Agency (AFAA) Audit Resolution. Prompt, responsive and constructive action by
managers is an integral part of good management. When applicable, comment on the degree of
effectiveness in resolving disputed audit findings and recommendations.
(CHANGE) 1.8.12. Acquisition and Management of Inventory Items (Section 323, Public Law
101-510). For people assigned to Inventory Control Points, consider their efforts to eliminate
wasteful practices and achieve cost savings as prescribed in the DoD Inventory Reduction Plan.

(CHANGE) 1.8.13. General and Specific NCO Responsibilities. Consider the ratee’s compliance
with mandatory requirements prescribed in AFI 36-2618, The Enlisted Force Structure

1.11 Mandatory Comments
(ADD) 1.11.9. Complaints of sex-related offenses against a member, regardless of grade, resulting
in conviction by courts-martial, non-judicial punishment, or punitive administrative action require a
mandatory notation on the member’s next EPR, OPR, or TR. Sex-related offenses include
violations of Article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (rape, sexual assault, aggravated
sexual contact and abusive sexual contact), Article 125 (forcible sodomy, which is forced oral or
anal sex, and bestiality), Article 120a (stalking), Article 120b (rape and sexual assault of a child),
Article 120c (other sexual misconduct, which includes indecent viewing/recording/ broadcasting,
forcible pandering, and indecent exposure) or attempts to commit any of those offenses. The
effective date of the requirement for notation is 26 Dec 13.

(CHANGE) 1.11.10. If performance feedback was not accomplished, state the reason why it was
not accomplished. Rationale must be placed in the Performance Feedback Certification block, and
it must be honest, plausible and specific, such as “Midterm feedback not conducted due to only 58
days supervision between initial feedback and the evaluation close-out date,” or “Rater did not
conduct feedback.” Non-receipt of a feedback notice, and “administrative oversight,” etc., are not
acceptable reasons.

(CHANGE) 1.11.11. See paragraph 1.10.5.3.2 for the mandatory comments required on referral
evaluations.

(CHANGE) 1.11.12. See paragraph 1.8.1 for comments on adverse actions.

(CHANGE) 1.11.13. See paragraph 1.9 for comments required for disagreements


*(Replace) Table 1.1. Mailing Addresses for Correspondence.

       A                                             B
 R
 U     Address                                       OPR Responsibility
 L
 E


 1     HQ AFPC/DPSIDE                                Evaluation Programs Section. Manages the
       550 C Street West, Suite 7                    OES/EES for all active duty (AD) Airman
       Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709                    Basics through Lieutenant Colonels following
                                                     policy provided by HQ USAF/A1PPP.
2   HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB                          Manages the student Management Level
    550 C Street West, Suite 7               Review (MLR) and all PRF actions.
    Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709
3   HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP                          Evaluation Policy & Appeals. Provides AF
    550 C Street West, Suite 7               OES/EES policy and guidance with
    Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709               coordination with HQ USAF/A1PPP.
                                             Administers the Evaluation Report Appeals
                                             Board (ERAB). Note: All ―wet signatureǁ
                                             evaluations on AD Officer (Lieutenant Colonel
                                             and below), and SMSgts and MSgts are sent to
                                             this office, see Note 1.
4   AF/DPG                                   Air Force General Matters Office. Manages
    1040 Air Force Pentagon, Room 5C238      OES for, and maintains all evaluations on, GOs
    Washington DC 20330-1040                 and Brigadier General selects on EAD.
                                             Note: All ―wet signatureǁ evaluations on AD
                                             GOs are sent to this address, see Note 1.
5   HQ USAF/REG                              Air Force Reserve General Officer Matters
    1150 Air Force Pentagon                  Office. Manages OES for Reserve GOs (and
    Washington DC 20330-1150                 Brigadier General selects).
                                             Note: All ―wet signatureǁ evaluations on
                                             Reserve GOs are sent to this office, see Note 1.
6   AF/DPO                                 Air Force Colonel Matters Office. Manages
    1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC OES for, and maintains all evaluations on,
    20330-1040                             Colonels (except Brigadier General selects) and
                                           Colonel selects on the active duty list (ADL).
                                           Note: All ―wet signatureǁ evaluations on AD
                                           Colonels are sent to this address, see Note 1.
7   AF/DPE                                 Air Force Chief Matters Office. Maintains all
    1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC evaluations on AD CMSgts and CMSgt selects.
    20330-1040                             Note: All ―wet signatureǁ evaluations AD
                                           CMSgts are sent to this address, see Note 1.
8   HQ ARPC                                Records and Board Support Division. Manages
    18420 E. Silver Creek Avenue Bldg 390  the OES for ResAF officers not on the active
    MS 68                                  duty list and the EES for ResAF enlisted
    Buckley AFB CO 80011                   personnel following policy provided by HQ
                                           USAF/RE and NGB. Note: All ―wet
                                           signatureǁ evaluations on Reserve personnel are
                                           sent to this office, except general officers.

9   HQ AFPC/DPSIR                            (Active Duty ARMS) Maintains the Automated
    550 C Street West, Suite 21              Records Management System on all AD
    Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709               personnel. Note: All ―wet signatureǁ
                                             evaluations on AD TSgt‘s and below are sent to
                                             this office, see Note 1.
10   HQ ARPC                                   (Reserve/Guard ARMS) Maintains the
     18420 E. Silver Creek Avenue Bldg 390     Automated Records Management System on all
     MS 68                                     Reserve/Guard personnel.
     Buckley AFB CO 80011
11   HQ USAF/RE                                Provides USAFR OES/EES policy.
     1150 Air Force Pentagon
     Washington DC 20330-1150
12   HQ AFPC/DPAM                              Medical Service Officer Management. Provides
     550 C Street West Suite 25                advice on reporting policy for officers within
     Randolph AFB TX 78150-4727                the health professions, in conjunction with HQ
                                               USAF/SG1, Medical Force Development
                                               Directorate, Office of the Surgeon General, HQ
                                               USAF/SG.
13   AFRC/A1                                   Responsible for effective management and
     155 Richard Bay Blvd                      operation of all AFRC Manpower, Personnel
     Robins AFB GA 31098-5000                  and Services programs, plans, policies and
                                               procedures. Note: A1 is approval authority for
                                               evaluation close-out date extensions for all
                                               Reserve members.


14   AFRC/A1KP                                 Promotions, Retention and Customer Service
     155 Richard Bay Blvd                      Branch. Provides AF OES/EES policy and
     Robins AFB GA 31098-5000                  guidance following policy provided by HQ
                                               USAF/A1PPP or USAF/RE. A1KP also
                                               processes close-out date extensions to A1 for
                                               approval/ disapproval for Lt Cols and below.

15   AFRC/A1L                                  Senior Leader (Colonel) Management Division
     155 Richard Bay Blvd                      for AFRC.
     Robins AFB GA 31098-5000
16   NGB-GO
     1411 Jefferson Davis Highway
     Suite 12600
     Arlington VA 22202-3231

17   NGB/A1P                                   Manages the OES for ANG officers, including
     1411 Jefferson Davis Highway              ANGUS general Officers not on EAD.
     Arlington VA 22202-3231
18   AFDW/DPJ
     20 MacDill Blvd, Suite 400
     Bolling AFB DC 20332-5100
19   HQ USAF/JAX                               The Judge Advocate General Corps
     1420 Air Force Pentagon, Suite 5B269      Professional Development Directorate. Provides
     Washington DC 20330-1420                  advice on reporting policy for judge advocates.

Notes:
1. All digitally signed evaluations must be pushed through the Case Management System (CMS).
*(Replace) 1.5.2.1.1.2.3. Only non-active duty ARC members in the grade of SSgt (E-5)
or above may serve as raters.

*(Replace) 1.5.2.1.2.2.2. For MSgt – CMSgt. A civilian rater must be at least a GS-11 or Pay Band
2 of Pay Schedule YC, YF, YJ, YN, YA, YD, YH, YG, YK or equivalent or Pay Band 3 of Pay
Schedule YB, YE, YI, YL or equivalent.

*(Replace) 1.5.2.2.4.1.2. Under the General Schedule (GS) system additional raters must be at least
a GS-11 or equivalent for company grade officers and GS-12 or equivalent for field grade officers.

*(Replace) 1.5.2.3.1.2.1. MSgt through CMSgt. The reviewer/final evaluator must be, at a
minimum, an officer serving in the grade of O-4, civilian equivalent, (GS-12/ Supervisory Pay Band
2), or higher, but no higher in organization than the senior rater. For ANG AGR enlisted personnel,
the final endorser must be the full-time unit commander. If there is no full-time unit commander, the
final endorser will be the senior full-time officer. Exception: The CMSAF or a CMSgt serving as the
Vice Commandant of the College of Enlisted Professional Military Education (PME) may endorse
EPRs as a senior rater’s deputy and may also be the reviewer/final evaluator. For ANG non-AGR
personnel (Drill Status and Technicians) MSgt through CMSgt, the reviewer/final evaluator must be,
at a minimum, unit commander or a designated senior full-time officer. Unit Commander designation
of a senior full-time officer will be made in writing and maintained at unit level for audit purposes.

*(Replace) 1.6.15. Joint Force Headquarters, Military Personnel Management Offices (JFHQ
MPMO) are responsible for ensuring effective management of the AGR performance evaluation
program at wings within their state.

*(Replace) 1.8.2. Organizational Climate: Organizational climate is defined as the way in which
members in a unit perceive and characterize their unit environment. All Airmen are responsible for
creating an organizational climate in which every member is treated with dignity and respect, and one
that does not tolerate unlawful discrimination, sexual harassment, or sexual assault in any form.
NCOs and officers are not only responsible for creating this environment but are also accountable for
it. NCOs and officers can build a healthy organizational climate by: communicating clear direction at
all levels of supervision; adhering to and enforcing standards; not tolerating and, when necessary,
appropriately responding to any form of sexual harassment, sexual assault, hazing, unlawful
discrimination, or any other conduct harmful to the good order and discipline of the unit; being
accountable for their actions; and cultivating an environment where teamwork, unity and
cohesiveness are the standard practice.

*(Add New) 1.8.2.1. All NCO and officer evaluators will assess their ratee(s) on what the member
did to ensure a healthy organizational climate.

*(Add New) 1.8.2.2. Commanders at every level have an even greater responsibility to create a
healthy climate in their command. Additionally, they are responsible for ensuring adherence to
Sexual Assault Prevention (SAPR) Program directives. Command climate, just like organizational
climate, is the perception of a unit’s environment by its members. Commanders are ultimately
responsible for the good order and discipline in their unit and have unique responsibility and
authority to ensure good order and discipline. Therefore, evaluators must take this special
responsibility and authority into consideration when evaluating a commander’s effectiveness in
ensuring a healthy command climate.

*(Replace) 1.8.3. Equal Opportunity and Treatment (EOT). The expectation is fair and equal
treatment of all and enforcement of the same behavior in subordinates. Evaluators must consider a
member’s commitment to EOT when evaluating performance and making a promotion
recommendation. The goal is to ensure fair, accurate, and unbiased evaluations to help ensure the best
qualified members are identified for positions of higher responsibility. Evaluations must reflect
serious or repeated occurrences of discrimination, to include sexual harassment, as prescribed in AFI
36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) Program. Evaluators must also consider commenting on
a ratee’s membership in groups that espouse supremacist causes or advocate unlawful discrimination,
as prescribed in AFI 51-903, Dissident and Protest Activities.

*(Replace) 1.8.4. Fitness Testing and Education and Intervention Programs. All personnel must
meet established standards IAW AFI 36-2905. Failure to meet fitness requirements or minimum
fitness scores will result in a referral evaluation, unless exempt from fitness, see paragraph 1.4.10.3.
Additionally, failure to progress satisfactorily in the Education and Intervention Programs reflects
poorly on the Air Force and the Airman. Unsatisfactory progress in the FIT program should be
considered and should be documented on any evaluation by providing specific comments on the
behavior that led to the unsatisfactory progress and/or failure, with compatible ratings on
OPRs/EPRs.

*(Replace) 1.8.5. Management Control. All personnel must manage resources and ensure funds,
property, and other government assets are protected against waste, loss, unauthorized use, or
misappropriation. Comments about failures in inherent or assigned internal control responsibilities, or
noteworthy accomplishments in improving internal controls, are mandatory. AFI 65-201, Manager’s
Internal Control Program Procedures, provides specifics of the Management Control Program.

*(Replace) 1.8.6. Productivity. While related to internal management control, productivity gains are
often a result of improved efficiency rather than establishing or administering policies. Productivity
gains can have measurable monetary or manpower savings and are of significance to the Air Force
and Air Reserve components. Give consideration to the ratee's achievements in implementing
Defense Management Report principles and recommendations, taking into account the ratee's
opportunity, or lack of opportunity, for such achievements. Many suggestions approved under AFI
38-401, The Air Force Innovative Development Through Employee Awareness (IDEA) Program fall
in this category.

*(Replace) 1.8.7. Occupational Safety and Health. Consider how commanders, managers, and
supervisors discharge their responsibilities under AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program.
38 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013

*(Replace) 1.8.8. Security of Classified Information. Consider how well ratees who handle or have
access to classified information discharge security responsibilities. When appropriate, comment on
any action, behavior, or condition that is reportable under security regulations.

*(Replace) 1.8.9. Awarding Contracts to Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, Historically
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Minority Institutions (Section 806, Public Law 100-
180). If you rate an officer who holds a warrant as a contracting officer and who has the opportunity
to increase the award of contracts to small disadvantaged business concerns, HBCUs, and minority
institutions, you must consider the ratee's ability to increase awards.

*(Replace) 1.8.10. General Accounting Office (GAO), Office of the Inspector General, and Air
Force Audit Agency (AFAA) Audit Resolution. Prompt, responsive and constructive action by
managers is an integral part of good management. When applicable, comment on the degree of
effectiveness in resolving disputed audit findings and recommendations.
*(Replace) 1.8.11. Acquisition and Management of Inventory Items (Section 323, Public Law 101-
510). For people assigned to Inventory Control Points, consider their efforts to eliminate wasteful
practices and achieve cost savings as prescribed in the DoD Inventory Reduction Plan.

*(Add New) 1.8.12. General and Specific NCO Responsibilities. Consider the ratee’s compliance
with mandatory requirements prescribed in AFI 36-2618, The Enlisted Force Structure.

*(Replace) Table 2.1. Performance Feedback Requirements.

       A                                             B
 R
 U     If the ratee is                               then the ratee requires the following
 L                                                   feedback
 E


 1     a CMSgt or a Colonel.                         Initial
                                                     (See Note 1; Note 4 for non-EAD ARC)
 2     a MSgt or SMSgt, Major or Lieutenant          Initial
       Colonel.                                      (See Note 1; Note 4 for non-EAD ARC)

                                                     Midterm
                                                     (See Note 2; Note 4 for non-EAD ARC)

 3     an AB, Amn or A1C (who has already            Initial
       received an EPR), a SrA through TSgt, a       (See Note 1)
       Lieutenant through Captain. (see notes 6
       and 7 )                                       Midterm
                                                     (See Note 2)

                                                     End-of-reporting period
                                                     (See Note 3)
 4     an AB, Amn or A1C (with less than 20          Initial
       months TAFMS)                                 (See Note 1)

                                                     Midterm
                                                     (See Note 5)
 5     an AB through Colonel                         Requested by Ratee
                                                     (See Note 8)
 6     an AB through Colonel                         When determined necessary by the rater

  Notes:
  1. The rater must conduct the initial feedback session within the first 60 days he or she initially
  begins supervision. This will be the ratee’s only initial feedback until they have a change of
  reporting official. For CMSgts and Colonels, this is the only feedback required.
  2. The rater must conduct the midterm feedback session midway between the date supervision
  begins and the projected close-out date of the next EPR/OPR.
  3. The rater conducts an End-of Reporting Period feedback session when an evaluation has been
  accomplished. This session must be conducted within 60 days of the close-out of the evaluation
  and serves two distinct purposes. The first purpose is to review and discuss with the ratee the
  previous reporting period and resulting EPR/OPR. The second purpose is to establish
  expectations for the new reporting period. Note: If the evaluation is due to a CRO, the new rater
  will be required to do an initial feedback in addition to the feedback performed by the previous
  rater during the presentation of the evaluation.
  4. A PFW is not required if action is pending under AFI 36-3209, Separation Procedures for Air
  National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members.
  5. After the initial feedback session is conducted, conduct a (midterm) feedback session every
  180 days until the rater writes an EPR or a CRO occurs.
  6. If the ratee is due an annual evaluation and the period of supervision is less than 150 days, the
  rater conducts the feedback session approximately 60 days before the projected evaluation close-
  out date.
  7. If the ratee is getting a CRO evaluation and time permits, the rater will hold a feedback
  session within 60 days of the close-out date, but not later than 30 days prior.
  8. When a ratee requests a feedback session, the rater must conduct a session within 30 days of
  the ratee’s request if at least 60 days have passed (at the rater’s discretion) since the last feedback
  session.




*(Add New) 2.8.5.1.1. It is mandatory for raters to include expectations for contributing to a healthy
organizational climate for airmen up to the grade of Senior Airman. Raters must also ensure that
NCOs and Officers are accountable for creating a healthy organizational climate. Raters must ensure
that every Commander knows he(she) is responsible for, and will be held accountable for, ensuring
their unit has a healthy command climate.

*(Replace) 3.1.5.2.4. If the member is non-EAD enlisted ARC; biennial, use the date two years
from the close-out of previous evaluation, or

*(Add New) 3.1.5.2.4.1. For AFR non-EAD members who have not had a previous evaluation, the
“FROM” date is the member’s DOR to SSgt, the thru date will be two years from the DOR to SSgt.
(i.e., DOR and “FROM” date is 01 May 06, then “THRU” date will be 30 Apr 08) provided the ratee
has earned at least 16 active/inactive duty points.

*(Add New) 3.1.5.2.4.2. Air National Guard Non-EAD (Drill Status) member evaluation reporting
commences in CY13 with performance feedback. Raters should include revised evaluation reporting
requirements in any scheduled feedback sessions.

*(Add New) 3.1.5.2.4.2.1. SrA-SSgt Non-EAD (Drill Status) will receive an initial evaluation in
CY14 closing out on the anniversary of their birth date. For example, an SSgt born 12 Mar will have
an evaluation due 12 Mar 14.

*(Add New) 3.1.5.2.4.2.2. TSgt-CMSgt Non-EAD (Drill Status) will receive an initial evaluation
in CY 15 closing out on the anniversary of their birth date. For example, an MSgt born on 17
Aug will have an evaluation closing out 17 Aug 15.

*(Replace) 3.1.5.2.2. Subsequent reports for officer and enlisted RegAF and ARC members on
EAD: Reports will close-out one year from the close-out date of the last evaluation.
*(Replace) 3.1.5.2.5. For RegAF rater changes, if the rater change occurs after the original annual
date passed, but before the rater completed 120 days supervision, the evaluation is closed out the day
prior to the rater change, providing at least 60 days of supervision have occurred. If the 60 days has
not been met, then the first rater who obtains 60 days supervision will write the report. The evaluation
reason is still “Annual.”

*(Replace) 3.1.5.2.6. For Non EAD USAFR, ANG (Drill Status). If a rater change occurs after the
original biennial date, but before the rater completed 120 days supervision, the evaluation is closed
out the day prior to the rater change, providing at least 60 days of supervision has occurred. The
evaluation reason is still “Biennial”.

*(Add New) 3.1.5.2.6.1. ANG AGR. If a rater change occurs prior to the next projected report
annual date, and a minimum of 120 days after the last report closed out, an evaluation is required.
The evaluation reason is still “Annual.” If the rater change occurs in less than 120 days from the
previous report closeout, an evaluation is not required.

*(Replace) 3.1.5.3.4. Control Roster Removal. Use one day before expiration and/or removal from
control roster if directed as a result of being removed or upon completion of the control roster
observation period.

*(Replace) 3.1.5.4.2. For USAFR and ANG, if needed, adjust the close-out date on which the rater
achieves the required number of days of supervision and points required by TABLE 3.8.

*(Replace) 3.1.8.1.1. Does Not Meet: Performs below established standards, requires improvement.
Disciplinary action is not required, however, evaluation will be a referral. (For example, failure to
achieve a minimum passing Fitness Assessment).


*(Replace) 3.1.11.7. Only one B-level evaluator will sign an evaluation and that endorsement must
be completed by the first B-level evaluator in the rating chain; for example, the group commander
will not be skipped in order to obtain vice wing commander endorsement, nor can both those
individuals sign the evaluation. Exception: An evaluation may contain two B-level endorsements
only in the following circumstances:

*(Replace) 3.1.14.2. The commander reviews evaluations to ensure ratings accurately describe
performance and comments are compatible with/support ratings. They must return evaluations with
unsupported statements for additional information or reconsideration of ratings. However,
commanders may not coerce an evaluator to make changes. See paragraph 1.9. for disagreements.
Note: First Sergeants (or ARC designated reviewers) are required to review all EPRs prior to the
commander (or ARC designed senior officer).

*(CHANGE) 3.1.15.5. The rater will suspense the ratee for three (3) duty days (30 calendar days or
until the next drill for ARC personnel), after feedback, in conjunction with the evaluation, to sign the
evaluation.

*(Replace) 3.1.7. Performance Factors (Section III and IX) and Rater/Additional Rater Overall
Assessment, (Sections IV and V) – AF Form 707, Officer Performance Report (OPR). Note:
Commanders are held responsible for the command climate (refer to para 1.8.2.2.) and overall
readiness of their unit and are ultimately accountable for its performance. As such, overall command
climate, readiness and performance should be a major contributing factor when assessing a
commander’s performance.
*(Replace) 3.2.4. AF Forms 910 (E1-E6) and 911 (E7-E9) (EPRs) for Airmen on Active Duty, see
TABLE 3.7. (Includes ANG and AGR members).

*(Replace) 3.2.5. AF Forms 910 (E1-E6) and 911 (E7-E9), (EPRs) for ARC Airmen not on Active
Duty, see TABLE 3.8.

*(Replace) 3.3.5. All enlisted ANG personnel in the grades of SrA through CMSgt, or as directed
by TABLE 3.7. and TABLE 3.8.

*(Replace) 3.4.4. EAD personnel in the grade of A1C and below with less than 20 months TAFMS,
Non-EAD AFR personnel in the grade of SrA (AFR), and AIC (ANG).

*(Delete) 3.4.12.
*(Replace) Table 3.8. When to Submit EPRs on ARC Airmen not on AD. See Notes 1 and 2.

R     A                                       B                        C
U                                             and the supervision      then the reason for
L     If                                      period covers at least   the evaluation is
E

1     The ratee is a SrA or above, with 20 or 16 points and 120        Initial
      more months’ time in Air Component      calendar days
      service (from DIEMS date), and has not
      had a report. See Notes 3, 8 & 14.
 
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   27


  2    The ratee is a SSgt or above and has        16 points and 120         Biennial
       not                                         calendar days
       had a report for at least two years. See                              Biennial
       Notes 3, 8 & 14.                            16 points and 120
  3    The ratee is a SrA or above with 24         calendar days
       months from closeout of a previous
       report. See Notes 3 and 8.

  4    The rater changes as a result of PCS,       16 points and 120         Change of Rating
       PCA,                                        calendar days             Official (CRO)
       retirement, or separation. See Notes 6
       and
       7.
  5    The commander directs an evaluation.
       See Notes 5, 6, 12, and 13.                 No minimum points or      Directed by the
                                                   supervision               Commander (Dir by
  6    The commander directs an EPR                                          CC)
       because
       of placement on or removal from the
       control roster IAW AFI 36-2907. See
  7    Commander directs evaluation to
       document unsatisfactory or marginal
       duty performance or conduct. See
  8    Commander directs evaluation
       document
       significant improvement in duty
  9    The ratee is placed into record status 6,
       deserter status. See Note 13.
  10   HQ USAF, ARPC or NGB directs a
       special evaluation. See Notes 4 and 6.      No minimum points or      Directed by HQ
                                                   supervision               USAF (DBH)
  11   The ratee needs an evaluation in
       conjunction with discharge.
  12   The ratee is declared missing in action,
       captured, or interned. See Note 11.
  13   The ratee or rater departs for an AD        16 points and 120         CRO
       tour                                        calendar days
       of at least 120 calendar days duration.

  Notes:
  1. For IMAs (excluding those centrally managed), the unit of assignment is responsible for
  completing the evaluation. For centrally managed IMAs, PIRR and PIRR Category E, the unit of
  attachment is responsible for completing the evaluation.
  2. SrA or below with less than 20 months in service do not receive an EPR.
  3. If the ratee did not participate during the period of evaluation, the EPR must state this
  information. If a rater has limited knowledge of the ratee’s performance during the entire rating
 


    period, the rater, as a minimum, attempts to get information about the ratee through second and
    third line supervisors, first sergeant, or commander. If at least 60 days of supervision (and less
    than 120 days) have occurred, an informal LOE (formally called an optional LOE) may be
    accomplished.
    4. HQ USAF/REP directs EPRs under this rule for AFR; NGB/CF for ANG.
    5. A commander (wing, group, squadron or higher-level commander, HQ AFRC, a central or
    MAJCOM IMA program manager, HQ ARPC, or HQ USAF/REP) may direct an event-centered
    EPR, such as: Board nominations (school, screening qualification, retention, awards, etc.);
    Commissioning Program applications; Special-duty nominations.
    6. Do not prepare more than one event-centered evaluation on a Reservist during a 12-month
    period. Do not use event-centered EPRs as a reason for annual evaluations.
    7. Prepare a report under this rule if ratee is discharged from ARC and enters AD; reassigned to
    EAD; reassigned to ARPC for non-participation.
    8. If a member does not earn the required number of points, HQ ARPC/DPBR (AFR) or TAG
    (ANG) may extend the close-out date to meet the requirement, except for Biennial reports, then
    Note 3 applies.
    9. Do not submit a report when rater and ratee are ordered to AD together and the rater does not
    change.
    10. If the ratee is selected to fill an 365-day extended deployment billet, a CRO evaluation must
    be accomplished provided there has been at least 120 days supervision.
    11. Do not prepare evaluations for periods of MIA, captured, or detained in captive status of less
    than 15 calendar days. If the ratee remains in one of these categories for 15 calendar days or
    more, prepare an evaluation under this rule without regard to the number of days of supervision.
    Close the evaluation on the day the ratee was placed in MIA, captured, or detained in captive
    status. These evaluations are as directed by HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or HQ ARPC/DPBR.
    12. The commander may direct an evaluation for significant duty improvement only if the
    previous evaluation was a referral or the overall rating was “2” or “1”.
    13. The close-out date of the evaluation is the effective date the ratee is placed in record status 6,
    deserter.
    14. Initial evaluation implementation for ANG Non-EAD (Drill Status) SRA and above who
    have no previous report; refer to Para 3.1.5.2.4.2.”




*(Add New) 4.6.1.1.4. For ARC members, forward the LOE to HQ ARPC for final processing
 and entry into ARMS.

*(Replace) 5.8.2. In implementing wartime provisions, HQ AFPC/DPSIDE, in coordination
with USAF/RE and NGB/A1 will provide specific instructions regarding completion of
evaluations, routing evaluations once completed, and any other appropriate actions. HQ
AFPC/DPSIDEB or HQ ARPC/DPB will announce officer promotion recommendation form
(PRF) procedures (see Chapter 8). HQ USAF/A1PPP and HQ AFPC/DPSIDE will determine
whether to restrict provisions for the performance evaluations to certain theaters or organizations
and whether to implement them in part, totally, or incrementally. They may make performance
 
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      29


feedback optional. Commands must implement the provisions outlined below or as HQ
AFPC/DPSIDE directs.”

*(Replace) Table 7.1. Instructions for Completing AF Form 78.


A     B                C
To Complete            Instructions
Block Item
1     Name             Self-explanatory.
2     SSN
3     Grade            Enter the appropriate grade and include the status if the ratee is a selectee
                       or is frocked. For example Maj Gen, Brig Gen (Sel) or Brig Gen
                       (Frocked). See Table 7.2. Notes.
4       Duty Title     Self-explanatory.
5       Organization
6       TAFSCD/
        TYSD
7       MRD/DOS
8       Reason

9       Fitness        Check appropriate block regarding member’s most recent, current fitness
                       assessment. Only mark the exempt block if the member is exempt from
                       all components of the fitness assessment.
10      “FROM”         Members selected to brigadier general and publicly announced by
        Date           AF/DPG: The report opens on the day following the close-out of the
                       colonel’s previous report (see paragraphs 7.4.8.2 and 7.4.8.3).
                       Subsequent general officer reports will open the day following the close-
                       out date of the previous report.
        “THRU”         USAF and USAFR EAD brigadier general reports (includes brigadier
        Date           general selectees and those frocked to brigadier general) will close out
                       31 July (31 May non-EAD) unless a CRO or directed by HQ USAF or
                       NGB report is necessary. All major general reports (includes major
                       general selectees and those frocked to major general) will close out on 30
                       June unless a CRO, directed by HQ USAF (for ANG officers, directed
                       by Chief, NGB) report is necessary.
 


    11   Comments    Type comments in Times New Roman, 12 pitch. Limit comments to
                     space provided. Include comments concerning the ratee's personal and
                     professional characteristics with emphasis on the ratee's potential to
                     assume a higher grade or increased responsibilities. Also, consider
                     ratee’s success in contributing to a healthy organizational climate, or
                     command climate (if ratee is a commander). As supporting rationale,
                     identify specific jobs where he or she could be used in a higher grade. If
                     not being recommended for promotion, but is being recommended
                     for further service in his or her current grade, identify options for
                     future use. If an officer is the subject of a substantiated allegation,
                     complaint, or investigation, or if the officer was removed from duty
                     for cause, use this section to address issue. Do not consider or comment
                     on marital status or the employment, educational activities, or volunteer
                     service activities of his/her spouse. As applicable, include comments
                     on achievements in implementing the recommendations of the Secretary of
    12   Rater’s ID Major general selectees may, once confirmed by the Senate, sign the AF
         (name,      Form 78 as a selectee. See Table 7.2 Notes. Do not date or sign prior to
         grade, and the “TO” date.
         duty title)
    13   Signature   Self explanatory
    14   Date        Date of signature
 
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     31


15a    Promotion         ALL: Check “Eligible For Promotion This Cycle” Complete this block
       Recommend         only if the officer is eligible for promotion as defined in AFI 36-2501,
       -ation            Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation, and the evaluation
                         serves as the annual report as defined in paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of this
                         AFI. otherwise enter “N/A” in each box of block 16. Active duty
                         officers are ranked by grade and competitive category. USAFR does not
                         rank by competitive category. Otherwise check Use Promote in the
                         Future” and “Not Eligible For Promotion This Cycle No
                         Recommendation” blocks to leave open the possibility for future
                         consideration. Only use the “Retain in Grade” block if the officer should
                         not be promoted in the future under any circumstances. Use the or
                         “Retirement” block if the ratee’s retirement is approved has applied for
                         retirement. FOR MAJOR GENERALS: The major general ML control
                         group contains all major generals, including selects and those serving in a
                         frocked status. DO NOT provide “Promote Now” numerical rankings for
                         those in the major general ML control group. You may comment on
                         future potential to serve in a higher grade in block 1112, “Rater
                         Comments,” or in block 16, “Endorser's Comments” (if applicable).
                         FOR BRIGADIER GENERALS: For officers receiving a " Eligible For
                         Promotion This Cycle" recommendation, show their ranking in block
                         15b among all who receive " Eligible For Promotion This Cycle Promote
                         Now" in the brigadier general ML control group and the total number of
                         promotion eligibles within the control group. For example, if the
                         control group has 10 promotion eligible officers, and two of those have "
                         Eligible For Promotion This Cycle Promote Now" recommendations,
                         they would be ranked "1 of 10" and "2 of 10." If a ratee does not receive a
                         " Eligible For Promotion This Cycle Promote Now" recommendation, do
                         not assign a numerical ranking.          All promotion eligible brigadier
                         generals will receive a promotion recommendation when the report
                         serves as the annual report as defined in paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4.
15b    Numerical         Complete this block for Brigadier Generals only if "Eligible For
       Rank              Promotion This Cycle" is checked in block 15a.
16     Comments          See instructions for block 11 (this table). If the rater is also the ML, use
                         block 12 to enter comments or type “The rater is also the endorsing
                         official” in block 16.
17     Endorser’s        Self-explanatory. Do not sign or date prior to the “TO” date.
       ID       (name,
       grade,      and
       duty title)
18     Signature
19     Date
 


*(Replace) Table 7.2. Instructions for Completing AF Form 77 for General Officers.


    A    B                 C
    To Complete
    Sec Block              Instructions
    I    Name              Self-explanatory.
         SSN               Self-explanatory.
         Grade             Enter the appropriate grade, and include the status if the ratee is a selectee or
                           is frocked. For example, Maj Gen, Brig Gen (Sel) or Brig Gen (Frocked).
                           See Notes.
         DAFSC             Enter "90G0."
         Duty Title        Self-explanatory.
    II A Type of           Mark box entitled, "Supplemental Sheet" If a TDY rating official is
         Report            rendering a report resulting from the ratee's TDY of 90 days or more, mark
                           the box entitled "Letter of Evaluation."
    IIB Report Dates       Enter the dates as they appear on the AF Form 78. If a TDY rating official is
                           rendering a report because of the ratee's TDY of 90 days or more, enter the
                           inclusive dates of the TDY.
          “Report is...”   If the AF Form 77 will be attached to the AF Form 78, or is being rendered
                           by a TDY rating official resulting from the ratee's TDY of 60 days or
                           more, mark the box entitled, "Mandatory." All other AF Forms 77 are
                           optional.
          Reason for       If the AF Form 77 is being rendered by a TDY rating official as a result of
          Report           the ratee's TDY of 60 days or more, mark the block entitled, "TDY 60 or
                           more days supervision." For all others, mark the block entitled, "Other -
                           Explain in section III."
    III   Comments         Hand-write comments in dark blue or black ink. Limit comments to space
                           provided. Include comments concerning his or her personal and professional
                           characteristics with emphasis on potential to assume a higher grade or
                           increased responsibilities. Also, consider ratee’s success in contributing to a
                           healthy organizational climate, or command climate (if ratee is a
                           commander). As supporting rationale, identify specific jobs where he or she
                           could be used in a higher grade. If not being recommended for promotion
                           but is being recommended for further service in his or her current grade,
                           identify options for future use. If an officer is the subject of a substantiated
                           allegation, complaint, or investigation, or if the officer was removed from
                           duty for cause, use this section to address issue. Do not consider or
                           comment on the marital status or the employment, educational activities, or
                           volunteer service activities of his or her spouse. As applicable, include
                           comments on achievements in implementing the recommendations of the
                           Secretary of Defense's Report
                           to the President on Defense Management of July 1989.
 
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     33


 IV    Evaluator   Information will be as of the “THRU” date of the report. Sign original on or
       Data        after “THRU” date. Once the Senate confirms the promotion, Major General
                   selectees may sign the AF Form 77 as a selectee. See Notes. Remaining
                   blocks are self-explanatory.
 NOTES: Major General & Brigadier General “(Sel)”/“Frocked” signing OES forms:




 a. Once Senate confirmed, Colonels on the Brigadier General select list are permitted to sign all
 OES forms as “(Sel)” provided that they are either designated by their respective management level
 (ML) as a senior rater or they are assigned to an authorized Brigadier General officer position.
 b. Once Senate confirmed, Brigadier Generals on the Major General select list are permitted to
 sign all OES forms as “(Sel)” provided that they are either evaluating other general officers or are
 assigned to an authorized Maj Gen officer position.
 c. Frocked GOs are authorized to sign all OES forms in their frocked grade without designating
 their “Frocked” status (i.e. Major General vice Major General “Frocked”).
 d. Once Senate confirmed, all GO selects assigned to joint billets or unified commands may sign
 all OES forms as “(Sel)”.



ADDED ATTACHMENT 1 - GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
INFORMATION


TERMS:

ANG (Drill Status)-Refers to members of the Air National Guard who are serving in Title 32
status, not on active duty nor in Active Guard/Reserve (AGR) status.

Air Reserve Component (ARC) – Refers to members assigned to the Air Force Reserve (AFR) or
Air National Guard (ANG) component. Typically used to address the combination of all
members assigned within both AFR and ANG.

Total Force Service Center (TFSC) – Formerly known as the Air Force Contact Center (AFCC).
When referenced, use the applicable components TFSC; i.e., RegAF would use the TFSC at
AFPC and the ANG/USAFR would use the TFSC at ARPC.
BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2406
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            2 JANUARY 2013
                                                    Corrective Actions Applied on 5 April 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                  OFFICER AND ENLISTED EVALUATION
                                                                          SYSTEMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFPC/DPSID                                           Certified by: HQ AF/A1P (Maj Gen
                                                                                Sharon Dunbar)
Supersedes:   AFI 36-2406, 15 April 2005;                                           Pages: 275
              AFI 36-2401, 20 February
              2004


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-24, Military Evaluations. It
provides guidance and procedures for implementing Air Force (AF) Evaluation Systems policy
for the Officer Evaluation System (OES) and Enlisted Evaluation System (EES). It describes
how to prepare, submit, and manage Air Force Forms (AF Forms) prescribed by this Air Force
Instruction (AFI).

This publication applies to all major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA),
direct reporting units (DRU), and other Air Force activities, as well as Regular Air Force, Air
National Guard (ANG), Active Guard/Reserve (AGR), and Air Force Reserve (USAFR)
activities, officers, and enlisted. While the philosophy and intent of the OES/EES pertain to the
ANG and USAFR, modifications are necessary. This instruction also provides procedures
governing evaluation of brigadier and major generals.

This publication is affected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974 (DODD 5400.11, DOD Privacy
Program), and the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (DOD 5400.7-4, DOD Freedom of
Information Act Program). Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013 and Executive Order
9397, 22 November 1943, authorize the Air Force to collect and maintain the records in this
instruction. System of Records Notice (SORN) F036 AF PC A, Effectiveness/Performance
Reporting Systems, is available at http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. Evaluators (except
civilian and foreign-service evaluators) must provide the last four numbers of social security
number (SSN). Use the SSN to verify the identity of the evaluator for research and
accountability. Any requests for records or documents contained in this System of Records
 2                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


Notice will be processed under the Freedom of Information Act guidelines outlined IAW AFI
33-332, Privacy Act Program, Chapter 4, Giving Access to Privacy Act Records and Chapter 12,
Disclosing Records to Third Parties.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims/

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 to AFPC Publishing Office, 550 C Street West Suite 48, Randolph AFB Texas
78150-4750, or email afpc.publications@us.af.mil.

Field agencies will not publish supplements that change basic policies/procedures or merely
duplicate the text of these instructions. Supplements initiated at MAJCOM-level or below
require HQ USAF/A1PPP and HQ AFPC/DPSIDE approval before publication. Send published
copies of approved supplements to HQ USAF/A1PPP, HQ AFPC/DPSIDE, and HQ
ARPC/DPB. Field agencies must get HQ AFPC/DPSIDE and AFDPO/PPP approval before
using locally created versions of the AF Forms prescribed by this instruction.

Vigilance must be taken to protect Personally Identifiable Information (PII) when submitting or
sending nominations, applications or other documents to DoD agencies through government
Internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal, faxing or scanning.

See attachment 1 for glossary of references and supporting information used in this publication.
Attachment 3 is a quick reference subject guide. Attachment 2, Appeal Guidance for Applicants,
is a guide to be used when appealing evaluations in accordance with Chapter 10. We
recommend you review the attachments before reading this document.

SUMMARY OF CORRECTIVE ACTIONS

Correction to Table 3.7; added omitted rules 14-22 and notes 1-24.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include, updates to organization and office symbols; introduces updated versions of AF Forms
707, Officer Performance Report, 910, Enlisted Performance Report, 911, Senior Enlisted
Performance Report, 724, Officer Performance Feedback Worksheet, 931, Airman Performance
Feedback Worksheet, 932, NCO Performance Feedback Worksheet, 77, Letter of Evaluation,
and 475, Education/Training Report. These changes incorporate numerous revised policies and
procedural changes involving performance feedback and evaluation reports that have been
implemented since the last revision, 1 July 2000. These changes clarify existing policies and
procedures and includes procedures for the electronic forms and digital signatures; the Enlisted
Training Reports; the deployed commander Letter of Evaluation (LOE); and evaluation
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                                                                    3


procedures for 365-day extended deployments. The contingency and wartime provisions have
been updated to provide guidance for current contingency operations. This publication
incorporated AFI 36-2401, Correcting Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Reports, 20 February
2004, which will be rescinded on the effective date of this publication. Users of this publication
are strongly advised to read this publication in detail and refer to it frequently to ensure full
compliance is maintained.

Chapter 1—GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS                                                                                                              8
       1.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    8
       1.2.    Forms Used--Purpose and Their Use. ....................................................................                        8
       1.3.    General Guidelines. ...............................................................................................           10
       1.4.    Preparing and Processing Evaluations. ..................................................................                      11
       1.5.    Evaluator Requirements. ........................................................................................              19
       1.6.    Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       24
       1.7.    Rating Chain Deviations and Evaluator Changes. .................................................                              32
       1.8.    Evaluator Accountability. ......................................................................................              35
       1.9.    Disagreements. .......................................................................................................        38
       1.10.   Referral Evaluations. .............................................................................................           39
       1.11.   Mandatory Comments. ...........................................................................................               46
       1.12.   Prohibited Evaluator Considerations and Comments. ...........................................                                 48
       1.13.   Policy Deviations, Extensions and Waiver Requests. ............................................                               60
       1.14.   Missing, Late and Removed Performance Evaluations. ........................................                                   62
       1.15.   Administrative Examination for Appropriateness of Evaluations. ........................                                       63
Table 1.1.     Mailing Addresses for Correspondence. ................................................................                        64
Table 1.2.     Missing and Late Enlisted Evaluations (See Notes 1 and 2). ................................                                   66
Figure 1.1.    Enlisted Referral Memorandum. ............................................................................                    68

Chapter 2—PERFORMANCE FEEDBACK PROCESS                                                                                                       71
       2.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   71
       2.2.    Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       71
       2.3.    Who Requires a Performance Feedback. ...............................................................                          72
       2.4.    Guidance for Conducting Feedback Sessions. .......................................................                            72
       2.5.    When to Hold Documented Feedback Sessions. ...................................................                                72
       2.6.    The Performance Feedback Notice. .......................................................................                      73
       2.7.    Which PFW Form to Use. ......................................................................................                 73
 4                                                                                                    AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      2.8.    Preparing the PFW. ................................................................................................                73
      2.9.    Disposition and Access. .........................................................................................                  74
      2.10.   Failure of Rater to Conduct or Document a Feedback Session. ............................                                           74
      2.11.   End-of-Reporting Period Feedback. ......................................................................                           75
Table 2.1.    Performance Feedback Requirements. ...................................................................                             75

Chapter 3—OFFICER/ENLISTED PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS (OPRS/EPRS)                                                                                   77
      3.1.    General Guidelines. ...............................................................................................                77
      3.2.    When to Submit an Officer Performance Report (OPR) or Enlisted Performance
              Report (EPR). .........................................................................................................            90
      3.3.    Who Requires Performance Evaluations. ..............................................................                               90
      3.4.    Who Does Not Require Performance Evaluations. ................................................                                     91
Table 3.1.    Instructions for Preparing AF Form 707, Officer Performance Report. See
              Chapter 1 for General Information. .......................................................................                         93
Table 3.2.    Instructions for Preparing AF Forms 910/911, Enlisted Performance Reports. See
              Chapter 1 for General Information. .......................................................................                        104
Table 3.3.    When to Prepare OPRs for Officers on the EAD and ANG Officers. ...................                                                121
Table 3.4.    When to Prepare OPRs on USAFR Officers (Lieutenant thru Colonel). ...............                                                 123
Table 3.5.    Routing of OPRs for ANG and USAFR Officers not on EAD. .............................                                              124
Table 3.6.    Office of Record and Distribution Required for OPRs (See Note 1). ....................                                            125
Table 3.7.    When to Submit EPRs on Airmen on AD including ANG AGR’s. See Notes 1
              and 2. ......................................................................................................................     127
Table 3.8.    When to Submit EPRs on USAFR/ANG Airmen Not on AD. See Notes 1 and 2.                                                             130
Table 3.9.    Office of Record and Distribution of EPRs for Total Force. See Notes 1 through
              6. ............................................................................................................................   132
Table 3.10.   Time-in-Grade (TIG) Senior Rater Eligibility Chart. ............................................                                  133

Chapter 4—AF FORM 77, LETTER OF EVALUATION                                                                                                      136
      4.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................       136
      4.2.    Types of Letters of Evaluation (LOE). ..................................................................                          136
      4.3.    Who Will Prepare. .................................................................................................               139
      4.4.    Administrative Practices. .......................................................................................                 139
      4.5.    Completing AF Form 77, Letter of Evaluation. .....................................................                                140
      4.6.    Routing, Updating and Disposition Responsibilities. ............................................                                  140
      4.7.    CSS/HR Specialist/MPS/PERSCO Responsibilities: ............................................                                       141
Table 4.1.    Instructions for Completing the AF Form 77, Letter of Evaluation. .....................                                           141
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                                                                   5


Table 4.2.   When to submit a Letter of Evaluation. .................................................................                      148

Chapter 5—CONTINGENCY AND WARTIME PROVISIONS                                                                                               151
      5.1.   Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   151
      5.2.   General Guidance. .................................................................................................           151
      5.3.   LOEs During Contingency Operations. .................................................................                         151
      5.4.   Deployed Commander Letter of Evaluations (LOEs). ...........................................                                  152
      5.5.   365-day Extended Deployment Officer/Enlisted Performance Reports
             (OPRs/EPRs). ........................................................................................................         156
      5.6.   365-day extended deployment Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs). ........                                                   160
      5.7.   Force Shaping Boards. ...........................................................................................             161
      5.8.   National Emergency or Wartime Provisions. ........................................................                            161

Chapter 6—AF FORM 475, EDUCATION/TRAINING REPORT                                                                                           165
      6.1.   When to Use Training Reports (TR). .....................................................................                      165
      6.2.   Who Prepares Training Reports. ............................................................................                   167
      6.3.   Referral Training Reports. .....................................................................................              167
      6.4.   Routing and Responsibilities. ................................................................................                167
Table 6.1.   Instructions for Completing AF Form 475, Training Report. See Notes 1 and 9. .                                                168
Table 6.2.   When to Prepare AF Form 475, Training Report. .................................................                               171
Table 6.3.   Updating Training Reports Pending System Change. ...........................................                                  174

Chapter 7—GENERAL OFFICER EVALUATIONS                                                                                                      176
      7.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................     176
      7.2.   Forms Used. ...........................................................................................................       176
      7.3.   Reasons for Reports. ..............................................................................................           176
      7.4.   General Instructions. ..............................................................................................          176
      7.5.   Processing and Mailing General Officer Evaluations. ...........................................                               178
Table 7.1.   Instructions for Completing AF Form 78. .............................................................                         179
Table 7.2.   Instructions for Completing AF Form 77 for General Officers. ............................                                     182

Chapter 8—PROMOTION RECOMMENDATION AND MANAGEMENT LEVEL
            REVIEW PROCESS                                                                                                                 184
      8.1.   AF Form 709 (for Active Duty List [ADL] officers). ............................................                               184
      8.2.   AF Form 709 (for Reserve Active Status List officers). ........................................                               191
      8.3.   MLRs (ADL Lieutenant Colonel and Below). .......................................................                              194
      8.4.   Special Provisions (applies to ADL officers only). ...............................................                            207
 6                                                                                                       AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


       8.5.    Correction of Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRF) (ADL Officers) (Stop
               File process). ..........................................................................................................            211
       8.6.    Promotion Recommendations for Colonels. ..........................................................                                   212
       8.7.    Supplemental Management Level Reviews (SMLRs) for Recommendation
               Upgrade (POST-CSB), (For ADL Only). ..............................................................                                   214
Figure 8.1.    Officer's Right to Submit a Memorandum to the Central Selection Board (CSB)
               or ResAF CSB. See AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions, Chapter 4, for further
               guidance. ................................................................................................................           216
Table 8.1.     Instructions for Completing AF Form 709, Performance Recommendation Forms.
                .................................................................................................................................   216
Table 8.2.     What to Enter in Section VI (Group Size) on the PRF (ADL Lt Col and below
               only). ......................................................................................................................        223
Table 8.3.     Senior Rater “Definitely Promote” Allocation Rate Table - ADL Officers, see
               Note. .......................................................................................................................        224

Chapter 9—AF FORM 3538, RETENTION RECOMMENDATION FORM                                                                                               227
       9.1.    When to Use the AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form (RRF). ........                                                          227
       9.2.    Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................              227
       9.3.    RRF Submission. ...................................................................................................                  228
       9.4.    Air Force Advisor Examination. ............................................................................                          228
       9.5.    Correction of Retention Recommendation Form (RRF). .......................................                                           228
Figure 9.1.    Officer's Right to Submit a Memorandum to the Central Selection Board (CSB).                                                         229
Table 9.1.     Instructions for Completing AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form
               (RRF). ....................................................................................................................          229

Chapter 10—CORRECTING OFFICER AND ENLISTED EVALUATIONS                                                                                              232
       10.1.   Purpose. ..................................................................................................................          232
       10.2.   Program Elements. .................................................................................................                  232
       10.3.   Correcting Evaluations. .........................................................................................                    235
       10.4.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................              236
       10.5.   Meeting Time Limits and Expedited Requests. .....................................................                                    239
       10.6.   Using Classified, Privacy Act, and Restricted Release Information: .....................                                             240
       10.7.   Requesting Special Selection Board (SSB) or Supplemental Promotion
               Consideration: ........................................................................................................              240
       10.8.   Resubmitting an Appeal: ........................................................................................                     241
Table 10.1.    How to Submit Requests for Correction. ...............................................................                               241
Table 10.2.    Correcting Minor Errors on Evaluations. ...............................................................                              242
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                                                                     7


Table 10.3.    Minor Corrections – Offices Authorized to Make Corrections and Disposition. ..                                                244
Table 10.4.    Board Directed Corrections - Correcting and Disposition of Documents. ............                                            245
Table 10.5.    Correcting AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation Forms. ...........................                                           247
Table 10.6.    Instructions For Completing AF Form 948, Application for Correction/Removal
               of Evaluation Reports. Note: See paragraph 10.4.4. before completing. ...............                                         248
Figure 10.1.   Sample, AF Form 948, Application for Correction/Removal of Evaluation
               Reports. ..................................................................................................................   251

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               252

Attachment 2—APPEAL GUIDANCE FOR APPLICANTS (LOCAL REPRODUCTION
             AUTHORIZED)                                                                                                                     266

Attachment 3—SUBJECT MATTER QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE                                                                                            275
 8                                                                    AFI36-2406 2 January 2013



                                             Chapter 1

                                GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

1.1. Purpose. The Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems have varied purposes. The first is
to provide meaningful feedback to individuals on what is expected of them, advice on how well
they are meeting those expectations, and advice on how to better meet those expectations. The
second is to provide a reliable, long-term, cumulative record of performance and potential based
on that performance. The third is to provide officer Central Selection Boards (CSB), senior
NCO evaluation boards, the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS) and other personnel
managers’ sound information to assist in identifying the best qualified officers and enlisted
personnel as well as other personnel management decisions.
     1.1.1. To accomplish these purposes, the evaluation system focuses on performance. How
     well the individual does his or her job, and the qualities the individual brings to the job, are
     of paramount importance to the Air Force. Performance is most important for successful
     mission accomplishment. It is also important for development of skills and leadership
     abilities and in determining who will be selected for advancement through assignments,
     promotions, and other personnel actions. The evaluation system emphasizes the importance
     of performance in several ways--using periodic performance feedback, as the basis for formal
     evaluations, and, for officers, through performance-based promotion recommendations.
     1.1.2. Effective evaluators must have an adequate understanding of Officer Evaluation
     System (OES), Enlisted Evaluation System (EES), or both, depending on who they supervise.
     OES/EES training was implemented in May 96 to help supervisors fulfill their evaluation
     responsibilities. Unit commanders are responsible for ensuring all first-time supervisors
     receive mandatory OES/EES training (as appropriate for their position) within 60 days of
     being appointed as a rater. Additionally, Air Force members should receive annual recurring
     OES/EES training. How and when this training is conducted is at the discretion of the unit
     commander. To assist commanders, EES/OES Training Guides are located on the AFPC
     Website.
     1.1.3. Unless stated otherwise, the general guidelines outlined in this chapter apply to all
     evaluations, (OPRs, EPRs, TRs, PRFs, LOEs, and RRFs).
1.2. Forms Used--Purpose and Their Use.
     1.2.1. Performance Evaluation Forms Used:
        1.2.1.1. AF Form 77, Letter of Evaluation (LOE), is a multipurpose evaluation form (see
        Chapter 4 for details).
        1.2.1.2. AF Form 78, Air Force General Officer Promotion Recommendation (PRF),
        used to document performance and promotion recommendations for certain general
        officers (see Chapter 7 for details).
        1.2.1.3. AF Form 475, Education/Training Report (TR), used to document periods when
        Airmen are in education or formal training (see Chapter 6 for details).
        1.2.1.4. AF Form 707, Officer Performance Report (Lt through Col) (OPR); AF Form
        910, Enlisted Performance Report (AB through TSgt) (EPR); or AF Form 911, Senior
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   9


      Enlisted Performance Report (MSgt through CMSgt) (EPR), are used to document
      performance and potential over the long term. Use ratee’s grade on close-out date to
      determine which form to use (see Chapter 3 for details).
      1.2.1.5. AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation Form (PRF), used to assess an
      officer’s performance-based potential and to recommend promotion from a senior rater
      (SR) (or in case of Colonel ratees, from the head of the Management Level [ML] or
      designated representative) to central selection boards (see Chapter 8 for details).
      1.2.1.6. AF Form 724, Officer Performance Feedback Worksheet (Lt through Col), AF
      Form 931, Performance Feedback Worksheet (AB through TSgt) (PFW), and AF Form
      932, Performance Feedback Worksheet (MSgt through CMSgt) (PFW), (see Chapter 2
      for details).
      1.2.1.7. AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form (RRF), is used in conjunction
      with this AFI and HQ AFPC Retirements and Separations Branch guidelines, to
      document performance-based differentiation and retention recommendations, to assist in
      involuntary separation and/or retirement boards (Force Shaping, Reduction in Force
      [RIF], or Selective Early Retirement [SERB] boards). This form is only used at the
      discretion of the Secretary of the Air Force. See chapter 9 and AFI 36-3603, Service
      Retirements, for details.
      1.2.1.8. AF Form 948, Application for Correction/Removal of Evaluation, is used by
      Active Duty, and Reserve personnel to substitute, correct or remove an evaluation when
      the applicant does not have access to the Virtual Military Personnel Flight
      (vMPF)/Virtual Personnel Center Guard and Reserve (vPC/GR) application process (see
      chapter 10 for details). Only used when access to the vMPF/vPC or a HR specialist is
      unavailable, see paragraph 10.4.4.1.2.
   1.2.2. Purpose and Their Use:
      1.2.2.1. Performance Feedback Worksheet (PFW). Performance Feedback Worksheets
      include the AF Form 724, AF Form 931, and AF Form 932, and are used to document
      private communication regarding performance and professional development feedback
      between raters and ratees (see Chapter 2 for details).
      1.2.2.2. Performance Evaluations. Performance Evaluations include the AF Form 707
      (OPR); AF Forms 910/911 (EPR); AF Form 77 (LOE), AF Form 475, (TR), AF Forms
      78 and 709 (PRF) and the AF Form 3538 (RRF). These forms are used to document
      performance and potential, and provide information for making promotion
      recommendation, selection, or propriety actions, selective continuation, involuntary
      separation, selective early retirement, assignment, school nomination and selection, and
      other management decisions.
      1.2.2.3. Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRF). Use PRFs for promotion purposes
      only, and include the AF Form 78 and AF Form 709. PRFs are removed from the Officer
      Selection Record (OSR) following the promotion board which they were accomplished
      for, and are stored electronically. AF Forms 709 will be used for historical, legal, and
      appeal purposes only.
 10                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      1.2.2.4. Retention Recommendation Forms (RRF). Use RRFs (AF Form 3538) for
      involuntary separation/retirement board (Force Shaping, Reduction in Force [RIF], or
      Selective Early Retirement [SERB] boards) only. RRFs are removed from the Officer
      Selection Record (OSR) following the board which they were accomplished for, and are
      stored electronically. These RRFs will be used for historical, legal, and appeal purposes
      only.
1.3. General Guidelines.
   1.3.1. Access to Evaluations. Evaluations are For Official Use Only and are subject to the
   Privacy Act. They are exempt from public disclosure under DoD Regulation 5400.7/Air
   Force Supplement (AFSUPDODR 5400-7), DoD Freedom of Information Act Program and
   AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program. Only persons within the agency who have a proper need
   to know may read the evaluations. The office with custodial responsibility is responsible for
   determining if a person's official duties require access. Only the rater and ratee will review
   the Performance Feedback Worksheets (PFWs) except as outlined in Chapter 2.
   1.3.2. Classified Information and Security Classification.         Do not enter classified
   information in any section of the evaluation; this includes any type of evaluation forms,
   attachments to evaluations, referral documents, or endorsements to referral documents. If an
   entry would result in the release of classified information, use the word "Data Masked" in
   place of that entry. The PAS code alone is unclassified, however it will only be entered on
   the ratee. In the Senior Rater Identification (SRID) block enter five asterisks, (*****). In
   those cases where the evaluator is with a classified organization or location, enter "Data
   Masked" for organization nomenclature and nothing more.
   1.3.3. Bullet Format. Bullet format is mandatory. Use bullet format as specified in the
   appropriate table for the evaluation being accomplished. Bullets are limited to a minimum of
   one line and a maximum two lines per bullet and white space is authorized. Main bullets
   begin at the left margin and will have one space after the “-“. If unfamiliar with the proper
   bullet format, refer to “The Bullet Background Paper” in AFH 33-337, The Tongue and
   Quill. Although the Tongue and Quill allows three lines per bullet, evaluations will not have
   more than two lines per bullet.
   1.3.4. Special Formatting. Do not underline, capitalize, or use bold print, unusual fonts or
   characters, multiple exclamation marks, or headings to emphasize comments, except as
   required to identify proper names, publication titles, etc.
   1.3.5. Ratee Identification Data. The name will be in all uppercase. The remaining data
   (grade, unit, location) will be in upper/lower case.
   1.3.6. Type and Font.
      1.3.6.1. Type all evaluations using the electronic version of the form.
      1.3.6.2. Forms will be typed using “Times New Roman.”
      1.3.6.3. Forms will be typed using 12-pitch font. You may use computerized versions
      with proportional spacing, provided a 12-pitch font is used.
      1.3.6.4. Handwritten Evaluations.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     11


          1.3.6.4.1. Evaluations may be handwritten, only when authorized by HQ
          AFPC/DPSIDE or ARPC/DPB, as appropriate (exception: POTUS/VPOTUS may
          handwrite evaluations).
          1.3.6.4.2. When authorized, print or legibly write entries.
          1.3.6.4.3. Use only dark blue or black reproducible ink.
          1.3.6.4.4. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or HQ ARPC/DPB will not approve requests if a
          computerized form, typewriter, or word processor is available.
   1.3.7. Nicknames and Acronyms.
      1.3.7.1. Nicknames. Do not use call signs, code names or unusual nicknames on
      evaluations. However, nicknames which are a form of the ratee’s name are permitted.
      Example: Bill/Will for William, Jim for James, Chris for Christopher/Christine, Pat for
      Patrick/Patricia, etc. are authorized.
      1.3.7.2. Acronyms.
          1.3.7.2.1. Uncommon acronyms must be spelled out; however, if space is limited,
          define the acronyms in the remarks section of the applicable form. Note: The newer
          versions of the AF Forms 707, 910, and 911 have been revised to allow the
          evaluator’s to explain acronyms in the Remarks (AF Form 707) and in Other
          Comments (AF Form 910/911) section of the form; when used they must be listed in
          the order used.
          1.3.7.2.2. When used, first spell out and follow with the acronym; i.e. Personnel
          Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO).
          1.3.7.2.3. Acronyms or abbreviations common throughout the Air Force, such as
          CGO, NCO, CONUS, TDY, etc., are not required to be spelled out first.
   1.3.8. Optional Notes and Stamps. “Wet Signature Evaluation Only.” When used enter
   optional notes at base level such as “MilPDS/System Processed,” administrative review
   initials, date stamps, etc., only in the top margin. AFPC or ARPC level optional notes will be
   placed only in the bottom margin.
   1.3.9. Send requests for deviations or waivers through the wing commander or the
   comparative level to HQ AFPC/DPSIDE (or appropriate ANG/AFR office stated in
   paragraph 1.15) who in turn will forward the request to appropriate office of primary
   responsibility (OPR) listed in Table 1.1.
1.4. Preparing and Processing Evaluations.
   1.4.1. OPR/EPR Notices:
      1.4.1.1. Be sure that OPR/EPR notices, any LOEs that closed during the period of the
      evaluation, and/or any referral documents, accompany the evaluation through the rating
      chain.
      1.4.1.2. Evaluators are permitted to review a career brief when writing an evaluation.
      For officers, the brief will be used only to aid evaluators in making recommendations for
      command, assignments, and Developmental Education (DE). For senior NCOs, the brief
      may be used as an aid in determining endorsement level.
12                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


        1.4.1.3. The Human Resource (HR) Specialist (local procedures will dictate) forwards
        the notice to the rater. The rater will coordinate with Military Personnel Section (MPS)
        personnel to resolve incorrect entries. A copy of the OPR/EPR notice is forwarded with
        the evaluation through the rating chain to the MPS.
     1.4.2. Suspenses.
        1.4.2.1. The MPS will set up a monitoring system to ensure prompt performance
        evaluation submittal.
        1.4.2.2. Do not suspense or require raters to submit a completed evaluation with their
        signature (digital or otherwise) on it to the next evaluator in the rating chain any earlier
        than five duty days after the close-out date. If the rater is not available, extend the
        suspense. The suspense can be extended to a date that will still allow the evaluation to
        meet the suspense to AFPC/ARPC 60 days after the close out date. Note: This does not
        preclude a draft copy being routed earlier.
        1.4.2.3. Completed OPRs/EPRs are due to:
            1.4.2.3.1. The MPS no later than 30 days after close-out.
            1.4.2.3.2. To AFPC/ARPC or office of record no later than 45 days after close-out,
            so that it can be placed in the records NLT 60 days after the close-out date. Note:
            This suspense is to allow for any corrections at the lower level.
            1.4.2.3.3. Filed in the Automated Records Management System (ARMS) no later
            than 60 days after the close-out.
        1.4.2.4. OPRs/EPRs directed by HQ USAF or NGB are due to HQ AFPC/DPSIR, HQ
        ARPC/DPBR, HQ AF/DPE, HQ AF/DPO, HQ AF/DPG respectively by the suspense
        date established in the directing letter or message.
        1.4.2.5. Completed evaluations referred to the ratee IAW paragraph 1.10. will be filed in
        the appropriate record and/or placed into ARMS NLT 70 days for active duty personnel
        and 90 days for non-EAD personnel, after the close-out date of the evaluation.
        1.4.2.6. Performance evaluation suspenses are set such that the evaluation should be
        closed out prior to evaluators or the ratee departing. It is the unit commander’s
        responsibility to ensure evaluations are completed within the suspense, especially for
        those separating/retiring or PCSing.
     1.4.3. When an Evaluation Becomes a Matter of Record.
        1.4.3.1. All digitally signed evaluations are considered a matter of record once they are
        loaded into ARMS. “Wet” signature evaluations on all officers and SNCOs are
        considered a matter of record once they have been filed in the Officer Selection Record
        (OSR)/Noncommissioned Officer Selection Record (NSR). “Wet” signature evaluations
        on TSgt and below are made a matter of record once they are loaded into ARMS. All
        evaluations are considered working copies until they are made a matter of record.
        1.4.3.2. Once transmitted to HQ AFPC or HQ ARPC, an evaluation can no longer be
        accessed for correction. Corrections must be submitted through the Evaluation Reports
        Appeal Board (ERAB) IAW Chapter 10.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        13


   1.4.4. Attachments to Evaluations. Only those documents authorized by this AFI will be
   accepted for file and attached to the applicable evaluation. Example: Referral
   memorandums, materials and attachments; rebuttals to referrals; endorsement
   memorandums; and AF Forms 77.
   1.4.5. Reproducing, Copying and Printing Evaluations.
      1.4.5.1. Printing/Reproducing. When printed, all evaluation forms will be printed in the
      head-to-foot format. Both sides of the forms will be printed whether used or not. The
      form will not be altered, (i.e. reduce or enlarged), other than from authorized
      administrative corrections, (i.e. white out on a date change). The quality of the form will
      be as close to the original form as possible; sharp, free of excessive smudges, and suitable
      for scanning.
          1.4.5.1.1. Do not reproduce copies for purposes other than those noted below without
          the approval of HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or HQ ARPC/DPB. Do not reproduce and or
          print evaluations except:
          1.4.5.1.2. For official actions such as courts-martial; awards and decoration
          recommendations; promotion processing, demotion, elimination, release, and appeal
          actions; and appropriate assignment actions by AFPC/ARPC/AFRC/RMG or
          AF/DPO/DPG/DPE/RE assignment personnel. Copies will be provided only to
          authorized personnel.
          1.4.5.1.3. On written authority of AF/DPG for general officers; AF/DPO for officers
          on EAD in the grade of colonel; HQ AFPC/DPSID for officers on EAD in the grades
          of lieutenant colonel and below; or the HQ ARPC/DPBR for ANG officers in the
          grades of colonel and below, USAFR officers not on EAD, and AGR or Limited
          Extended Active Duty (LEAD) officers.
          1.4.5.1.4. As authorized by AFI 33-332 when requested by the ratee or his or her
          designated legal representative.
          1.4.5.1.5. As required by Table 3.5, Table 3.6, and Table 3.9 or to provide copies for
          file in ARMS, the OSR/NSR, the OCSR, or Adjutant General (AG) or NGB/OM
          record file.
          1.4.5.1.6. To replace missing or lost documents in the MPerRGp. Ensure copies are
          the same size as the printed document. Additionally, if the form is not a digitally
          signed form it must be certified as a true copy (see paragraph 1.14. and paragraph
          1.4.5.2. and table 1.2).
      1.4.5.2. Certified True Copies (CTC). A CTC is a certified unchanged copy of the
      original document. When authorized by HQ AFPC/DPSID or HQ ARPC/DPB,
      personnel making certified copies will enter the statement “Certified True Copy” with
      the certifying official’s grade, name, signature, duty title, unit, and the date, on the front
      left margin of the evaluation. Printed copies from Automatic Records Management
      System (ARMS) with all digital signatures included will be considered “Certified True
      Copies” of the electronic record.
      1.4.5.3. Corrected Copies (CC). A CC may be either a copy or an original document
      which contains changes, from the original document. Corrections authorized by the
14                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


     AFBCMR or ERAB on “wet signature” evaluations may require a corrected copy. In
     these cases, the following statement will be entered on the reverse bottom margin: “CC,
     HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP or HQ ARPC/DPB, XX XXX XX., certifying official’s signature.”
     (CC is “corrected copy”, office doing correction, date correction made, and signature of
     person making the correction.)
     1.4.5.4. Quality and Legibility. The MPS returns copies that are difficult to read or do
     not comply with paragraph 1.4.5.
     1.4.5.5. Showing and/or Providing Copies to the Ratee. Unless the evaluation is a
     referral evaluation, evaluators are not required to show or provide a copy of the
     evaluation to the ratee, until specified in the applicable chapter; OPRs/EPRs Chapter 3;
     Performance Feedback Worksheets Chapter 2; Training Reports Chapter 6; Letters of
     Evaluation Chapter 4; Promotion Recommendation Forms Chapter 8; Retention
     Recommendation Forms Chapter 9 and/or the current program guidance.
  1.4.6. Evaluation Notifications. Review evaluation notices when applicable for ratee
  identification data. If any data is incorrect on the evaluation notification, notify the Military
  Personnel Section (MPS) to ensure the correct data is updated. Abbreviations on the
  evaluation notification may be expanded for clarity on the evaluation.
  1.4.7. Organization. Enter ratee’s organizational information as of the close-out date using
  the guidance below.
     1.4.7.1. Enter the organizational designation, MAJCOM (if applicable) and location,
     followed by the component (ANG/USAFR only) as of the close-out date of the
     evaluation. For active duty and reserve personnel on active duty orders do not enter the
     component. If classified, refer to AFI 36-2406, paragraph 1.3.2. Example: 190th Air
     Refueling Group (AMC), Forbes Field, Topeka, Kansas, KS ANG (ARG).
     1.4.7.2. If the command of assignment is an integral part of the organization name, such
     as “HQ AMC/A1,” it is not necessary to repeat the command (AMC) within parentheses.
     1.4.7.3. On EAD (active duty and reserve), enter organizational designation, MAJCOM
     (if applicable) and location as of the close-out date of the evaluation. Example: 341st
     Force Support Squadron (AFSPC), Malmstrom AFB MT .
     1.4.7.4. On EAD (active duty and reserve) and performed duty in an organization other
     than his or her assigned PAS code, enter the assigned information, followed by “with
     duty at . . .” to indicate the organization where the ratee actually performed duty. This
     includes personnel on 365-day extended deployment billets. Example: 341st Security
     Forces Squadron (AFSPC), Malmstrom AFB MT, with duty at 447 ESFS (USAFCENT),
     Baghdad International Airport, Baghdad, Iraq. Note: Do not use this section to enter a
     second organization if the ratee is filling a dual-hatted role. Mention it in the job
     description or elsewhere in the evaluation.
     1.4.7.5. An AGR Program member under Title 10, U.S.C., Sections 8033, 10211, 10305,
     12310 and 12402 or Title 32, U.S.C., Section 708 (Property and Fiscal Officers), enter
     organizational designation, MAJCOM (if applicable), state affiliation and location.
     Example: 190th Air Refueling Group (AMC), Forbes Field, Topeka, Kansas, KS ANG
     (AGR).
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      15


      1.4.7.6. A Non-EAD ANG member, enter organizational designation, MAJCOM (if
      applicable), state affiliation, location, and component. Example: 190th Air Refueling
      Group (AMC), Forbes Field, Topeka, Kansas, KS ANG (Non-EAD).
      1.4.7.7. A Non-EAD USAFR member, enter organizational designation, MAJCOM (if
      applicable), location, and (if applicable) organization and location of attachment,
      followed by the component. Example: 9019th ARS (ARPC), 6760 East Irvington Place,
      Denver CO 80280 w/Atch unit at 12 FTW, Randolph AFB TX (Non-EAD).
      1.4.7.8. A Limited EAD program member on EAD under Title 10, U.S.C. Section
      12301(d), enter organizational designation, MAJCOM (if applicable), location, and (if
      applicable) organization and location of attachment, followed by the component.
      Example: 9019th ARS (ARPC), 6760 East Irvington Place, Denver CO 80280 w/Atch
      unit at 12 FTW, Randolph AFB TX (LEAD).
   1.4.8. Duty Air Force Specialty Code (DAFSC). The DAFSC is based on the unit manning
   document (UMD) authorization or the unit personnel management roster (UMPR) position.
      1.4.8.1. Officers: Use the DAFSC the officer is approved for by HQ AFPC and assigned
      against as of the close-out (“Thru”) date of the evaluation, as reflected on the evaluation
      notice. This is not to be confused with an officer’s awarded AFSCs (PAFSC, 2AFSC,
      etc.). If the DAFSC listed on the evaluation notice is incorrect, initiate corrective action
      immediately, annotate the correct DAFSC on the notice, and attach a copy of the
      documentation reflecting the requested change to the evaluation notice. MPS personnel
      must confirm the requested change was approved and that the effective date of the change
      was on or before the close-out date of the evaluation before forwarding the evaluation to
      HQ AFPC/HQ ARPC. If the requested change has not been approved by the date the
      evaluation is ready to send to HQ AFPC/HQ ARPC, MPS personnel must change the
      DAFSC on the evaluation to match the DAFSC approved in the personnel data system
      (and should advise the unit of the change).
      1.4.8.2. Enlisted: Use the DAFSC the enlisted member is assigned against as of the
      close-out (“Thru”) date of the evaluation. It should be reflected on the evaluation notice.
      This is not to be confused with the PAFSC, CAFSC, or 2AFSC, etc. If the DAFSC listed
      on the evaluation notice is incorrect, initiate corrective action immediately, annotate the
      correct DAFSC on the notice, and attach a copy of the documentation reflecting the
      requested change to the evaluation notice. MPS personnel must ensure the correct
      information is reflected and/or updated in the system.
      1.4.8.3. An authorized 365-day extended deployment billet: Use the DAFSC assigned to
      the position and/or billet that the ratee is officially filling in the deployed location.
   1.4.9. Grade Data.
      1.4.9.1. The grade must be the grade that the ratee actually holds as of the close-out date
      of the evaluation. Even if an officer has been “frocked,” you must enter his or her actual
      grade, regardless of the billet being filled.
      1.4.9.2. Use the drop down menu to select the appropriate grade entry.
      1.4.9.3. For ANG/AFR the component will be added in Block 7 for officers, and in
      Block 5 for enlisted personnel.
16                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  1.4.10. Fitness Data.
     1.4.10.1. General Fitness Information.
         1.4.10.1.1. The fitness status, IAW AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program as of the close-out
         date will be recorded on the evaluation form.
         1.4.10.1.2. While comments regarding performance outside of the reporting period
         are normally not allowed, the rater should consider the score of the most recent
         fitness assessment when determining if member meets fitness standards, even if that
         fitness assessment occurred prior to the reporting period. Example: Member has a
         CRO report for the period of 1 Apr – 30 Oct, rater will consider a fitness assessment
         conducted 15 Feb if that is the most recent, current test.
         1.4.10.1.3. “Meets Standards” is defined as having a passing and current fitness score
         as defined IAW AFI 36-2905.
         1.4.10.1.4. “Does Not Meet Standards” is defined as having less than a passing
         fitness score, or noncurrent as defined IAW AFI 36-2905. Place an “X” in the “Does
         Not Meet Standards” block in Section III and for Physical Fitness in Section IX
         (OPR); or Section III, Block 3 (EPR). A score of less than passing, or an expired
         fitness test without a valid exemption, requires the evaluation to be referred.
         Evaluators must comment (Section IV, OPR and Section III, EPR) on a ratee who
         does not meet standards. Only in this case is the evaluator authorized to comment on
         the ratee’s fitness score and progress in the Fitness Improvement Program. In the
         case of an expired fitness test, the rater will comment that the member failed to
         remain current on their fitness test. Note: Comments on a medical condition or a
         diagnosis are prohibited.
         1.4.10.1.5. Comments regarding unit fitness achievements are authorized for Airmen
         who have a key role in the success of unit PT programs. This may include PTLs,
         UFPMs, First Sergeants, Superintendents, Section Commanders, Flight Chiefs,
         Commanders, and other members deemed integral to a particular organization's
         successful Fitness Program. Example of authorized comment: "Implemented
         rigorous squadron PT program; drove unit pass rate from 75% to 100%" or "Ensured
         accountability-98% readiness rate, zero overdue/expired tests." Note: Comments on
         an evaluation regarding an Airman's individual fitness score or fitness category
         remain prohibited.
         1.4.10.1.6. Unit commanders may request close-out date extensions of up to 59 days
         to ensure resolution of any administrative, or other significant issues. See paragraph
         1.13 for details.
     1.4.10.2. Prohibited Fitness Comments.
         1.4.10.2.1. It is prohibited to put an individual’s fitness score or fitness category on
         an OPR or EPR, unless the member does not meet standards. This does not prevent
         an evaluator from documenting referral comments in other areas outside of the fitness
         area when a member continues to display a negative attitude or has not demonstrated
         fitness improvement. In those cases, referral comments should focus on the reasons
         or behavior and will not document the score.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                         17


          1.4.10.2.2. Comments on fitness are prohibited on the AF Form 709.
          1.4.10.2.3. Do not comment on any reason for exemption.
      1.4.10.3. Fitness Exemptions. The “Exempt” block will only be marked if a ratee is
      exempt from all components of the Air Force Fitness Program IAW AFI 36-2905 on the
      close-out date.
   1.4.11. Signatures, Signature Elements and Dates.
      1.4.11.1. General Signature and Date Guidelines.
          1.4.11.1.1. Do not sign or date before the close-out. Sign on or after the close-out
          date.
          1.4.11.1.2. Do not sign before previous evaluators. Exception: When a rater or
          subsequent evaluator is across the international dateline or in cases where paragraph
          1.4.11.1.7. apply.
          1.4.11.1.3. Do not sign blank forms or forms not containing ratings.
          1.4.11.1.4. Do not use “auto-signature” pens or delegated “CAC” signatures.
          1.4.11.1.5. Do not delay signing an evaluation due to pending personnel changes,
          promotions, approval of a more prestigious duty title, and so forth.
          1.4.11.1.6. Do not “back date” the signature. Exception: If, after referring an
          evaluation to the ratee, the evaluation is reprinted for the purpose of including all
          evaluator comments or for making minor administrative corrections that don’t require
          an additional referral to the ratee, all signature dates, up to and including the referring
          official(s), should reflect the date it was originally signed. This is necessary to show
          the dates each referral action actually occurred to ensure the evaluation was properly
          processed. All evaluators, subsequent to the (last) referring official will use either
          original signature dates or current signature dates.
          1.4.11.1.7. If the Squadron Commander/Civilian Director is junior in grade to the
          Rater/Additional Rater/Reviewer, they will sign prior to the Rater/Additional
          Rater/Reviewer.
          1.4.11.1.8. If an evaluator is both the Functional/Acquisition Examiner and the Air
          Force Advisor, then both positions will be identified. Example: On the OPR/EPR,
          you would place an “X” in both blocks the examiner and the advisor block.
          1.4.11.1.9. Do not sign as “Select” unless authorized by paragraph 1.4.11.5.
      1.4.11.2. Digital Signatures and Dates.
          1.4.11.2.1. Forms must be digitally signed with a Common Access Card (CAC).
          1.4.11.2.2. Digital signatures must be used by all evaluators and reviewers, unless
          one or more of the following applies:
             1.4.11.2.2.1. The evaluation is a referral evaluation. Digital signatures are not
             authorized on referral evaluations.
             1.4.11.2.2.2. In the few instances where CACs or CAC reader access is not
             available. Example:
18                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                1.4.11.2.2.2.1. At least one evaluator does not have a CAC. If one evaluator
                or reviewer is unable to access digital signature, all evaluators and reviewers
                must “wet” sign and date the evaluation.
                1.4.11.2.2.2.2. At least one evaluator does not have access to a CAC enabled
                computer. If one evaluator or reviewer is unable to access digital signature,
                all evaluators and reviewers must “wet” sign and date the evaluation.
                1.4.11.2.2.2.3. They will be printed and signed with “wet” signatures
                (handwritten) and dates will be handwritten, stamped or typed.
        1.4.11.2.3. The form is enabled with digital signature and auto date capability.
        Forms will be auto-dated only when digital signature is applied.
        1.4.11.2.4. Evaluators cannot sign before the previous evaluator due to the security
        features associated with the digital signature capability. Example: Additional rater
        cannot sign before the rater, or the reviewer cannot sign before the additional rater
        due to security features associated with digital signature capability.
            1.4.11.2.4.1. Each evaluator’s digital signature will lock their comments and
            ratings; additionally it will unlock the digital signature feature for the next
            evaluator. Example: Rater’s digital signature will unlock the digital signature
            feature in the additional rater’s block; or the additional rater’s digital signature
            will unlock the digital signature feature in the reviewer’s block.
            1.4.11.2.4.2. The AF Advisor/Functional Examiner and unit commander/civilian
            director/other authorized reviewer digital signature capabilities are independent of
            evaluator signatures and may be signed at any point.
        1.4.11.2.5. Once transmitted to HQ AFPC through the Case Management System
        (CMS), a digitally signed form can no longer be accessed for correction. Corrections
        must be submitted through the Evaluation Reports Appeal Board (ERAB) IAW
        Chapter 10. See paragraph 10.3.
     1.4.11.3. Handwritten “Wet” Signatures and Dates. (Dates may be handwritten, stamped
     or typed).
        1.4.11.3.1. Must be payroll signature.
        1.4.11.3.2. Must be in reproducible blue or black ink.
     1.4.11.4. Signature Blocks. Use the following guidelines when entering identification
     data:
        1.4.11.4.1. Enter only the last four digits of the SSN. If the evaluator is a civilian or
        a member of a foreign service entry is OPTIONAL.
        1.4.11.4.2. When the evaluator is an Air Reserve Technician (ART) or ANG Military
        Technician use the military grade and duty title.
     1.4.11.5. General Officer (GO) Signature Blocks. The CSAF approved a standardized
     signature block for GOs to eliminate confusion for those generals performing duties at
     the higher level. This signature block will not impact the signing of legal documents for
     disciplinary (UCMJ) or pay purposes. In these instances, the member’s signature will
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        19


      reflect their rank commensurate with their pay grade.         Base legal office should be
      contacted where clarification is required.
          1.4.11.5.1. For Brig Gen:
             1.4.11.5.1.1. Selects: Upon Senate confirmation, selects may sign all evaluations
             as “Brig Gen (Sel)” if serving in a SR/reviewer position or assigned to an
             authorized Brig Gen officer position. If not in a SR/reviewer position or assigned
             to an authorized Brig Gen officer position, sign as “Col.”
             1.4.11.5.1.2. Frocked: For all evaluations sign as “Brig Gen.”
             1.4.11.5.1.3. Upon Senate confirmation of selection to Brigadier General of a
             Colonel who is already the designated senior rater for the Lieutenants through
             Majors in an organization, the ML must realign their SRIDs and re-designate the
             selectee as the SR for the Lieutenant Colonels of the organization.
          1.4.11.5.2. For Maj Gen:
             1.4.11.5.2.1. Selects: Upon Senate confirmation, selects may sign all evaluations
             as “Maj Gen (Sel).”
             1.4.11.5.2.2. Frocked: For all evaluations sign as “Maj Gen.”
          1.4.11.5.3. All Others:
             1.4.11.5.3.1. Single Evaluator. An evaluator must be an O-6 or a GS-15, YC-03
             (or equivalent) and designated as a SR appointed by the Management Level to
             close out an evaluation as a single evaluator. If the rater is a SR, the evaluation
             must close out at this level unless it is a referral evaluation. Also see definition of
             final evaluator.
             1.4.11.5.3.2. Only one general officer or equivalent will sign an evaluation as an
             evaluator/reviewer. Exception: See paragraph 1.7.1.7.
          1.4.11.5.4. Senior Executive Services (SES)/General Officer (GO) Equivalents. SES
          positions are typically GO equivalent and for some, SR positions. On evaluations, if
          an SES is a SR then a GO cannot sign the report. However, if an SES is not a SR and
          falls under a GO by their position, then both the SES and GO signatures are
          authorized on the evaluation. There can be two SES signatures on an evaluation
          report as long as only one of them is designated by the ML as a SR. SES is only
          required to use the term “SES” and the level is optional in the signature element.
          Bottom line: There can only be one SR on a report.
1.5. Evaluator Requirements.
   1.5.1. Number of Evaluators.
      1.5.1.1. OPRs will have three evaluators, unless the rater or additional rater is also the
      reviewer/senior rater.
      1.5.1.2. EPRs will have at least two evaluators, unless the rater qualifies as a single
      evaluator.
20                                                                  AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


           1.5.1.2.1. For MSgt through CMSgt, no more than three evaluators (the rater,
           additional rater, and reviewer) will evaluate the ratee’s performance.
           1.5.1.2.2. For AB through TSgt, no more than two evaluators (rater and additional
           rater) will evaluate the ratee’s performance.
        1.5.1.3. AF Form 78 and AF Form 3538 forms require two evaluators.
        1.5.1.4. PRFs and TRs only require one evaluator. Exceptions: The preceding
        requirements must be strictly adhered to, unless: commander disagrees with the ratings
        (paragraph 1.9); the evaluation is referred and the commander is not the evaluator named
        in the referral document, Referral Reviewer, (paragraph 1.10); or the reviewer is senior to
        the commander and refers the evaluation.
     1.5.2. Evaluators and Minimum Grade Requirements.
        1.5.2.1. Rater. The official in the rating chain designated by management to provide
        periodic performance feedback and initiate performance evaluations. Usually the ratee’s
        immediate supervisor.
           1.5.2.1.1. Military Raters.
               1.5.2.1.1.1. For officers. The rater must be an officer of the United States or a
               foreign military service serving in a grade equal to or higher than the ratee.
               1.5.2.1.1.2. For enlisted. The rater must be an officer or an NCO of the United
               States or a foreign military service serving in a grade equal to or higher than the
               ratee.
                   1.5.2.1.1.2.1. The rater must be at a minimum, in the grade of E-5 or higher.
                   1.5.2.1.1.2.2. Active duty SrA (E-4) may serve as raters only if they have
                   completed Airmen Leadership School.
                   1.5.2.1.1.2.3. Only non-active duty USAFR members in the grade of SSgt (E-
                   5) or above may serve as raters.
           1.5.2.1.2. Civilian Raters.
               1.5.2.1.2.1. For Officers.
                   1.5.2.1.2.1.1. Under the National Security Personnel System (NSPS) Pay
                   Schedules/Pay Bands, civilian raters must be serving in a position higher in
                   the rating chain than the ratee and, as a minimum, be in Pay Band 2 of pay
                   schedules YC, YF, YJ, YN, YA, YD, YH, YG, YK and Pay Band 3 of YL
                   pay.
                   1.5.2.1.2.1.2. Under the General Schedule (GS) system raters must be a
                   civilian serving in a grade equal to or higher than the ratee.
               1.5.2.1.2.2. For Enlisted.
                   1.5.2.1.2.2.1. A civilian rater must be at least a GS-5/Pay Band 1 or a
                   comparable grade or higher and must be in a position higher than the ratee in
                   the rating chain.
                   1.5.2.1.2.2.2. For MSgt – CMSgt. A civilian rater must be at least a GS-12 or
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       21


                 Pay Band 2 of Pay Schedule YC, YF, YJ, YN, YA, YD, YH, YG, YK or
                 equivalent or Pay Band 3 of Pay Schedule YB, YE, YI, YL or equivalent.
         1.5.2.1.3. For IMAs. The rater will not normally be another IMA. However, if
         circumstances require that an IMA must directly supervise another IMA, the rater will
         be the official appointed by management. IMAs will not rate Active Duty personnel,
         under any circumstances.
         1.5.2.1.4. Management may appoint a rater of the United States or a foreign military
         service serving in the same grade as the ratee without regard to date of rank.
      1.5.2.2. Additional Rater (Rater’s Rater).
         1.5.2.2.1. The official designated by management to provide periodic feedback and
         initiate a performance evaluation on a rater and will be no higher in organization than
         the reviewer/senior rater.
         1.5.2.2.2. The second evaluator in the rating chain, after the rater, to endorse a
         performance evaluation. The second evaluator in the rating chain must be the rater’s
         rater unless paragraph 1.7. or one of the exceptions listed in the definition of Rating
         Chain in Attachment 1 applies.
         1.5.2.2.3. Military Additional Raters.
             1.5.2.2.3.1. For officers. The additional rater must be an officer of the United
             States or a foreign military service serving in a grade equal to or higher than the
             rater, and in a grade higher than the ratee. An O-6 of the United States or a
             foreign military service may be the additional rater for an O-6.
             1.5.2.2.3.2. For enlisted.
                 1.5.2.2.3.2.1. When the rater’s rater does not meet this requirement, the
                 additional rater will be the next evaluator in the rating (supervisory) chain that
                 meets the requirement.
                 1.5.2.2.3.2.2. The additional rater will also be considered the final evaluator
                 unless:
                   1.5.2.2.3.2.2.1. The rater qualifies as a single evaluator.
                   1.5.2.2.3.2.2.2. The additional rater refers the evaluation.
                   1.5.2.2.3.2.2.3. The ratee is TIG eligible and the report is forwarded for a
                   senior rater endorsement.
                 1.5.2.2.3.2.3. For AB through TSgt (AF Form 910). The additional rater
                 must be an officer, SNCO (E-7 or above) of the United States or a foreign
                 military service serving in a grade equal to or higher than the rater.
                 1.5.2.2.3.2.4. For MSgt through CMSgt (AF Form 911). The additional rater
                 must be SNCO (E-7) or above; or an officer of the United States or a foreign
                 military service serving in a grade equal to or higher than the rater.
         1.5.2.2.4. Civilian Additional Raters.
             1.5.2.2.4.1. For Officers. The additional rater must be an officer of the United
22                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


            States or a foreign military service serving in a civilian grade equivalent equal to
            or higher than the rater, and in a grade higher than the ratee.
               1.5.2.2.4.1.1. Under the National Security Personnel System (NSPS) Pay
               Schedules/Pay Bands, civilian additional raters must as a minimum, be in Pay
               Band 2 of pay schedules YC, YF, YJ, YN, YA, YD, YH, YG, YK and Pay
               Band 3 of YL pay.
               1.5.2.2.4.1.2. Under the General Schedule (GS) system additional raters must
               be at least a GS-9 or equivalent for company grade officers and GS-11 or
               equivalent for field grade officers.
            1.5.2.2.4.2. For enlisted. A civilian additional rater must be serving in a civilian
            grade equivalent, equal to or higher than the rater.
               1.5.2.2.4.2.1. For TSgt and below. A civilian additional rater must be at least
               a GS-7 or Pay Band 1 of Pay Schedule YC, YF, YJ, YL, OR YN, OR Pay
               Band 2 of any nonsupervisory Pay Schedule or equivalent.
               1.5.2.2.4.2.2. For MSgt – CMSgt. A civilian additional rater must be at least
               a GS-12 or Pay Band 2 of Pay Schedule YC, YF, YJ, YN, YA, YD, YH, YG,
               YK or equivalent or Pay Band 3 of Pay Schedule YB, YE, YI, YL or
               equivalent.
        1.5.2.2.5. For ANG/USAFR AGR personnel AB through TSgt. The additional rater
        will be the full-time supervisor of the rater. The additional rater for AB through TSgt
        will be of the United States or a foreign military service serving in the grade of MSgt
        (E-7) or above or civilian equivalent. The additional rater for MSgt through CMSgt
        must be at least a Captain (O-3) or civilian equivalent of the United States or a
        foreign military service.
        1.5.2.2.6. For EAD officers and all IMAs. The additional rater is defined in the
        paragraphs above and must be in the active duty rating chain.
     1.5.2.3. Reviewer/Senior Rater/Final Evaluator. All senior raters must be the person
     holding the senior rater position designated by the Management Level (ML) for the
     ratee’s assigned organizational Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) (see paragraphs
     8.1.4.3.1 and 8.1.4.3.2).
        1.5.2.3.1. Senior Raters/Reviewer/Final Evaluator.    Note:    The Head of a
        Management Level (normally MAJCOM/CC) must designate all SR positions.
        Appointment of command (G-Series orders) does not authorize Senior Rater status.
            1.5.2.3.1.1. For officers. The reviewer must be the ratee’s senior rater and will be
            the final evaluator on the OPR. Exceptions: When the rater or additional rater is
            also the senior rater, the OPR will close-out at this level (see Table 3.1). Also,
            when a senior rater refers the evaluation, the officer named in the referral
            memorandum becomes the final evaluator, unless he/she refers the evaluation
            again (see paragraph 1.10. and Table 3.1.). See definitions of Reviewer, Senior
            Rater, Final Evaluator and Rating Chain in Attachment 1 for additional
            information.
               1.5.2.3.1.1.1. For Lieutenant Colonels and Colonels (except ANG).            The
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   23


                reviewer must be the first general officer (includes a Brigadier General select
                confirmed by the senate), or equivalent, in the rating chain who has been
                designated as a senior rater by the ML.
                1.5.2.3.1.1.2. For Lieutenants through Majors (except ANG). The reviewer
                must be the first Colonel (or equivalent) in a wing commander (or equivalent)
                position who has been designated as a senior rater, as determined by the ML.
                1.5.2.3.1.1.3. For ANG Colonels, the first GO in the rating chain will review
                the OPR.
                1.5.2.3.1.1.4. For ANG officers, Lieutenant Colonel and below, the reviewer
                will be the wing or group commander. For a member assigned to a unit where
                there is no parent wing or group headquarters in-state, the state Adjutant
                General will establish an equivalent command-level review authority.
                1.5.2.3.1.1.5. HQ AFRC may deviate and assign SR levels as appropriate for
                USAFR unit assigned Majors and below.
            1.5.2.3.1.2. For enlisted.
                1.5.2.3.1.2.1. MSgt through CMSgt. The reviewer/final evaluator must be, at
                a minimum, an officer serving in the grade of O-4, civilian equivalent, (GS-
                12/ Supervisory Pay Band 2), or higher, but no higher in organization than the
                senior rater. For ANG AGR enlisted personnel, the final endorser must be the
                full-time unit commander. If there is no full-time unit commander, the final
                endorser will be the senior full-time officer. Exception: The CMSAF or a
                CMSgt serving as the Vice Commandant of the College of Enlisted
                Professional Military Education (PME) may endorse EPRs as a senior rater’s
                deputy and may also be the reviewer/final evaluator.
                1.5.2.3.1.2.2. An additional rater who meets the minimum grade requirement
                may close out the evaluation. However, an official higher in the rating chain
                than the additional rater, may serve as the reviewer/final evaluator, if
                authorized. In any case, the reviewer/final evaluator may not be higher in the
                organizational structure than the senior rater.
                1.5.2.3.1.2.3. If the member is time-in-grade (TIG) eligible for a senior rater
                endorsement see paragraph 3.1.11 and Table 3.10.
         1.5.2.3.2. Civilian Raters
            1.5.2.3.2.1. For officers.
                1.5.2.3.2.1.1. For Majors and below. A civilian SR/Reviewer/Final Evaluator
                must be serving as a wing commander or equivalent in a SR position
                designated by the Management Level and at least a GS-15, or Pay Band 3 of
                Pay Schedule YC, YF, YJ, YN, YA, YD, YH, YG, YK or Pay Band 4 of Pay
                Schedule YL.
                1.5.2.3.2.1.2. For Lieutenant Colonels and Colonels. A civilian SR must be
                the first SES or equivalent in the rating chain in a SR position designated by
                the Management Level.
 24                                                                  AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


              1.5.2.3.2.2. For enlisted.
                   1.5.2.3.2.2.1. For MSgt – CMSgt. A civilian final reviewer must be at least a
                   GS-12 or Pay Band 2 of Pay Schedule YC, YF, YJ, YN, YA, YD, YH, YG,
                   YK or equivalent or Pay Band 3 of Pay Schedule YB, YE, YI, YL or
                   equivalent.
                   1.5.2.3.2.2.2. For MSgt – CMSgt. A civilian SR must be serving as a wing
                   commander or equivalent, in a SR position designated by the Management
                   Level and at least a GS-15, or Pay Band 3 of Pay YC, YF, YJ, YN, YA, YD,
                   YH, YG, YK, or Pay Band 4 of Pay Schedule YL if closing out an evaluation.
1.6. Responsibilities.
   1.6.1. General Evaluator/Reviewer Responsibilities. All evaluators and reviewers are
   responsible for performing an administrative review of all evaluations and if necessary,
   return them for correction/completion before sending them to the next level. As a minimum,
   this review must ensure:
       1.6.1.1. All applicable blocks are completed (marked, dated, and signed).
       1.6.1.2. Evaluations contain accurate information (particularly in the ratee identification
       and job description sections).
       1.6.1.3. Spelling accuracy and proper bullet structure.
       1.6.1.4. Evaluations do not contain inappropriate comments or recommendations.
       1.6.1.5. The information in the evaluation is accurate and not inflated.
       1.6.1.6. Evaluations are properly referred, when necessary.
       1.6.1.7. Evaluations are accomplished IAW this AFI.
   1.6.2. Rater.
       1.6.2.1. Must have a minimum number of days supervision; see the applicable Table for
       the type of evaluation be prepared.
       1.6.2.2. Ensures the ratee is aware of who is in his or her rating chain.
       1.6.2.3. Must provide feedback IAW Chapter 2. Official documented feedback does not
       preclude a rater from performing day-to-day verbal feedback. Additionally, raters are
       required to perform feedback at the time the evaluation is presented to the ratee. This
       feedback, at the time the evaluation is presented, may be, but is not required to be
       officially documented on a PFW. If geographically separated, feedbacks can be
       performed electronically or telephonically.
       1.6.2.4. Must consider the contents of any Unfavorable Information File (UIF) and/or
       Personal Information File (PIF), if applicable, before preparing the performance
       evaluation.
       1.6.2.5. Assesses and documents the ratee’s performance, what the ratee did, how well
       he or she did it, and the ratee’s potential based on that performance, throughout the rating
       period. The rater differentiates through an evaluation of performance.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       25


      1.6.2.6. Gets meaningful information from the ratee and as many sources as possible (i.e.
      LOEs from those who previously supervised the ratee during the reporting period, the
      First Sergeant, etc.), especially when the rater cannot observe the ratee personally. The
      ratee is encouraged to provide the rater with inputs on specific accomplishments. For
      Reservists, they should provide information to the supervisor to assist in the preparation
      of the evaluation. This may include end-of-tour evaluations.
      1.6.2.7. Considers the significance and frequency of incidents (including isolated
      instances of poor or outstanding performance) when assessing total performance.
      1.6.2.8. Differentiates between ratees with similar performance records; especially when
      making promotion, stratification, assignment, Developmental Education (DE) and
      retention recommendations when not prohibited by this AFI or other special program
      specific guidance.
      1.6.2.9. Although some evaluators may not know any other ratee serving in a particular
      grade and Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), they may rate according to their opinions
      and impressions of the general level of performance of Air Force personnel in the various
      grades.
      1.6.2.10. Records the ratee’s performance for the rating period on the applicable form.
      1.6.2.11. A rater’s failure to perform one or more of the above responsibilities alone will
      not form the basis for a successful appeal.
   1.6.3. Additional Rater.
      1.6.3.1. There is no minimum number of days supervision required. Exception: See
      paragraph 1.7.2.
      1.6.3.2. Must be aware of the contents of any UIF and/or PIF, if applicable, and returns
      evaluation to the rater for reconsideration, if appropriate, to ensure an accurate, unbiased,
      and an uninflated evaluation.
      1.6.3.3. Completes Section V of the OPR or Section VI of the EPR by concurring or
      nonconcurring with the rater and making comments.
      1.6.3.4. Assumes the responsibilities of the rater when paragraph 1.7. applies. Note:
      This does not include PCS, PCA, Separation or Retirement of the rater.
      1.6.3.5. See paragraph 1.7. if the additional rater changes after the close out date of the
      evaluation.
   1.6.4. Reviewer/Senior Rater/Final Evaluator. See paragraph 1.5.2.3.
      1.6.4.1. There is no minimum number of days supervision required.
      1.6.4.2. Must be aware of the contents of any Unfavorable Information File (UIF) and/or
      Personal Information File (PIF), if applicable, and returns evaluation to the rater for
      reconsideration, if appropriate, to ensure an accurate, unbiased, and an uninflated
      evaluation.
      1.6.4.3. Obtains additional information, if necessary, from competent sources such as the
      ratee’s second and third line supervisor, etc.
26                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


        1.6.4.4. When appropriate, nonconcurs with previous evaluators and makes comments.
        1.6.4.5. Approves (SR) unit mission descriptions for the PRF.
        1.6.4.6. Directs the additional rater to assume rater’s responsibilities when paragraph 1.7.
        applies.
        1.6.4.7. Completes performance evaluations as required. See applicable chapters and/or
        references cited in paragraph 1.2.1.
     1.6.5. First Sergeant or Designated SNCO.
        1.6.5.1. Will not assume rater/additional rater responsibilities. Exception: There is
        absolutely no one else available.
        1.6.5.2. Will be aware of the contents of the UIF and/or PIF if applicable, on all enlisted
        evaluations and returns the evaluation to the rater for reconsideration, if appropriate, to
        ensure an accurate, unbiased, and an uninflated evaluation.
        1.6.5.3. Will review all enlisted evaluations before the commander’s review and advise
        the commander of any quality force indicators. Not applicable for ANG.
     1.6.6. Unit Commander, Civilian Director or Other Senior Official Designated in Writing.
        1.6.6.1. Conducts the commander’s review on EPRs (see Table 3.2.).
        1.6.6.2. Must be aware of the contents of any Unfavorable Information File (UIF) and/or
        Personal Information File (PIF), if applicable, and returns the evaluation to the rater for
        reconsideration, if appropriate, to ensure an accurate, unbiased, and an uninflated
        evaluation.
        1.6.6.3. The review will be conducted only by the administrative commander/civilian
        directors/other authorized reviewers. Example: Civilians who lead units in a squadron
        commander position, commanders/squadron section commanders, or in their absence, an
        officer so designated on G-series orders having administrative jurisdiction(i.e., control
        roster action, Article 15 jurisdiction, etc.) of the ratee’s assigned organization. See
        Attachment 1 for definitions.
        1.6.6.4. Flight commanders do not qualify. See paragraph 1.7.1.2.
        1.6.6.5. Commandants for SNCOA/NCOA designated in writing by the commander may
        perform the commander’s review on EPRs.
        1.6.6.6. Manages the performance evaluation program for the organization.
        1.6.6.7. Ensures all evaluations accurately describe performance and make realistic
        recommendations for advancement.
        1.6.6.8. Prepares and maintains the unit mission description for the PRF.
        1.6.6.9. Determines the rating chain for assigned personnel based on Air Force and ML
        policy.
            1.6.6.9.1. The ratee’s parent ML must approve rating chains that involve evaluators
            from other MLs.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     27


          1.6.6.9.2. The following applies to flight commander and flight chief rating chains
          and applies to both the operational and functional communities. When an officer
          heads a flight, the position is flight commander and is rated by the squadron
          commander. When an enlisted person or civilian heads a flight, the position is a
          flight chief.
          1.6.6.9.3. NAFs: Support functions (i.e., protocol, comptroller, public affairs, and
          historian) and Director of Staff positions not be placed in NAFs. Support functions
          will be obtained from the host wing (i.e., authorizations are within the host wing with
          assigned personnel working for the wing as well as supporting the NAF) and that
          Director of Staff positions are limited to MAJCOM Headquarters. The rating
          chain/Senior Rater for the individuals filling these support billets originates and
          resides in the wings, not the NAF.
          1.6.6.9.4. For rating chain deviations see paragraph 1.7.
      1.6.6.10. Ensures first-time supervisors receive specific, mandatory training within 60
      days of being assigned supervisory duties and ensures all unit members receive general
      OES/EES training on a recurring basis. To assist commanders in fulfilling this
      responsibility, the OES/EES Training Guides were developed and are available on the
      Evaluations Web site through the HQ AFPC Web Page.
      1.6.6.11. Ensures that no member is in the rating chain of his or her spouse or other
      relative.
      1.6.6.12. Ensures the first sergeant (or designated senior NCO) conducts a quality force
      review on all EPRs before conducting the commander’s review.
   1.6.7. Functional Examiner, Acquisition Examiner and Air Force Advisor.
      1.6.7.1. Functional/Acquisition Examiner/Air Force Advisor Block
          1.6.7.1.1. For evaluations that do not include an examiner/advisor block, an AF Form
          77 will be completed.
          1.6.7.1.2. Functional/Acquisition Examiners or Air Force Advisors who desire to
          make comments may attach an AF Form 77.
          1.6.7.1.3. Comments are not mandatory. However if used, the intent of these
          comments are to provide clarification and ensure the evaluation is written in
          accordance with Air Force policy and standards in a joint environment or to clarify
          functional or acquisition-related considerations; not to list additional
          accomplishments or voice disagreement with an evaluator’s assessment. Comments
          are limited to five lines.
          1.6.7.1.4. Functional/Acquisition Examiners or Air Force Advisors will not change
          any statement or rating on the performance evaluation.
          1.6.7.1.5. The AF Form 77 will be prepared and electronically forwarded along with
          the electronic evaluation.
          1.6.7.1.6. If the Functional/Acquisition Examiner and the Air Force Advisor are both
          the same person, both positions will be indicated; both the Functional Examiner and
          Air Force Advisor blocks will be marked on the OPR/EPR. For evaluations that do
28                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


        not include the Examiner/Advisor block, i.e. TRs, the Examiner/Advisor will indicate
        both positions on the AF Form 77.
        1.6.7.1.7. When the Examiner and Advisor are two different people on an OPR/EPR,
        the person who receives the evaluation first will complete the Functional
        Examiner/Air Force Advisor block on the OPR/EPR and the next person will
        complete an AF Form 77. For evaluations that do not include the Examiner/Advisor
        block, (i.e. TRs), an AF Form 77 will be prepared for each.
     1.6.7.2. Air Force Advisor Program.
        1.6.7.2.1. When the final evaluator on an OPR, EPR or TR is not an Air Force
        military member or civilian employee, an Air Force Advisor will be designated to
        advise raters on matters pertaining to Air Force performance evaluations. Exception:
        When the ratee is a Non-EAD ANG officer.
            1.6.7.2.1.1. Normally, a senior Air Force military member on duty with the
            activity or agency assumes this position. However, the Management Level (ML)
            may designate any Air Force member or DAF official meeting the grade
            requirement with the activity or agency to serve as advisor.
            1.6.7.2.1.1.1. For officers, the advisor will be serving in the grade of colonel or
            above.
        1.6.7.2.1.1.2. For senior NCOs, the advisor will be serving in the grade of major or
        above.
        1.6.7.2.1.1.3. For TSgts and below, the advisor will be serving in the grade of MSgt
        or above.
               1.6.7.2.1.1.4. For IMAs and participating IRR members, the advisor is the
               person appointed by the ML for the active force.
            1.6.7.2.1.2. Where an agency (i.e., DoD departments, non-Air Force schools or
            units, etc.) has only one Air Force member assigned, the ML for that activity
            appoints an advisor.
            1.6.7.2.1.3. If the commander or other senior official designated in writing by the
            commander who completes the "commander's review" on an EPR is senior to the
            last evaluator on the evaluation, (or is also the designated advisor for the unit),
            and is an Air Force officer or DAF official who meets the grade requirement in
            paragraph 1.6.6.3 the commander doesn't need to complete an advisor statement.
        1.6.7.2.2. The advisor will sign after the final evaluator regardless of rank.
        1.6.7.2.3. An Air Force Advisor will have, or be able to obtain, knowledge of the
        ratee, be higher in grade than the ratee, and, when feasible, be equal to or higher in
        grade than the senior rater (officers) or final evaluator (enlisted). Additionally, an O-
        6 cannot sign on another O-6.
        1.6.7.2.4. If the last evaluator, the Air Force Advisor sends the performance
        evaluation to the rater to finalize the evaluation.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    29


      1.6.7.3. Functional Examiner. Designated to ensure functional oversight is provided for
      individuals in specific career fields. The Examiner accomplishes the examination after
      the entire rating chain has completed the performance evaluation. If an Air Force
      Advisor review is also required, the examiner forwards the evaluation to the advisor.
      Otherwise, the examiner forwards the evaluation to the rater to finalize the evaluation.
      (Note: The examiner will not change any statement or rating on an evaluation nor will
      any comments be used for accolades, recommendations, etc. If comments are used the
      examiner is limited to five lines placed on AF Form 77).
      1.6.7.4. Acquisition Examiner.
         1.6.7.4.1. In accordance with Title 10 U.S.C. Section 1722 (g), an opportunity is
         provided for review and inclusion of comments on any performance evaluation of a
         person serving in an acquisition position by a person serving in an acquisition
         position in the same acquisition career field. In most instances, this opportunity is
         inherent in the completion of the performance evaluation by acquisition officers in the
         rating chain. However, in the event neither the rater, additional rater, nor reviewer
         are on acquisition-coded positions in the same acquisition position category, the ratee
         may request that the performance evaluation be examined by a qualified acquisition
         officer from outside the rating chain (i.e., an Acquisition Examiner).
         1.6.7.4.2. Review by an Acquisition Examiner is completed only when the ratee
         requests a review, and is filling an acquisition-coded position and neither the rater,
         additional rater nor reviewer are on a coded position in the same acquisition position
         category.
         1.6.7.4.3. Acquisition positions are identified on the unit manpower document and
         are also identified on the evaluation notice generated when an evaluation is required.
         1.6.7.4.4. The Acquisition Examiner must be a person in an acquisition-coded
         position within the same acquisition position category as the ratee. If the ML does
         not have anyone who meets the criteria herein, the ML can forward the evaluation to
         the Air Staff functional or SAF/AQX to identify an acquisition examiner. The
         minimum grade of the examiner will be:
             1.6.7.4.4.1. O-6 or civilian equivalent on a Critical Acquisition Position (for
             officers).
             1.6.7.4.4.2. O-4 or civilian equivalent (for enlisted).
         1.6.7.4.5. The Acquisition Examiner accomplishes the acquisition examination after
         the entire rating chain has completed the performance evaluation and reflects the
         examination in Section VII of the AF Form 707 and AF Form 910, and in Section X
         of the AF Form 911.
         1.6.7.4.6. Comments are not mandatory, but if desired for clarification about
         acquisition-related considerations, the examiner prepares an AF Form 77 according
         to Table 4.1. for attachment to the performance evaluation. The examiner will not
         change any statement or rating on the evaluation, nor will an AF Form 77 be used
         simply to include additional comments, accolades, recommendations, etc. If used,
         comments are limited to five lines.
30                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  1.6.8. Ratee.
        1.6.8.1. The ratee is equally responsible for ensuring they know their rating chain and
        that they receive feedback IAW Chapter 2.
        1.6.8.2. For OPR/EPR responsibilities see Chapter 3.
        1.6.8.3. For PRF responsibilities see Chapter 8.
        1.6.8.4. For appeals see Chapter 10.
        1.6.8.5. Ratee Review. Some evaluations require the evaluation to be reviewed by the
        ratee prior to becoming a matter of record. This is the time to review for typos, spelling
        and inaccurate data and bring it to the attention of the rater. However, if the data is
        administratively accurate and it is just a matter where the ratee disagrees with the content,
        the rater is not required to change their assessment. When the ratee signs the evaluation,
        he or she is not concurring with the content, rather they are acknowledging that the rater
        has performed a feedback session in conjunction with presenting them with the
        evaluation and they have reviewed the evaluation for administrative errors. If the ratee
        disagrees with the content (comments and/or ratings) they may file an appeal IAW
        Chapter 10, after the evaluation becomes a matter of record. Note: A PFW is not
        required at this time; the OPR/EPR is the official documentation of the feedback.
     1.6.9. Base Level Military Personnel Section.
        1.6.9.1. The MPS will administer the base Officer/Enlisted Evaluations System
        (OES/EES) for units and Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) under their control.
        This includes reviewing all evaluations for administrative accuracy and policy
        compliance prior to forwarding the evaluation to AFPC/ARPC.           Exception:
        USAFR/ANG MPSs process evaluations IAW PSD Handbook.
        1.6.9.2. Send performance evaluation notices to the rater and, when applicable, attach
        any Letters of Evaluation (LOEs) for the reporting period to the notices.
        1.6.9.3. Provide technical assistance to the commander and evaluators.
        1.6.9.4. When applicable, update data into the appropriate system according to the PSD
        handbook.
        1.6.9.5. When applicable, evaluations will be routed within the unit and MPS through
        final processing and then forwarded to AFPC or ARPC as appropriate, via the CMS
        evaluation application or the vPC-GR for digitally signed evaluations. Wet signature
        evaluations headed to AFPC will be hand carried or mailed. Wet signature evaluations
        headed to ARPC will be scanned via vPC-GR or CMS with certified true statement.
        1.6.9.6. When applicable, ensure all hard copy evaluations (previous edition and current
        edition) are updated in the appropriate system and distributed in accordance with Table
        3.5., Table 3.6., and Table 3.9.
  1.6.10. Major Commands (MAJCOM). Unless specifically stated elsewhere in this AFI the
  MAJCOM has limited responsibilities.
  1.6.11. The Management Level (ML) and their servicing personnel activity.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                  31


      1.6.11.1. Designate senior rater positions and determine civilian equivalency for senior
      rater designations. Note: If CV is assuming CC responsibilities and the ML wants them
      to have senior rater responsibilities, the ML must appoint the CV senior rater
      responsibilities.
      1.6.11.2. Manage the performance evaluation program for their activity, and at their
      option, quality review OPRs and return them for correction, when necessary.
      1.6.11.3. Print copies of digitally signed evaluations from the Automated Records
      Management System (ARMS). Exception: See Table 3.5., Table 3.6., and Table 3.9.
      1.6.11.4. Approve evaluators to be from a different ML than that of the ratee IAW ML
      policy.
      1.6.11.5. Appoint Air Force Advisors in writing and ensure these individuals are current
      on evaluation policies and procedures.
      1.6.11.6. Appoint Acquisition Examiners and establish OPR routing procedures when
      the examination cannot be accomplished within the existing rating chain.
   1.6.12. United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services
   (USAF/A1). Establishes and approves policy regarding the Air Force Officer/Enlisted
   Evaluations System (OES/EES).
   1.6.13. Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center Evaluation Programs Section (HQ
   AFPC/DPSIDEP).
      1.6.13.1. Manages the Air Force Officer/Enlisted Evaluations System (OES/EES)
      program Air Force-wide.
      1.6.13.2. Receives all active duty digitally signed evaluations via CMS, and wet signed
      evaluations via mail.
      1.6.13.3. Reviews all referral evaluations on officers (lieutenant through lieutenant
      colonel), SNCOs and a random selection of all other evaluations for compliance with
      policy directives and this instruction. When necessary, returns them for correction.
      1.6.13.4. Forwards all Active Duty evaluations to ARMS.
      1.6.13.5. File the OPR in the HQ USAF OSR and file the EPR (MSgts through SMSgts)
      in the NSR. Colonels/CMSgt evaluations will be filed with AF/DPO and DPE.
   1.6.14. Headquarters Air Force Reserve Personnel Center (HQ ARPC).
      1.6.14.1. Manages the performance evaluation program for Active Guard/Reserve
      (AGR), LEAD members, Non-EAD officers, and enlisted members Air Force-wide.
      NGB/A1P will provide guidance on the performance evaluation program for enlisted
      personnel.
      1.6.14.2. Receives all evaluations for Active Guard/Reserve (AGR), LEAD members,
      Non-EAD officers/enlisted members.
      1.6.14.3. Reviews all referral evaluations on officers (lieutenant through colonel),
      SNCOs and a random selection for AGR, LEAD members, non-EAD officers/enlisted
      members and return them for correction, if necessary.
 32                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      1.6.14.4. Updates all evaluations into MILPDS.
      1.6.14.5. Forwards evaluations to ARMS at ARPC.
      1.6.14.6. Files evaluation in the OSR at HQ ARPC.
   1.6.15. Joint Forces Headquarters Human Resources Office (HQ/HRO). Joint Forces
   Headquarters, Human Resource Office, in coordination with each assigned wing, will be
   responsible for effectively managing the performance evaluation program for applicable
   AGR enlisted personnel.
1.7. Rating Chain Deviations and Evaluator Changes. Does not apply to rater changes due to
PCS, PCA, Separation or Retirement of the rater. Raters who are about to, or have PCS’d,
PCA’d, Separated or Retired will still accomplish the evaluations they are responsible for.
   1.7.1. Rating Chain Deviations.
      1.7.1.1. The commander determines the rating chain for assigned personnel based on Air
      Force and Management Level (ML) policy. The ratee’s parent ML must approve rating
      chains that involve evaluators from other MLs. Note: Commanders may deviate from
      the normal (supervisory) rating chain only when necessary to meet grade requirements or
      to accommodate unique organizational structures and situations where personnel are
      temporarily loaned or matrixed to other activities outside the ratee’s assigned PAS. It is
      prohibited to make rating chain deviations (such as skipping an evaluator) solely for
      reasons of convenience. Example: Do not skip a rater’s rater who is temporarily
      unavailable (on leave, TDY, etc.). Do not skip a rater’s rater for the sole purpose of
      affording another official in the supervisory chain (i.e., the rater’s rater’s rater or the
      senior rater) the opportunity to endorse or comment in an evaluation.
          1.7.1.1.1. Associate Unit: A unit which integrates members or units of one
          component of the Air Force with members or units of another component of the Air
          Force to accomplish the USAF mission (e.g., Air Force Reserve (AFR)/Air National
          Guard (ANG) with the Regular Force). In these cases, evaluation rating chains may
          involve different AF components and shall normally be written by the member’s day-
          to-day supervisor with additional rater IAW affected ML direction. However,
          evaluations must be returned to the member's ADCON commander/reviewer/senior
          rater to finalize the evaluation/endorsement. This allows for maximum operational
          integration and reporting accuracy while still meeting administrative (PAS code
          driven) requirements. NOTE: When the above rating chain scheme is used, all other
          evaluation policies/procedures still apply (i.e. only one senior rater and one general
          officer on a report, etc).
      1.7.1.2. Flight Commander/Flight Chief Rating Chains. For flight commander and flight
      chief rating chains, when an officer heads a flight, the position is flight commander and is
      rated by the squadron commander. When an enlisted person or civilian heads a flight, the
      position is a flight chief. Applicable to both the operational and the functional
      communities.
      1.7.1.3. Assigned to the Air Force Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
      (AFISR): The evaluations of the NSA field site directors at NSA/CSS/HR Specialist/HR
      Specialist Texas, Misawa Cryptologic Group, and Menwith Hill Station will have
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        33


      DIRNSA as the additional rater. The reviewer for these evaluations will be AFISR/CC.
      This will result in the reviewer being lower in rank than the additional rater. In this case,
      enter the applicable mandatory statement IAW paragraph 1.11.5.1. in the feedback
      comment section of the evaluation.
      1.7.1.4. ISR Groups in USAFE, PACAF and ACC. Rating Chains/Signature Authorities
      for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) Groups, the 480 IW/CC will rate
      the ISR group commanders. The supported NAF commander will be the additional rater
      and senior rater/reviewer. Management Level will be the respective supported MAJCOM
      commander. AFISRA/CC will endorse each officer’s report in the Functional
      Examiner/Air Force Advisor block. This policy will apply to current and future ISR
      groups and 480 IW with the same configuration. This exception to policy applies only to
      ISR Group Commanders. All other ISR personnel will follow their normal rating chains
      IAW this instruction.
      1.7.1.5. Senior Defense Official/Defense Attaché (SDO/DATT) Program in PACOM
      Area of Responsibility.
         1.7.1.5.1. SDO/DATT personnel will be rated by Director, DIA.
         1.7.1.5.2. SDO/DATT personnel will be additional rated by COCOM.
         1.7.1.5.3. For individuals owned by COCOM, normal processing procedures apply.
         Reviewer statement will read IAW paragraph 1.11.3. PRFs in these cases, will be
         accomplished by COCOM.
         1.7.1.5.4. For individuals owned by DIA, reviewer statement will read IAW
         paragraph 1.11.3. and comments will still be allowed in the additional rater block by
         COCOM.
         1.7.1.5.5. Enter the required statement IAW paragraph 1.11.5.1. on all evaluations.
      1.7.1.6. If the grade of the home station senior rater is lower than the deployed rater, (i.e.
      deployed rater is an O-7 and the home station senior rater is an O-6), enter the required
      statement IAW paragraph 1.11.5.2.
      1.7.1.7. Currently paragraph 1.4.11.5.3.2., prohibits multiple general officer from serving
      as evaluators on performance evaluations. However, for those personnel filling an
      authorized 365-day deployment billet multiple general officers is authorized. When
      applicable, enter the required statement IAW paragraph 1.11.5.1.
      1.7.1.8. The senior rater is normally the ranking evaluator on the evaluation. However,
      for personnel filling an authorized 365-day extended deployment billet, this may not
      always be the case. Therefore when applicable, enter the required statement IAW
      paragraph 1.11.5.2. in the feedback section of the evaluation.
      1.7.1.9. In cases where the rater is a general officer (single evaluator) on an evaluation
      written on an individual filling an authorized 365-day deployment billet, enter the
      statement required IAW paragraph 1.11.3.
      1.7.1.10. General Officers signing referral reports. If the senior rater is a general officer,
      and is the evaluator who refers the evaluation, the referral document will be the senior
      rater’s rater regardless of rank. Enter the required statement IAW paragraph 1.11.5.1.
34                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  1.7.2. Removal of Evaluator from Rating Chain. Evaluators are not removed from the rating
  chain based solely on a rating disagreement; nor are they removed from their evaluator
  responsibilities automatically. In most cases, being removed from duties for cause often has
  no effect on the rater’s ability to render fair and accurate evaluations on subordinates;
  therefore the evaluator will still be responsible for the evaluations of their subordinates. For
  example, being relieved from a high-visibility job due to a non-duty related incident should
  not automatically result in the member also being relieved of evaluator responsibilities since
  there is no threat of reprisal towards subordinates.
     1.7.2.1. If it is determined that removal from evaluator responsibilities are necessary, the
     removing evaluator must provide written notification of the action to the evaluator being
     removed, with information copies to the removed evaluator’s immediate subordinate(s)
     and any other evaluators in the rating chain, through and including the senior rater. This
     action must be accomplished, and the evaluator being removed must acknowledge receipt
     within 30 days from the date, or the date of discovery, of the incident that lead to the
     removal from evaluator responsibilities.
     1.7.2.2. If the rater has died, is missing in action, captured or detained in captive status,
     incapacitated, or when directed by the reviewer/senior rater (officers) or commander
     (enlisted) because the rater is formally relieved from duties as an evaluator or relieved
     from duty for cause, the additional rater assumes the responsibilities and acquires the
     number of days supervision/feedback dates of the original rater. When this occurs, a
     statement explaining why the rater did not prepare the evaluation must be included in the
     feedback portion of the evaluation, Section VI (OPR) or Section V (EPR).
         1.7.2.2.1. Evaluations already prepared by a rater under these circumstances are
         working copies and may be re-accomplished unless they have become a matter of
         record.
         1.7.2.2.2. There is no minimum number of days supervision required for the
         Additional Rater. However, if the additional rater has insufficient knowledge to
         prepare the evaluation for the required period of supervision, he or she must gather
         knowledge of the ratee's duty performance from all available, reliable sources (First
         Sergeant, former supervisors, etc.).
     1.7.2.3. In some instances (Example:                  When the additional rater is
     physically/geographically separated from the ratee), it may be more practical or desirable
     for another individual who has current personal knowledge of the ratee to assume the
     rater’s responsibilities. In this case, the unit commander submits the request, through the
     MPS/CSS/HR Specialist to the Senior Rater for approval.
     1.7.2.4. If unusual circumstances dictate sufficient knowledge cannot be obtained, HQ
     AFPC/DPSIDE, AF/DPO, AF/DPE, AF/DPG, the HQ ARPC/DPBR, NGB/A1P,
     NGB/OM or NGB-GO (for ANG general officers including brigadier general selects, not
     on EAD) authorizes filing an AF Form 77 in the ratee's records stating why an evaluation
     could not be prepared for the period.
     1.7.2.5. The next evaluator in the rating chain (the additional rater’s rater) assumes the
     responsibilities of the additional rater, when the additional rater is unable to perform
     evaluator duties, see paragraph 1.7.1. and paragraph 1.7.2. for applicable reasons. When
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      35


       the additional rater’s rater is also the senior rater, he or she completes the Additional
       Rater’s Comments section of the applicable form and closes the evaluation.
1.8. Evaluator Accountability. Raters ensure personnel they supervise receive performance
feedback to improve performance and contributions to mission accomplishment. In deciding
whether to record adverse information on the performance evaluation, evaluators must consider
the following: The vast majority of Air Force personnel serve their entire career with honor and
distinction; therefore, failure to document misconduct which reflects departure from the core
values of the Air Force is a disservice to all personnel competing for promotion. Additionally,
evaluators must consider items listed below when assessing performance and potential, and
specifically mention them in evaluations when appropriate:
   1.8.1. Adverse Information. If a member has been convicted by a court-martial, comments
   relating to the ratee’s behavior are mandatory on the ratee’s next OPR, EPR or TR and the
   evaluation becomes a referral. However, comments on individuals who have been found
   guilty, pled guilty or nolo contendere (no contest), of a reportable civilian offense as
   described below are strongly encouraged.
       1.8.1.1. Self-reporting of Civilian Offenses. To assist supervisors in preparing
       evaluations, all Airmen above the pay grade of E-6 are required to report information
       about civilian offenses to their supervisors (Ref: National Defense Authorization Act
       (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2006, Public Law 109-163, §554, 119 Statue 3136, 3264-65).
       For guidance on interpreting this paragraph and sub-paragraphs, supervisors and
       commanders should consult the servicing staff judge advocate.
           1.8.1.1.1. All commissioned officers, and enlisted members above the pay grade of
           E-6 (E-7 and above), who are on active duty or in an active status in a Reserve
           Component, shall report in writing any conviction of such member for a violation of a
           criminal law of the United States—whether or not the member is on active duty or in
           an active status at the time of the conduct that provides the basis for the conviction—
           to the member’s first-line military supervisor or summary court-martial convening
           authority, or in the case of a member of the individual ready reserve, standby reserve,
           or ANG to the Air Reserve Personnel Center or Air National Guard Bureau,
           whichever is applicable, in accordance with the requirements below.
           1.8.1.1.2. For purposes of this policy, the term “conviction” includes a plea or
           finding of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere (no contest), and all other actions
           tantamount to a finding of guilty, including adjudication withheld, deferred
           prosecution, entry into adult or juvenile pretrial intervention programs, and any
           similar disposition of charges.
           1.8.1.1.3. For purposes of this policy, a criminal law of the United States includes
           any military or other Federal criminal law; any State, district, commonwealth, or
           territorial or equivalent criminal law or ordinance; and any criminal law or ordinance
           of any county, parish, municipality, or local subdivision of any such authority, other
           than motor vehicle violations that do not involve a court appearance.
           1.8.1.1.4. Active duty members shall submit reports under this policy within 15 days
           of the date the conviction is announced, even if sentence has not been imposed or the
           member intends to appeal the conviction. Reserve Component members not on active
36                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


        duty but in an active status shall submit reports under this policy at the first drill
        period after the date the conviction is announced, or within 30 days of the date the
        conviction is announced, whichever is earlier, even if sentence has not been imposed
        or the member intends to appeal the conviction. All members who must submit
        evidence of their conviction, must maintain evidence of compliance with this
        requirement.
        1.8.1.1.5. In the event a commander or military law-enforcement official receives
        information that a covered member of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of
        another military department has become subject to a conviction for which a report is
        required by this section, the commander or military law-enforcement official
        receiving such information shall forward it to the member’s immediate commander.
        If the member’s immediate commander cannot be readily identified, the commander
        or military law-enforcement official receiving the information shall forward it to the
        office designated by the member’s military department identified as required below.
        1.8.1.1.6. Each Service shall institute procedures to ensure that the members covered
        by the law comply with its requirements and the policy set forth in this memorandum.
        These procedures shall include points of contact for other military departments to
        comply with the notification requirements above. Each Service shall also establish
        points of contact to which Reserve Component members in the individual ready
        reserve or standby reserve who may not know the identity or address of their first line
        military supervisor or summary court-martial convening authority may provide
        information of a conviction covered under this policy.
     1.8.1.2. For PRFs, if a member has been convicted by a court-martial, comments relating
     to the ratee’s behavior are mandatory on the ratee’s next PRF. However, comments on
     individuals who have been found guilty, pled guilty or nolo contendere (no contest), of a
     reportable civilian offense as described above are strongly encouraged.
     1.8.1.3. When making the decision to record adverse information in evaluations,
     evaluators must consider the following:
        1.8.1.3.1. Impact of the misconduct on the Air Force mission (Did the mission suffer
        in any way? Was unit morale affected?).
        1.8.1.3.2. Impact of the misconduct on the Air Force as an institution (Did it bring
        discredit on the Air Force?).
        1.8.1.3.3. Impact of the misconduct on, and its relationship to the ratee’s duties (Did
        it affect the member’s ability to fulfill his or her duties?).
        1.8.1.3.4. Grade, assignment and experience of the ratee (Is the ratee in a “sensitive”
        job? Did the ratee “know better”?).
        1.8.1.3.5. Number of separate violations and frequency of the misconduct (Is this an
        isolated or repeated incident?).
        1.8.1.3.6. Consequences of the misconduct (Did it result in death, injury, or loss
        of/damage to military or civilian property?).
        1.8.1.3.7. Other dissimilar acts of misconduct during the reporting period (Is the ratee
        establishing a pattern of misconduct?).
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     37


          1.8.1.3.8. Existence of unique, unusual or extenuating circumstances (Was the
          misconduct willful and unprovoked, or were there aggravating factors or events?).
      1.8.1.4. In all cases, when comments are included in performance evaluations, they must
      be specific, outlining the event and any corrective action taken. Comments such as
      “conduct unbecoming…” or “an error in judgment led to an off-duty incident…” are too
      vague. Examples of valid comments are “MSgt Smith drove while intoxicated, for which
      he received an Article 15” and “Capt Jones made improper sexually suggestive and
      harassing comments to a squadron member, for which he received a letter of reprimand.”
   1.8.2. Equal Opportunity and Treatment (EOT). The expectation is fair and equal treatment
   of all and enforcement of the same behavior in subordinates. Evaluators must consider a
   member’s commitment to EOT when evaluating performance and making a promotion
   recommendation. The goal is to ensure fair, accurate, and unbiased evaluations to help
   ensure the best qualified members are identified for positions of higher responsibility.
   Evaluations must reflect serious or repeated occurrences of discrimination, to include sexual
   harassment, as prescribed in AFI 36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) Program.
   Evaluators must also consider commenting on a ratee’s membership in groups that espouse
   supremacist causes or advocate unlawful discrimination, as prescribed in AFI 51-903,
   Dissident and Protest Activities.
   1.8.3. Fitness Testing and Education and Intervention Programs. All personnel must meet
   established standards IAW AFI 36-2905. Failure to meet fitness requirements or minimum
   fitness scores will result in a referral evaluation, unless exempt from fitness, see paragraph
   1.4.10.3. Additionally, failure to progress satisfactorily in the Education and Intervention
   Programs reflects poorly on the Air Force and the Airman. Unsatisfactory progress in the
   FIT program should be considered and should be documented on any evaluation by
   providing specific comments on the behavior that led to the unsatisfactory progress and/or
   failure, with compatible ratings on OPRs/EPRs.
   1.8.4. Management Control. All personnel must manage resources and ensure funds,
   property, and other government assets are protected against waste, loss, unauthorized use, or
   misappropriation. Comments about failures in inherent or assigned internal control
   responsibilities, or noteworthy accomplishments in improving internal controls, are
   mandatory. AFI 65-201, Manager’s Internal Control Program Procedures, provides
   specifics of the Management Control Program.
   1.8.5. Productivity. While related to internal management control, productivity gains are
   often a result of improved efficiency rather than establishing or administering policies.
   Productivity gains can have measurable monetary or manpower savings and are of
   significance to the Air Force and Air Reserve components. Give consideration to the ratee's
   achievements in implementing Defense Management Report principles and
   recommendations, taking into account the ratee's opportunity, or lack of opportunity, for such
   achievements. Many suggestions approved under AFI 38-401, The Air Force Innovative
   Development Through Employee Awareness (IDEA) Program fall in this category.
   1.8.6. Occupational Safety and Health. Consider how commanders, managers, and
   supervisors discharge their responsibilities under AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
   Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program.
 38                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


   1.8.7. Security of Classified Information. Consider how well ratees who handle or have
   access to classified information discharge security responsibilities. When appropriate,
   comment on any action, behavior, or condition that is reportable under security regulations.
   1.8.8. Awarding Contracts to Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, Historically Black
   Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Minority Institutions (Section 806, Public Law 100-
   180). If you rate an officer who holds a warrant as a contracting officer and who has the
   opportunity to increase the award of contracts to small disadvantaged business concerns,
   HBCUs, and minority institutions, you must consider the ratee's ability to increase awards.
   1.8.9. General Accounting Office (GAO), Office of the Inspector General, and Air Force
   Audit Agency (AFAA) Audit Resolution. Prompt, responsive and constructive action by
   managers is an integral part of good management. When applicable, comment on the degree
   of effectiveness in resolving disputed audit findings and recommendations.
   1.8.10. Acquisition and Management of Inventory Items (Section 323, Public Law 101-510).
   For people assigned to Inventory Control Points, consider their efforts to eliminate wasteful
   practices and achieve cost savings as prescribed in the DoD Inventory Reduction Plan.
   1.8.11. General and Specific NCO Responsibilities. Consider the ratee’s compliance with
   mandatory requirements prescribed in AFI 36-2618, The Enlisted Force Structure.
1.9. Disagreements.
   1.9.1. Explain any significant disagreement with a previous evaluator on a performance
   evaluation. Digitally signed forms will not allow an evaluator to initial in a different rating
   block, so the evaluator who disagrees must specifically state the performance factor in
   disagreement, the reason for the disagreement and what their rating is, in their comments.
   On evaluations with multiple evaluators, a significant disagreement is a change of any rating
   or any statement that indicates obvious disagreement with previous evaluator(s).
   1.9.2. Comments to support disagreements are required. Example: Disagree with rater’s
   assessment of Job Knowledge—TSgt Smith was unable to provide correct operating
   procedures during monthly evaluation; or Capt Jones was unable to answer critical questions
   concerning the operation of his flight leading to an ORI rating of “Unsatisfactory” for his
   squadron.
   1.9.3. Evaluators should discuss disagreements when preparing evaluations. Preceding
   evaluators are first given an opportunity to change the evaluation; however, they will not
   change their evaluation just to satisfy the evaluator who disagrees. If, after discussion, the
   disagreement remains, the disagreeing evaluator marks the “non-concur” block, and must
   provide specific comments in their block to explain each item in disagreement prior to
   commenting on any performance. In these cases, the evaluator is forfeiting space normally
   used to document performance to explain the disagreement. The evaluator who non-concurs
   with the evaluation will only attach an AF Form 77 if more space is required to explain the
   disagreement. The AF Form 77 will not to be used to add additional performance
   information.
      1.9.4. On “Wet Signature” evaluations, when the additional rater marks the non-concur
      block and shows disagreement with a "Performance Assessment Factor" by initialing a
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                         39


   different block, or disagrees with the rater's overall narrative assessment, the additional rater
   must provide specific comments to explain the disagreement.
   1.9.5. Updating the Military Personnel Data System. When an evaluation contains two
   different ratings due to an unresolved disagreement, the final evaluator’s (including the
   commander) rating will be updated in the military data system. For example: On an enlisted
   evaluation the rater gives the ratee an overall “5” rating, but the additional rater disagrees and
   downgrades the rating to an overall “4” rating, the overall “4” rating will be updated in the
   military personnel data system. Likewise, if the rater gives the ratee an overall “4” rating
   and the additional rater agrees, but the commander disagrees and upgrades the rating to an
   overall “5” rating, the overall “5” rating is updated in the military personnel data system.
   Note: Two different evaluators can observe the same performance, but assess it differently.
   The explanation should state specifically what the difference(s) are. Unless the evaluation is
   a referral, limit comments to the space provided.
1.10. Referral Evaluations.
   1.10.1. Purpose. Referral procedures are established to allow the ratee due process by giving
   the ratee an opportunity to respond and/or rebut any negative ratings or comments before it
   becomes a matter of record. Additionally, it allows evaluators to consider all the facts, some
   they may not have been aware of, prior to the evaluation becoming a matter of record.
   1.10.2. General Information.
      1.10.2.1. Vague Comments. Do not make non-specific and/or vague comments about
      the individual’s behavior or performance. Example: "Due to a recent off-duty incident,
      Lt White's potential is limited." They do not fully explain the incident or behavior, nor
      do they justify how and why their potential is limited, see paragraph 1.12.7.3.2. for
      examples of acceptable statements. When doubt arises as to whether a comment is a
      referral comment or not, refer the evaluation. Also see paragraph 1.12.7. Note: If the
      comment was on your evaluation, would you want the opportunity to respond to that
      comment; if yes, refer the evaluation. It is better to afford the ratee the due process now
      while all evaluators are available, than to try and refer it later if directed by the ERAB or
      AFBCMR.
      1.10.2.2. Any evaluator whose ratings or comments causes an evaluation to become a
      referral evaluation, must give the ratee the opportunity to comment on the evaluation.
      1.10.2.3. Referral evaluations will not be processed electronically, but will be
      accomplished, printed and contain “wet” (handwritten) signatures only. Dates will be
      handwritten, stamped or typed. As a referral evaluation could be detrimental to an
      individual, face-to-face interaction is required.
      1.10.2.4. If a subsequent evaluator whose comments initially causes an evaluation to
      become a referral evaluation, the evaluation will not be processed electronically, but will
      be re-accomplished, printed and contain “wet” (handwritten) signatures only. Dates will
      be handwritten, stamped or typed.
      1.10.2.5. An evaluation will be referred more than once when a subsequent evaluator
      gives additional referral ratings or comments. Note: Comments regarding the same
      incident or behavior will not require the evaluation to be referred more than once.
40                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


     1.10.2.6. If, after the evaluation has been referred to the ratee, there are any corrections
     made to the evaluation which add information or changes the content and/or the meaning
     of the evaluation, (this does not include administrative corrections such as correcting the
     SSN, spelling, punctuation, etc.), the ratee must again be given an opportunity to respond
     to the new information presented on the current version of the evaluation. Refer the
     evaluation again and allow 3 duty days for a response (30 days for non-EAD). Care
     should be taken to ensure the date of the new referral document is on or after the date the
     new “version” of the evaluation is signed. If the ratee previously submitted a rebuttal and
     wishes that original rebuttal to be considered as his or her response to the current version,
     he or she may simply hand-write a statement to that effect on the new referral letter when
     receipt is acknowledged and attach the original rebuttal; or submit a new rebuttal.
     1.10.2.7. Although an evaluation may be referred several times during processing, any
     one evaluator will not normally refer the evaluation more than once. However, this does
     not include evaluations referred again IAW paragraph 1.10.4.4. and paragraph 1.10.4.5.
     1.10.2.8. Ensure the name of the next evaluator is included in the space provided in
     Section XI of the OPR, Section VI of the LOE, or in the referral memorandum (figure
     1.1) when referral procedures are not included on the form itself.
     1.10.2.9. The evaluator who refers the evaluation and any subsequent evaluators may
     continue comments on an AF Form 77 (each evaluator uses a separate form). Comments
     are limited to the space on the front of the form and each evaluator will use only one AF
     Form 77. The purpose of the AF Form 77 is to allow additional space to explain non-
     concurrence or the detailed behavior that led to the referral evaluation; it is not to be used
     to provide additional accomplishments.
     1.10.2.10. All original documents will remain attached to the original evaluation.
     Example: The referral memorandum when applicable, any AF Forms 77, the rebuttal
     document and any attachments, etc. See paragraph 1.4.2.5. for routing procedures.
     1.10.2.11. MPS will return evaluations to be re-accomplished when they do not conform
     to the requirements of this instruction.
     1.10.2.12. In organizations where the rating chains cross MAJCOM lines (for instance,
     when you have a “dual-hatted” senior rater), the evaluator named in the referral document
     (Referral Reviewer) is next official in the chain of command from the MAJCOM that
     controls the ratee’s organization of assignment, even if the senior rater’s rater belongs to
     the other MAJCOM. The key here is to keep the evaluation in the ratee’s rating chain.
  1.10.3. When to Refer a Performance Evaluation. Performance evaluations must be referred
  when:
     1.10.3.1. Comments in any OPR, EPR, LOE or TR, regardless of the ratings if
     applicable, or the attachments to that evaluation, that are derogatory in nature, imply or
     refer to behavior incompatible with, or not meeting minimum acceptable standards of
     personal or professional conduct, character, judgment or integrity, and/or refer to
     disciplinary actions. This includes, but is not limited to, comments regarding omissions
     or misrepresentation of facts in official statements or documents, financial
     irresponsibility, mismanagement of personal or government affairs, a “Does Not Meet
     Standards” fitness assessment, unsatisfactory progress in the Fitness Education and
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       41


      Intervention Programs, confirmed incidents of discrimination or mistreatment, illegal use
      or possession of drugs, AWOL, Article 15 action, and conviction by courts-martial.
      1.10.3.2. An officer fails to meet standards in any one of the listed performance factors,
      in Section III or Section IX of the OPR, the overall evaluation will be a "Does Not Meet
      Standards" evaluation and the evaluation must be referred. Note: If the evaluation is
      marked “Does Not Meet Standards,” there must be a comment pertaining to the behavior
      in the referring evaluator’s assessment block. Comments in the referral memorandum do
      not meet this requirement.
      1.10.3.3. An evaluator marks “Does Not Meet Standards” in Section III of the EPR.
      1.10.3.4. An evaluator marks an overall “1” (Poor) or “2” (Needs Improvement) in
      Section V of the EPR.
   1.10.4. Who Refers a Performance Evaluation.
      1.10.4.1. Any evaluator whose ratings or comments causes the evaluation to be referral
      will refer the evaluation to the ratee.
      1.10.4.2. If an evaluator did not refer the evaluation and a subsequent evaluator
      determines the evaluation should be referred, the evaluation must be returned to the
      evaluator who made the referral comments to refer the evaluation to the ratee.
      1.10.4.3. If there is a disagreement as to whether or not the evaluation should be referred,
      then the additional evaluator may refer the evaluation on behalf of the previous evaluator,
      see paragraph 1.10.5.4.1.
      1.10.4.4. In cases where the referring evaluator is a MAJCOM or unified commander
      (e.g. USTRANSCOM/CC), the evaluator named in the referral document (Referral
      Reviewer) will be the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force who will sign on an AF Form
      77. However, in situations where the rater is a senior rater who has caused the evaluation
      to be referred and there is an existing evaluator within the rater’s organizational chain (to
      include MAJCOM), the evaluation should be forwarded to that evaluator for appropriate
      action, see paragraph 1.7.
      1.10.4.5. On EPRs, when the evaluator immediately preceding the commander’s review
      refers the evaluation, the commander completes the review and may comment on the
      evaluation, using an AF Form 77. However, the additional rater or the reviewer, as
      applicable, is the individual named in the referral document and will review the ratee’s
      comments. If the commander is normally the next evaluator on the evaluation (i.e., the
      additional rater or reviewer), place comments in the appropriate section of the EPR and
      only use an AF Form 77 if additional space is needed.
         1.10.4.5.1. When the commander’s review is performed before the additional rater or
         reviewer makes comments and the commander refers the evaluation, the additional
         rater or the reviewer, as applicable, is the individual named in the referral document.
         1.10.4.5.2. When the commander’s review occurs after all evaluators have made
         comments and the commander refers the evaluation, the commander’s rater is the
         individual named in the referral document.
42                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         1.10.4.5.3. When the commander’s review is performed by an ADCON commander
         and has occurred after all evaluators have made comments and the commander refers
         the evaluation, the individual named in the referral document must be the next
         evaluator in the ratee’s rating chain who is of equal grade or higher than the ADCON
         commander. Example: A FSS commander and the wing staff; and an AF unit
         commander in a Joint environment.
  1.10.5. Responsibilities.
     1.10.5.1. The Referring Evaluator Responsibilities.
         1.10.5.1.1. Prepares the referral document IAW Figure 1.1. and Table 3.2. (Enlisted),
         Table 3.1. (Officers), paragraph 1.10.6.4. (Training Reports) or Table 4.1. (Letter of
         Evaluations), whichever is applicable. Note: The date the rater signs the evaluation
         and the date of the referral memo should be the same date.
         1.10.5.1.2. On or after the close-out date of the evaluation, hand-deliver the referral
         document to the ratee; obtain the ratee’s signature and the date acknowledging receipt
         of the referral document. After the ratee signs the referral document acknowledging
         receipt, provide a copy of the signed referral document to the ratee, and forward the
         original referral document to the evaluator named in the referral document, (Referral
         Reviewer). Do not include subsequent evaluator comments on the referral OPR/EPR
         until after the rebuttal is received or rebuttal period has past.
         1.10.5.1.3. If the ratee is geographically separated, send a copy of the referral
         document to the evaluator named in the referral document (Referral Reviewer) and
         mail the original referral document to the ratee by “return receipt requested” mail.
         1.10.5.1.4. If content changes are made to the evaluation before the evaluation
         becomes a matter of record, this referral procedure must be re-accomplished.
         1.10.5.1.5. Upon receipt of completed evaluation and prior to the evaluation
         becoming a matter of record, provide feedback to the ratee and obtain the ratee’s
         acknowledgement of the completed evaluation. Then forward the evaluation to the
         ratee’s servicing MPS.
     1.10.5.2. Ratee Responsibilities.
         1.10.5.2.1. The ratee acknowledges receipt of the referral document by signing and
         dating it. The signature only acknowledges and verifies receipt of the referral
         document on the date indicated; it does not signify concurrence with the evaluation or
         indicate whether or not the ratee will provide rebuttal remarks.
         1.10.5.2.2. If the ratee is geographically separated, he or she will sign the referral
         document to acknowledge receipt, then forward the original to the evaluator named in
         the referral document (Referral Reviewer). The ratee is encouraged to keep a copy of
         the referral document.
         1.10.5.2.3. The ratee will provide rebuttal comments to the referral reviewer within 3
         duty days, (30 calendar days for non-EAD members), regardless if the ratee is still on
         active duty. The ratee will hand-deliver the referral documents with all attachments or
         use certified or registered mail, if geographically separated. The ratee may request
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      43


         more time from the evaluator named in the referral document (Referral Reviewer) not
         to exceed 45 calendar days from acknowledgement. Additionally, the ratee:
             1.10.5.2.3.1. May ask the Area Defense Counsel (ADC) or local personnel
             advisor to provide guidance/assistance in preparing rebuttal comments.
             1.10.5.2.3.2. Must limit comments, including any pertinent attachments, to a total
             of 10-single side pages (5 pages front and back). These will not reflect on the
             character, conduct, integrity, or motives of an evaluator unless fully substantiated
             and documented. All pertinent attachments become part of the evaluation filed in
             the personnel record; however, items which are already part of the permanent
             record, such as copies of previous evaluations, etc., will be removed from the
             referral package prior to filing. The 10-single side page restriction is necessary
             due to storage limitations.
             1.10.5.2.3.3. May have another individual prepare comments on his or her behalf
             (such as an attorney). However when this is done, the ratee must include a
             statement confirming the document is to be considered as the ratee’s response.
             This statement will appear somewhere on the rebuttal document or be attached as
             a separate statement. Note: If the ratee’s statement is provided as a separate
             attachment, it will be considered part of the 10-page restriction. (Example: If the
             attorney submits 5 pages, the ratee can submit 5; if the attorney submits 9 pages,
             then the ratee can only submit 1 page and vice versa).
         1.10.5.2.4. May choose not to comment on the referral evaluation. Once the time
         limit has elapsed, the evaluator named in the referral document (Referral Reviewer)
         completes the evaluation and continues normal processing (see paragraph 1.10.5.3.).
         Failure to provide comments does not prevent the ratee from later appealing the
         evaluation IAW the procedures in Chapter 10 once the evaluation becomes a matter
         of record.
         1.10.5.2.5. ANG AGR personnel will forward the rebuttal comments and any
         attachments through their full-time chain of command to the Adjutant General.
         1.10.5.2.6. ANG statutory tour personnel will forward the rebuttal comments and any
         attachments through their chain of command to NGB/CF.
      1.10.5.3. The Referral Reviewer. (The Evaluator Named in the Referral Document).
         1.10.5.3.1. Must allow the ratee 3 duty days to submit a rebuttal. If the ratee needs
         additional time, i.e., due to the non-availability of an ADC or the referral reviewer has
         returned the rebuttal because it is more than 10 pages, the referral reviewer may grant
         an extension as needed. However, the referral reviewer will not review the evaluation
         until the 3 duty days have passed, even if the ratee has indicated that he/she will not
         submit comments.
         1.10.5.3.2. After 3 duty days have passed, the referral reviewer will:
             1.10.5.3.2.1. Review and consider the ratee’s comments, if provided.
             1.10.5.3.2.2. Return rebuttal documents that are more than 10 pages (5 pages
             front and back).
44                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


            1.10.5.3.2.3. Prepare the endorsement with the applicable mandatory statement:
               1.10.5.3.2.3.1. If the ratee provided comments, prepare an endorsement to the
               evaluation and enter the statement: "I have carefully considered (ratee's
               name) comments to the referral document of (date)." Subsequent evaluators
               do not enter this statement.
               1.10.5.3.2.3.2. If the ratee does not forward comments within 3 duty days (30
               calendar days for non-EAD) (plus mailing time and any approved extensions),
               prepare an endorsement to the evaluation and include the statement:
               "Comments from the ratee were requested but were not received within the
               required period." Then send the evaluation on for normal processing.
        1.10.5.3.3. There must be a minimum of two bullets. Evaluators are required to
        comment on the ratee’s duty performance, in addition to one of the above mandatory
        statements. Exception: Those evaluators who normally do not comment on the
        evaluation; only use one of the mandatory comments above.
        1.10.5.3.4. Ensure the date referenced (paragraph 1.10.5.3.2.3.1.) is the date of the
        referral document (either the form or the memorandum) and not the evaluation close-
        out date or the date of the ratee’s rebuttal.
        1.10.5.3.5. Forward the evaluation with all attachments to the next evaluator. If this
        evaluator is the final evaluator, forward the evaluation to the rater so the rater can
        provide feedback and obtain the ratee’s acknowledgement of the completed
        evaluation.
     1.10.5.4. Additional/Subsequent Evaluators.
        1.10.5.4.1. Send the evaluation to the next evaluator in the rating chain for additional
        endorsement when an endorser is senior to the commander or when a commander
        who is senior to the endorser, refers the evaluation, see paragraphs 1.10.4.4. and
        1.10.4.5.
        1.10.5.4.2. Prepare the endorsement on AF Form 77.
        1.10.5.4.3. Check the “supplemental sheet” block on AF Form 77, Section IIA and
        enter appropriate comments in Section IV.
        1.10.5.4.4. Enter identification data required by Table 4.1.
        1.10.5.4.5. If the evaluator on the AF Form 77 is other than an Air Force officer, Air
        Force NCO, or Department of the Air Force (DAF) civilian, obtain an Air Force
        Advisor review.
        1.10.5.4.6. An additional rater or reviewer who decides to refer an evaluation due to
        a rating or comment made by a previous evaluator, refers it to the ratee before
        completing his or her portion of the evaluation. The referral document will instruct
        the ratee to direct and return any rebuttal comments back to him or her. Upon receipt
        of the ratee’s rebuttal, or when 3 duty days (30 calendar days for non-EAD) have
        elapsed, the evaluator completes his or her portion of the evaluation.
        1.10.5.4.7. If, after referral, a subsequent evaluator upgrades the ratings and/or
        invalidates the referral comments so the conditions defined in paragraphs 1.10.3. no
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     45


          longer apply, the non-concur block is marked and comments are made in support of
          the disagreement in the ratings or comments. The evaluation is no longer considered
          referral; however, retain all original referral documents and/or correspondence with
          the evaluation.
          1.10.5.4.8. If, after referral, a subsequent evaluator upgrades ratings or comments but
          the conditions defined in paragraphs 1.10.3. still exist, the non-concur block is
          marked and comments are made in support of the disagreement in the ratings or
          comments; the evaluation remains a referral. Retain original referral correspondence
          with the evaluation.
          1.10.5.4.9. When the last evaluator on the evaluation has caused the evaluation to be
          referred, the next evaluator in the rating chain (as named in the referral document)
          will, upon receipt of the ratee’s comments, prepare an endorsement to the evaluation
          on an AF Form 77. If the evaluator named in the referral document (Referral
          Reviewer) does not concur with the comments or ratings of the previous evaluator,
          the endorsement will so state. When the disagreement pertains to one or more of the
          previous evaluator’s ratings in Section III and IX, Performance Factors (OPR) or
          Sections III or V (EPR), he or she initials the block(s) deemed more appropriate or, if
          the block already contains initials or an “X”, initials to the immediate right of the
          block.
      1.10.5.5. Deployed Evaluators. If the referring evaluator is deployed and is referring a
      home station evaluation, the referring evaluator will sign the referral memo and
      OPR/EPR and forward the evaluation and referral documents to the next evaluator in the
      rating chain. The next evaluator in the chain (the referral reviewer) will act on behalf of
      the referring evaluator who is deployed and issue the evaluation and referral documents
      to the ratee. Upon receipt of the ratee’s comments, or at the expiration of the ratee’s 3
      duty days (30 calendar days for non-EAD) window to respond, the referral reviewer
      processes the evaluation and all referral documents IAW paragraph 1.10.5.3. Note: The
      referral evaluation must be accomplished in “wet signature.”
      1.10.5.6. MPS’s. The MPS coordinates referral reports with appropriate work centers in
      the MPS to ensure MilPDS updates are accomplished.
   1.10.6. Referral Procedures.
      1.10.6.1. Referral OPRs. The reverse side of the AF Form 707 will be completed for
      referral OPRs. The referring evaluator can fill in the specifics in the blank lines
      provided. When typing information into the form, you will have to end typing at the end
      of each line and manually place the cursor on the next line to continue typing. The text
      does not wrap around automatically. If the specific details are too long for the space
      allotted the referring evaluator can attach a separate AF Form 77 (see paragraph
      1.10.2.9.) and annotate “See Attachment” in the lines provided in this block. Refer to
      Table 3.1. for procedures on preparing the AF Form 707.
      1.10.6.2. Referral EPRs. Prepare a Referral Memorandum IAW Figure 1.1.
      1.10.6.3. Referral Letter of Evaluations (LOEs).
 46                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


          1.10.6.3.1. Deployed Commander LOEs. Complete the AF Form 77 IAW Table 4.1.
          and paragraph 5.4. for Deployed CC LOE procedures. The referral process is
          accomplished on the form itself.
          1.10.6.3.2. All Other LOEs.
              1.10.6.3.2.1. Designated Rater. If an LOE prepared by the officially designated
              rater would contain referral comments, the rater prepares an OPR/EPR IAW
              paragraph 1.10.6.1 or 1.10.6.2., whichever is applicable. The reason for the
              evaluation will be "Directed by HQ USAF." 60 calendar days of supervision are
              required, unless the waiver authority extends the requirement, see paragraph 1.13.
              1.10.6.3.2.2. Other than Designated Rater. Complete Sections I, II, IV, V and
              VII only IAW Table 4.1. The referral process itself is not accomplished on the
              AF Form 77. Exception: Deployed Commander LOEs. If someone other than
              the officially designated rater prepares an LOE with referral comments, the LOE,
              along with any rebuttal comments the ratee may want to add, if any, is forwarded
              to his or her officially designated rater. The rater will review the LOE and if the
              rater considers the referral comments serious enough to warrant permanent
              recording, the rater prepares a performance evaluation (OPR/EPR) using the
              procedures in applicable paragraph 1.10.6.1. (officers) or paragraph 1.10.6.2.
              (enlisted); and the LOE becomes a referral document attached to the OPR/EPR.
              If the rater believes an evaluation is inappropriate, he or she returns the LOE and
              any rebuttal comments to the ratee. Note: When the rater determines the
              comments are not serious enough to warrant permanent recording at that time,
              they may consider commenting on the derogatory information in the proceeding
              evaluation. Evaluators should carefully consider, whether the negative incident(s)
              from the referenced LOE involved the character, conduct, or integrity of the ratee,
              and whether it has continued to influence the performance or utilization of the
              ratee during the remainder of the reporting period. In such case, the information
              included in the evaluation may make the EPR a referral; and the LOE will not be
              attached to the referral evaluation.
       1.10.6.4. Referral TR (AF Forms 475). Refer the Training Report to the ratee using the
       same procedures as you would when referring an OPR/EPR, paragraph 1.10.6.1. and
       paragraph 1.10.6.2. Name the commander of the Air Force school or unit of assignment
       as the next evaluator, (determined by which organization is preparing the Training
       Report). The evaluator reviews the ratee’s comments, if provided, add the applicable
       mandatory comments IAW paragraph 1.10.5.3.2.3.1. or paragraph 1.10.5.3.2.3.2., and
       endorses the Training Report on an AF Form 77, using the first evaluators block.
1.11. Mandatory Comments. Specific comments or entries mandated by this AFI are
identified by the instruction to “enter” or “include the statement,” followed by the specific
comment placed within quotation marks (Example: See paragraph 1.11.3.) and should be
entered on the evaluation exactly as shown. Acceptability of comments that deviate slightly
from the AFI will be handled on a case-by-case basis. Entries deviating greatly are not
acceptable.
   1.11.1. For a referral LOE, EPR/OPR, or TR, the evaluator named in the referral document
   (Referral Reviewer) must comment as required by paragraph 1.10.5.3.2.3.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       47


   1.11.2. If the rater died, became incapacitated, or was relieved from duties as an evaluator,
   state the reason in the feedback sections of the AF Forms 707, 910, and 911, see paragraph
   1.7.2.2.
   1.11.3. If the OPR rater is also the reviewer, leave Section V, Additional Rater’s Overall
   Assessment, blank and place the following statement in Section VI, the Reviewer’s comments
   block: “THE RATER IS ALSO THE REVIEWER.” The rater digitally signs the rater,
   additional rater, and reviewer blocks, (signature elements are optional). If the OPR
   additional rater is also the reviewer, enter the additional rater comments in Section V,
   Additional Rater Overall Assessment, and place the following statement in Section VI, the
   Reviewer’s comments block: “THE ADDITIONAL RATER IS ALSO THE REVIEWER.”
   The additional rater signs both the additional rater and the reviewer block.
   1.11.4. When an EPR rater qualifies as a single evaluator or as the reviewer, enter the
   statement “THIS SECTION NOT USED” in the comment area of Section VI, Additional
   Rater’s Comments (AF Forms 910 and 911), and Section VII, Reviewer’s Comments (AF
   Form 911) of the EPR. Also enter “THIS SECTION NOT USED” in Section VII, Reviewer’s
   Comments (AF Form 911), when the additional rater is also the senior rater/reviewer, or
   qualifies as a final evaluator and closes out the evaluation. The evaluator will digitally sign
   the blocks with his/her comments. Signature elements are optional for blocks containing
   statement “THIS SECTION NOT USED.”
   1.11.5. Mandatory Comments for Authorized Exceptions. When authorized IAW paragraph
   1.7., place the following applicable statement(s) in the feedback comments section of AF
   Forms 707, 910 and 911:
      1.11.5.1. When applicable enter the statement: “Two GOs auth IAW AFI 36-2406, para
      1.7.”
      1.11.5.2. When applicable enter the statement:           “Reviewer’s rank is lower than
      additional rater.”
   1.11.6. See paragraph 1.9. for significant disagreements.
   1.11.7. Comments in Section IV, Promotion Recommendation, of the PRF are mandatory for
   in and above the zone (I/APZ) eligible officers (Table 8.1.) except on PRFs for officers two
   or more times above the zone and PRFs prepared to the grade of brigadier general when the
   overall recommendation in AF Form 709, Section IX, Overall Recommendation, is
   "Promote." Final decision authority for including comments on BPZ and two or more times
   above-the-zone officers remains with the senior rater. Senior raters retain the latitude to push
   their best-qualified officers but are not required to complete Section IV of the PRF on all
   APZ officers already deferred two or more times. Comments are required on all PRFs with a
   "Do Not Promote This Board" recommendation, regardless of zone, (Table 8.1., Note 5).
   1.11.8. If a member has been convicted by a court-martial, comments relating to the ratee’s
   behavior are mandatory on the ratee’s next OPR, EPR, TR or PRF. However, comments on
   individuals who have been found guilty, pled guilty or nolo contendere (no contest), of a
   reportable civilian offense are strongly encouraged, (see paragraph 1.8.1).
   1.11.9. If performance feedback was not accomplished, state the reason why it was not
   accomplished. Rationale must be placed in the Performance Feedback Certification block,
 48                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


   and it must be honest, plausible and specific, such as “Midterm feedback not conducted due
   to only 58 days supervision between initial feedback and the evaluation close-out date,” or
   “Rater did not conduct feedback.” Non-receipt of a feedback notice, and “administrative
   oversight,” etc., are not acceptable reasons.
   1.11.10. See paragraph 1.10.5.3.2 for the mandatory comments required on referral
   evaluations.
   1.11.11. See paragraph 1.8.1 for comments on adverse actions.
   1.11.12. See paragraph 1.9 for comments required for disagreements.
1.12. Prohibited Evaluator Considerations and Comments. Certain items are prohibited for
consideration in the performance evaluation process and will not be commented upon on any
OES/EES form. Except as authorized in the following paragraphs, do not consider, refer to, or
include comments regarding:
      1.12.1. Inappropriate Stratification and Broad Statements.
         1.12.1.1. Stratification statements, when authorized are not mandatory. The omission of
         stratification does not constitute an error or injustice.
         1.12.1.2. Stratification Quotes. The use of stratification statements as quotes from
         anyone other than the evaluator endorsing the report are prohibited unless authorized in
         this instruction.
         1.12.1.3. Statements Outside the Scope of Responsibility. Stratification and broad
         statements outside the scope of the evaluator’s responsibility or knowledge are
         prohibited. Evaluators can only stratify personnel within the confines of their direct
         rating chain and/or scope of responsibility. A broad statement is one which implies
         knowledge of Air Force members not assigned within the evaluator’s realm of
         knowledge. Some examples:
             1.12.1.3.1. The Communications Squadron Commander, as the Communications
             Functional on a base, cannot compare Information Management (IM) personnel
             assigned to other units on the base.
             1.12.1.3.2. Functional communities at higher headquarters cannot compare their staff
             officers with members outside their immediate staff or across the Air Force.
             1.12.1.3.3. A MAJCOM/A1 cannot compare someone on his/her staff to all
             personnel officers in the command.
                 1.12.1.3.3.1. “The best civil engineer in the business” (outside his/her scope of
                 responsibility, because he or she does not have knowledge of all civil engineers).
                 1.12.1.3.3.2. Similarly, phrases such as “top 5% officer” or “clearly a top 1%
                 SNCO” are inappropriate because the evaluator does not have first-hand
                 knowledge of all Air Force officers or SNCOs.
             1.12.1.3.4. An evaluator cannot use the stratification of a higher level evaluator or
             quote a higher level evaluator. Exception is that the use of a Senior Rater
             stratification may be quoted if the Senior Rater is a signator on the Officer Evaluation
             and does not have the opportunity to provide comments. For instance a squadron-
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    49


         level commander cannot stratify an individual at the group level. Some examples of
         prohibited squadron commander statements are below; however, these examples are
         applicable at all levels:
             1.12.1.3.4.1. “#2 of 72 Majors in the group” (out of squadron/cc’s scope of
             responsibility).
             1.12.1.3.4.2. “Group/CC says he/she is #2 of 72 MSgts” (quotes are prohibited).
      1.12.1.4. Officer Evaluations.
         1.12.1.4.1. (Applicable to officer evaluations only) . An evaluator (must be a
         signator) may stratify at a level below, as long as it is within his/her scope of
         responsibility. For instance
             1.12.1.4.1.1. A group commander can state: “2/50 Maj in the XX squadron,”
             “#1/4 Lts in the Ops Sq,” or “1/10 CGOs in the FSS.”
             1.12.1.4.1.2. The MSG commander can state: “#2 of 6 MSG Capts,” or “1/4 Lt’s
             in FSS;” however, he/she could not comment on the officers in an Ops Sq because
             that would fall under the scope of the OG commander.
             1.12.1.4.1.3. A squadron commander can only stratify within the squadron, or
             down (flight); not up (group or wing). Exception is that the use of a Senior Rater
             stratification may be quoted if the Senior Rater is a signator on the Officer
             Evaluation.
             1.12.1.4.1.4. Stratification statements must be written in quantitative terms based
             on the following:
                 1.12.1.4.1.4.1. Stratification based on peer comparisons: Peers (#1/10 Majors
                 or #1/5 Captains); Peer Group (#1/10 FGOs or #1/10 CGOs); Duty Positions
                 (#1/7 Action Officers, #1/7 Sq/CCs); Aggregate Groups (#1/50 officers in my
                 Group; #1 of my 50 officers; #1 of 50 majors in my 20 years of service);
                 Additional Qualifiers (#1/4 Force Support CGOs; Best Major in my 32 years);
                 Recognition Level (Wing CGO/yr, #1/200). Note: Stratification that is vague
                 or lacks a qualified peer reference group is prohibited (Example, although not
                 all inclusive, would be: “#1/5”; “#X of XX officers”; “#1/50 officers” or
                 #1/200 personnel” as these do not identify a specific peer group).
                 1.12.1.4.1.4.2. Stratification within a rater’s authority: Senior raters may
                 stratify within their rating chain (MAJCOM/CC may state “#1 of 500 Majors
                 in the command”). Note: Stratification outside the scope of the rater’s chain
                 of command, despite functional authority or responsibility, will remain
                 prohibited (MAJCOM/A1 may not stratify an officer as “#1/75 38F FGOs in
                 this MAJCOM.”) Exception: Quoting authorized stratification from deployed
                 LOEs.
                 1.12.1.4.1.4.3. Stratification quotes from Senior Leaders:      May quote
                 stratification by senior leaders in the chain of command provided the Senior
                 Leader is a signator on the evaluation and does not provide comments (Sq/CC
                 or Gp/CC could say “Wg/CC’s #1 of 50 Majors”). Note: Stratification quotes
                 outside the ratee’s chain of command will remain prohibited (MSG/CC may
50                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                not state “OG/CC lauds as #1 LRO in my Group.” EXCEPTION: quoting
                from deployed LOEs). If a Gp/CC is not a signatory on the OPR, a Gp/CC
                stratification is not authorized (unless supported by an award, “CGO Qtr”).
                1.12.1.4.1.4.4. Stratification in optional Deployed Letter of Evaluations
                (LOEs): Stratification, assignment, command, and DE push statements in
                deployed letters of evaluation are authorized. Deployed stratifications and
                push statements may be quoted in future OPRs and PRFs. Note: As long as
                the stratification is not previously documented in the permanent record.
        1.12.1.4.2. When stratifying officers on OPRs and PRFs, evaluators will not consider
        completion/non-completion of non-resident DE if the officer is on the school select
        list (because they will attend in-residence), or Select/Candidate status. Relative
        ranking among officers rated by the rating chain should be based on overall
        performance. This paragraph does not preclude raters from making appropriate
        assignment and developmental education recommendations on OPRs/PRFs/RRFs, see
        paragraph 1.12.3.
     1.12.1.5. Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs).
        1.12.1.5.1. On PRFs, stratification remarks may be quoted or attributed from OPRs
        provided that they are also quantified. Example: A statement on an OPR that says
        “Top 1% of all officers I have supervised” is an appropriately quantified stratification
        quote and may be included in PRFs.
        1.12.1.5.2. However, statements that refer or imply to the stratification of an officer’s
        standing at an MLR, such as: “#1 of 22 DPs awarded at the MLR,” or “If the MLR
        had one more DP, he/she would get it,” are prohibited.
     1.12.1.6. Enlisted Evaluations.
        1.12.1.6.1. Stratification statements will only be used on enlisted evaluations for
        MSgts and SMSgts who are Time-In-Grade (TIG) eligible for senior rater
        endorsement. Note: Eligibility does not apply to ANG/USAFR. Stratification and
        senior rater endorsements, (see paragraph 3.1.11), are not mandatory. The omission
        of a stratification statement and/or a senior rater endorsement does not constitute an
        error or injustice.
        1.12.1.6.2. All Other EPRs.      Stratification on all other EPRs, including CMSgt
        evaluations, are prohibited.
        1.12.1.6.3. Stratification statements based on percentage, career field, or functional
        community are prohibited. For example, it is not appropriate to use “#1 SNCO,” or
        “#1 First Sergeant.”
        1.12.1.6.4. Stratification statements must be based on the number of peers (same
        grade as the ratee, regardless of branch of service) assigned within the evaluator’s
        rating scheme (i.e., unit commander cannot state #1 of 189 MSgts in the group).
        1.12.1.6.5. While all subordinate units/personnel are part of the senior rater’s chain
        of command, they are not necessarily part of the rating chain.
            1.12.1.6.5.1. If the wing cc/director chooses to stratify an eligible MSgt/SMSgt,
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        51


             the stratification must include all ratee peers in the wing cc/director’s scope (at
             the wing cc/director’s level).
             1.12.1.6.5.2. In addition, it is not appropriate for a senior rater’s stratification to
             include only personnel from a lower level (i.e., subordinate groups/units or to
             include personnel in other rating chains as part of the stratification denominator).
             1.12.1.6.5.3. Additionally, evaluators will only stratify within their scope (at the
             evaluators level), not up or down. A group commander can only stratify within
             the group, not within one of the squadrons owned, nor up to the wing. For
             example:
                 1.12.1.6.5.3.1. A wing commander/director can state: “#3 of 27 MSgts in
                 wing/directorate;” however, he/she cannot say “#3 of 27 MSgts in the
                 MAJCOM/group/squadron.”
                 1.12.1.6.5.3.2. A group cc can state: “2/6 MSgts in the group;” however,
                 he/she cannot state “1/6 MSgts in the wing/squadron.”
         1.12.1.6.6. If the rater includes a stratification statement, it must be placed in the
         “Other Comments” block. If subsequent evaluators use stratification statements, they
         will be placed in their respective comment block.
         1.12.1.6.7. Finally, stratification will not be based on awards (i.e., “1/50 SNCO of
         the quarter) as this would be inconsistent with keeping stratification limited to the
         members peer group (i.e., same grade).
      1.12.1.7. Stratification on Letters of Evaluation (LOEs). Stratification on all LOEs is
      prohibited.
   1.12.2. Inappropriate Promotion Statements or Reference to Grades/Positions Higher than
   the Ratee Holds.
      1.12.2.1. Officer Evaluations.
         1.12.2.1.1. Promotion statements on officer evaluations are prohibited. Exception:
         Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs), see paragraph 1.12.2.2.
         1.12.2.1.2. Evaluators will not make comments on officer evaluations such as
         “picked over higher ranking officers” or (on a major’s evaluation) “filling a Lt Col
         billet.” These types of comments are implied promotion statements and are therefore
         prohibited on officer evaluations. Additionally, while promotion statements are
         prohibited, an evaluator may make recommendations to select officers for a particular
         assignment, DE, Augmentation, Continuation, or Conditional Reserve Status, see
         paragraph 1.12.3.
         1.12.2.1.3. The term “Senior” on officer evaluations is prohibited. This term is
         commonly understood as a euphemism for colonels and above, or to refer to members
         holding a higher grade than the ratee. Exception: On PRFs for Lt Cols being
         promoted to Colonel.
             1.12.2.1.3.1. When used in conjunction with words such as “officer,” “position,”
             or “leadership,” the term “Senior” constitutes an implied promotion statement and
             is therefore prohibited in officer evaluations.
52                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


            1.12.2.1.3.2. Referring to a major as the “Senior Chaplain” is authorized;
            however, referring to a major as “Performing senior leadership duties” is
            prohibited.
        1.12.2.1.4. Statements acknowledging an officer’s selection for promotion during the
        reporting period are acceptable (Example: Maj Doe’s recent BPZ selection to Lt Col
        is right on target).
     1.12.2.2. Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs). Promotion statements are reserved
     for the senior rater and will only be made on the Promotion Recommendation Form
     (PRF).
        1.12.2.2.1. As a general rule, prohibited promotion statements are any comments,
        direct or implied, that refer to a higher grade. For example, any comments that state
        the individual is performing above his/her grade, occupying a position requiring a
        more senior grade, comparing an individual to officers of higher rank, or alluding to a
        higher ranking position are all prohibited.
        1.12.2.2.2. While it is impossible to provide an all-inclusive list of prohibited
        statements; some examples are:
            1.12.2.2.2.1. “Maj Doe is senior officer material.” (The term “Senior” is a
            euphemism for Colonel and above, therefore not authorized).
            1.12.2.2.2.2. “Capt Doe has excelled in a major’s billet.” (Refers to a rank higher
            than the one the individual currently holds).
            1.12.2.2.2.3. “Major Doe should be a group commander now.” (Recommends
            the individual for a position two grades higher than the ratee—not normal
            progression).
            1.12.2.2.2.4. “Capt Doe is ready for our toughest field grade jobs.” (Compares a
            company grade officer with higher ranking (Field Grade) officers).
            1.12.2.2.2.5. “Already performing above her current position.” (Refers to higher
            grade).
     1.12.2.3. Enlisted Evaluations. Since promotion statements are allowed on enlisted
     evaluations, evaluators may make comments on enlisted evaluations that refer to the
     enlisted ratee’s next higher grade; however, comments are limited to one grade above the
     grade the ratee is currently holding. For example,
        1.12.2.3.1. On a TSgt, “promote to MSgt, then select for First Sergeant Duty.”
        (Appropriate because it could be the next eligible grade/assignment for a TSgt).
        1.12.2.3.2. However, the same statement would be inappropriate for a SSgt, because
        they must obtain the rank of TSgt before becoming eligible for a MSgt position
        and/or grade (even if the individual is a TSgt select).
  1.12.3. Inappropriate Recommendations Referring to Aviator Continuation Pay,
  Separation/Retirement, Civilian Employment, Assignments, DE/Professional Military
  Education (PME) and Advance Academic Degrees (AAD).
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      53


      1.12.3.1. Aviator Continuation Pay. Comments on an officer's decision to accept or
      decline aviator continuation pay is prohibited.
      1.12.3.2. Separation or retirement status. Comments referring to separation, retirement
      or transfer to reserve status are prohibited. However, comments may be warranted when
      an individual displays a reluctance to accept responsibility, a negative attitude toward the
      job, or exhibits a decrease in performance that can be reasonably attributed to a pending
      separation or retirement.
      1.12.3.3. Civilian Employment. Comments about civil service jobs or other civilian
      occupations are prohibited unless it directly relates to the military position and their
      military performance. Recommendations for civilian employment are prohibited.
      1.12.3.4. Assignment and DE Recommendations. Assignment and DE recommendations
      on officer evaluations that are inconsistent with an officer’s current grade are prohibited.
      The intent and philosophy of OES is to recommend an officer for assignments/positions
      and resident level of DE that reflect his or her potential.
         1.12.3.4.1. Evaluators may make one or more assignment recommendations in
         officer evaluations provided the recommendations are both appropriate and
         realistically achievable for the officer’s current grade or current grade plus one. The
         assignment recommendation may involve current grade plus one if the officer has
         completed or is currently completing the last reasonable career development step for
         the current grade. A rated major, for instance, can be recommended for a job as the
         commander of a flying squadron if he has completed a tour or is currently in the
         position of squadron operations officer. Also, a Lt Col can be recommended for the
         position of group commander once they have served as a deputy group commander or
         are in such an assignment position that group commander is the next command step.
         Example: “Highly recommend for AFIT—then Joint Duty.” Note: AFIT can be
         used for an assignment push, however, it cannot be used as a DE push.
         1.12.3.4.2. The intent is to focus on what job or DE assignment the officer should be
         doing immediately after his or her current assignment. Anything beyond the next
         assignment would be mapping out a career or making an implied promotion
         statement—both instances are contrary to the spirit and intent of OES.
         1.12.3.4.3. In addition to assignment recommendations, evaluators may also make
         recommendations for the appropriate level of in-residence DE on OPRs, PRF and
         LOEs (DE pushes are not authorized on TRs).
             1.12.3.4.3.1. Evaluators determine the appropriate level recommendation by
             considering the highest level in-residence DE the officer has already completed
             along with the eligibility criteria for each level of in-residence DE. (For the
             purposes of “PDE” SOS is the method for completion). Example:
                 1.12.3.4.3.1.1. For Lieutenant through Captain, a Primary Developmental
                 Education (PDE) recommendation is appropriate until the officer has
                 completed PDE in-residence.
                 1.12.3.4.3.1.2. For a Captain, once he or she completes PDE in-residence, an
                 Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE) recommendation is appropriate.
54                                                          AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


            1.12.3.4.3.1.3. For a Major, if as of the close-out date of the OPR, he or she
            has not already completed IDE in-residence and is still eligible for
            consideration, an IDE recommendation is appropriate. However, once the
            Major completes IDE in-residence or when he or she is no longer eligible for
            consideration, then a Senior Developmental Education (SDE)
            recommendation is appropriate.
     1.12.3.4.4. Raters cannot recommend officers for specific schools, including “joint
     DE;” only the terms PDE, IDE, SDE are authorized. The appropriate venue for a
     specific school recommendation is on the AF Form 3849, PME/AFT/RTFB/Officer
     Worksheet.
     1.12.3.4.5. There is a fine line between an assignment recommendation and an overt,
     implied or veiled promotion statement.             When making an assignment
     recommendation on an OPR, there will be no reference to a higher grade, and it must
     be consistent with the officer’s appropriate progression of his/her professional
     development.
        1.12.3.4.5.1. Acceptable examples:
            1.12.3.4.5.1.1. “Make Capt Jones an MPS Chief.” (Appropriate next level of
            progression).
            1.12.3.4.5.1.2. “Send Major Smith to IDE.” (Appropriate DE progression).
            1.12.3.4.5.1.3. On a Lt Col OPR, “Make him an Ops Group Commander.”
            (Appropriate next level of progression).
            1.12.3.4.5.1.4. “After SDE, assign to Air Staff.”     (Appropriate DE with
            follow-on assignment).
            1.12.3.4.5.1.5. For a Major who has completed ACSC in-residence, or who is
            out of the eligibility window, recommendations for SDE would be
            appropriate, “Send to SDE.”
            1.12.3.4.5.1.6. For a Captain who has completed PDE in-residence, or who is
            beyond the window of eligibility, an appropriate recommendation would be
            “In-resident IDE a Must.”
        1.12.3.4.5.2. Prohibited examples:
            1.12.3.4.5.2.1. “Make Lt Triska an FSS Commander.” (Inappropriate next
            level of progression).
            1.12.3.4.5.2.2. “Send Capt Brown to IDE after selection to major.”
            (Reference to IDE is appropriate, but the comment “after selection to major”
            is an implied promotion statement).
            1.12.3.4.5.2.3. “SDE in 2008, Group Commander in 2009, and Wing
            Commander in 2011.” (Goes beyond the scope of the next assignment).
            1.12.3.4.5.2.4. “Capt Phelps is ready to be a flying Sq/CC” and “Make Maj
            Brown a group commander.” (In both cases, the recommendations are clearly
            beyond the officer’s next assignment and are viewed as veiled promotion
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                 55


               statements).
         1.12.3.4.6. Developmental Education (in residence or non-residence) and Advanced
         Academic Degree (AAD) education for officers.
            1.12.3.4.6.1. Comments on OPRs regarding selection for, attendance at, or
            completion of an AAD are prohibited. When preparing OPRs, evaluators will not
            comment on selection status on the schools list, selection for, completion of, or
            enrollment in DE or AAD. Evaluators are limited to “ PDE, IDE or SDE”
            terminology only and will not comment on specific schools, (i.e. ACSC, AWC,
            Joint, etc.). NOTE: An assignment recommendation for AFIT MS/Masters or
            PhD program is authorized.
            1.12.3.4.6.2. When preparing Promotion Recommendations Forms (PRFs) and
            Retention Recommendation Forms (RRFs), senior raters may consider and
            comment on selection for, attendance at, or completion of an AAD on
            PRFs/RRFs. Officers designated to attend DE may receive comments such as:
            “On the way to IDE/SDE” or “Following IDE/SDE make him/her a (fill in with
            the appropriate job recommendation)” only on the PRF/RRF that closes out just
            prior to departure for DE. Evaluators are limited to “PDE, IDE or SDE”
            terminology only and will not comment on specific schools, (i.e. ACSC, AWC,
            Joint, etc.). The AF Form 3849, PME, AFIT, RTFB Officer Worksheet, is the
            proper venue for specific school recommendations.
            1.12.3.4.6.3. When preparing OPRs and PRFs, evaluators may comment on Air
            War College non-residential program Outstanding Graduates. Unlike resident
            students, non-resident students do not receive a Training Report to document this
            achievement.
         1.12.3.4.7. Enlisted PME Comments in EPRs.
            1.12.3.4.7.1. The only permissible PME comments in EPRs will be those
            referencing selections for an official PME award (i.e., John Levitow Award,
            Academic Achievement Award, Distinguished Graduate, Commandant Award
            and Leadership Award) or completion of Senior Enlisted Joint Professional
            Military Education (SEJPME) courses (web based course). (See paragraph
            1.12.3.3.7.2.3.2.)
               1.12.3.4.7.1.1. Receiving a PME award is a significant accomplishment and is
               appropriate to use in enlisted evaluations. All other comments, to include
               recommendation for any other PME and selection for any other PME
               attendance are irrelevant and prohibited.
               1.12.3.4.7.1.2. Comments referencing Air Force mandatory PME, residence
               or non-residence (Airman Leadership School, NCOA or SNCOA), selection,
               attendance and/or completion are prohibited to include implied comments.
               1.12.3.4.7.1.3. SEJPME.
                 1.12.3.4.7.1.3.1. SEJPME courses were created to provide SNCOs selected
                 for joint assignments information to quickly assimilate and effectively
                 contribute in the Joint environment. Many Airmen have been selected or
56                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                  taken the initiative to complete these courses to prepare for the deployed
                  environment. Additionally, many Airmen have completed the course to
                  broaden their perspective even though they are not projected into a joint
                  assignment.
                  1.12.3.4.7.1.3.2. Comments on completion of SEJPME courses are allowed
                  for TSgts and above (except the SNCOA sister service equivalents (i.e.,
                  Navy SNCOA); however, completing these courses should not be used in
                  an effort to square fill for evaluation board purposes. Allowing SEJPME
                  courses completion to be documented in evaluations will simply allow a
                  valid Joint PME course to be appropriately documented in an airman’s
                  record.
                  1.12.3.4.7.1.3.3. SEJPME courses is in no way an equivalent to completion
                  of the required Air Force PME and will not be reflected on SNCO
                  promotion evaluation board briefs. The Air Force mandated PME
                  (correspondence/in-residence) remains the expected PME for all Air Force
                  enlisted personnel to complete. Completing any SEJPME does not fill the
                  SNCOA requirement for senior rater endorsement consideration.
                1.12.3.4.7.1.4. Comments referencing non-completion of CCAF or SNCOA
                as the reason for absence of a senior rater endorsement are prohibited.
  1.12.4. Sensitive Information.
     1.12.4.1. Classified Information. Do not enter classified information in any section of
     the form. See paragraph 1.3.2. for guidance.
     1.12.4.2. Confidential Statements. Confidential statements, testimony, or data obtained
     by, or presented to, boards under AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
     1.12.4.3. Appeal Agencies Outside Rating Chain. Actions taken by an individual outside
     the normal chain of command that represent guaranteed rights of appeal. Example:
     Inspector General, Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records, EOT/MEO
     complaints, Congressional Inquiries, etc
     1.12.4.4. Drug or Alcohol Abuse Rehabilitation Programs. Focus on the behavior,
     conduct, or performance resulting from alcohol or drug use versus the actual
     consumption of alcohol or drugs or participation in a rehabilitation program. Only
     competent medical authorities can diagnose alcoholism or drug addiction, and the
     diagnoses is prohibited on evaluations.
     1.12.4.5. Temporary or Permanent Disqualification under AFI 36-2104, Nuclear
     Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP). You may reference the behavior of the
     ratee that resulted in the action; however, you may not mention the ratee was disqualified.
     1.12.4.6. Fitness Scores/Categories. It is prohibited to put an individual’s fitness score
     or fitness category on an OPR or EPR unless the member does not meet standards. See
     paragraph 1.4.10. for more details regarding fitness.
     1.12.4.7. Medical Information. Only authorized medical officials are in a position to
     make comments on medical conditions; in extremely rare cases, this is authorized on
     performance evaluations and only if the evaluator is a medical professional. It is
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     57


      important for evaluators to focus evaluation comments on the behavior and duty
      performance of the individual. The medical condition or diagnosis is prohibited.
      1.12.4.8. Profanity. Use of profanity in evaluations is prohibited.
   1.12.5. Potential Discriminatory Factors and/or Information.
      1.12.5.1. Race, Ethnic Origin, Gender, Age, Religion, Sexual Orientation or Political
      Affiliation of the Ratee. Do not refer to these items in such a way that others could
      interpret the comments as reflecting favorably or unfavorably on the person. This is not
      meant to prohibit evaluators from commenting on involvement in cultural or church
      activities, but cautions against the use of specific religious denominations, etc. Example:
      “Capt Doe is the first female pilot ever selected for training in the F-16”, is an
      inappropriate reference to gender. You may use pronouns reflecting gender (e.g., he, she,
      him, her, his, and hers). “Wing POC for African American Heritage Committee” or
      “Arranged a blood drive at the Baptist Memorial Hospital” are acceptable comments.
      1.12.5.2. Family Activities or Marital Status. Do not consider or include information
      (either positive or negative) regarding the member’s marital status or the employment,
      education, or volunteer service activities (on or off the military installation) of the
      member's family.
      1.12.5.3. General Open Mess Membership. Comments regarding a ratee’s Open Mess
      Membership are prohibited.
      1.12.5.4. Meeting Financial Goals for Combined Federal Campaign. Title 5, Code of
      Federal Regulations, Part 950, Solicitation of Federal Civilian and Uniformed Service
      Personnel for Contributions to Private Voluntary Organizations, Section 108 Preventing
      coercive activity, subparagraph (g) which prohibits “Using as a factor in a supervisor’s
      performance appraisal the results of the solicitation in the supervisor’s unit or
      organization.
      1.12.5.5. Court-Martial Panel Membership. Do not consider performance as a member
      of a court-martial panel, or render a less than favorable evaluation because of the zeal in
      which the ratee served as a defense or respondent's counsel (see Article 37, UCMJ). This
      is not intended to inhibit an accurate portrayal of a counsel's competence in the
      representation of clients.
   1.12.6. Performance Outside the Reporting Period.
      1.12.6.1. Duty History or Performance Outside the Current Reporting Period. Do not
      comment on duty history or performance outside the current reporting period, except as
      permitted by paragraphs 1.12.6.5. and 1.12.7.1. However, since performance in past jobs
      is relevant in the preparation of PRFs, raters may include it on PRFs.
      1.12.6.2. Previous Evaluations or Ratings, except in conjunction with performance
      feedback sessions and as outlined in Chapter 8 for promotion recommendation,
      comments from previous evaluations or ratings are prohibited (i.e., do not include
      comments from an AF Fm 475 to an AF Fm 707). Exception: Evaluators may review
      previous evaluations to prevent repeating prior accomplishments and making
      inappropriate recommendations.
58                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


        1.12.6.3. Performance Feedback. Evaluators do not refer to performance feedback
        sessions in any area of the performance evaluation except in the Performance Feedback
        Certification Block.
        1.12.6.4. Events That Occur After the Close-Out Date.
            1.12.6.4.1. If an incident or event occurs, that reflects a departure from standards and
            are derogatory in nature, between the time an annual or initial evaluation closes-out
            and the time it becomes a matter of record that is of such serious significance that
            inclusion in that evaluation is warranted, an extension of the close-out date may be
            requested by the unit commander IAW paragraph 1.13. For fitness, an extension may
            be requested to authorize an Airman to test again to meet the standard if justification
            is warranted. An extension to document a failure for fitness is not authorized.
            1.12.6.4.2. This includes completion of an investigation begun prior to the close-out
            date or confirmation of behavior that was only alleged as of the close-out date.
        1.12.6.5. Prior Events. Do not include comments regarding events which occurred in a
        previous reporting period, unless the events add significantly to the evaluation, were not
        known to and considered by the previous evaluators, and were not previously reflected in
        an evaluation which is a part of the permanent record (this includes EPRs, OPRs, LOEs
        and TRs). Example: An event (positive or negative) which came to light after an
        evaluation became a matter of record, but which occurred during the period of that
        evaluation, could be mentioned in the ratee’s next evaluation because the incident was not
        previously reported. In rare cases, serious offenses (such as those punishable by court-
        martial) may not come to light or be substantiated for several years. In those cases,
        inclusion of that information may be appropriate even though the incident/behavior
        occurred prior to the last reporting period. Additionally, negative incidents from previous
        reporting periods involving the character, conduct, or integrity of the ratee that continue
        to influence the performance or utilization of the ratee may be commented upon in that
        context only. Commanders and senior raters make the determination of what constitutes a
        significant addition.     If a commander has considered and made a decision not to
        comment on a known adverse action, an incumbent commander may not overturn a
        previous commander’s decision by requesting the adverse action be added after the
        evaluation has been made a matter of record, or include it in the next evaluation.
        However, if the behavior has continued into the next rating period, an evaluator may
        comment on the specific behavior for that rating period.
     1.12.7. Derogatory Information and Disciplinary Actions.
        1.12.7.1. Conduct Based on Unreliable Information.
            1.12.7.1.1. Raters must ensure that information relied upon to document
            performance, especially derogatory information relating to unsatisfactory behavior or
            misconduct is reliable and supported by substantial evidence.
            1.12.7.1.2. The rater should consult with the servicing staff judge advocate whenever
            any question exists whether this standard has been met.
            1.12.7.1.3. Raters should be particularly cautious about referring to charges
            preferred, investigations, or boards of inquiry (such as accident investigation boards),
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     59


         or using information obtained from those sources, or any similar actions related to a
         member, that are not complete as of the close-out date of the evaluation.
         1.12.7.1.4. When it is determined that such conduct is appropriate for comment, refer
         to the underlying performance, behavior or misconduct itself and not merely to the
         fact that the conduct may have resulted in a punitive or administrative action taken
         against the member, such as a letter of reprimand, Article 15, court-martial
         conviction, etc.
         1.12.7.1.5. If an extension to the close-out date might be warranted to determine if
         reliable information of unsatisfactory performance or misconduct has been
         established, refer to paragraph 1.13.2.2.
      1.12.7.2. Acquittals or Similar Results.
         1.12.7.2.1. Any action against an individual that resulted in acquittal or a failure to
         successfully implement an intended personnel action is prohibited. For example, an
         evaluator cannot say: “SSgt Johnson was acquitted of assault charges,” or “SrA
         Smith’s involuntary separation action was unsuccessful.”
         1.12.7.2.2. This does not mean, however, that evaluators cannot mention the
         underlying conduct that formed the basis for the action.
         1.12.7.2.3. A determination as to the appropriateness of doing so should be made
         only after consultation with the servicing staff judge advocate.
         1.12.7.2.4. The decision to include such information should be made only when
         evaluators can establish that the information is reliable and supported by substantial
         evidence.
         1.12.7.2.5. In any case, do not reference any punitive or administrative action taken
         against the individual in response to the conduct for which the member was acquitted
         or where the action was not actually taken.
      1.12.7.3. Punishment. Punishment received as a result of administrative or judicial
      action is prohibited. Restrict comments to the conduct/behavior that resulted in the
      punishment, and the type of administrative or judicial action taken (i.e., Article 15, LOR,
      LOC, etc.).
         1.12.7.3.1. Prohibited statements would be: “Sentenced to 6 months confinement,”
         “Reduced to the grade of,” “Forfeiture of pay,” “5 days extra duty,” etc.
         1.12.7.3.2. Acceptable statements would be: “Drove while intoxicated, received an
         Article 15” and “Failed to report to duty, received an LOR,” etc.
      1.12.7.4. Disciplinary Actions.
         1.12.7.4.1. When referencing Article 15 actions, civil or court-martial convictions or
         any other punitive or administrative actions, comments must emphasize the
         underlying conduct, or behavior, that led to the action.
         1.12.7.4.2. They must be reasonably specific, clearly outlining the event and/or
         behavior. Comments such as “conduct unbecoming” or “an error in judgment led to
 60                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


          an off-duty incident” are too vague and open the door for appeals.           Also see
          paragraph 1.10.2.1. on vague comments.
          1.12.7.4.3. The ratee must be advised specifically why he or she is considered
          substandard in order to respond appropriately.
          1.12.7.4.4. An evaluation should not simply contain the comment that "MSgt Smith
          received an Article 15 during this period." Instead, the underlying conduct should be
          specifically cited with the resulting action included, such as: "During this reporting
          period, Lieutenant Jones sexually harassed a female subordinate for which he
          received an Article 15," or “MSgt Smith drove while under the influence, for which
          he received an Article 15.”
          1.12.7.4.5. In any case, the focus of the comment should be on the conduct or
          behavior. Evaluators should consult the servicing Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) or local
          personnel advisors for questions regarding the appropriateness of including comments
          about misconduct and/or the resulting actions on a performance evaluation.
   1.12.8. Other Prohibited Comments.
      1.12.8.1. A Recommendation for Decoration.
          1.12.8.1.1. You may include only those decorations actually approved or presented
          during the reporting period. The term “decorations,” as used here, applies to those for
          which a medal is awarded and worn on the Air Force uniform, such as an Air Force
          Achievement Medal.
          1.12.8.1.2. You may mention other awards, or nominations, for honors and awards
          such as "Outstanding Maintenance Officer" or “Twelve Outstanding Airmen of the
          Year.”
      1.12.8.2. Weighted Airmen Promotion System (WAPS) Data. Score data on the WAPS
      score notice or senior NCO promotion score notice, board scores, test scores, relative
      standings among peers etc. are prohibited.
      1.12.8.3. Matrices, fact sheets, background sheets or other documents unless specifically
      authorized in this instruction (see paragraphs 1.4.1.1 and 1.4.1.2). Additionally, do not
      establish panels or boards to review and collectively score, rate, rank, or tally records
      and/or generate a priority list for determining promotion recommendations, level of
      endorsement or stratification (see paragraph 8.2.3.1.2 for PRFs).
1.13. Policy Deviations, Extensions and Waiver Requests. See Table 1.1. for mailing
addresses for the Offices of Primary Responsibilities/Point of Contacts (OPR/POC).
   1.13.1. Policy Deviations and Waiver Requests.
      1.13.1.1. Send requests for deviations or waivers through the wing commander or the
      comparative level to HQ AFPC/DPSIDE (or appropriate ANG/AFR office stated in
      paragraph 1.15) who in turn will forward the request to appropriate office of primary
      responsibility (OPR) listed in Table 1.1.
      1.13.1.2. Requests will be in Memorandum format with all the appropriate
      endorsements. All requests must include at a minimum, the requested policy deviation or
      waiver and justification and/or reason for the request. If the request is applicable to a
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     61


      specific organization or individual, the request must include the name of the unit or the
      name of the individual, grade and SSN.
      1.13.1.3. All deviation requests pertaining to senior ratership issues require coordination
      through the respective Management Levels (ML) and must be signed by the head of the
      ML.
      1.13.1.4. Signed requests will be mailed to the HQ AFPC/DPSID (or appropriate
      ANG/AFR office stated in Table 1.1.), or may be sent by scanning the signed document
      and emailing it to: AFPC.DPSID-WORKFLOW@US.AF.MIL.
   1.13.2. Extensions.
      1.13.2.1. The authority to extend a close-out date for lieutenant colonel and below is
      retained by HQ AFPC/DPSIDE; HQ AFRC/A1 for USAFR. The authority to extend
      close-out dates for ANG personnel is the Adjutant General (TAG) in the state/territory to
      which they are assigned or NGB/OM for Statutory Tour personnel. (This waiver
      authority will not be delegated, there are no exceptions). AF/DPG (for EAD general
      officers) an NGB-GO (for non-EAD ANG general officers) retains similar authority on
      AF Form 78. AF/DPO retains authority on OPRs for colonels.
      1.13.2.2. Events that occur after the close-out date. Extensions are only granted to allow
      evaluators to document negative behavior, i.e. court-martial actions, investigations, etc.
      Extensions are not granted to document awards, achievements or completion/non-
      completion of any training.        Extensions on DBH and CRO evaluations are not
      authorized. Extensions must be requested prior to, but no later than 30 days after the
      close-out date of the evaluation. Also see paragraph 1.13.2.5.
          1.13.2.2.1. Pending Administrative Actions. If an incident or event occurs that
          reflect a departure from standards or derogatory in nature between the time an annual
          or initial evaluation closes out and the time it becomes a matter of record that is of
          such serious significance that inclusion in that evaluation is warranted, an extension
          of the close-out date may be requested by the unit commander. This includes
          completion of an investigation begun prior to the close-out date or confirmation of
          behavior that was only alleged as of the close-out date. Commanders may request
          OPR/EPR close-out date extensions to ensure resolution of any pending
          administrative actions or other significant issues. Extensions will be granted to cover
          only the time necessary to complete actions, not to exceed 59 days.
      1.13.2.3. Send requests for extension, to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP (or appropriate ANG/AFR
      office stated in paragraph 1.15. with a copy to the servicing personnel office, who in turn
      will forward the request to appropriate office of primary responsibility (OPR) listed in
      Table 1.1.). This must be done in a timely manner, and a commander initiated email is
      acceptable. The request must include the following information: Name, Grade and SSN
      of ratee, evaluation “From” and “Thru” dates, desired close-out date (not to exceed 59
      days), and a complete rationale as to why the extension is needed. Include all applicable
      pertinent information including dates of investigations, fitness score AFFMS printout,
      whether or not the ratee is on a profile and dates of profile(s), the ratee’s Fitness
      Assessment (FA) history, any AF Fm 422s during the reporting period, and deployment
      dates (if applicable). Incomplete requests will be returned without action.
 62                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      1.13.2.4. Approved extensions must be documented by placing the following statement
      in the feedback section of the AF Forms 707, 910 and 911: “Close-out date was extended
      IAW AFI 36-2406, paragraph 1.13.2.”
      1.13.2.5. When the approving authority grants an extension, only one extension, not to
      exceed 59 days will be granted. If the actions cannot be finalized by, or event occurs
      after, the extended close-out date, the evaluation will be completed using the original
      close-out date. If desired, the commander can then direct another evaluation be rendered
      at the 120-day point (60-day point for referral evaluations) to capture the incident. See
      Table 3.4. and Table 3.8. for USAFR.
1.14. Missing, Late and Removed Performance Evaluations. (See Table 1.2.)
   1.14.1. Tracking Late and/or Missing Evaluations.
      1.14.1.1. Missing Evaluations on an Active Duty Officers and SNCOs.                  The
      CSS/MPS/AFPC/ARPC initiates action to try and locate the missing report.
          1.14.1.1.1. If the report is located, place the original evaluation in the permanent
          record or send the original to AF/DPO for colonels and colonel selects, AF/DPE for
          CMSgts and CMSgt selects, and forwards a copy to HQ AFPC/DPSIRR for file in the
          Automated Records Management System (ARMS). If required, update the system in
          accordance with Personnel Services Delivery (PSD) Training Handbook.
          1.14.1.1.2. If the report is not located, or cannot be justly re-accomplished, the HR
          specialist (CSS/MPS/AFPC/ARPC agency) who identified the discrepancy will
          prepare an AF Form 77 according to Table 4.1., Note 5, and inserts the original into
          the OSR/NSR, or sends the original to AF/DPO for colonel and colonel selects,
          AF/DPE for CMSgts and CMSgt selects, and forwards a copy to HQ AFPC/DPSIRR
          for file in ARMS. Make sure to update the system in accordance with Personnel
          Services Delivery (PSD) Handbook.
      1.14.1.2. Missing Evaluations on Active Duty Enlisted TSgts and Below. The Military
      Personnel Section (MPS), initiates action to try and locate the missing report.
          1.14.1.2.1. If the report is located, forward the original evaluation to HQ
          AFPC/DPSIRR for file in ARMS and if required, update the system in accordance
          with Personnel Services Delivery (PSD) Handbook.
          1.14.1.2.2. If a report is not located or cannot be justly re-accomplished, the MPS
          prepares an AF Form 77 in accordance with Table 4.1., Note 5, and forwards AF
          Form 77 to HQ AFPC/DPSIRR for file in ARMS. Make sure to update the system in
          accordance with Personnel Services Delivery (PSD) Handbook.
      1.14.1.3. Missing Evaluations For ResAF. The Officer Selection Record (OSR)
      custodian, the HQ ARPC commander, or offices as prescribed by the commander
      concerned, initiates action to try and locate the missing report.
          1.14.1.3.1. If the report is located, place the original evaluation in the OSR and
          forward a copy to ARPC/DPS for filing in ARMS.
          1.14.1.3.2. If the report is not located or cannot be justly re-accomplished, the MPS
          prepares an AF Form 77 in accordance with Table 4.1., Note 5, and forwards AF
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                         63


           Form 77 to HQ ARPC/DPS for filing in ARMS. Make sure to update the system in
           accordance with Personnel Services Delivery (PSD) Training Handbook.
       1.14.1.4. Missing Evaluations For ANG only. The Adjutant General or designee will
       initiate action to locate missing reports for AGR personnel and NGB/OM for Statutory
       Tour personnel.
           1.14.1.4.1. If tracer action is successful, the Adjutant General or designee will
           forward the evaluation to the OSR/NSR custodian who will file the original in the
           OSR/NSR; forwards a copy to HQ AFPC/DPSIRR for file in ARMS; and if required,
           updates the system in accordance with the Personnel Delivery System (PSD)
           Handbook.
           1.14.1.4.2. If the report is not located and cannot be justly re-accomplished, the
           Adjutant General or designee will contact the OSR/NSR custodian to prepare an AF
           Form 77 in accordance with Table 4.1., Note 5. The OSR/NSR custodian will file the
           original in the MPerRGp and sends a copy to HQ AFPC/DPSIRR for file in ARMS.
           Make sure to update the system in accordance with the PSD Handbook.
       1.14.1.5. When an evaluation is missing, all attempts to locate it should be exhausted. If
       all attempts to locate the missing report are unsuccessful, consider re-accomplishing the
       report; however, before doing so, evaluators should consider such things as: How long it
       has been since the report closed out; are all the evaluators readily available; is there a
       draft of the original still available; does the ratee or any of the evaluators happen to have
       a copy of the original report; can the evaluators now give a fair and accurate report based
       on the timeframe; etc., etc.
   1.14.2. Evaluations Removed From Records Under Chapter 10, Correcting Officer and
   Enlisted Evaluation Reports, or under AFIs 36-2603, Air Force Board for Correction of
   Military Records. Prepare an AF Form 77 in accordance with Table 4.1., Note 6. Make sure
   to update the system in accordance with the PSD Handbook.
   1.14.3. Documenting Unrated Periods. Prepare an AF Form 77 in accordance with Table
   4.1., Note 5. Make sure to update the system in accordance with the PSD Handbook.
1.15. Administrative Examination for Appropriateness of Evaluations. If you believe an
evaluation should not be filed in an individual's record, send it to the appropriate authority listed
below for examination:
   1.15.1. If the ratee is on EAD, the member's MPS/CSS/HR Specialist, or HQ
   AFPC/DPSIDE examines the evaluation.
   1.15.2. If the ratee is an ANG officer or ANG AGR enlisted member not on EAD, the State
   Adjutant General and HQ ARPC/DPBR examine the evaluation, except for ANGUS general
   officers.
   1.15.3. If the ratee is a non-EAD USAFR officer and assigned to an Air Force Reserve
   category A or B unit, HQ ARPC/DPBR examines the evaluation.
   1.15.4. If the ratee is a non-EAD USAFR officer and assigned to a MAJCOM IMA position,
   the MAJCOM of assignment and HQ ARPC/DPBR examine the evaluation.
 64                                                           AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


    1.15.5. HQ ARPC/DPBR conducts this examination if the ratee is a USAFR officer other
    than above and serviced by HQ ARPC/DPBR.
    1.15.6. For ANG Statutory personnel NGB/OM will examine the evaluation.

Table 1.1. Mailing Addresses for Correspondence.
L     A                              B
I
N
E     Address                        OPR Responsibility
1     HQ AFPC/DPSIDE                 Evaluation Programs Section. Manages the OES/EES
      550 C Street West, Suite 7     for all active duty (AD) Airman Basics through
      Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709     Lieutenant Colonels following policy provided by HQ
                                     USAF/A1PPP.
2     HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB                Manages the student Management Level Review
      550 C Street West, Suite 7     (MLR) and all PRF actions.
      Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709

3     HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP                Evaluation Policy & Appeals. Provides AF OES/EES
      550 C Street West, Suite 7     policy and guidance with coordination with HQ
      Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709     USAF/A1PPP. Administers the Evaluation Report
                                     Appeals Board (ERAB). Note: All “wet signature”
                                     evaluations on AD Officer (Lieutenant Colonel and
                                     below), and SMSgts and MSgts are sent to this office,
                                     see Note 1.
4     AF/DPG                         Air Force General Matters Office. Manages OES for,
      1040 Air Force Pentagon,       and maintains all evaluations on, GOs and Brigadier
      Room 5C238                     General selects on EAD.
      Washington DC 20330-1040       Note: All “wet signature” evaluations on AD GOs are
                                     sent to this address, see Note 1.
5     HQ USAF/REG                    Air Force Reserve General Officer Matters Office.
      1150 Air Force Pentagon        Manages OES for Reserve GOs (and Brigadier General
      Washington DC 20330-1150       selects).
                                     Note: All “wet signature” evaluations on Reserve GOs
                                     are sent to this office, see Note 1.
6     AF/DPO                         Air Force Colonel Matters Office. Manages OES for,
      1040 Air Force Pentagon,       and maintains all evaluations on, Colonels (except
      Washington DC 20330-1040       Brigadier General selects) and Colonel selects on the
                                     active duty list (ADL).
                                     Note: All “wet signature” evaluations on AD Colonels
                                     are sent to this address, see Note 1.
7     AF/DPE                         Air Force Chief Matters Office. Maintains all
      1040 Air Force Pentagon,       evaluations on AD CMSgts and CMSgt selects.
      Washington DC 20330-1040       Note: All “wet signature” evaluations AD CMSgts are
                                     sent to this address, see Note 1.
8     HQ ARPC/DPBR                   Records and Board Support Division. Manages the
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   65


    6760 East Irvington Place #2000   OES for ResAF officers not on the active duty list and
    Denver CO 80280-2000              the EES for ResAF enlisted personnel following policy
                                      provided by HQ USAF/RE and NGB. Note: All “wet
                                      signature” evaluations on Reserve personnel are sent to
                                      this office, except general officers.
9   HQ AFPC/DPSIR                     (Active Duty ARMS) Maintains the Automated
    550 C Street West, Suite 21       Records Management System on all AD personnel.
    Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709        Note: All “wet signature” evaluations on AD TSgt’s
                                      and below are sent to this office, see Note 1.
10 HQ ARPC/DPQA                       (Reserve/Guard ARMS) Maintains the Automated
   6760 E. Irvington Place            Records Management System on all Reserve/Guard
   Denver CO 80280-2000               personnel.

11 HQ USAF/RE                         Provides USAFR OES/EES policy.
   1150 Air Force Pentagon
   Washington DC 20330-1150

12 HQ AFPC/DPAM                       Medical Service Officer Management. Provides advice
   550 C Street West Suite 25         on reporting policy for officers within the health
   Randolph AFB TX 78150-4727         professions, in conjunction with HQ USAF/SG1,
                                      Medical Force Development Directorate, Office of the
                                      Surgeon General, HQ USAF/SG.
13 AFRC/A1                            Responsible for effective management and operation of
   155 Richard Bay Blvd               all AFRC Manpower, Personnel and Services
   Robins AFB GA 31098-5000           programs, plans, policies and procedures.
                                      Note: A1 is approval authority for evaluation close-out
                                      date extensions for all Reserve members.
14 AFRC/A1KP                          Promotions, Retention and Customer Service Branch.
   155 Richard Bay Blvd               Provides AF OES/EES policy and guidance following
   Robins AFB GA 31098-5000           policy provided by HQ USAF/A1PPP or USAF/RE.
                                      A1KP also processes close-out date extensions to A1
                                      for approval/ disapproval for Lt Cols and below.
15 AFRC/A1L                           Senior Leader (Colonel) Management Division for
   155 Richard Bay Blvd               AFRC.
   Robins AFB GA 31098-5000

16 NGB-GO
   1411 Jefferson Davis Highway
   Suite 12600
   Arlington VA 22202-3231

17 NGB/A1P                            Manages the OES for ANG officers, including ANGUS
   1411 Jefferson Davis Highway       general Officers not on EAD.
   Arlington VA 22202-3231

18 AFDW/DPJ
 66                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      20 MacDill Blvd, Suite 400
      Bolling AFB DC 20332-5100

19 HQ USAF/JAX                        The Judge Advocate General Corps Professional
   1420 Air Force Pentagon,           Development Directorate. Provides advice on
   Suite 5B269                        reporting policy for judge advocates.
   Washington DC 20330-1420

Notes:
1. All digitally signed evaluations must be pushed through the Case Management System
(CMS).


Table 1.2. Missing and Late Enlisted Evaluations (See Notes 1 and 2).
R     A                    B                C
U                          and the
L     Tracer action or re- system
E     accomplishment was contains the
      successful:          overall
      (See Note 3)         rating and       Then:
                           close-out
                           date:
1     No                   Yes              When authorized by AFPC/ARPC the
                                            MPS/CSS/HR Specialist or The Joint
                                            Forces Headquarters (Human Resource
                                            Office) or NGB/OM who discovers the
                                            discrepancy prepares AF Form 77, see
                                            Table 4.1., Note 5k.

2                           No              When authorized by AFPC/ARPC the
                            (See Note 2)    MPS/CSS/HR Specialist prepares AF
                                            Form 77, see Table 4.1., Note 5k.

3     Yes (Tracer Only)                     file the evaluation according to
                                            Table 3.5. or Table 3.6. (OPRs) or Table
                                            3.9. (EPRs) and update the system, if
                                            appropriate.

Notes:
1. The gaining MPS/CSS/HR Specialist, The Joint Forces Headquarters (Human Resource
Office) or NGB/OM tracks missing or late evaluations resulting from CSS/HR Specialist or
PCAs. The losing MPS/CSS/HR Specialist, HQ ARPC/DPBR, the Joint Forces Headquarters
(Human Resource Office) or NGB/OM gives the gaining MPS/CSS/HR Specialist, HQ
ARPC/DPBR, The Joint Forces Headquarters (Human Resource Office) or NGB/OM a copy of
AF Form 330, Records Transmittal/Request, when appropriate. Do not redo evaluations more
than 18 months old. AF Forms 77 are prepared by the MPS/CSS/HR Specialist.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    67


2. When all attempts to find the missing evaluation fail, the MPS/CSS/HR Specialist sends an
inquiry to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP or HQ ARPC/DPBR (Officers/SNCOs), requesting that HQ
AFPC/DPSIDEP or HQ ARPC/DPS search the history files for the EPR rating. Include in the
request:
a. All known information that may assist in identifying the missing evaluation.
b. An account of all actions taken to find the missing EPR. For personnel with prior service, do
not send a request to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP or HQ ARPC/DPBR for missing evaluations earlier
than 120 calendar days after the date the ratee reentered to duty. The MPS/CSS/HR Specialist
provides this information when requesting a search for missing APRs or EPRs on personnel with
prior service:

(1) Name.
(2) Grade.
(3) SSN.
(4) Grade at separation.
(5) Date of separation.
(6) Whether an AF Form 1613, Statement of Service, might exist.

Note: If HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP or HQ ARPC/DPS finds the rating in the history files, complete
an AF Form 77 according to Table 4.1., Note 5k. When more than one evaluation is involved,
the MPS/CSS/HR Specialist may prepare one AF Form 77 according to Table 4.1., Note 5k, if no
gaps exist in the period of the missing evaluations. However, if the MPS/CSS/HR specialist later
receives one or more of the missing evaluations, it prepares one or more AF Forms 77, as
required, so that periods of time in the performance record remain consecutive. If the rating is
not available, comply with Table 4.1., Note 5k.
3. Do not re-accomplish a lost or missing report that is more than 18 months past the close-out
date.
 68                                         AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


Figure 1.1. Enlisted Referral Memorandum.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013   69
70   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      71



                                           Chapter 2

                            PERFORMANCE FEEDBACK PROCESS

2.1. Purpose. Performance feedback is a private, formal communication a rater uses to tell a
ratee what is expected regarding duty performance and how well the ratee is meeting those
expectations. Raters document performance feedback on the Performance Feedback Worksheet
(PFW), and use the PFW format as a guide, for conducting feedback sessions where they discuss
objectives, standards, behavior, and performance with the ratee. Providing this information helps
an individual contribute to positive communication, improve performance, and grow
professionally.
2.2. Responsibilities.
   2.2.1. The ratee will:
       2.2.1.1. Know when feedback sessions are due.
       2.2.1.2. Request a feedback session, if needed.
       2.2.1.3. Notify the rater and, if necessary, the rater’s rater, when required or requested
       feedback did not take place. Lack of counseling or feedback, by itself, is not a sufficient
       reason to challenge the accuracy or injustice of an evaluation.
       2.2.1.4. Sign the PFW and rater’s copy of the feedback notice indicating the date the
       supervisor conducted the feedback session, see paragraph 2.6.5.
   2.2.2. The rater will:
       2.2.2.1. Prepare for, schedule, and conduct feedback sessions according to Table 2.1.
       regardless of whether the rater received a feedback notice. Conflicts such as being
       geographically separated, TDY, leave, etc., are not excuses not to perform feedback
       sessions. (See paragraph 2.4.)
       2.2.2.2. Stay aware of standards and expectations and consider them when providing
       feedback to personnel.
       2.2.2.3. Provide realistic feedback to help the ratee improve performance. Realistic
       feedback includes discussion with the ratee, and written comments on the PFW, not just
       marks on the form.
       2.2.2.4. Provide the original completed and signed PFW to the ratee.
       2.2.2.5. Maintain a copy of the signed and dated feedback notice.
       2.2.2.6. Document behavior that may result in further administrative or judicial action on
       other than a PFW (Example: An AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling).
       Note: Since a PFW may only be introduced into a personnel action when paragraph
       2.9.3. applies, it is important that behavior representing a significant departure from
       expected standards is recorded in other forms of documentation.
   2.2.3. The rater’s rater will:
       2.2.3.1. Monitor personnel to ensure raters properly conduct feedback sessions.
 72                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


       2.2.3.2. Conduct performance feedback sessions when:
           2.2.3.2.1. A lower-level rater is not available due to unusual circumstances, see
           paragraph 1.6.3.4.
           2.2.3.2.2. Officially assuming the subordinate rater’s responsibilities, see paragraph
           1.6.3.4.
   2.2.4. The unit commander will:
       2.2.4.1. Administer the performance feedback program. Unit commanders may establish
       procedures beyond those provided for in this chapter to check performance feedback
       compliance, provided those procedures do not violate the privacy of PFW
       communications as specified in paragraph 2.9.3.
       2.2.4.2. Monitor raters and ratees to ensure feedback sessions are conducted properly and
       in a timely manner.
       2.2.4.3. Develop a training program and use the OES/EES training material to establish a
       performance feedback training session.
       2.2.4.4. Know if personnel are being trained in a timely manner on performance
       feedback, and if first-time supervisors are getting the help they need before attempting to
       carry out their supervisory duties.
       2.2.4.5. Select the right people to conduct the OES/EES education training.
       2.2.4.6. Visit the work places and asking personnel questions about their jobs and the
       feedback they are receiving.
       2.2.4.7. Hold supervisors accountable for not conducting feedback sessions. Consider
       disciplinary action and removal from supervisory positions those raters who fail to
       conduct documented performance feedback sessions.
   2.2.5. The Military Personnel Section (MPS) will provide feedback notices to raters and
   ratees.
2.3. Who Requires a Performance Feedback. Feedback is mandatory for all officers, Second
Lieutenant through Colonel, and all enlisted personnel. If an individual requests a feedback
session, the rater will provide one within 30 days of receipt of the request, provided 60 days have
passed (at the rater’s discretion) since the last feedback session. Do not prepare a PFW when a
ratee is a captive, patient, prisoner, absent without leave (AWOL), etc. For students receiving
AF Forms 475, performance feedback is not required, but may be given if the ratee’s
performance/conduct warrants it.
2.4. Guidance for Conducting Feedback Sessions. Feedback sessions will be conducted face-
to-face. Exception: Raters may conduct sessions by telephone only in unusual circumstances
where face-to-face sessions are impractical, such as when the rater and ratee are geographically
separated or the rater and/or ratee is on extended TDY. When a telephonic session is conducted,
the rater forwards the original PFW to the ratee within 10 calendar days after the session.
Conflicts such as being geographically separated, TDY, leave, etc., are not excuses not to
perform feedback sessions.
2.5. When to Hold Documented Feedback Sessions. See Table 2.1.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                         73


2.6. The Performance Feedback Notice.
   2.6.1. The rater should receive a computer-generated performance feedback notice 30 days
   after supervision begins (when initial or end-of-reporting period feedback is required) and
   again halfway between the time supervision began and the projected performance evaluation
   close-out date (when midterm feedback is required). This notice serves to remind raters that
   a feedback session is due; however, failure to receive a feedback notice does not justify
   failing to hold a required session.
   2.6.2. Since the ratee shares the responsibility to ensure feedback sessions occur, a feedback
   notice is also sent to the ratee, through his or her unit, 30 days after sending the notice to the
   rater (for officers) or concurrently with the notice sent to the rater (for enlisted).
   2.6.3. For Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA), the feedback notice is sent to the
   supervisor’s active duty MPS for forwarding to the supervisor. IMAs receive their copies
   through the mail.
   2.6.4. The performance feedback notice must be signed and dated by the rater and ratee and
   then maintained by the supervisor. Note: Signing the PFW does not constitute concurrence;
   it is merely to acknowledge that the feedback was performed.
2.7. Which PFW Form to Use.
   2.7.1. For Lieutenant through Colonel, use AF Form 724.
   2.7.2. For a senior NCO, use AF Form 932.
   2.7.3. For TSgt and below, use AF Form 931.
2.8. Preparing the PFW. The PFW should, as thoroughly as possible, outline the issues
discussed during the feedback session; however, it is primarily a guide for conducting the
feedback session, not a transcript. Therefore, omission of an issue from the form does not, by
itself, constitute proof that the issue was not discussed. Lack of counseling or feedback, by
itself, is not sufficient justification to challenge the accuracy or injustice of an evaluation.
   2.8.1. The PFW may be handwritten or typed by the rater providing the feedback.
   2.8.2. Section I, Personal Information, is self-explanatory. Fill in all required data.
   2.8.3. Section II, Types of Feedback. In the appropriate box, indicate whether the feedback
   is initial, midterm, ratee requested or rater directed.
   2.8.4. Section III, Primary Duties, is a fill-in-the-blank area where the rater outlines specific
   duties (specialty and assignment). These entries include the most important duties and
   correspond to the job description reflected on the OPR/EPR.
   2.8.5. Section IV, Performance Feedback, covers those qualities and skills required of all
   personnel. The PFW has five blocks to select from for each performance factor. The rater
   places a mark in the appropriate block which indicates the ratee’s level of performance.
       2.8.5.1. Since the primary purpose of the initial feedback session is to establish
       expectations for the upcoming rating period, a rater is not expected to have already
       developed a clear-cut opinion of an individual’s performance by the time the session is
       conducted. Therefore, raters will mark the Initial Feedback block under each standard of
       performance and provide comments on their expectations.
 74                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         2.8.5.2. For all other feedback types, the rater will indicate how the ratee is meeting the
         established expectations by marking either “Does Not Meet”, “Meets”, “Above
         Average”, or “Clearly Exceeds”. These markings do not directly translate to a rating on
         the evaluation, but provide an indication of how the ratee is meeting the expectations set
         forth by the rater and provides the basis for the feedback session discussion. Use the
         following definitions of performance assessment ratings when filling out PFWs:
             2.8.5.2.1. Does Not Meet:      Performs below established standards, requires
             improvement. Disciplinary action is not required, however, the evaluation will be
             referral.
             2.8.5.2.2. Meets: Meets established standards.
             2.8.5.2.3. Above Average: Performs beyond established standards and expectations.
             2.8.5.2.4. Clearly Exceeds: Performs at a higher level than most of their peers, far
             exceeds standards and expectations, unique performer. Note: Fitness will be rated at
             “Does Not Meet,” “Meets,” or “Exempt.” Apply the same rules as the OPR/EPR.
         2.8.5.3. Space is provided for factual, helpful performance feedback so ratees can
         improve their duty performance or define their professional development goals.
         Comments on performance should relate to placement of the marks in section IV.
   2.8.6. The reverse side of the form (Strengths, Suggested Goals, Professional Development,
   Additional Comments, etc.) provides space to continue feedback or to help individuals
   understand their strengths and possible plans for the future. Also, use it to continue the
   comments from the front of the form.
2.9. Disposition and Access.
   2.9.1. The rater gives the completed PFW to the ratee and keeps a copy for personal
   reference. The PFW will not be made an official part of any personnel record, nor used in
   any personnel action unless paragraph 2.9.3. applies.
      2.9.2. The ratee may use the completed form as he or she desires.
   2.9.3. The PFW may not be reviewed by anyone other than the rater and ratee, or introduced
   in any personnel action unless the ratee first introduces it, or alleges either he or she did not
   receive required feedback sessions or that sessions were inadequate. Exceptions:
         2.9.3.1. For SNCOs, the squadron commander is authorized access to PFW.
         2.9.3.2. For TSgts and below, the additional rater, rater’s rater (when the additional rater
         is not also the rater’s rater), first sergeant, and squadron commander are authorized
         access to the PFW.
      2.9.4. Temporary Duty (TDY) supervisors may conduct feedback and complete PFWs;
      however, they do not send these PFWs to the rater. Exception: If the TDY rater has been
      officially designated as the ratee’s reporting official, feedback is required.
2.10. Failure of Rater to Conduct or Document a Feedback Session. While documented
feedback sessions are required, they do not replace informal day-to-day feedback. A rater’s
failure to conduct a required or requested feedback session, or document the session on a PFW,
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       75


will not, by itself, invalidate any subsequent performance evaluations, or (for officers) PRFs.
See paragraph 1.11.9, Table 3.1, line 17, and Table 3.2, line 38.
2.11. End-of-Reporting Period Feedback.
    2.11.1. Raters are required to conduct a feedback session with the ratee after all evaluators
    have signed the evaluation.
    2.11.2. Use the evaluation form when conducting the feedback. A PFW may be used but is
    not required when conducting this feedback.
    2.11.3. The date of the End-of-Reporting Feedback will not to be used as the “Date last
    feedback was accomplished.”
    2.11.4. Raters should review the evaluation content with the ratee and discuss why the
    ratings were given, and what can be done to improve performance during the upcoming
    evaluation period.
    2.11.5. During this session, ratees should review all personal information on the evaluation
    for accuracy, in addition to reviewing the content of the evaluation.
    2.11.6. The ratee may recommend changes, (i.e. informing the rater he/she forgot an award,
    that the report contains inaccurate information or typographical errors); however, the rater is
    under no obligation to make any changes, unless the evaluation contains errors or prohibited
    information. Content/rating changes suggested by the ratee are not required to be made by
    the rater. However, corrections to personal identifying information will be made prior to the
    evaluation becoming a matter of record.
    2.11.7. The ratee acknowledges this review by completing the ratee acknowledgement
    portion of the block. When the ratee is unavailable or declines to sign, the End-of-Reporting
    Period Feedback is still required.

Table 2.1. Performance Feedback Requirements.
      A                                             B
R
U
L
E
      If the ratee is                               then the ratee requires the following
                                                    feedback

1     a CMSgt or a Colonel.                         Initial
                                                    (See Note 1; Note 4 for non-EAD USAFR)
2     a MSgt or SMSgt, Major or Lieutenant          Initial
      Colonel.                                      (See Note 1; Note 4 for non-EAD USAFR)

                                                    Midterm
                                                    (See Note 2; Note 4 for non-EAD
                                                    USAFR)
3     an AB, Amn or A1C (who has already            Initial
 76                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      received an EPR), a SrA through TSgt, a         (See Note 1)
      Lieutenant through Captain.
      (see notes 6 and 7 )                            Midterm
                                                      (See Note 2)

                                                      End-of-reporting period
                                                      (See Note 3)
4     an AB, Amn or A1C (with less than 20            Initial
      months TAFMS)                                   (See Note 1)

                                                      Midterm
                                                      (See Note 5)
5     an AB through Colonel                           Requested by Ratee
                                                      (See Note 8)
6     an AB through Colonel                           When determined necessary by the rater

Notes:
1. The rater must conduct the initial feedback session within the first 60 days he or she initially
begins supervision. This will be the ratee’s only initial feedback until they have a change of
reporting official. For CMSgts and Colonels, this is the only feedback required.
2. The rater must conduct the midterm feedback session midway between the date supervision
begins and the projected close-out date of the next EPR/OPR.
3. The rater conducts an End-of Reporting Period feedback session when an evaluation has been
accomplished. This session must be conducted within 60 days of the close-out of the evaluation
and serves two distinct purposes. The first purpose is to review and discuss with the ratee the
previous reporting period and resulting EPR/OPR. The second purpose is to establish
expectations for the new reporting period. Note: If the evaluation is due to a CRO, the new
rater will be required to do an initial feedback in addition to the feedback performed by the
previous rater during the presentation of the evaluation.
4. A PFW is not required if action is pending under AFI 36-3209, Separation Procedures for Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members.
5. After the initial feedback session is conducted, conduct a (midterm) feedback session every
180 days until the rater writes an EPR or a CRO occurs.
6. If the ratee is due an annual evaluation and the period of supervision is less than 150 days, the
rater conducts the feedback session approximately 60 days before the projected evaluation close-
out date.
7. If the ratee is getting a CRO evaluation and time permits, the rater will hold a feedback
session within 60 days of the close-out date, but not later than 30 days prior.
8. When a ratee requests a feedback session, the rater must conduct a session within 30 days of
the ratee’s request if at least 60 days have passed (at the rater’s discretion) since the last feedback
session.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       77



                                           Chapter 3

       OFFICER/ENLISTED PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS (OPRS/EPRS)

3.1. General Guidelines.
   3.1.1. See Chapter 1 for general processing guidance applicable to all evaluations.
   3.1.2. Although there are no established quotas on ratings or rating expectations, evaluators
   at all levels must use caution to prevent over inflation. Evaluation ratings are used to
   determine selections for promotions, job and school recommendations, career job
   reservations, reenlistments and assignments. It is important to differentiate performance and
   it is a disservice to all Airmen when OPR/EPR ratings are over inflated.
   3.1.3. Marking Ratings. “Wet Signature Evaluations Only.” When electronic ratings (Xs)
   are not used, do not enter hand-marked ratings until signing the evaluation to prevent
   erroneous entry of ratings by other personnel. When hand marking, use only reproducible
   dark blue or black ink.
   3.1.4. “FROM” Dates.
      3.1.4.1. Officers. Use the “From” date on the OPR notice, but if different or incorrect,
      use the information below to establish the “FROM” date. If the officer is:
          3.1.4.1.1. On EAD, and it is the first OPR, use the EAD date; or the day following
          the close-out date of a TR from a school that is 20 weeks or more.
          3.1.4.1.2. An ANG officer not on EAD and it is an initial evaluation, use the
          effective date of federal recognition in ANG or the day following the close-out of a
          TR from a school of 20 weeks or more. (Use AF Form 77 to cover any gap from the
          officer’s entry into non-EAD status to the “FROM” date of the first evaluation
          received in non-EAD status in IAW paragraph 1.14 and AFI 36-2608, Military
          Personnel Records System.)
          3.1.4.1.3. An ANG officer not on EAD, and was assigned to an ANG unit from
          ARPC (ISLRS, NARS, ORS, or RRPS), use the date of latest federal recognition
          (Complete an AF Form 77 to cover a gap caused by insufficient supervision IAW
          paragraph 1.14 and AFI 36-2608.)
          3.1.4.1.4. An ANG officer not on EAD and was assigned to an ANG unit from
          another state, use the date of latest federal recognition (the losing state will complete
          an AF Form 77 to cover a gap caused by insufficient supervision IAW paragraph 1.14
          and AFI 36-2608).
          3.1.4.1.5. A USAFR officer not on EAD and it is an initial evaluation, use the date of
          assignment to the USAFR status held as of the close-out date. (Use AF Form 77 to
          cover any gap from the officer’s entry into non-EAD status to the “FROM” date of
          the first evaluation received in non-EAD status IAW paragraph 1.14. and AFI 36-
          2608.)
          3.1.4.1.6. A USAFR officer not on EAD and has been reassigned or attached to a
          unit from ARPC, use the effective date of attachment or change of strength
78                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         accountability or transfer effective date (TED) of reassignment. This applies only to
         the first evaluation in non-EAD status. (Use AF Form 77 to cover any gap from the
         officer’s entry into non-EAD status to the “FROM” date of the first evaluation
         received in non-EAD status IAW paragraph 1.14. and AFI 36-2608.)
         3.1.4.1.7. A USAFR officer not on EAD, but previously on EAD and concurrently
         assigned to training category A, B, or E on release from AD, use the day following
         the close-out of the last evaluation received while on EAD. (Applies only to the first
         non-EAD-status evaluation.)
         3.1.4.1.8. An USAFR officer not on EAD but previously on AD as RegAF and did
         not accept a USAFR commission concurrently with release from AD, use the
         effective date of appointment in non-EAD status. Applies only to the first non-EAD-
         status evaluation. Use AF Form 77 to cover any gap from the officer’s entry into
         non-EAD status to the “FROM” date of the first evaluation received in non-EAD
         status IAW paragraph 1.14. and AFI 36-2608.
     3.1.4.2. Enlisted. Use the “FROM” date on the EPR notice, but if different or incorrect,
     use the information below to establish the “FROM” date if the member is:
         3.1.4.2.1. Has a previous evaluation on file, use the day following the close-out date
         of the previous evaluation.
         3.1.4.2.2. On AD but has not had a previous evaluation on current AD tour, use the
         day of entry/reentry on AD (the EAD date in the MilPDS).
         3.1.4.2.3. Non-AD and has not had a previous evaluation, use the date of assignment
         to the Reserve or the date when a SrA has 20 months in service (from DIEMS),
         whichever is later.
  3.1.5. “THRU” Dates. Never close out an evaluation on or after the actual departure,
  retirement, or separation date of the rater or ratee. If a departure, separation, or retirement
  date changes after establishment of the “THRU” date of an evaluation, it is not necessary to
  adjust the close-out date if it is no more than 30 days before the actual departure date, unless
  the change causes the number of days of supervision to meet or exceed the specifications in
  Table 3.7. and Table 3.8. Evaluations prepared and have been made a matter of record under
  the CRO rule remain valid even if the condition is later canceled. Use the information below
  to establish the “THRU” date. If the reason for the evaluation is:
     3.1.5.1. Enlisted Initial Reports.
         3.1.5.1.1. The close-out date will be 20 months from the ratee’s Total Active Federal
         Military Service (TAFMS) date. For example, the ratee’s TAFMS date is 15 Jun 07,
         then the close-out date will be 15 Feb 09.
         3.1.5.1.2. If after the ratee reaches 20 months, and the rater does not have required
         number of days supervision required by Tables 3.7 and 3.8, adjust the close-out to
         the date on which the rater achieves the required number of days supervision.
     3.1.5.2. Annual/Biennial Reports.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      79


         3.1.5.2.1. An officer’s first report. The close-out date is one year, minus one day
         (365 days) from the Entered Active Duty (EAD) date. For example, the officer’s
         EAD date is 15 Jun 08 then the close-out date would be 14 Jun 09.
         3.1.5.2.2. All subsequent reports, officer and enlisted, the close-out date will be one
         year from the close-out date of the last evaluation.
         3.1.5.2.3. If needed, adjust the close-out to the date on which the rater achieves the
         required number of days of supervision, or points required by Tables 3.7 and 3.8.
         3.1.5.2.4. If the member is non-EAD enlisted USAFR; biennial, use the date two
         years from the close-out of previous evaluation, or: who has not had a previous
         evaluation, and the “FROM” date is the member’s DOR to SSgt, the thru date will be
         two years from the DOR to SSgt (i.e., DOR and “FROM” date is 1 May 2006, then
         “THRU” date will be 30 Apr 2008) provided the ratee has earned at least 16
         active/inactive duty points.
         3.1.5.2.5. If a rater change occurs after the original annual date passed, but before the
         rater completed 120 days supervision, the evaluation is closed out the day prior to the
         rater change, providing at least 60 days of supervision have occurred. If the 60 days
         has not been met, then the first rater who obtains 60 days supervision will write the
         report. The evaluation reason is still “Annual.”
         3.1.5.2.6. For USAFR. If a rater change occurs after the original biennial date, but
         before the rater completed 120 days supervision, the evaluation is closed out the day
         prior to the rater change, providing at least 60 days of supervision has occurred. The
         evaluation reason is still “Biennial”.
      3.1.5.3. Change of Reporting Official (CRO) Reports, (including events of emergency or
      no-notice departures).
         3.1.5.3.1. Use the day before the effective date of the change.
         3.1.5.3.2. If either the rater or ratee is pending separation, retirement, or PCS, then
         the close-out date will be 30 calendar days before the projected departure date, unless:
             3.1.5.3.2.1. The 30-day rule will cause a ratee to be ineligible for an evaluation
             due to a lack of supervision. Then the close-out date must be adjusted to the date
             on which the rater achieves the required number of days supervision, but no later
             than one day before the departure date. If the rater does not have the required
             supervision by the day before the departure date, a report is not required.
             3.1.5.3.2.2. Approved by the commander, to record significant events. Then
             adjust the close-out date accordingly. Significant events are things such as AF-
             level awards or derogatory information resulting in a referral evaluation, not
             simply additional daily achievements. However, the adjusted close-out date must
             be before the projected departure date and this only applies to CRO reports.
             3.1.5.3.2.3. If the ratee is ResAF Officer, adjust the close-out date within the 30-
             day window to the date the ratee completes the minimum 16-point, and 120 days
             of supervision requirement.
80                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


     3.1.5.3.2.3.1. Directed by HQ USAF, NGB, or Commander (MAJCOM, wing, group, or
     squadron, as appropriate).
         3.1.5.3.2.3.2. Message Directed. Use the date specified in the message directing the
         evaluation.
         3.1.5.3.2.3.3. MIA/Captured/Detained. Use the date the ratee was placed in missing-
         in-action (MIA), captured, or detained in captive status.
         3.1.5.3.3. Control Roster Placement. Use one day before being placed on the control
         roster if the evaluation is directed as a result of placement on the control roster.
         3.1.5.3.4. Control Roster Removal. Use one day before expiration and/or removal
         from control roster if directed as a result of being removed or upon completion of the
         control roster observation period. This is not applicable to the ANG.
         3.1.5.3.5. Otherwise Directed. Use the date as otherwise directed by the commander,
         see Table 3.7.
     3.1.5.4. Extensions.
         3.1.5.4.1. Use the date approved by the appropriate waiver authority per a request for
         an extension of the close-out date. See paragraph 1.13. for extensions of the close-out
         (“THRU”) date.
         3.1.5.4.2. For USAFR, if needed, adjust the close-out date on which the rater
         achieves the required number of days of supervision and points required by Table 3.8.
  3.1.6. Number of Days Supervision. Enter the number of days the rater supervised the ratee
  during the reporting period.
     3.1.6.1. Enter the number of days the rater supervised the ratee during the reporting
     period. To compute, use the “supervision began date” through the “close-out date” to
     determine the number of day supervision.
     3.1.6.2. Do NOT deduct any periods of leave, TDY, absences or periods loaned out to
     other organizations.
     3.1.6.3. On EAD an OPR/EPR is being written by the rater’s rater per paragraph 1.7.,
     then enter number of days for which the evaluator had personal or written knowledge of
     the ratee's duty performance during the reporting period.
     3.1.6.4. A Non-EAD ANG officer and OPR is being written by another rater per
     paragraph 1.7., then enter number of days the evaluator had personal or written
     knowledge of the ratee’s duty performance during the reporting period. The number of
     days of supervision for a ratee assigned to a rater for a calendar year is 365, not the sum
     of unit training assembly and field training days.
     3.1.6.5. A Non-EAD USAFR officer, then enter the number of days of supervision under
     the rater during the reporting period. Deduct from the period of supervision tours of AD
     under other than the designated rater for which there is an LOE. Example: If preparing
     an OPR to cover the period from 1 July to 31 December, and the rater was first so
     designated on 1 September and served in this capacity without a break to 31 December,
     and the ratee reported for training and duty for a total of 27 days between 1 September
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    81


      and 31 December, then the period of supervision is 122 days, not 27 days. The rater is
      responsible for the accuracy of the number of days of supervision entry.
   3.1.7. Performance Factors (Section III and IX) and Rater/Additional Rater Overall
   Assessment, (Sections IV and V) – AF Form 707, Officer Performance Report (OPR). Note:
   Commanders are held responsible for the overall readiness of their unit and are ultimately
   accountable for its performance. As such, overall unit readiness and performance should be a
   major contributing factor when assessing a commander’s performance.
      3.1.7.1. The rater completes Section III and if applicable Section IX (Performance
      Factors); however, the additional evaluators will review evaluations to ensure ratings
      accurately describe performance and comments are compatible with and support the
      ratings. They must return evaluations with unsupported statements for additional
      information or reconsideration of ratings, see paragraph 1.9 for disagreements; however,
      no evaluator may coerce another into changing their comments or ratings unless they are
      missing mandatory comments (paragraph 1.11) or the evaluation includes prohibited
      comments (paragraph 1.12).
      3.1.7.2. The rater completes Section III (Performance Factors) by placing an “X” in the
      “Meets Standards” or “Does Not Meet Standards” box. This is the ratee’s overall
      performance. One of these blocks must be marked. Additionally, if the ratee has a valid
      fitness exemption, the “Fitness Exemption” box must also be marked “Yes” (see
      paragraph 1.4.10.3).
          3.1.7.2.1. If an officer fails to meet standards in any one of the listed performance
          factors in Section IX (Performance Factors), the overall evaluation is then a “Does
          Not Meet Standards” evaluation, and the “Does Not Meet Standards” block in Section
          III (Performance Factors) will be marked and the evaluation becomes a referral OPR.
          3.1.7.2.2. If an evaluator makes derogatory comments, with or without marking a
          performance factor as “Does Not Meet Standards,” the overall evaluation is then a
          “Does Not Meet Standards” and the “Does Not Meet Standards” block in Section III
          (Performance Factors) will be marked and the evaluation becomes a referral OPR.
          3.1.7.2.3. The referring evaluator must include all applicable mandatory and
          appropriate comments in the referring evaluator’s assessment, (Section IV - Rater,
          Section V - Additional Rater, or Section VI - Reviewer’s Assessment blocks,
          respectively). See paragraph 1.10., for referral procedures. Utilize the referral memo
          located on the reverse of the form.
      3.1.7.3. The Additional Rater will place an “X” in the concur or non-concur block and
      enters the appropriate comments in Section V, (Additional Rater Overall Assessment).
      See paragraph 1.9 for disagreements.
      3.1.7.4. Do not make prohibited and/or inappropriate comments. See paragraph 1.12. for
      prohibited comments.
      3.1.7.5. Limit comments to the space provided unless referred or evaluator does not
      concur with the evaluation.
   3.1.8. Performance Assessments (Section III), AF Forms 910/911 – Enlisted Performance
   Reports (EPR).
82                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


     3.1.8.1. The rater completes this section; however, the additional evaluators will review
     evaluations to ensure ratings accurately describe performance and comments are
     compatible with/support the ratings. They must return evaluations with unsupported
     statements for additional information or reconsideration of ratings, see paragraph 1.9 for
     disagreements; however, no evaluator may coerce another into changing their comments
     or ratings unless they are missing mandatory comments (paragraph 1.11) or the
     evaluation includes prohibited comments (paragraph 1.12). Use the following as a guide
     when determining the rating to apply to each performance assessment:
        3.1.8.1.1. Does Not Meet:     Performs below established standards, requires
        improvement. Disciplinary action is not required, however, evaluation will be a
        referral.
        3.1.8.1.2. Meets: Meets established standards.
        3.1.8.1.3. Above Average: Performs beyond established standards and expectations.
        3.1.8.1.4. Clearly Exceeds: Performs at a higher level than peers, far exceeds
        standards and expectations, unique performer.
     3.1.8.2. The evaluation becomes a referral evaluation and must be referred IAW
     paragraph 1.10 if:
        3.1.8.2.1. The ratee fails to meet standards in any one of the listed performance
        assessment factors in Section III, Performance Assessment. Note: A referral EPR
        may not have an overall assessment of “5”.
        3.1.8.2.2. The ratee received a rating of “Poor (1)” or “Needs Improvement (2),” in
        Section V, Overall Performance Assessment.
        3.1.8.2.3. The evaluation contains any derogatory comments.
     3.1.8.3. Use bullet statements to provide information about ratee’s performance. Limit
     bullet length to two lines. Must have at least one bullet in each section (except for
     fitness). White space is authorized.
     3.1.8.4. Be specific. When referring to adverse actions, state the behavior and results,
     i.e., “SSgt Jones drove under the influence for which he received an Article 15.”
     3.1.8.5. Comments on awards are authorized.        Comment on “John Levitow,”
     “Distinguished Graduate,” “Academic Achievement” or “Commandant’s Award” from
     PME are authorized. Comments from other training courses are also appropriate and may
     be made by any evaluator on the evaluation. See paragraph 1.12. for prohibited
     comments.
     3.1.8.6. Base comments on overall performance and performance-based potential as
     compared to others in the same grade known by the evaluator.
     3.1.8.7. Uncommon acronyms must be spelled out.          If space is limited, define the
     acronyms in Section III, Other Comments.
     3.1.8.8. Limit comments to the space provided unless referred. See paragraph 1.11., for
     mandatory comments. See paragraph 1.10. for referral procedures.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       83


      3.1.8.9. Digital signature cannot be applied to additional rater/final reviewer block until
      the previous rater signs the form and unlocks the next rater’s signature block on the form.
      Note: Does not apply to referral evaluations, see paragraph 1.10 for referral procedures.
   3.1.9. Fitness will be rated at “Does Not Meet,” “Meets,” or “Exempt.” See paragraph
   1.4.10. and Table 3.2. for additional information on fitness.
   3.1.10. Overall Performance Assessments (Section V), AF Forms 910/911 – Enlisted
   Performance Reports (EPR).
      3.1.10.1. EPR Overall Performance Ratings Definitions. The below definitions should
      be used as a guideline; however the overall performance rating is at the discretion of the
      evaluator.
         3.1.10.1.1. Poor (1): Performs at an unacceptable level. Disciplinary action is not
         required, however, the evaluation will be a referral.
         3.1.10.1.2. Needs Improvement (2): Meets some, but not all, performance standards.
         Disciplinary action is not required, however, the evaluation will be a referral.
         3.1.10.1.3. Average (3): Meets standards/expectations, performs in the median when
         compared to peers; does what is expected, no less or no more.
         3.1.10.1.4. Above Average (4):          Performs beyond established standards and
         expectations, performs at higher level than many of their peers. A ratee’s
         performance assessments on the front of the AF Form 910 or AF Form 911 may, or
         may not, all be marked “Clearly Exceeds” with a fitness assessment of “Meets” or
         “Exempt” and still receive this rating.
         3.1.10.1.5. Truly Among the Best (5): Performs at a level above their peer group,
         elite performer who goes above and beyond. To earn this rating, the fitness
         assessment must be marked either “Meets” or “Exempt,” and the report must not be a
         referral. If the report is a referral, the overall assessment must not be “Truly Among
         the Best” (5).
      3.1.10.2. In Section V, Overall Performance Assessment, the rater/additional rater are
      making an overall assessment of the ratee’s performance. Although this is no longer a
      promotion recommendation, there is no change in the point value applied towards WAPS.
      Senior Enlisted Promotion boards will continue to review a 10 year history of
      performance evaluations. (Not applicable to ANG/USAFR).
      3.1.10.3. WAPS uses EPRs to score the ratee's performance and promotion potential.
      Raters must not rate people with strong potential and performance records the same as
      average or weak performers. (Not applicable to ANG/USAFR).
      3.1.10.4. The overall rating is a performance assessment rating. The Airman should be
      evaluated in comparison to his/her peers. Because overall ratings influence promotions,
      assignments, career job reservations and retraining, potential for increased responsibility
      and promotion potential must be considered.
      3.1.10.5. The rating updated into MilPDS is the rating rendered by the final evaluator.
      3.1.10.6. If the rater and additional rater disagree, see paragraph 1.9.
84                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  3.1.11. Time-In-Grade (TIG)/Senior Rater Eligibility. TIG does not apply to ANG and
  USAFR Airmen and will reflect as N/A. Exception: LEAD Recallees.
     3.1.11.1. TIG/Senior Rater Eligibility. For a senior rater endorsement, the ratee must
     meet all of the following minimum requirements as of the close-out date of the
     evaluation, (except as authorized by paragraph 3.1.11.2):
        3.1.11.1.1. In the grade of MSgt/SMSgt.
        3.1.11.1.2. Meet the TIG eligibility requirements outlined in paragraph 3.1.11.5. and
        Table 3.10.
        3.1.11.1.3. Successfully completed the SNCO Academy (correspondence or in-
        residence).
            3.1.11.1.3.1. The SNCOA requirement is defined as successful completion of the
            SNCOA in-residence or by correspondence.
            3.1.11.1.3.2. Completion of the SEJPME does not fulfill this requirement.
        3.1.11.1.4. Successfully met all the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
        degree requirements as of the closeout date of the evaluation.
            3.1.11.1.4.1. The CCAF requirement is defined as having successfully met all the
            Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree requirements, as validated
            by the local education office and the CCAF registrar’s office.
            3.1.11.1.4.2. To ensure proper CCAF credit is given to Airmen, the Education
            Services Office (ESO) in conjunction with the CCAF registrar’s office can
            validate completed CCAF degree requirements. CCAF requirements are
            considered met when the degree is conferred/awarded. Completing the last
            required course/CLEP/DANTES etc is not sufficient.
            3.1.11.1.4.3. Any CCAF degree may fill this requirement. Degrees received
            outside the CCAF do not fulfill this requirement, (i.e. A.A., B.S., M.A., Ph.D.,
            etc.).
        3.1.11.1.5. Comments referencing non-completion of CCAF or SNCOA as the
        reason for absence of a senior rater endorsement are prohibited.
     3.1.11.2. A senior rater will endorse a non-TIG eligible evaluation only when one of the
     following apply:
        3.1.11.2.1. When the rater or additional rater does not meet the minimum grade
        requirement outlined in paragraph 1.5.2.
        3.1.11.2.2. When the senior rater is the rater whether or not the ratee is TIG Eligible
        or has completed the minimum requirements for senior rater endorsement.
        3.1.11.2.3. When the senior rater is the additional rater and the rater does not meet
        the minimum grade requirement to close-out the report whether or not the ratee is
        TIG Eligible or has completed the minimum requirements for senior rater
        endorsement.
        3.1.11.2.4. When the senior rater is the evaluator named in a referral memorandum.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       85


         3.1.11.2.5. When the senior rater’s deputy (B-level evaluator) does not qualify as a
         single evaluator.
      3.1.11.3. If the member is time-in-grade (TIG) eligible for a senior rater endorsement, a
      senior rater endorsement is not automatic or mandatory. TIG eligibility, SNCOA and
      CCAF are only the minimum established requirements for endorsement consideration,
      and does not entitle, or guarantee an automatic endorsement. The initial decision to
      forward the evaluation to the senior rater is up to the evaluator who is eligible to close-
      out the evaluation; and each level thereafter, without necessarily going to the senior rater.
      For example:
         3.1.11.3.1. The squadron commander who meets the grade requirements to close-out
         the report, determines if the ratee is deserving of a senior rater endorsement and
         forwards the report to the group commander. The group commander may determine
         the report does not warrant senior rater endorsement. The group commander may
         then close out the evaluation at his/her level, without forwarding the evaluation to the
         senior rater.
         3.1.11.3.2. If both the squadron and group commanders feel the ratee is deserving of
         a senior rater endorsement, the evaluation is forwarded to the senior rater. If the
         senior rater determines a senior rater endorsement is not warranted, the senior rater
         does not have to endorse the report (unless required by paragraph 3.1.11.4) and thus
         sends the report back to the first senior rater’s deputy in the ratee’s chain of command
         to close out the report. See Attachment 1 for definition of senior rater’s deputy.
      3.1.11.4. If the member is not TIG eligible for a senior rater endorsement, the evaluation
      must be endorsed by, and the final evaluator will be, either the senior rater’s deputy (first
      B-level evaluator in the rating chain), or a lower level evaluator who meets the minimum
      grade requirement, (except as authorized by paragraph 3.1.11.2). Note: Does not apply
      to ANG personnel.
      3.1.11.5. Determine eligibility for senior rater endorsement using the formulas below.
      Also, you can utilize the TIG Eligibility Chart, see Table 3.10. Note: The EPR notice
      alone should not be used to determine TIG eligibility.
         3.1.11.5.1. For MSgt ratees (AD only).
             3.1.11.5.1.1. If close-out date is less than or equal to 30 September of current
             year, determine number of months TIG from Date of Rank (DOR) to 1 March of
             the next year following the evaluation close-out date. If less than 20 months, then
             TIG Eligible is “NO.” If greater than or equal to 20 months, then TIG Eligible is
             “YES.”
             3.1.11.5.1.2. If close-out date is greater than 30 September of current year,
             determine the number of months TIG from DOR to 1 Mar 2Y (two years)
             following the evaluation close-out date. If less than 20 months, TIG Eligible is
             “NO”. If greater than or equal to 20 months, TIG Eligible is “YES”. All Airmen
             meeting a promotion board are required to have an EPR on file closed out within
             12 months of the PECD.
         3.1.11.5.2. For SMSgt ratees (AD only).
86                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


            3.1.11.5.2.1. If close-out date is less than or equal to 31 July of current year,
            determine number of months TIG from DOR to 1 December of current year. If
            less than 21 months, then TIG Eligible is “NO.” If greater than or equal to 21
            months, then TIG Eligible is “YES.”
            3.1.11.5.2.2. If close-out date is greater than 31 July of current year, determine
            number of months TIG from DOR to 1 December of next year following the
            evaluation close-out date. If less than 21 months, TIG Eligible is “NO”. If
            greater than or equal to 21 months, TIG Eligible is “YES”. All Airmen meeting a
            promotion board are required to have an EPR on file closed out within 12 months
            of the PECD.
        3.1.11.5.3. For SMSgt promotion selects, TIG eligibility is based upon the close-out
        date of the EPR. If the close-out date falls on the same day as, (or a day after), the
        promotion public release date, individuals on the selectee list are not eligible for
        senior rater endorsement on that evaluation; they were selectees on the close-out date.
        Conversely, if the EPR closed out prior to the promotion public release date, but was
        not signed by one or more evaluators until after the release date, the member is
        eligible for senior rater endorsement because as of the close-out date, they were not
        officially promotion selectees.
        3.1.11.5.4. CMSgt and CMSgt selects. TIG eligibility does not apply to CMSgt or
        CMSgt selects. The Senior Rater may endorse any CMSgt or CMSgt selects EPR and
        mark “N/A.”
        3.1.11.5.5. The rater will fill in the TIG block.
     3.1.11.6. Final Evaluator’s Position, (Section VIII, AF Form 911).
        3.1.11.6.1. For minimum grade requirements on the AF Form 911, see paragraph
        1.5.2.3.1.2.1.
        3.1.11.6.2. Use the following definitions to determine the final evaluator’s position.
            3.1.11.6.2.1. Senior Rater. Used when the final evaluator is the highest level
            endorser in the ratee's rating chain. The senior rater must be in the grade of at
            least a colonel or civilian equivalent, (GS-15/Supervisory Pay Band 3), or higher,
            serving as a wing commander or equivalent and designated by the Management
            Level.
            3.1.11.6.2.2. Senior Rater's Deputy. An individual who works directly for and
            whom the senior rater evaluates (Example: Vice wing commander, group
            commanders, division chiefs in headquarters above wing level, the Vice
            Commandant of the College of Enlisted PME).
            3.1.11.6.2.3. Intermediate Level. An individual who works directly for a senior
            rater’s deputy (Example: Unit commanders and wing division chiefs).
            3.1.11.6.2.4. Lower Level. All others meeting minimum grade requirements.
        3.1.11.6.3. The rater will fill in the final evaluator’s position. If a change needs to be
        made to the final evaluator’s position after the rater digitally signs the form, see
        paragraph 1.4.11.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    87


      3.1.11.7. Only one B-level evaluator will sign an evaluation and that endorsement must
      be completed by the first B-level evaluator in the rating chain; for example, the group
      commander will not be skipped in order to obtain vice wing commander endorsement,
      nor can both those individuals sign the evaluation. Note: Does not apply to ANG
      personnel. Exception: An evaluation may contain two B-level endorsements only in the
      following circumstances:
         3.1.11.7.1. When a member is not TIG eligible for a senior rater endorsement and a
         B-level rater does not qualify as a single evaluator or a B-level additional rater does
         not qualify as a final evaluator (see paragraph 1.5.2.3.2).
         3.1.11.7.2. When a member is TIG eligible for a senior rater endorsement, but the
         senior rater chooses not to endorse the evaluation, and either the B-level rater does
         not qualify as a single evaluator or the B-level additional rater does not qualify as a
         final evaluator.
   3.1.12. Feedback.
      3.1.12.1. Feedback will be accomplished IAW Chapter 2.
      3.1.12.2. In Section IV (OPRs) and Section V (EPRs), rater certifies performance
      feedback in this area by entering an “X” to indicate whether feedback was provided
      during the rating period, this includes midterm feedback or any subsequent feedback
      requested by the ratee. If feedback was not performed, an explanation must be provided.
      If feedback was not required, enter “N/A”. Either a date or “NA” with comments must
      be entered or the rater will not be able to digitally sign the form.
      3.1.12.3. See paragraph 1.6.8. and paragraph 3.1.15. for ratee’s responsibilities.
   3.1.13. Reviewer Comments on OPRs.
      3.1.13.1. Reviewer/Final Evaluator/Senior Rater. The Reviewer/Senior Rater/Final
      Evaluator is the highest level endorser in the ratee's rating chain. The senior rater must
      be in the grade of at least a colonel or civilian equivalent, (GS-15/Supervisory Pay Band
      3), or higher, serving as a wing commander or equivalent and designated by the
      Management Level.
      3.1.13.2. The reviewer will place an “X” in the concur or non-concur block. Do not
      enter any comments in the reviewers block. See paragraph 1.9. for disagreements.
      3.1.13.3. Reviewers may comment only under the following circumstances:
         3.1.13.3.1. If the reviewer disagrees with the evaluation. The rater and additional
         rater are first given an opportunity to change the evaluation; however, they will not
         change their evaluation just to satisfy the reviewer. If the evaluation remains
         unchanged and the reviewer still disagrees, the reviewer marks the non-concur block
         and specifically states why he or she disagrees in the space provided. An AF Form
         77 can be added if additional space is required. See paragraph 1.9. for disagreements.
         3.1.13.3.2. The evaluation is referral, and the reviewer is the evaluator named in
         Section XI of the OPR, or in the referral memorandum for EPRs, or the reviewer
         refers the evaluation. See paragraph 1.10. for referral evaluations.
88                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


           3.1.13.3.3. The ratee is Colonel or Colonel select. When the reviewer is not also the
           rater or additional rater, he or she may make, if desired and appropriate, command
           and/or assignment recommendations in Section VI, reviewer’s comments block,
           without nonconcurring with the evaluation. Promotion recommendations and other
           comments are not allowed.
           3.1.13.3.4. If the reviewer is also the rater or additional rater, see paragraph 1.11,
           mandatory comments.
  3.1.14. Unit Commander/Civilian Director/Other Authorized Reviewer, (Section VII, AF
  Form 910 and Section X, AF Form 911).
        3.1.14.1. The review is performed by the unit or squadron commander of the unit (PAS)
        to which the ratee is assigned as a permanent party member. An individual on G-Series
        orders may complete the commander’s review in the unit commander’s absence, or the
        unit commander may designate in writing a senior official within the unit commander’s
        jurisdiction, using their approved duty title, not commander. A civilian equivalent,
        assigned to the position of unit commander, may also sign the evaluation. Exception:
        For those on 365-day extended deployments, rater and additional rater signatures
        (regardless of grade) will be accomplished in theater prior to sending the evaluation to the
        home station for unit commander review.
        3.1.14.2. The commander reviews evaluations to ensure ratings accurately describe
        performance and comments are compatible with/support ratings. They must return
        evaluations with unsupported statements for additional information or reconsideration of
        ratings. However, commanders may not coerce an evaluator to make changes. See
        paragraph 1.9. for disagreements. (Note: First Sergeants are required to review all EPRs
        prior to the commander).
        3.1.14.3. The commander will mark the “concur” or “non-concur” block. See paragraph
        1.9. for disagreements.
        3.1.14.4. If the unit commander/civilian director/other authorized reviewer is junior in
        grade to an evaluator (other than rater), they review the evaluation before the senior
        ranking evaluator signs it.
        3.1.14.5. Commanders who are also part of the rating chain will fill out and sign both the
        Commander’s Review section and the appropriate evaluator’s section, meaning they will
        sign the evaluation twice. The two signatures serve separate purposes, one as an
        evaluator regarding duty performance, and one as a commander regarding quality review.
     3.1.15. Ratee’s Acknowledgement.
        3.1.15.1. The rater is required to conduct face-to-face (End-of-Reporting Period)
        feedback in conjunction with presenting the evaluation to the ratee. The OPR/EPR serves
        as the feedback form. A Performance Feedback Worksheet PFW is not required.
        Electronic routing of the form does not excuse the rater from providing face-to-face
        feedback. Only in situations where face-to-face feedback is not feasible, will feedback be
        conducted either by telephone or electronically. The rater should first attempt to call the
        ratee and conduct the feedback via telephone. If that option is not available, the rater
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       89


      may provide clear, detailed feedback to the ratee via email, using a read receipt to verify
      the feedback was received and read.
      3.1.15.2. The ratee’s signature in the acknowledgment block does not constitute
      concurrence or non-concurrence of the content and/or rating of the evaluation. The
      signature is to acknowledge receipt only.
      3.1.15.3. Feedback will occur and the ratee’s signature will be obtained after the
      reviewer has signed. In cases where an Air Force Advisor or Acquisition/Functional
      Examiner signature is required, the feedback and ratee acknowledgment will occur after
      the advisor or examiner review.
      3.1.15.4. The ratee must acknowledge receipt of the evaluation prior to the evaluation
      becoming a matter of record. The ratee will review and verify all dates, markings and
      comments on the form. Significant discrepancies and administrative errors can be
      addressed at this time, and corrected if agreed by all parties, before the evaluation
      becomes a matter of record. This is not to be interpreted to mean the ratee can refuse to
      sign if they disagree with the evaluation. This is an acknowledgement of the evaluation
      vice concurrence. If a rater does not agree to change the evaluation and the ratee wishes
      to dispute it, they should pursue the established appeal/correction avenues available to
      them as outlined in Chapter 10, Correcting Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Reports, once
      the evaluation is a matter of record.
      3.1.15.5. The rater will suspense the ratee three (3) duty days (30 calendar days for
      ANG/USAFR), after feedback in conjunction with the evaluation is provided, to sign the
      evaluation.
      3.1.15.6. In cases where the ratee refuses to sign, the evaluator will select “Member
      declined to sign” from the drop down menu in the ratee’s acknowledgment and CAC sign
      the evaluation in the Ratee’s Acknowledgement block. The rater or any higher evaluator
      in the rating chain can validate in the absence of the ratee on the form if all attempts have
      been made and the evaluation has not busted the 60 day suspense.
      3.1.15.7. In cases where the ratee is unable to sign, the evaluator will select “Member
      unable to sign” from the drop down menu in the ratee’s acknowledgment block and CAC
      sign the evaluation in the Ratee’s Acknowledgement block. The rater or any higher
      evaluator in the rating chain can validate in the absence of the ratee on the form if all
      attempts have been made and the evaluation has not exceeded the 60 day suspense.
      3.1.15.8. For the purpose of signing evaluations, the terms “Unavailable” or “Unable to
      Sign” indicates that the member does not have access to a CAC-enabled computer (i.e.
      convalescent leave, TDY to a contractor facility without government computer access,
      deployed to a location without computer access, in AWOL or deserter status, etc.).
      3.1.15.9. Upon receiving the ratee’s endorsement or expiration of the suspense to receive
      the signed evaluation, the rater (or ratee for USAFR) will place the evaluation in official
      channels.
      3.1.15.10. “Wet Signature Only.” Evaluators can type, handwrite or use the drop down
      option to annotate the evaluation when the ratee is unable or declines to sign.
 90                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


3.2. When to Submit an Officer Performance Report (OPR) or Enlisted Performance
Report (EPR).
   3.2.1. AF Form 707 (OPRs) for EAD Air National Guard (ANG) officers, see Table 3.3.
   3.2.2. AF Form 707 (OPRs) for USAF Reserve (USAFR) officers not on EAD, see Table
   3.4.
   3.2.3. AF Form 78, see Chapter 7.
   3.2.4. AF Forms 910 (E1-E6) and 911 (E7-E9) (EPRs) for Airmen on Active Duty, see
   Table 3.7.
   3.2.5. AF Forms 910 (E1-E6) and 911 (E7-E9), (EPRs) for USAFR Airmen not on Active
   Duty, see Table 3.8.
3.3. Who Requires Performance Evaluations.
   3.3.1. All officers in the grade of colonel and below (except brigadier general selects), not
   being evaluated using AF Form 475 paragraph 6.2, except as specified in paragraph 3.4. See
   Table 3.3. and Table 3.4.
   3.3.2. All enlisted personnel in the grade of Airman Basic through CMSgt who have at least
   20 months Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) or as directed by Table 3.7. All
   USAFR enlisted personnel in the grade of Senior Airman through CMSgt who have at least
   20 months in service from Date Initially Entered Military Service (DIEMS or as directed by
   Table 3.8. See paragraph 3.4. for exceptions.
   3.3.3. Any individual being released from active duty to the ANG or USAFR (participating
   or non-participating) who has 120 days of supervision prior to separating. See paragraph
   4.2.1.2.4. if less than 120 days.
   3.3.4. A1C who enlisted under the National Call to Service (NCS) program will receive their
   initial evaluation upon completion of 16 months TAFMS minus 1 day. (Not applicable for
   ANG/USAFR)
   3.3.5. All enlisted ANG AGR/Statutory Tour personnel in the grades of Amn through
   CMSgt, or as directed by Table 3.7. and Table 3.8. See paragraph 3.4. for exceptions. This
   will also include Title 32 ANG enlisted members on Active Duty in excess of 120 days.
   3.3.6. Personnel filling an authorized 365-day extended deployment billet who have at least
   120 days of supervision prior to departing TDY. See paragraph 5.5.
   3.3.7. Upon placement in prisoner status, appellate leave, or who are AWOL. The “From”
   date will be 1 day after the close-out date of the last evaluation (EAD/TAFMSD if no prior
   evaluations) and the “Thru” date will be 1 day before the departure or confinement date. No
   minimum confinement time or number of days supervision are required. See paragraph
   4.2.4.3.2. when returned to duty.
   3.3.8. Separation. Prepare an evaluation when mandated for separation by AFI 36-3206,
   Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officer, AFI 36-3207, Separating
   Commissioned Officers, AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separations of Airmen, AFI 36-3205,
   Applying for the Palace Chase and Palace Front Programs, and AFI 36-3209. (See
   paragraph 3.3.3.)
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      91


   3.3.9. Separation/Retirement is withdrawn. An evaluation is due if the member’s
   separation/retirement is withdrawn or cancelled. If the original projected close-out date has
   not passed, then it will remain the same. If the original projected close-out date has passed,
   the close-out date will be the date of the official withdrawal, cancellation, or as soon as the
   rater has 120 days supervision. The reason for the evaluation is “annual/biennial.”
3.4. Who Does Not Require Performance Evaluations. Performance evaluations will not be
accomplished on the following:
   3.4.1. Those Deployed Commander’s being evaluated using the AF Form 77, Letter of
   Evaluation, see paragraph 4.2.1.2.1. and paragraph 5.4.
   3.4.2. Brigadier General selects, see Chapter 7.
   3.4.3. USAFR officers in a non-pay status (PAS S7XXXXX).
   3.4.4. AD personnel in the grade of A1C and below with less than 20 months TAFMS or
   Non-EAD USAFR personnel in the grade of SrA and below with less than 20 months in
   service (from DIEMS date).
   3.4.5. Individuals who are in full-time student (functional category “L”) or patient status.
   Exception: AF Gold Bar program or if a student ratee is otherwise eligible under the
   Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS) and needs an EPR to be weighable (see AFI
   36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs), then the EPR is closed out on the
   promotion eligibility cut-off date and the period of supervision must be at least 60 days. See
   Chapter 4.
   3.4.6. Individuals in the Wounded Warrior Program, (paragraph 4.2.1.2.2), or the Air Force
   Educational Leave of Absence Program, (paragraph 4.2.4.3.4).
   3.4.7. Individuals who died on active duty. However, if the death occurred on or after the
   close-out date of an evaluation that was already being processed, it becomes an optional
   evaluation.
   3.4.8. When the criteria under paragraphs 3.4.9. (retirement) or 3.4.10. (separation) are met,
   a annual evaluation becomes optional. The rater may opt to write an evaluation and the ratee
   may request an evaluation be written. If the rater chooses to write an optional evaluation, the
   evaluation is written (regardless of whether the ratee wants the evaluation to be written or
   not). Should the rater not want to write an evaluation requested by the ratee, the unit
   commander (for an enlisted ratee) or the senior rater (for an officer ratee) decides whether an
   evaluation will be written. If the commander is the rater (for an enlisted ratee) and does not
   want to write an evaluation requested by the ratee, the senior rater will decide whether an
   evaluation will be written. If neither the rater or ratee want an evaluation written, the
   commander/senior rater (as applicable) may direct an evaluation be written.
   3.4.9. Personnel with an approved retirement date, provided all the following criteria below
   are met:
      3.4.9.1. The approved retirement date is within 1 year of the projected annual/biennial
      close-out date of the evaluation. Example: If the approved retirement date is 1 Jun 09
      and if the close-out date is 1 Jun 08 or later, no evaluation is required. However, if the
      close-out date is 31 May 08 or earlier, then an evaluation is required.
92                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


     3.4.9.2. The retirement application was approved prior to the projected annual/biennial
     close-out date. Example: If the close-out date is 1 Jun 09, and the retirement application
     was approved on 1 Jun 09 or earlier, no evaluation is required. However, if the
     retirement application was not approved until 2 Jun 09 or later, then an evaluation is
     required.
     3.4.9.3. The officer will not be considered for promotion, selective continuation, or
     selective early retirement by a HQ USAF central selection board or a ResAF selection
     board before retirement.
     3.4.9.4. The enlisted member will not be considered for promotion before the retirement
     date. If the ratee will still be on active duty on the promotion release date and is eligible
     for promotion consideration, an evaluation will be required.
  3.4.10. Personnel with an approved separation date, provided the following criteria below
  are met:
     3.4.10.1. The officer voluntarily resigns his or her commission, has fulfilled his or her
     military service obligation, and is not requesting or accepting a ResAF commission
     (RegAF officers) or retaining a ResAF commission (Reserve officers) or transferring to
     another service. Reminder—evaluations are mandatory for anyone being released from
     active duty to the ANG or Reserves under the Palace Chase or Palace Front Programs.
     3.4.10.2. The Officer is RegAF and voluntarily resigns his or her commission, or is a
     Reserve officer, and is granted release from active duty in lieu of action under AFI 36-
     3206, or court-martial. (Note: The evaluation is mandatory following court-martial
     conviction.)
     3.4.10.3. The officer is involuntarily discharged or released from active duty under AFI
     36-3206 and AFI 36-3207, Chapter 3; unless transferring to the ANG/USAFR, i.e.,
     Force Management.
     3.4.10.4. The enlisted member’s approved separation is not a result of discharge action
     under AFI 36-3208, paragraph 6.4, and the Date of Separation (DOS) is within one year
     of the projected annual close-out date, the separation was approved prior to the projected
     annual close-out date, and the ratee is not being released from active duty to the Reserves
     (AD or non-AD) or another service. Example: DOS is 1 Jun 09; if the close-out date is
     1 Jun 08 or later, no evaluation is required. If the close-out date is 31 May 08 or earlier,
     then an evaluation is required. Note: Evaluations are mandatory for anyone being
     released from active duty to the ANG or Reserves.
  3.4.11. Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force. The Chief of Staff of the Air Force retains
  discretionary authority to render evaluations on an optional basis on the Chief Master
  Sergeant of the Air Force.
  3.4.12. Traditional ANG enlisted members, ANG enlisted Military Technicians, and ANG
  enlisted members on Air Sovereignty Alert (ASA) missions.
  3.4.13. An A1C eligible and being considered for SrA Below-the-Zone (BTZ) consideration
  and has not had an evaluation; an AF Form 1206, will be accomplished.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                  93


Table 3.1. Instructions for Preparing AF Form 707, Officer Performance Report. See
Chapter 1 for General Information.
    SECTION I. RATEE IDENTIFICATION DATA
I   A               B                                            C
T
E
M   Heading             Instructions                             Example
1   Name                Enter Last Name, First Name              DOE, JOHN E. JR.
                        Middle Initial, and any suffix (i.e.
                        JR., SR., III). If there is no middle
                        initial, the use of “NMI” is optional.
                        Name will be in all upper case.
2   SSN                 Enter full SSN. Do not use suffix.       123-45-6789
3   Grade               Enter appropriate grade.                 2LT, 1LT, CAPT, MAJ,
                        See paragraph 1.4.9.                     LT COL, COL
4   DAFSC               Enter the DAFSC held as of the           K11R3A
                        “Thru” date of the evaluation,
                        including prefix and suffix, if
                        applicable. 365-day extended
                        deployments will use the TDY
                        DAFSC. See paragraph 1.4.8.
5   Reason for Report   Enter reason for report from OPR         Annual, CRO, Directed by HQ
                        notice and as determined by              HAF, Directed by
                        Tables 3.3. or 3.4.                      Commander, Directed by NGB
6   PAS Code            Enter PAS code of ratee’s unit of        TE1CFYRZ
                        assignment as of the close-out date.
                        Those assigned to an 365-day
                        extended deployment billet, use the
                        home station PAS Code. For
                        centrally managed IMAs, PIRR and
                        PIRR Cat E, use unit of attachment’s
                        PAS code.
7   Organization,       Enter information as of close-out        964th Airborne Air Control
    Command,            date. Nomenclature does not              Squadron (ACC), Tinker AFB
    Location,           necessarily duplicate what is on         OK
    (Component          OPR notice. The goal is an accurate
    ANG/USAFR           description of where and to whom         124th Airborne Air Control
    Only)               the ratee belongs. Command (and          Squadron (ACC), Tinker AFB
                        Component, ANG/AFR only) will            OK (Non-EAD) or (AGR)
                        be listed inside parentheses. The
                        Component will be listed at the end      341st Security Forces Group
                        of the statement for USAFR and           (AFSPC), Malmstrom AFB
                        ANG only. 365-day extended               MT, with duty at 447 ESFS
                        deployments will use the home            (USAFCENT), Baghdad
                        station unit, “with duty at . . .” For   International Airport,
 94                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                      centrally managed IMAs, PIRR and            Baghdad, Iraq (LEAD)
                      PIRR Cat E, information will be that
                      of unit of attachment.
                      See paragraph 1.4.7.
      SECTION I. RATEE IDENTIFICATION DATA
I     A               B                                           C
T
E
M     Heading            Instructions                             Example
8     Period of Report   FROM Date: Enter the day                 12 Jan 2007 thru 11 Jan 2008
                         following the last evaluation’s close-
                         out date. See paragraph 3.1.4.
                         THRU Date: Use the date on the
                         OPR Notice or see paragraph 3.1.5.
                         to determine the close-out date.
9     Number Days        Enter number of days ratee was           365
      Supervision        supervised by rater during the
                         reporting period. See paragraph
                         3.1.6.
10 SRID                  Enter the Senior Rater ID (SRID) for     1S341
                         the ratee’s unit of assignment as of
                         the close-out date. For centrally        See paragraph 1.3.2. for
                         managed IMAs, PIRR Cat E, SRID           Classified Locations
                         is that of unit of attachment.

                    365-day extended deployments will
                    use the home station SRID.
11 Duty Title       Enter the approved duty title as of           Flight Commander
                    the close-out date. If the duty title
                    on the notice is abbreviated and
                    entries are not clear, spell them out.
                    If wrong, enter the correct duty title
                    and take appropriate actions to
                    update the personnel data system.
                    Corrective actions should be
                    initiated upon receipt of the OPR
                    notice. Ensure the duty title is
                    commensurate with the ratee’s
                    grade, AFSC, and responsibility.
                    365-day extended deployments will
                    use the deployed Duty Title.
   SECTION II. JOB DESCRIPTION
I  A                   B                                          C
T
E
M Heading              Instructions                               Example
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       95


12 Job Description          Comments in bullet format are            - Commands, directs and
                            mandatory. Limit text to four lines.     leads 50 AWACS aircrew
                            Enter information about the              members.
                            position the ratee held in the unit
                            and the nature or level of job           - Responsible for …
                            responsibilities. The rater develops
                            the information for this section.        - Supervises 9 NCOs …
                            This description must reflect the
                            uniqueness of each ratee's job. Be       - 89 Active Duty, 65 Air
                            specific--include level of               National Guard and 55
                            responsibility , number of people        Reserves.
                            supervised, dollar value of
                            resources accountable for/projects
                            managed, etc. Make it clear; use
                            plain English. Avoid jargon,
                            acronyms, and topical references--
                            they obscure rather than clarify
                            meaning. You may mention
                            previous jobs held during the
                            reporting period only if it impacts
                            the evaluation. 365-day extended
                            deployments will use the TDY job
                            description. For deployments that
                            do not warrant an evaluation,
                            reserve the final bullet for
                            Significant Additional Duties.
                            Commander’s job description will
                            include the total force (Active
                            Duty, Guard and Reserve)
                            assigned.
                            A short one-line description of the
                            unit’s mission may be included in
                            the job description if it is necessary
                            to better explain the ratee’s duties.
13 Job Knowledge,           Enter an “X” in the appropriate
   Leadership Skills,       box.
   Professional
   Qualities,               All seven performance factors are
   Organizational Skills, consolidated in this block. Specific
   Judgment &               performance factors are listed on
   Decisions,               the reverse side of the form.
   Communication            See paragraphs 3.1.7. and 1.4.10.
   Skills, Physical
   Fitness
   SECTION III. PERFORMANCE FACTORS
   See paragraph 3.1.8., paragraph 1.8., paragraph 1.9. and paragraph 1.10.
 96                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


I  A                    B                                         C
T
E
M Heading               Instructions                              Example
14 Meets/Does Not       Enter an “X” in the appropriate box.
   Meet
                        One of the two blocks must be
                        marked regardless of fitness
                        exemption. See paragraph 1.4.10.
                        and paragraph 3.1.7.2.


15 Fitness Exemption Drop down menu choices are either
                     blank or “Yes.” Select “Yes” only
                     for those who are exempt from all
                     four components of the fitness
                     assessment or have a valid
                     exemption IAW paragraph 1.4.10.
      SECTION IV. RATER OVERALL ASSESSMENT
I     A              B                                            C
T
E
M Heading               Instructions                              Example
16 Rater Overall        Comments mandatory; must use              - Capt Smith……
   Assessment           bullet format and include at least one    - Performed…….
                        bullet. This section allows               - Led……
                        evaluators to comment on the ratee’s
                        overall performance and
                        performance-based potential as
                        compared to others in the same
                        grade known by the evaluators. If
                        “RATER IS ALSO THE
                        REVIEWER ” comment is required
                        in Section VI, the rater will digitally
                        sign the rater, additional rater, and
                        reviewer signature blocks; leave
                        Section V comments area blank.
                        For USAFR Colonels in GO billets,
                        include a mandatory statement that
                        the officer continues in or leave the
                        general officer position.
                        See Chapter 1, paragraph 3.1.7. and
                        paragraph 1.4.10. for additional
                        information.
                        See paragraph 1.9. for
                        Disagreements.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                97


                   See paragraph 1.10. for Referrals.
17 Last PerformanceRaters certify performance feedback 15 Jan 2006
   Feedback Date   in this area by entering the date the
                   most recent feedback was provided. Or
                   Enter date as DD MMM YYYY. If
                   feedback was not accomplished,        Feedback was not
                   state reason why. There is no         accomplished due to ……
                   excuse for not completing this
                   requirement. If feedback was not
                   required, enter “N/A.” Do not use
                   the date feedback was provided in
                   conjunction with completion of the
                   evaluation. See paragraph 3.1.12.
                   and Chapter 2.
    SECTION IV. RATER OVERALL ASSESSMENT Continued
I   A              B                                     C
T
E
M Heading                Instructions                          Example
18 Rater’s Name,         Enter Rater’s signature block as of   NANCY J. SMITH, Lt Col,
   Grade, Branch of      the close-out date.                   USAF
   Service,              See paragraphs 1.4.11.                20th Mission Support
   Organization,                                               Squadron (ACC)
   Command &                                                   Shaw AFB SC
   Location
                                                               MERLE C. BUSCH, YC-02,
                                                               DAF
                                                               50th Space Wing (AFSPC)
                                                               Schriever AFB CO
19 Duty Title       Enter duty title in upper/lower case       Commander
                    letters as of the close out date of the
                    OPR.
20 Date & Signature The forms have digital signature and All digital or all wet
                    auto-date capability. In the rare       signatures. A combination of
                    instance where digital signatures       both is not authorized.
                    cannot be used, sign in reproducible
                    blue or black ink and handwrite the
                    date. Do not sign blank forms or
                    sign before the close-out date (only
                    on or after). Rater assessment and
                    feedback block will be locked and
                    additional rater signature capability
                    unlocked with rater digital signature.
                    See paragraph 1.4.11.
   SECTION V. ADDITIONAL RATER OVERALL ASSESSMENT
I  A                B                                       C
 98                                                          AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


T
E
M Heading             Instructions                             Example
21 SSN                Enter the last four digits of the social 5959
                      security number. See paragraph
                      1.4.11.
22 Concur/            Place an “X” in the appropriate box
   Non-Concur         indicating concurrence/non-
                      concurrence of the rater’s
                      assessment. If non-concurring,
                      comments are required. See
                      paragraph 1.9. for Disagreements.
23 Additional Rater   Comments are mandatory. Must             - Capt Smith……
   Overall Assessment contain at least 1 bullet, a maximum - Better than others…….
                      of 4 lines. Must be in bullet format. - Led……
                      Use this section to support rating
                      decision and allow evaluators to
                      comment on the ratee’s overall
                      performance and performance-based
                      potential as compared to others in
                      the same grade known by the
                      evaluators.
                      See paragraph 1.12. for
                      inappropriate comments.
                      See Chapter 1 and paragraph 3.1.7.
                      for additional information.
                      See paragraph 1.9. for
                      Disagreements.
                      See paragraph 1.10. for Referrals.
   SECTION V. ADDITIONAL RATER OVERALL ASSESSMENT Continued.
I  A                  B                                        C
T
E
M Heading             Instructions                             Example
24 Additional Rater   Enter the Additional Rater’s             WILLIAM R. REED, JR., Col,
   Name, Grade,       information.                             USAF
   Branch of Service, Additional Raters assigned on or         20th Mission Support Group
   Organization,      prior to close-out date, enter           (ACC)
   Command &          information as of the close-out date; Shaw AFB SC
   Location           Additional Raters assigned after the
                      close-out date, enter the information JAYMES E. JONES,YC-02,
                      as of the date signed.                   DAF
                      Multiple general officers serving as     35th Maintenance Squadron
                      evaluators are prohibited, see           (PACAF)
                      paragraph 1.7.1.7. for exceptions.       Misawa AB, Japan
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                99



25 Duty Title         Enter duty title in upper/lower case       Commander
                      letters as of the close-out date of the
                      OPR.

26 Date & Signature   The forms have digital signature and
                      auto-date capability. In the rare
                      instance where digital signatures
                      cannot be used, sign in reproducible
                      blue or black ink and handwrite the
                      date. DO NOT: sign blank forms
                      that do not contain ratings, sign
                      before the close-out date (only on or
                      after), or date before the date the
                      rater signed it or earlier than the date
                      of the ratee’s endorsement to a
                      referral letter.
                      Additional Rater assessment block
                      will be locked and reviewer
                      signature capability unlocked with
                      the additional rater’s digital
                      signature. See paragraph 1.4.11.

27 SSN                Enter the last four digits of the social 1234
                      security number. See paragraph
                      1.4.11.4.1
28 Concur/            The Reviewer will place an “X” in
   Non-Concur         the appropriate box indicating
                      concurrence or non-concurrence of
                      the additional rater’s assessment.
                      See paragraph 1.9. for
                      Disagreements.
29 Reviewer           The reviewer is the primary quality      “THE ADDITONAL RATER
   Comments           control level and guards against         IS ALSO THE REVIEWER”
                      inaccuracy and exaggeration.
                                                               “I have carefully considered
                      See paragraph 3.1.13.3. for              (ratee’s name) comments to
                      circumstances where the reviewer         the referral memo of (date)”
                      may add comments.
                                                               “Comments from the ratee
                      When mandatory comments are              were requested but were not
                      used, the last rating official will      received within the required
                      digitally sign in the signature block. period”


30 Reviewer’s Name,   Enter Reviewer’s signature block.          JOHN H. BROWN, Col,
 100                                                           AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


    Grade, Branch of   Reviewers assigned on or prior to       USAF
    Service,           close-out date, enter information as    20th Fighter Wing (ACC)
    Organization,      of the close-out date; if assigned      Shaw AFB SC
    Command &          after the close-out date, enter the
    Location           information as of the date signed.
                       Multiple GOs as evaluators are
                       prohibited see paragraph 1.7.1.7. for
                       exceptions.


    SECTION VI. REVIEWER Continued
I   A               B                                          C
T
E
M Heading              Instructions                             Example
31 Duty Title          Enter the duty title in upper/lower      Commander
                       case letters as of the close-out date
                       of the OPR.
32 Date & Signature    The forms have digital signature and
                       auto-date capability. In the rare
                       instance where digital signatures
                       cannot be used, sign in reproducible
                       blue or black ink and handwrite the
                       date. DO NOT: sign blank forms
                       that do not contain ratings, sign
                       before the close-out date (only on or
                       after), or date before the date the
                       rater signed it or earlier than the date
                       of the ratee’s endorsement to a
                       referral letter.
                       Reviewer’s assessment block will be
                       locked with reviewer digital
                       signature. See paragraph 1.4.11.
33 SSN                 Enter the last four digits of the social 2345
                       security number. See paragraph
                       1.4.11.4.1.
34 Functional          When applicable, place an “X” in
   Examiner or         the appropriate box.
   AF Advisor          See paragraph 1.6.7.

35 Name, Grade,       Enter Advisor/Examiner’s              JACK C. HALLIGAN, Col,
   Branch of Service, information as of the close-out date. USAF
   Organization &     See paragraph 1.4.11.                 20th Fighter Wing (ACC)
   Location                                                 Shaw AFB SC
   SECTION VII. FUNCTIONAL EXAMINER/AIR FORCE ADVISOR
I  A                  B                                     C
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                             101


T
E
M Heading               Instructions                            Example
36 Date & Signature     Digital signatures will auto date.

                        Non-digital: Handwrite the date.

                        DO NOT: sign blank forms that do
                        not contain ratings, sign before the
                        close-out date (only on or after), or
                        date before the date the rater signed
                        it or earlier than the date of the
                        ratee’s endorsement to a referral
                        letter. See paragraph 1.4.11.
37 Duty Title           Enter Advisor/Examiner’s duty title.    Command Financial Manager

38 SSN              Enter Advisor/Examiner’s last four.         1122
                    See paragraph 1.4.11.4.1.
    SECTION VIII. RATEE’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I   A               B                                           C
T
E
M Heading               Instructions                            Example
39 Ratee                After reviewing evaluation, the ratee
   Acknowledgement.     will read the acknowledgement
   I understand my      statement and digitally sign in
   signature does not   Section VII.
   constitute
   agreement or
   disagreement. I
   have verified my
   personal
   information in
   Section I and II.

   SECTION VIII. RATEE’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I  A                B                                   C
T
E
M Heading           Instructions                        Example
40 Date & Signature The Ratee must acknowledge receipt
                    prior to the evaluation becoming a
                    matter of record by signing in this
                    block. Signing the evaluation does
                    not imply concurrence, but
                    acknowledgement. If ratee non-
 102                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                    concurs with the evaluation, they
                    may submit an appeal IAW Chapter
                    10.
                    Non-digital: Handwrite or date
                    stamp the date. Sign on or after the
                    close-out date.
                    Select appropriate choice from drop
                    down menu:
                    Blank – member concurs and
                    digitally signs evaluation
                    “Member unable to sign” – use
                    when member is incapacitated or
                    unavailable to sign; rater or any
                    higher evaluator on the form in the
                    chain (digitally) signs.
                    “Member declined to sign” – use
                    when member refuses to sign the
                    form; rater or any higher evaluator
                    on the form in the chain (digitally)
                    signs.
                    See paragraph 3.1.15.
    SECTION IX: PERFORMANCE FACTORS
I   A               B                                               C
T
E
M Heading           Instructions                          Example
41 Job Knowledge    If ratee meets standards, leave
                    blank. If ratee does not meet
                    standards in any of the listed areas,
                    place an “X” in the “Does Not Meet
                    Standards” block for Job
                    Knowledge. See paragraph 3.1.7.
                    See paragraph 1.10. for referrals.
    SECTION IX: PERFORMANCE FACTORS Continued.
I   A                  B                                   C
T
E
M Heading                   Instructions                            Example
42 Leadership Skills        If ratee meets standards, leave
                            blank. If ratee does not meet
                            standards in any of the listed areas,
                            place an “X” in the “Does Not
                            Meet Standards” block for
                            Leadership Skills.
                            See paragraphs 3.1.7. and 1.10.
43 Professional Qualities   If ratee meets standards, leave
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                 103


                           blank. If ratee does not meet
                           standards in any of the listed areas,
                           place an “X” in the “Does Not
                           Meet Standards” block for
                           Professional Qualities.
                           See paragraphs 3.1. and 1.10.
44 Organizational Skills If ratee meets standards, leave
                           blank. If ratee does not meet
                           standards in any of the listed areas,
                           place an “X” in the “Does Not
                           Meet Standards” block for
                           Organizational Skills.
                           See paragraphs 3.1.7. and 1.10.
45 Judgment And            If ratee meets standards, leave
   Decisions               blank. If ratee does not meet
                           standards in any of the listed areas,
                           place an “X” in the “Does Not
                           Meet Standards” block for
                           Judgment and Decisions.
                           See paragraphs 3.1.7. and 1.10.
46 Communication           If ratee meets standards, leave
   Skills                  blank. If ratee does not meet
                           standards in any of the listed areas,
                           place an “X” in the “Does Not
                           Meet Standards” block for
                           Communication Skills.
                           See paragraphs 3.1.7. and 1.10.
   SECTION IX: PERFORMANCE FACTORS Continued.
I  A                    B                                        C
T
E
M Heading               Instructions                             Example
47 Physical Fitness     If ratee is passing or if ratee is
                        exempt from fitness testing, leave
                        blank. If ratee’s composite score is
                        less than passing, place an “X” in
                        the “Does Not Meet Standards”
                        block for Physical Fitness. See
                        paragraphs 3.1.7., 1.4.10. and 1.10.
   SECTION X: REMARKS
I  A                    B                                        C
T
E
M Heading               Instructions                             Example
48 Acronyms             Due to limited space on the front of     Personnel Support for
                        the form, evaluators may spell out       Contingency Operations
 104                                                          AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                        acronyms in this block.               (PERSCO); Manpower and
                                                              Personnel System-Base Level
                                                              (MANPER-B)
49 Approved Close-      If the commander has obtained an      “Close-out date was extended
   Out Extensions       approved extension of the close-out   IAW AFI 36-2406, paragraph
                        date IAW paragraph 1.13., enter the   1.13.”
                        following statement:
                        “Close-out date was extended IAW
                        AFI 36-2406, paragraph 1.13.”

50 DG or TG Award  If ratee was awarded a DG or TG            - Top 10%, awarded DG . . .
                   from a training course for which no
                   TR was required, the rater may enter
                   the criteria for the award in Section
                   X, Remarks.
    SECTION X: REMARKS
I   A              B                                          C
T
E
M Heading          Instructions                               Example
51 Other Comments  There will be instances where AFI          i.e. Paragraph 1.7., when rater
                   36-2406 requires additional remarks.       died, MIA, POW,
                   The placement of comments not              incapacitated, formally
                   specified in this AFI may be placed        relieved from duty, the
                   here. Contact AFPC/DPSIDEP for             additional rater becomes the
                   clarification.                             rater.
    SECTION XI: REFERRAL EVALUATIONS
I   A              B                                          C
T
E
M Heading               Instructions                          Example
52 Referral Report      Complete this section for referral    Specifically……..
                        evaluations only.
                        (See paragraph 3.1.7.)                Or
                        (Referrals see paragraph 1.10.)
                                                              “See Attached” See paragraph
                                                              1.10.

Table 3.2. Instructions for Preparing AF Forms 910/911, Enlisted Performance Reports.
See Chapter 1 for General Information.
       SECTION I. RATEE IDENTIFICATION DATA
 I     A                       B                               C
 T
 E
 M Heading                          Instructions               Example
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                           105


1   Name                        Enter Last Name, First        SMITH, JOHN D.
                                Name Middle Initial, and
                                any suffix (i.e. JR., SR.,
                                III). If there is no middle
                                initial, the use of “NMI”
                                is optional. Name will be
                                in all upper case.
2   SSN                         Enter full SSN. Do not        123-45-6789
                                use suffix.
3   Grade                       Enter appropriate grade.      A1C, SRA, SSGT, TSGT,
                                See paragraph 1.4.9.          MSGT, SMSGT, CMSGT
4   DAFSC                       Enter DAFSC held as of        3S071
                                the “THRU” date of the
                                evaluation, including
                                prefix and suffix, if
                                applicable. 365-day
                                extended deployments
                                will use the TDY
                                DAFSC. See paragraph
                                1.4.8.
5   Organization, Command and   Enter information as of       366th Mission Support
    Location                    close-out date.               Squadron (ACC), Mountain
                                Nomenclature does not         Home AFB ID
                                necessarily duplicate what
                                is on the EPR notice. The     902nd Security Forces
                                goal is an accurate           Squadron (AETC), Joint
                                description of what unit,     Base San Antonio-Randolph
                                location and command          TX, with duty at 447 ESFS
                                the ratee belongs.            (USAFCENT), Baghdad
                                Command will be listed        International Airport,
                                inside parentheses. 365-      Baghdad, Iraq (Non-EAD) or
                                day extended                  (AGR)
                                deployments will use the
                                home station unit, “with      802nd Force Support
                                duty at …”                    Squadron (AETC), Joint
                                For centrally managed         Base San Antonio – Lackland
                                IMAs, PIRR and PIRR           TX
                                Cat E, information will be
                                that of unit of attachment.   HQ Air Combat Command,
                                                              Joint Base Langley-Eustis
                                See paragraph 1.4.7.          VA


    SECTION I. RATEE IDENTIFICATION DATA
I   A                       B                                 C
T
106                                                          AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


E
M Heading                       Instructions               Example
6 PAS Code                      Enter PAS code for         TE1CFYRZ
                                ratee’s unit of assignment
                                as of the close-out date.
                                For those assigned to 365-
                                day extended deployment
                                billet, use the home
                                station PAS Code.

                                For centrally managed
                                IMAs, PIRR and PIRR
                                Cat E, use unit of
                                attachment’s PAS code.
7     SRID                      Enter Senior Rater ID      1S341
                                (SRID) for ratee’s unit of
                                assignment (PAS Code)
                                as of close-out date.
                                SRID is not applicable to
                                ANG enlisted personnel.
                                For those assigned to an
                                365-day extended
                                deployment, use the home
                                station SRID.

                                For centrally managed
                                IMAs, PIRR and PIRR
                                Cat E, SRID is that of
                                unit of attachment.
8     Period of Report          FROM DATE: Enter the         1 Dec 2007
                                day following the last
                                evaluation’s close-out
                                date. See paragraph
                                3.1.4.
9                               THRU DATE: Use the           30 Nov 2008
                                date on the EPR notice.
                                See paragraph 3.1.5.
10 Number of Days Supervision   Enter number of days         365
                                ratee was supervised by
                                rater during the reporting
                                period. See paragraph
                                3.1.6.
11 Reason for Report            Enter reason for             Annual, CRO, Directed By
                                evaluation from the EPR      HAF, Directed By
                                notice and as determined     Commander, Directed by
                                by Tables 3.7 or 3.8.        NGB, Biennial, Initial, Initial
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                        107


                                                              (CRO)
                 SECTION II. JOB DESCRIPTION
I                A             B                          C
T
E
M                Heading         Instructions              Example
12               Duty Title      Enter the approved duty NCOIC, Career Enhancements
                                 title from the Personnel
                                 Data System (PDS) as
                                 of the close-out date.
                                 Limit text to two lines.
                                 If the duty title on the
                                 notice is abbreviated
                                 and entries are not
                                 clear, spell them out. If
                                 wrong, enter correct
                                 duty title and take
                                 appropriate action to
                                 update the system.
                                 Corrective actions
                                 should be initiated upon
                                 receipt of the EPR
                                 notice. Ensure the duty
                                 title is commensurate
                                 with the ratee’s grade,
                                 AFSC, and
                                 responsibility. Refer to
                                 AFI 36-2108 for
                                 guidance pertaining to
                                 duty titles.

                               For personnel on a 365-
                               day extended
                               deployment, use the
                               deployed duty title.
13               Significant   Enter any significant      Team Randolph Honor Guard
                 Additional    additional duties the      Member
                 Duty(s)       ratee may hold. Limit
                               text to two lines. If no
                               significant additional
                               duties, enter “N/A”.
                 SECTION II. JOB DESCRIPTION
I                A             B                                       C
T
E
M                Heading         Instructions                          Example
108                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


14                  Key Duties,        Comment in bullet format is mandatory.       - Supervises 3
                    Tasks And          Limit text to four lines. Enter              NCOs …
                    Responsibilities   information about the position the ratee
                                       held in the unit and the nature or level     - Authors
                                       of job responsibilities. The rater           guidance on
                                       develops the information for this            performance
                                       section. This description must reflect       evaluations …
                                       the uniqueness of each ratee's job. Be
                                       specific--include level of responsibility,   - Prepares
                                       number of people supervised, dollar          lesson plans for
                                       value of resources accountable               ALS
                                       for/projects managed, etc. Make it           curriculum …
                                       clear; use plain English. Avoid jargon,
                                       acronyms, and topical references--they
                                       obscure rather than clarify meaning.
                                       You may mention previous jobs during
                                       the reporting period only if it impacts
                                       the evaluation.

                                         365-day extended deployments will use
                                         the TDY job description.
      SECTION III. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
      See paragraphs 3.1.8., 1.8., 1.9. and 1.10.
I     A                                  B                                           C
T
E
M Heading                              Instructions                                  Example
15 Primary/                            Place an “X” in the block that accurately     - Developed
   Additional Duties                   describes the ratee’s performance in          data base to
                                       his/her primary/additional duties.            track …
      (AF Form 910)                    Comments are mandatory, must be in
                                       bullet format, must support the rating,       - Conducted
                                       and are limited to six lines.                 monthly
                                                                                     training …
16 Primary Duties                      Place an “X” in the block that accurately     - Authored
                                       describes the ratee’s performance in          guidance …
      (AF Form 911)                    his/her primary duties. Comments are
                                       mandatory, must be in bullet format,          -
                                       must support the rating, and are limited      Implemented
                                       to four lines.                                policy …
17 Standards, Conduct, Character,      Place an “X” in the block that accurately     - Maintained
   & Military Bearing                  describes how well the ratee meets Air        composure
                                       Force standards.                              during IFE;
      (AF Form 910)                    Comments are mandatory, must be in            quick thinking
                                       bullet format, must support the rating,       saved the lives
                                       and are limited to one lines. These           of 76
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    109


                                      bullets should demonstrate how the ratee     passengers
                                      adhered to the standards.
                                                                                   - Hand-
                                                                                   picked to
                                                                                   escort
                                                                                   AMC/CC at
                                                                                   CORONA …
18 Standards: Enforcement &            Place an “X” in the block that accurately
   Personal Adherence, Conduct,        describes how well the ratee meets Air
   Character, Military Bearing &       Force standards.
   Customs & Courtesies                Comments are mandatory, must be in
   (AF Form 911)                       bullet format, must support the rating,
                                       and are limited to two lines. These
                                       bullets should demonstrate how the ratee
                                       adhered to the standards.
    SECTION III. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
    See paragraphs 3.1.8., 1.8., 1.9. and 1.10.
I   A                                  B                                           C
T
E
M Heading                             Instructions                                 Example
19 Fitness                            Indicate whether the ratee “Does Not         - Scored 72.5,
                                      Meet”, “Meets” or is “Exempt” on the         making
    (AF Forms 910 and 911)            fitness standard. Mark “Exempt” only         significant
                                      for those who are exempt from all four       progress in
                                      components of the fitness assessment or      FIT program
                                      have a valid fitness exemption. If
                                      member “Does Not Meet” standards, the        - Scored 34.1,
                                      rater must make a comment--can               failed to show
                                      mention the score, the behavior that led     to unit
                                      to not meeting the standard, or progress     physical
                                      in the Fitness Improvement Program. If       training
                                      the ratee is meeting the standard, mark      sessions
                                      the “Meets” box and leave the comment
                                      area blank (passing score not authorized
                                      to be documented). See paragraphs
                                      1.4.10. and 3.1.9.
20 Training Requirements              Place an “X” in the block that accurately    - Completed
                                      describes how well the ratee meets           CDCs …
    (AF Form 910)                     training requirements.
                                      Comments are mandatory, must be in
                                      bullet format, must support the rating,
                                      and are limited to two lines.
                                      The rater may consider PME
                                      completion; however, the rater cannot
                                      make comments unless the ratee
110                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                                          received an award (John Levitow,
                                          Commandant/Leadership Award,
                                          Distinguished Graduate or Academic
                                          Achievement Award). It is acceptable to
                                          document Career Development Course
                                          (CDC) test results; these are not
                                          considered under WAPS. It is prohibited
                                          to document any type of WAPS test
                                          scores or board results.
      SECTION III. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Continued. See
      paragraphs 3.1.8., 1.8., 1.9. and 1.10.
I     A                                   B                                       C
T
E
M Heading                        Instructions                                    Example
21 Resource Management And       Place an “X” in the block that                  - Managed
   Decision Making               accurately describes how well the ratee         $35K budget
                                 makes decisions and manages                     …
   (AF Form 911)                 resources. Comments are mandatory,
                                 must be in bullet format, must support
                                 the rating, and are limited to two lines.
22 Teamwork/                     Place an “X” in the block that                  - Spearheaded
   Followership                  accurately describes how well the ratee         …
                                 works with others. Comments are
   (AF Form 910)                 mandatory, must be in bullet format,
                                 must support the rating, and are limited
                                 to one lines.
23 Training, Education, Off-Duty Place an “X” in the block that                  - Completed 6
   Education, PME, Professional accurately describes how well the ratee          semester hours
   Enhancement &                 meets training requirements.                    …
   Communication                 Comments are mandatory, must be in
                                 bullet format, must support the rating,
   (AF Form 911)                 and are limited to two lines. The rater
                                 may consider PME completion;
                                 however, the rater cannot make
                                 comments unless the ratee received an
                                 award (John Levitow,
                                 Commandant/Leadership Award,
                                 Distinguished Graduate or Academic
                                 Achievement Award). It is acceptable
                                 to document Career Development
                                 Course (CDC) test results; these are not
                                 considered under WAPS. It is
                                 prohibited to document any type of
                                 WAPS test scores or board results.
   SECTION III. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   111


   Continued. See paragraphs 3.1.8., 1.8., 1.9. and 1.10.
I  A                    B                                      C
T
E
M Heading               Instructions                           Example
24 Other Comments       Comments are optional; however         - Ready for
                        if used, bullet format is              Instructor Duty
   (AF Form 910)        mandatory. Comments are
                        limited to two lines.
                        This section may also be used to
                        spell out uncommon acronyms.
                        Note: Stratification is prohibited
                        for AB – TSgt.
25 Leadership/          Place an “X” in the block that         - Developed
   Team Building/       accurately describes how well          cohesive team
   Followership/        the ratee works with others.           …
   Mentorship           Comments are mandatory, must
                        be in bullet format, must support
   (AF Form 911)        the rating, and are limited to two
                        lines.
26 Other Comments       Comments are optional; however         - #1 of 5
                        if used, bullet format is              MSgts in
   (AF Form 911)        mandatory. Comments are                Group
                        limited to two lines.
                        Stratification for MSgts and           Note: This
                        SMSgts that are TIG eligible can       example of a
                        be placed in this area.                stratification
                        Stratification is prohibited for       statement is
                        MSgts and SMSgts that are not          only authorized
                        TIG and also prohibited for            if the MSgt is
                        CMSgts and CMSgt selectees.            TIG eligible
                        (This section may also be used to      and the
                        spell out uncommon acronyms.)          comment is
                                                               from the Group
                           TIG eligibility does not apply to   Commander.
                           ANG and USAFR.                      See paragraph
                                                               1.12.1.6.


           SECTION IV. RATER INFORMATION
           See paragraph 1.4.11.
I          A                     B                                               C
T
E
M         Heading                   Instructions                                 Example
27 Rater’s Name, Grade,             Enter Rater’s information as of the          NANCY J.
112                                                     AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      Branch of Service,        close-out date.                       SMITH,
      Organization, Command &                                         CMSgt, USAF
      Location                                                        20th Mission
                                                                      Support
                                                                      Squadron
                                                                      (ACC)
                                                                      Shaw AFB SC

                                                                      MERLE C.
                                                                      BUSCH, YC-
                                                                      02, DAF
                                                                      50th Space
                                                                      Wing (AFSPC)
                                                                      Schriever AFB
                                                                      CO
28 Date & Signature        The forms have digital signature and
                           auto-date capability. In the rare
                           instance where digital signatures cannot
                           be used, sign in reproducible blue or
                           black ink and handwrite or date stamp
                           the date. Do not sign blank forms or
                           sign before the close-out date (only on
                           or after). Rater assessment and
                           feedback block will be locked and
                           additional rater signature capability
                           unlocked with rater’s digital signature.
29 Duty Title              Enter duty title in upper/lower case       Superintendent,
                           letters as of the close-out date of the    Enlisted
                           EPR.                                       Promotions
30 SSN                     Enter the last four digits of the social   6543
                           security number.
          SECTION V. OVERALL PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
I         A                B                                          C
T
E
M         Heading          Instructions
31 Ratee Name              Enter the Ratee’s last name, first name,   SHAW,
                           & MI. This block auto-populates from       MARY E.
                           the name entered in Section I.
32 Ratings                 Enter the appropriate ratings prior to
                           rater digitally signing evaluation. See
                           paragraph 3.1.10.
33 Poor (1)                Mark when ratee performs at an
                           unacceptable level. Disciplinary action
                           is not required however, the evaluation
                           will be referral.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                              113


34 Needs Improvement (2)     Mark when ratee meets some, but not
                             all, performance standards.
                             Disciplinary action is not required but,
                             the evaluation will be referral.
35 Average (3)               Mark when ratee meets
                             standards/expectations, performs in the
                             median when compared to peers.
36 Above Average (4)         Mark when ratee performs beyond
                             established standards and expectations,
                             performs at higher level than many of
                             their peers.
37 Truly Among The Best (5)  Mark only when ratee performs at a
                             level above their peer group, elite
                             performer who goes above and beyond.
                             Every Airman does not warrant this
                             rating.
          SECTION V. OVERALL PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
I         A                  B                                               C
T
E
M         Heading            Instructions
38 Last Performance Feedback Raters certify performance feedback in          30 Mar 2006
                             this area by entering the date the most
                             recent feedback was provided. Enter
                             date as DD MMM YYYY. If feedback                Or
                             was not accomplished, state reason
                             why. If feedback was not required,              Feedback was
                             enter “N/A.” Complete prior to Rater            not
                             digitally signing form. See paragraph           accomplished
                             3.1.12. Do not use the date feedback            due to …
                             was provided in conjunction with
                             completion of the evaluation.
          SECTION VI. ADDITIONAL RATER’S COMMENTS

I         A                       B                                          C
T
E
M         Heading                 Instructions                               Example
39 Additional Rater’s Comments    Comments mandatory; at least 1 bullet      - Outstanding
                                  and limited to 3 lines.                    leader …

                                  The additional rater marks the concur or - Orchestrated
                                  non-concur box and makes appropriate Dining Out
                                  comments.

                                  If the additional rater non-concurs with
114                                                        AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                              the rater see paragraph 1.9. for
                              documenting disagreements.

                              If the additional rater is also the
                              reviewer, see paragraph 1.11. for
                              mandatory comments.

                              See paragraph 1.10. for referrals.

                              See paragraph 1.12. for prohibited
                              comments.

          SECTION VI. ADDITIONAL RATER’S IDENTIFICATION

I         A                   B                                           C
T
E
M         Heading             Instructions                                Example
40 Additional Rater’s Name,   Enter Additional Rater’s information.       KATIE L.
   Grade,                     For Additional Raters assigned on or        MCGILL,
   Branch of Service,         prior to close-out date, enter              CMSgt, USAF
   Organization, Command &    information as of the close-out date;       366th FSS
   Location                   Additional Raters assigned after the        (ACC)
                              close-out date, enter the information as    Shaw AFB SC
                              of the date signed. Multiple GOs
                              serving as evaluators are prohibited        MERLE C.
                              unless authorized. See paragraph            BUSCH, YC-
                              1.7.1.7.                                    02, DAF
                                                                          50th Space
                                                                          Wing (AFSPC)
                                                                          Schriever AFB
                                                                          CO
41 Date & Signature           The forms have digital signature and
                              auto-date capability. In the rare
                              instance where digital signatures cannot
                              be used, sign in reproducible blue or
                              black ink and handwrite or date stamp
                              the date. DO NOT: sign blank forms
                              that do not contain ratings, sign before
                              the close-out date (only on or after), or
                              date before the date the rater signed it
                              or earlier than the date of the ratee’s
                              endorsement to a referral letter.
                              Additional Rater assessment block will
                              be locked with additional rater digital
                              signature. On AF Form 911, the
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                             115


                                reviewer’s block will also be unlocked
                                with the additional rater’s digital
                                signature.
                                See paragraph 1.4.11.
42 Duty Title                   Enter duty title in upper/lower case as   Superintendent,
                                of the close-out date of the EPR.         Enlisted
                                                                          Promotions
          SECTION VI. ADDITIONAL RATER’S COMMENTS

I         A                     B                                         C
T
E
M         Heading           Instructions                             Example
43 SSN                      Enter the last four digits of the social 1111
                            security number. See paragraph
                            1.4.11.
    SECTION VII (AF FORM 910) AND SECTION X (AF FORM 911)
    FUNCTIONAL EXAMINER/AIR FORCE ADVISOR, see paragraph 1.6.7.
I   A                       B                                        C
T
E
M Heading                       Instructions                              Example
44 Functional Examiner or AF    When applicable, place an “X” in the
   Advisor                      appropriate box.

45 Name, Grade, Branch of       Enter Advisor/Examiner’s information      JACK C.
   Service, Organization,       as of the close-out date. See paragraph   HALLIGAN,
   Command & Location           1.4.11.                                   Col, USAF
                                                                          20th Fighter
                                                                          Wing (ACC)
                                                                          Shaw AFB SC
46 Date & Signature             DO NOT: sign blank forms that do not
                                contain ratings, sign before the close-
                                out date (only on or after), or date
                                before the date the rater signed it or
                                earlier than the date of the ratee’s
                                endorsement to a referral letter.

                                Digital signatures will auto date.

                                Non-digital: Handwrite or date stamp
                                the date.
                                See paragraph 1.4.11.
47 Duty Title                   Enter Advisor/Examiner’s duty title.      Command
                                                                          Financial
                                                                          Manager
116                                                          AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


48 SSN                         Enter Advisor/Examiner’s last four.         1111
                               See paragraph 1.4.11.
      SECTION VIII (AF FORM 910) AND SECTION XI (AF FORM
      911)
      UNIT COMMANDER/CIVILIAN DIRECTOR/OTHER
      AUTHORIZED REVIEWER (AF Form 910), see paragraph 1.6.6.
I     A                        B                                           C
T
E
M Heading                      Instructions                                Example
49 Unit Commander/ Civilian    In this review, the unit or squadron
   Director/ Other Authorized  section commander influences
   Reviewer                    evaluation quality, removes
                               exaggerations, identifies inflated
                               ratings, and provides information to
                               evaluators for finalizing evaluations. If
                               the commander agrees with the
                               evaluation, mark “concur” block and
                               sign in the space provided. Do not
                               provide comments unless the
                               commander disagrees with a previous
                               evaluator, refers the evaluation or is
                               named as the evaluator in the referral
                               memorandum. If the commander
                               disagrees with the evaluation, provide
                               reasons for disagreement on AF Form
                               77, see paragraph 1.9. Send the EPR to
                               MPS/CSS/HR Specialist or to the next
                               evaluator in rating chain when making
                               the review before the evaluator who is
                               senior in grade signs it. Enlisted
                               personnel authorized to perform the
                               commander’s review must include the
                               words “Commander,” “Commandant,”
                               or “Detachment/ Flight Chief” in the
                               signature block. In addition, an
                               individual on G-Series orders or
                               civilian equivalent filling a squadron
                               commander’s billet, may complete
                               Commander’s Review in the Unit
                               Commander’s absence.
      SECTION VIII (AF FORM 910) AND SECTION XI (AF FORM
      911)
      UNIT COMMANDER/CIVILIAN DIRECTOR/OTHER
      AUTHORIZED REVIEWER (AF Form 910), see paragraph 1.6.6.
I     A                        B                                           C
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                 117


T
E
M Heading                           Instructions                              Example
50 Unit Commander/ Civilian         The Commander/Director may be
   Director/ Other Authorized       assigned after close-out. Enter
   Reviewer                         identification data as of signature date.
                                    See paragraph 1.4.11.
51 Name, Grade,                     Enter signature block as of the close-out PAUL K.
   Branch of Service,               date.                                     NEWMAN, Lt
   Organization, Command &                                                    Col, USAF
   Location                                                                   366th FSS
                                                                              (ACC)
                                                                              Shaw AFB SC

                                                                               MERLE C.
                                                                               BUSCH, YC-
                                                                               02, DAF
                                                                               50th Services
                                                                               Division
                                                                               (AFSPC)
                                                                               Schriever AFB
                                                                               CO
52 Date & Signature                 The forms have digital signature and
                                    auto-date capability. In the rare
                                    instance where digital signatures cannot
                                    be used, sign in reproducible blue or
                                    black ink and handwrite the date. DO
                                    NOT: sign blank forms that do not
                                    contain ratings, sign before the close-
                                    out date (only on or after), or date
                                    before the date the rater signed it or
                                    earlier than the date of the ratee’s
                                    endorsement to a referral letter.
                                    See paragraph 1.4.11.
53 Duty Title                       Enter duty title in upper/lower case as    Commander
                                    of the close-out date of the EPR.
                                                                               Director
54 SSN                          Enter the last four digits of the social       1234
                                security number.
                                See paragraph 1.4.11.4.1
                SECTION VII (AF FORM 911) REVIEWER’S
                COMMENTS
I               A               B                                              C
T
E
M               Heading             Instructions                               Example
118                                                     AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


55    Reviewer’s           Comments mandatory (At least 1              - Spearheaded
      Comments             bullet) This area is limited to 3 lines.    …

                           The reviewer marks the concur or non-
      (AF Form 911)        concur box and makes appropriate
                           comments.

                           If the reviewer non-concurs with the
                           any of previous evaluators see
                           paragraph 1.9. for documenting
                           disagreements.

                           If the reviewer is also the
                           rater/additional rater, see paragraph
                           1.11. for mandatory comments.

                           See paragraph 1.10. for referrals.

                           See paragraph 1.12. for prohibited
                           comments.

                           Senior Rater Endorsement
                           Requirements: E-7 (Sel) thru E-8, TIG
                           eligible, completed SNCOA and CCAF.
                           See paragraph 3.1.11.

      SECTION VII (AF FORM 911) REVIEWER’S
      IDENTIFICATION
I     A               B                                                C
T
E
M     Heading              Instructions                                Example
56    Name, Grade,         Enter Reviewer’s signature block.           KATIE L.
      Branch of Service,   For Reviewers assigned on or prior to       MCGILL, Col,
      Organization,        close-out date, enter information as of     USAF
      Command &            the close-out date; if assigned after the   366th FSS
      Location             close-out date, enter the information as    (ACC)
                           of the date signed. Multiple general        Shaw AFB SC
      (AF Form 911)        officers serving as evaluators are
                           prohibited.                                 MERLE C.
                           See paragraph 1.7.1.7.                      BUSCH, YC-
                                                                       03, DAF
                                                                       HQ AF
                                                                       Materiel
                                                                       Command
                                                                       (AFMC)
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                 119


                                                                                Wright-
                                                                                Patterson AFB
                                                                                OH
57             Date & SignatureThe forms have digital signature and
                               auto-date capability. In the rare
                               instance where digital signatures cannot
                               be used, sign in reproducible blue or
                               black ink and handwrite or date stamp
                               the date. Do not sign blank forms that
                               do not contain ratings. Do not sign
                               before the close-out date (only on or
                               after). Do not date before the date the
                               previous evaluator signed it or earlier
                               than the date of the ratee’s endorsement
                               to a referral letter. Reviewer’s
                               assessment block will be locked with
                               their digital signature. See paragraph
                               1.4.11.
58             Duty Title      Enter duty title in upper/lower case as          Commander
                               of the close-out date of the EPR.
59             SSN             Enter the last four digits of the social         1111
                               security number. See paragraph
                               1.4.11.
               SECTION VIII (AF FORM 911) FINAL
               EVALUATORS POSITION
I              A               B                                                C
T
E
M              Heading             Instructions                                 Example
60             Final Evaluator’s   The final evaluator completes this
               Position            section by placing an “X” in the
                                   appropriate block for the level of
               (AF Form 911)       endorsement. See paragraph 3.1.11.6.
                                   for explanation of positions.

               SECTION IX (AF FORM 911). TIME-IN-GRADE
               ELIGIBLE
I              A               B                                                C
T
E
M              Heading             Instructions                                 Example
61             Time-In-Grade       This pertains to TIG eligibility for
               Eligibility         senior rater endorsement (not the
                                   ratee’s actual promotion eligibility as of
               (AF Form 911)       the close-out date). The rater
120                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                      completes this section before
                      forwarding for additional endorsement
                      using information extracted from the
                      EPR notice. Does not apply to CMSgt
                      and CMSgt select ratees, Reservists or
                      ANG. SMSgt selectees are not eligible
                      for senior rater endorsement since they
                      will not be TIG eligible for the next
                      promotion cycle. The rater will
                      complete this area and lock in with
                      digital signature, if using digital
                      capability. See paragraph 1.4.11.
      SECTION VIII (AF FORM 910) AND SECTION XII
      (AF FORM 911)
      RATEE’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I     A               B                                               C
T
E
M     Heading             Instructions                            Example
62    Ratee’s Signature   The Ratee must acknowledge receipt
      /                   prior to the evaluation becoming a
      Acknowledgement     matter of record by signing in this
                          block. Signing the evaluation does not
                          imply concurrence, but
                          acknowledgement. If ratee non-concurs
                          with the evaluation, they may submit an
                          appeal IAW Chapter 10, Correcting
                          Officer and Enlisted Evaluations.

                          Non-digital: Handwrite or date stamp
                          the date. Sign on or after the close-out
                          date.

                          Select appropriate choice from drop
                          down menu:
                          Blank – member concurs and digitally
                          signs evaluation.
                          “Member unable to sign” – use when
                          member is incapacitated or unavailable
                          to sign; rater or any higher evaluator in
                          the rating chain (digitally) signs.
                          “Member declined to sign” – use when
                          member refuses to sign the form; rater
                          or any higher evaluator in the rating
                          chain (digitally) signs.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                  121


                                       See paragraph 1.4.11.

Table 3.3. When to Prepare OPRs for Officers on the EAD and ANG Officers.
R    A                 B                                       C              D
U                                                              and            Then write
L                                                              supervision    evaluation and
E    If the ratee is   And                                     period was     enter reason as
1    A Lieutenant      has not had an evaluation, or one       120 calendar   annual
     thru Colonel      year has passed since close-out date    days           See Note 4
     See Notes 1, 2,   of last OPR or TR from school of 20
     and 3.            weeks or more
2                      the rater changes, officer departs      120 calendar   CRO
                       PCS/PCA to school, or officer is        days           See Note 9
                       Separating. See Notes 5, 6, 7, 8.
3                      The ratee or rater departs TDY for      120 calendar   Change of
                       more than 120 days for other than       days           Rating Official
                       formal training or normal                              (CRO)
                       contingency (deployed) operations.
                       See Notes 5 and 6.
4                      Determination of appropriateness of     60 calendar    directed by
                       action under AFIs 36-2907, 36-3206,     days           (Chief NGB;
                       36-3207, or 36-3209 is needed, or       See Note 10    Office of
                       ratee's performance or conduct is                      Adjutant
                       unsatisfactory or marginal and a                       General;
                       special evaluation is appropriate                      MAJCOM;
                                                                              wing, group,
                                                                              squadron, etc.)
                                                                              commander
5                      the ratee has been declared missing     See Note 11    Directed by HQ
                       in action (MIA), captured, or                          USAF
                       detained in captive status
6                      a special evaluation is directed by     as directed    Directed by
                       HQ USAF (See Note 12), or NGB                          HQ USAF,
                       for ANG officers not on EAD.                           Chief NG, etc.
7                      a referral LOE has been written or an   60 calendar
                       LOE would contain referral              days
                       comments, if written. See Note 13
8                      is placed into record status 6,     60 calendar    Directed by the
                       deserter status.                    days           Commander
                                                           See Note 1
9                      an evaluation is prepared to        120 calendar
                       document significant improvement in days
                       duty performance                    See Note 15
10                     Any sentence of confinement as the  No minimum
                       result of a court-martial.          number of days
 122                                                                       AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                                                                      required
Notes:
1. If ratee is attending training or education, see Chapter 6.
2. Colonels selected for promotion to brigadier general receive evaluations IAW Chapter 7.
3. If the OPR is already a matter of record and the event or circumstances that brought about the
evaluation changes or no longer exists, take no action. The OPR is a valid evaluation and remains in the
ratee’s records. Exception: The MPS/CSS/HR Specialist updates referral OPRs that are prepared as a
result of a PCS and files them in the ratee’s records regardless of whether or not the evaluation was a
matter of record at the time authorities canceled or delayed an assignment.
4. If a rater change (CRO) occurs after the original annual date has passed but before the 120-day
supervision period ends, the evaluation is closed out the day prior to the rater change, provided at least 60
days of supervision have been obtained. The reason for the evaluation remains “Annual.”
5. Do not confuse change of rater with change of supervisor. For officers on the EAD and ANG officers,
the home station commander may authorize a change of reporting official to the TDY location if ALL the
following conditions are met: Note: The senior rater matched to the ratee’s home station PAS code must
perform senior rater duties.
a. Someone at the TDY location can perform normal rater duties.
b. The rater’s rater meets the requirements of paragraph 1.6.3.
c. The home station and TDY unit commanders have approved the change [The Management Levels
(ML) must approve inter-command changes].
d. The home station commander assigns a new rater when the TDY ends.
6. If the ratee is selected to fill an 365-day extended deployment billet a Change of Rater (CRO)
evaluation must be accomplished provided there has been at least 120 days supervision.
7. An evaluation is prepared on officers discharged from the ANG and reassigned to ARPC unless
paragraph 3.4. applies.
8. If ratee is an ANG officer (not on EAD) serving on an AD tour of at least 120 days, AD supervisor
prepares the evaluation.
9. CRO includes separation from EAD. However, no evaluation is required when the criterion in
paragraph 3.4.13. applies.
10. For officers on the EAD and ANG officers, this includes placement on or removal from the control
roster.
11. Do not prepare evaluations for periods of MIA, captured, or detained in captive status of less than 15
calendar days. If the ratee remains in one of these categories for 15 calendar days or more, prepare an
evaluation under this rule without regard to the number of days of supervision. Close the evaluation on
the day the ratee was placed in MIA, captured, or detained in captive status. These evaluations are as
directed by HQ AFPC/DPSIDE.
12. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE, HQ AFPC/DPSOO, and USAF/DPO retain the authority to direct evaluations
under this rule. Special evaluations covering outstanding duty performance are not permitted under this
rule.
13. If the current rater does not consider the referral comments in an LOE to be serious enough to
warrant permanent recording, an OPR will not be prepared.
14. The close-out date of the evaluation is the effective date the ratee is placed in record status 6,
deserter.
15. The commander may direct an evaluation for significant duty improvement only if the previous
evaluation was referred due to substandard duty performance.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    123


Table 3.4. When to Prepare OPRs on USAFR Officers (Lieutenant thru Colonel).
R    A                                    B                C
U                                         and              Then write evaluation and enter
L                                         supervision      reason as (See Notes 12, 13 & 14)
E    If                                   period covers
                                          at least
1    the ratee has not had an evaluation, 16 points and    Annual
     or one year has passed since close- 120 calendar      See Note 3 and 15.
     out date of last OPR or TR from      days
     school of 20 weeks or more
2    the rater changes, departs           16 points and    Change of Reporting Official (CRO)
     PCS/PCA to school, or is             120 calendar
     Separating.                          days
3    the ratee or rater departs for an AD 16 points and    CRO
     tour of at least 60 calendar days    120 calendar
     duration. See Notes 3, 4 and 5.      days
4    a determination of appropriateness 8 points and       Directed by HAF or Directed by
     of action under AFIs 36-3209 is      60 calendar      MAJCOM; wing, group, squadron,
     needed, or ratee’s performance or    days             etc.) commander
     conduct is unsatisfactory or         See Note 6.
     marginal and a special evaluation
     is appropriate
5    the ratee has died, declared         See Note 7.      Directed by HAF
     missing in action (MIA), captured,
     or detained in captive status
6    a special evaluation is directed by  as directed      Directed by HAF
     HQ USAF. See Note 8.
7    a referral LOE has been written or No minimum         Directed by HAF or Directed by
     an LOE would contain referral        number of        MAJCOM, wing, group, squadron,
     comments if written. See Note 9.     days required.   etc.) commander

8    the ratee is placed into record      No minimum       Directed by the
     status 6, deserter status.           number of        Commander
                                          days required.
                                          See Note 10
9    an evaluation is prepared to         8 points and
     document significant improvement     60 calendar
     in duty performance                  days
                                          See Note 11.
10    the ratee receives a sentence of    No minimum
      confinement is the result of a      number of
      court-martial.                      days required
Notes:
1. If ratee is attending training or education, see Chapter 6.
2. Colonels selected for promotion to brigadier general receive evaluations IAW Chapter 7.
 124                                                                  AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


3. If a rater change (CRO) occurs after the original annual date has passed but before the 120-
day supervision period ends, the evaluation is closed out the day prior to the rater change,
provided at least 60 days of supervision and 8 active/inactive points have been earned. The
reason for the evaluation remains “Annual.” If this criterion has not been met, an informal LOE
(formerly called “optional LOE”) may be accomplished.
4. Do not submit a report when rater and ratee are ordered to AD together and the rater does not
change.
5. If the rate is selected to fill an 365-day extended deployment billet a CRO evaluation must be
accomplished provided there has been at least 120 days supervision.
6. This includes placement on or removal from the control roster.
7. Do not prepare evaluations for periods of MIA, captured, or detained in captive status of less
than 15 calendar days. If the ratee remains in one of these categories for 15 calendar days or
more, prepare an evaluation under this rule without regard to the number of days of supervision.
Close the evaluation on the day the ratee was placed in MIA, captured, or detained in captive
status. These evaluations are as directed by HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or HQ ARPC/DPBR.
8. HQ USAF/REP retains the authority to direct evaluations under this rule. If HQ USAF/RE
requires special evaluations on certain officers for selection board use, HQ ARPC/DPBR
furnishes ratee names to the MAJCOMs along with appropriate suspense dates and directs
submission of evaluations under this rule. Special evaluations covering outstanding duty
performance are not permitted under this rule.
9. If the current rater does not consider the referral comments in an LOE to be serious enough to
warrant permanent recording, an OPR will not be prepared.
10. The close-out date of the evaluation is the effective date the ratee is placed in record status 6,
deserter.
11. The commander may direct an evaluation for significant duty improvement only if the
previous evaluation was referred due to substandard duty performance.
12. For IMAs (excluding those centrally managed), the unit of assignment is responsible for
completing the OPR. For centrally managed IMAs, PIRR and PIRR Category E, the unit of
attachment is responsible for completing the OPR.
13. For IMAs, only the points accumulated under the direct supervision of the rater apply.
Subtract from the IMA’s total any points accrued under the supervision of someone other than
the IMA’s rater.
14. Only include points since close-out of last OPR or TR and do not include Extension Course
Institute (ECI) or membership points.
15. If the member has not earned the required number of points, HQ ARPC/DPBR may extend
the close-out to meet the requirement.




Table 3.5. Routing of OPRs for ANG and USAFR Officers not on EAD.
R   A                  B                    C                                   D
                                                                                and command
R                                                                               personnel record
U                                                                               group custodian
L                      then the senior                                          sends evaluation to
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        125


E                     rater sends the        and MPS, Reserve MPS or          office of record
    If the ratee is   evaluation             State ANG sends evaluation       shown in table
                                             to
1   ANG (Colonel      through channels       HQ ARPC/DPBR                     Table 3.6.
    and below)        to State ANG           See Note 3.
2   USAFR unit        to senior rater's      HQ ARPC/DPBR
    assigned          MPS or
                      collocated MPS         See Notes 1, 2 and 3.

3   USAFR              to the MPS          HQ ARPC/DPBR
    IMAs, PIRR,        servicing the       See Note 4.
    LEAD, &            rater
    AGR
4 USAFR HQ                                 HQ ARPC/DPBR
    Assigned                               See Note 3.
    AGRs
5 USAFR                                    HQ ARPC/DPBR
    Colonel in a
    GO position                            See Notes 1 and 3.
Notes:
1. For colonels, send copy to HQ AFRC/A1L.
2. Applies only to Air Reserve Technicians (ART) in grades Lieutenant Colonel and below.
3. Reports will be digitally routed through virtual Personnel Center-Guard Reserve (vPC-GR) to
ARPC.
4. Reports will digitally routed through Case Management System (CMS).


Table 3.6. Office of Record and Distribution Required for OPRs (See Note 1).
R   A                                            B               C
                                                 and the
U                                                document to     Send evaluation to the
L   If the ratee is                              be filed is     following office of record:
E
1   on ADL and is a Colonel or Colonel           original        HQ AF/DPC
    select. (See Note 2)                                         HQ AF/DPO (Brig Gen selects)
2                                                copy            Headquarters having custodial
                                                 (See Note 3)    responsibility for the officer’s
                                                                 Officer Command Selection
                                                                 Records Group (OCSRG).
3   ANG not on EAD and is a                      original        HQ ARPC/DPBR for qualitative
    colonel or colonel select. See Note 2.                       review and inclusion in Master
                                                                 Personnel Records Group
                                                                 (MPerRGp).
                                                                 HQ AF/DPO (Brig Gen selects)
4                                                copy            State ANG for file in OCSRG.
 126                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


5                                                              State ANG for file in State ANG
                                                               Records file.
6                                                              MPS for file in Unit Personnel
                                                               Records Group (UPRG).
                                                               See Notes 4 and 5.
7   USAFR officer not on ADL                  original         HQ ARPC/DPBR

8                                             copy             MAJCOM of assignment having
                                                               custodial responsibility of the
                                                               OCSRG.
                                                               See Note 6.
9   USAFR on EAD and not on the ADL           original         HQ ARPC/DPBR

10 on ADL and not covered under Rules         original         HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP
   1and 2, see Note 2.
11                                            copy             Headquarters having custodial
                                              See Notes 3      responsibility of the officer’s
                                              and 7.           OCSRG
                                                               See Notes 2 and 7.
12                                                             UPRG
Notes:
1. Transmit all “wet” signed ADL OPRs in a sealed envelope clearly marked OPR DATA--TO
BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY.
a. Send OPRs through channels to the reviewer for completion (Table 3.1.). The reviewer
ensures the MPS/CSS/HR Specialist receives evaluations for review no later than 30 calendar
days after the close-out date. MPS/CSS/HR Specialist forward evaluations to the office of
record by 45 calendar days after close-out for receipt and Officer Selection Record (OSR) by 60
calendar days after close-out through CMS/vPC-GR. Exception: Complete OPRs referred to
the individual according to paragraph 1.10. and forward them for file in the ratee's OSR no later
than 70 calendar days after the close-out date of the evaluation.
b. MPS/CSS/HR Specialist personnel may request OPRs no earlier than 30 calendar days after
close-out in order to perform a quality review and update the system. The due date allows
evaluators and the MPS/CSS/HR Specialist enough time for administrative work. Raters will not
be required to complete an OPR any earlier than five duty days after the evaluation close-out.
2. Send OPRs for officers assigned to the Air Force Elements Command (AFELM), Code 3V, to
11 WG/DPJ for processing. This office will make distribution.
3. For ANG officers (except Statutory Tour), the MPS sends an additional copy, with
appropriate attachments, to the State AG. For ANG Statutory Tour officers, NGB/OM sends to
the custodian having responsibility of the officer’s OCSRG. For USAFR AGR/LEAD officers,
the MPS sends an additional copy with appropriate attachments to HQ USAF/REPS.
4. NGB/OM will retain a copy for file.
5. Not required for those officers for whom an OCSR is not maintained (AFI 36-2608, Table
1.2).
6. For judge advocate officers (AFSC 51JX), the MPS/CSS/HR Specialist sends an additional
copy, with appropriate attachments, to HQ USAF/JAX. The OCSRG is not maintained on
lieutenants or non-promotion-eligible captains.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                  127




Table 3.7. When to Submit EPRs on Airmen on AD including ANG AGR’s. See Notes 1
and 2.
R   A                                           B                        C
U                                               and the period of
L                                               supervision has been     then the reason
E  If                                           at least                 for the evaluation is
1  The ratee is an A1C or below,                120 calendar days        Initial
   has 20 or more months TAFMS, and             See Notes 4 and 5.
   has not had an evaluation. See Note 3.
2 The ratee is a SrA or above and               120 calendar days        Annual
   has not had an evaluation for at least one   See Notes 5, 6, and 20
   year.
3 The ratee is an A1C or below,
   has 20 or more months TAFMS,
   has had an initial evaluation, and
   has not had an evaluation for at least one
   year.
4 The member requires an EPR because of         60 calendar days         Directed by
   placement on, or removal from, the                                    commander
   control roster according to AFI 36-2907.                              (Dir by CC)
   See Notes 3 and 7.
5 An evaluation is necessary to document        120 days
   unsatisfactory or marginal duty              See Note 5.
   performance or conduct. See Note 3.
6 An evaluation is prepared to document         120 calendar days
   significant improvement in duty
   performance. See Notes 3 and 8.
7 The ratee is placed into record status 6,     60 calendar days
   deserter status.                             See Note 9.
8 The member needs an evaluation in             60 calendar days         Directed by HQ
   conjunction with AFI 36-3208 discharge                                USAF (DBH)
   action. See Notes 3 and 10.
9 Authorities place the ratee in evaluating     120 calendar days See
   identifier 9A100 or 9A000. See Note 7.       Notes 5 and 11.
10 Personnel have declared the ratee missing    as directed
   in action, captured, or interned.
   See Notes 3 and 12.
11 HQ USAF directs a special evaluation
   See Note 13.
12 Ratee/rater departs TDY, other than          120 calendar days See    Change of Reporting
   formal training or contingency operations.   Notes 5 and 18.          Official (CRO)
   See Notes 3 and 19.
 128                                                                  AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


13 365-day extended deployments                     120 calendar days See
                                                    Notes 5and 18.

14 The ratee returns from TDY (other than           120 calendar days See Change of Reporting
      for formal training or contingency            Notes 5 and 21.           Official (CRO)
      operations) of 120 calendar days or more.
      See Notes 3 and 19.
15 The rater changes as a result of a PCS or        120 calendar days See
      PCA or an approved change of designated Notes 5 and 21.
      rater. See Notes 3, 16, and 22.
16 The ratee is separating, being released          120 calendar days
      from active duty, to the active Reserves or See Notes 5.
      ANG.
17 The ratee is an ANG enlisted AGR                 120 calendar days         Initial
      member (Airman through CMSgt) and has
      not had an evaluation.
18 The ratee is an ANG enlisted AGR                 120 calendar days         Annual
      member (Airman through CMSgt) and has
      not had an evaluation for at least one year.
      See Notes 5 and 6.
19 The member needs an evaluation in                60 calendar days          Directed by Full-time
      conjunction with involuntary removal                                    unit commander,
      from ANG AGR or Statutory Tour.                                         TAG or NGB/CF
20 ANG Unit Commander, Adjutant General As directed
      (TAG) or NGB/CF directs a special
      evaluation.
21 A1C who enlisted under the National Call 120 days                          Initial
      to Service (NCS) program. See Note 23.
22 Any sentence of confinement as the result No minimum number Dir by CC
      of a courts-martial. See Note 3.              of days required
Notes:
1. If the EPR is already a matter of record and the event or circumstance that brought about the
evaluation changes or no longer exists, take no action. The EPR is a valid evaluation and
remains in the ratee's master personnel record. Exception: MPSs update referral EPRs into the
PDS which were prepared as a result of a projected PCS and forward them to be include in the
ratee's master personnel record, regardless of whether or not the evaluation was a matter of
record at the time authorities canceled or delayed an assignment.
2. AGR/LEAD/ANG Statutory Tour personnel on EAD follow the same rules as for active duty
personnel.
3. A1C and below with less than 20 months TAFMS do not receive an EPR.
4. The close-out date is the day the airman has 20 months TAFMS or has 120 calendar days of
supervision. Exception: If the ratee has 20 or more months TAFMS and a change of rating
official occurs before the end of the 120-day supervision period, the evaluation is closed out the
day prior to the rater change (or the day prior to departure date if the change is due to the rater’s
PCS/PCA), provided the rater has obtained at least 60 days of supervision. The evaluation is
"Initial (CRO)." Not applicable to ANG AGR personnel.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        129


5. The period of required supervision is reduced to 60 or more calendar days for referral
evaluations.
6. The close-out date is one year from the previous EPR's close-out date or when 120 calendar
days of supervision have passed. If a rater change occurs after the original annual date passed,
but before the rater completed 120 days of supervision, the evaluation is closed out the day prior
to the rater change, providing at least 60 days of supervision have occurred. Evaluation reason is
still “Annual.”
7. Evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2907, are optional. The close-out of the evaluation
prepared when placing a member on the control roster is the day before the date of placement on
the control roster. The close-out of the evaluation prepared when removing a member from the
control roster is the day before the date of removal.
8. The commander may direct an evaluation for significant duty improvement only if the
previous evaluation was a referral or the overall rating was “2” or “1.”
9. The close-out date of the evaluation is the effective date the ratee is placed in record status 6,
deserter.
10. An evaluator prepares an EPR when the commander implements a discharge and will close
out the evaluation one day before the commander's written notice of the proposed action to the
airman. The first EPR an evaluator prepares when placing a member on probation and
rehabilitation (P and R) closes out 90 days after entering the P and R period. Subsequent EPRs
close out 90 days after the previous EPR's close-out date.
11. The evaluation's close-out is the day before the date that authorities place the ratee in
reporting identifier 9A100 or 9A000.
12. Do not prepare evaluations for periods of missing in action, captured, or interned status of
less than 15 calendar days. For periods of 15 calendar days or more, prepare an evaluation as
HQ AFPC/DPSIDE directs.
13. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE (or HQ AFPC/DPSOE) if the evaluation is necessary for promotion
consideration) directs evaluations under this rule.
14. Close-out date will be no later than the 15th day of the 1st processing month for each quarter
(Jan, Apr, Jul, Oct) or upon 60 days supervision.
15. Evaluations prepared under this rule replace the requirement for an “Initial Evaluation.”
Project members for an “Annual Evaluation” based on the close-out date of the “directed by HQ
USAF” evaluation.
16. If the ratee is also a rater, authorities assign a new rater for those individuals the departing
rater rates. This rule does not apply if the rater and ratee depart together and no change of
designated rater occurs.
17. The TDY requires no EPR if:
a. The ratee is attending formal school due to retraining requirements,
b. The ratee is already performing duty in the retraining AFSC, or
c. Authorities expect no change in the rater before the ratee returns to the home station.
18. The evaluation's close-out is the day before the ratee departs.
19. Prepare a CRO EPR under this rule only if:
a. Someone at the TDY location can perform normal rater duties,
b. The commander at the TDY location agrees the new rater can perform the necessary duties,
c. The home station commander decides to change the rater to someone at the TDY station,
d. The ratee's servicing MPS updates the PDS to reflect the rater at the TDY station, and
e. The commander assigns a new rater when the TDY ends.
 130                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013



The commander assigned to the ratee’s home station PAS code must perform the commander’s
review. Also, on senior NCO evaluations, only the senior rater matched to the ratee’s home
station PAS code may provide an A-level endorsement.
20. The period of required supervision is reduced to 60 days if more than a year has passed since
the ratee's last EPR. The close-out is the day before the rater changes or departs.
21. See Table 3.2. to determine the close-out for CRO EPRs.
22. Prepare an EPR under this rule if the Air Force is releasing the ratee from active duty to the
ANG or Reserve (AD or non-AD).
23. See paragraph 3.3.4, A1Cs who enlisted under the National Call to Service (NCS) program
will receive their initial evaluation upon completion of 16 months TAFMS minus 1 day.
24. For prior service enlistee’s with constructive credit on TAFMS, project for initial evaluation
one year from EAD. Exception: For A1Cs, if the ratee does not have at least 20 months
TAFMS, then close out the evaluation when the ratee has completed 20 months TAFMS,
provided 120 days supervision have been obtained. Not applicable to ANG AGR personnel.


Table 3.8. When to Submit EPRs on USAFR/ANG Airmen Not on AD. See Notes 1 and 2.
R   A                                             B                           C
U                                                 and the supervision         then the reason
L                                                 period covers at least      for the evaluation
E   If                                                                        is
1   The ratee is a SrA, has 20 or more months     16 points and 120           Initial
    time in service (from DIEMS date), and        calendar days
    has not had a report. See Notes 3 and 8.

2   The ratee is a SSgt or above and has not
    had a report for at least two years. See
    Notes 3 and 8.

3   The ratee is a SrA, has 20 or more months     16 points and 120           Biennial
    time in service (from DIEMS date), had        calendar days
    an initial report, and has not had a report
    for at least two years. See Notes 3 and 8.

4   The rater changes as a result of PCS,         16 points and 120           Change of Rating
    PCA, retirement, or separation. See Notes     calendar days               Official (CRO)
    6 and 7.

5   The commander directs an evaluation.
    See Notes 5, 6, 12, and 13.

6   The member requires an EPR because of
    placement on or removal from the control
    roster IAW AFI 36-2907. See Note 6.
7   An evaluation is necessary to document        No minimum points or        Directed by the
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     131


     unsatisfactory or marginal duty                supervision                Commander (Dir
     performance or conduct. See Note 6.                                       by CC)
8 An evaluation is prepared to document
     significant improvement in duty
     performance. See Notes 5, 6 and 12.
9 The ratee is placed into record status 6,
     deserter status. See Note 13.
10 HQ USAF directs a special evaluation.            No minimum points or
     See Notes 4 and 6.                             supervision
11 The ratee needs an evaluation in                                            Directed by HQ
     conjunction with discharge.                                               USAF (DBH)
12 The ratee is declared missing in action,
     captured, or interned. See Note 11.
13 The ratee or rater departs for an AD tour        16 points and 120          CRO
     of at least 60 calendar days duration. See calendar days
     Notes 9 and 10.
Notes:
1. For IMAs (excluding those centrally managed), the unit of assignment is responsible for
completing the evaluation. For centrally managed IMAs, PIRR and PIRR Category E, the unit of
attachment is responsible for completing the evaluation.
2. SrA or below with less than 20 months in service do not receive an EPR.
3. If the ratee did not participate during the period of evaluation, the EPR must state this
information. If a rater has limited knowledge of the ratee’s performance during the entire rating
period, the rater, as a minimum, attempts to get information about the ratee through second and
third line supervisors, first sergeant, or commander. If at least 60 days of supervision have
occurred, an informal LOE (formally called an optional LOE) may be accomplished.
4. HQ USAF/REP directs EPRs under this rule.
5. A commander (wing, group, squadron or higher-level commander, HQ AFRC, a central or
MAJCOM IMA program manager, HQ ARPC, or HQ USAF/REP) may direct an event-centered
EPR, such as: Board nominations (school, screening qualification, retention, awards, etc.);
Commissioning Program applications; Special-duty nominations.
6. Do not prepare more than one event-centered evaluation on a Reservist during a 12-month
period. Do not use event-centered EPRs as a reason for annual evaluations.
7. Prepare a report under this rule if ratee is discharged from USAFR and enters AD; reassigned
to EAD; reassigned to ARPC for non-participation.
8. If a member does not earn the required number of points, HQ ARPC/DPBR may extend the
close-out date to meet the requirement, except for Biennial reports, then Note 3 applies.
9. Do not submit a report when rater and ratee are ordered to AD together and the rater does not
change.
10. If the ratee is selected to fill an 365-day extended deployment billet a CRO evaluation must
be accomplished provided there has been at least 120 days supervision.
11. Do not prepare evaluations for periods of MIA, captured, or detained in captive status of less
than 15 calendar days. If the ratee remains in one of these categories for 15 calendar days or
more, prepare an evaluation under this rule without regard to the number of days of supervision.
Close the evaluation on the day the ratee was placed in MIA, captured, or detained in captive
status. These evaluations are as directed by HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or HQ ARPC/DPBR.
 132                                                                  AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


12. The commander may direct an evaluation for significant duty improvement only if the
previous evaluation was a referral or the overall rating was “2” or “1”.
13. The close-out date of the evaluation is the effective date the ratee is placed in record status 6,
deserter.



Table 3.9. Office of Record and Distribution of EPRs for Total Force. See Notes 1
through 6.
       A                  B                   C
R
U
L      The document       and the ratee is
E      is                 a                   Send evaluation to the following office of record
1      Digitally signed   All CMSgt or        HQ AFPC
       electronic         below               (Active Duty)
       evaluation                             HQ ARPC
                                              (ANG/USAFR)
2      an original        CMSgt or            HQ AF/DPE
       “wet” signature    select

3                         SMSgt or            HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP
                          selects,

                          MSgt or selects

4                         TSgt or below
                                              HQ AFPC/DPSIR (ARMS)

5                         ANG enlisted        HQ ARPC
                          AGR/Statutory
                          (AGR) Tour
                          member; all
                          USAFR
6      a copy             CMSgt
                                              HQ AFPC/DPSIR (ARMS)

7                         ANG enlisted        Joint Forces Headquarters (Human Resources
                          AGR member          Office) for State File
8                         ANG Statutory       NGB/OM File
                          Tour member
Notes:
1. See paragraph 1.4.5., Reproducing Evaluations.
2 Referral EPRs. Complete EPRs referred to the individual according to paragraph 1.10. and
forward them for filing in the ratee's ARMS/SNCO Selection Record (SNSR) no later than 70
calendar days (90 calendar days for non-EAD) after the close-out date of the evaluation.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   133


3. For AD. “Wet Signature” and Referral Evaluations. Once the evaluators complete the
appropriate sections of the EPR, personnel should hand-carry or transmit it in a securely sealed
envelope marked EPR DATA--TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY.
a. Send EPRs through channels to the unit commander for review (Table 3.2.). The unit
commander ensures the MPS receives evaluations for review no later than 30 calendar days after
the close-out date. MPSs forward evaluations to the office of record no later than 45 calendar
days after close-out for receipt and SNSR no later than 60 calendar days after close-out.
Exception: Referral EPRs see Note 2.
b. MPS personnel may request EPRs no earlier than 30 calendar days after close-out in order to
perform a quality review and update the system. The due date allows evaluators and the MPS
enough time for administrative work. Raters will not be required to complete an EPR any earlier
than five duty days after the evaluation close-out.
4. For ANG/USAFR. Once the evaluators complete the appropriate sections of the EPR,
transmit it to HQ ARPC/DPBR via vPC-GR/CMS. For wet signature/copy must have “certified
true” statement prior to submission.
a. For HQ AFRC units, the evaluator sends the EPR through the unit commander to HQ
ARPC/DPBR via vPC-GR.
b. For IMAs and Cat E participants, the evaluator sends the EPR through the active duty MPS to
HQ ARPC/DPBR.
5. File the original EPR on all Reserve airmen on EAD under Title 10 U.S.C. 672 or 12310 in
the ratee's UPRG if still maintained.
6. Whenever possible, complete and file EPRs closed out for reassignment reasons according to
Table 3.2. and forward to ARMS (TSgt and below) or AFPC/DPSIDEP (SNCOs).



Table 3.10. Time-in-Grade (TIG) Senior Rater Eligibility Chart.

                                      MSGT CHART
If ratee                                                                      TIG
is:         and EPR c/o date is:     and DOR is:                              Eligibility
MSgt        1 Jan 06 - 30 Sep 06     prior to or equal to 1 Jul 05            YES
MSgt        1 Jan 06 - 30 Sep 06     after 1 Jul 05                           NO
MSgt        1 Oct 06 - 31 Dec 06     prior to or equal to 1 Jul 06            YES
MSgt        1 Oct 06 - 31 Dec 06     after 1 Jul 06                           NO
MSgt        1 Jan 07 - 30 Sep 07     prior to or equal to 1 Jul 06            YES
MSgt        1 Jan 07 - 30 Sep 07     after 1 Jul 06                           NO
MSgt        1 Oct 07 - 31 Dec 07     prior to or equal to 1 Jul 07            YES
MSgt        1 Oct 07 - 31 Dec 07     after 1 Jul 07                           NO
MSgt        1 Jan 08 - 30 Sep 08     prior to or equal to 1 Jul 07            YES
MSgt        1 Jan 08 - 30 Sep 08     after 1 Jul 07                           NO
MSgt        1 Oct 08 - 31 Dec 08     prior to or equal to 1 Jul 08            YES
MSgt        1 Oct 08 - 31 Dec 08     after 1 Jul 08                           NO
MSgt        1 Jan 09 - 30 Sep 09     prior to or equal to 1 Jul 08            YES
MSgt        1 Jan 09 - 30 Sep 09     after 1 Jul 08                           NO
 134                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


MSgt       1 Oct 09 - 31 Dec 09   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 09             YES
MSgt       1 Oct 09 - 31 Dec 09   after 1 Jul 09                            NO
MSgt       1 Jan 10 - 30 Sep 10   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 09             YES
MSgt       1 Jan 10 - 30 Sep 10   after 1 Jul 09                            NO
MSgt       1 Oct 10 - 31 Dec 10   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 10             YES
MSgt       1 Oct 10 - 31 Dec 10   after 1 Jul 10                            NO
MSgt       1 Jan 11 - 30 Sep 11   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 10             YES
MSgt       1 Jan 11 - 30 Sep 11   after 1 Jul 10                            NO
MSgt       1 Oct 11 - 31 Dec 11   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 11             YES
MSgt       1 Oct 11 - 31 Dec 11   after 1 Jul 11                            NO
MSgt       1 Jan 12 - 30 Sep 12   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 11             YES
MSgt       1 Jan 12 - 30 Sep 12   after 1 Jul 11                            NO
MSgt       1 Oct 12 - 31 Dec 12   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 12             YES
MSgt       1 Oct 12 - 31 Dec 12   after 1 Jul 12                            NO
MSgt       1 Jan 13 - 30 Sep 13   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 12             YES
MSgt       1 Jan 13 - 30 Sep 13   after 1 Jul 12                            NO
MSgt       1 Oct 13 - 31 Dec 13   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 13             YES
MSgt       1 Oct 13 - 31 Dec 13   after 1 Jul 13                            NO
MSgt       1 Jan 14 - 30 Sep 14   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 13             YES
MSgt       1 Jan 14 - 30 Sep 14   after 1 Jul 13                            NO
MSgt       1 Oct 14 - 31 Dec 14   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 14             YES
MSgt       1 Oct 14 - 31 Dec 14   after 1 Jul 14                            NO
MSgt       1 Jan 15 - 30 Sep 15   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 14             YES
MSgt       1 Jan 15 - 30 Sep 15   after 1 Jul 14                            NO
MSgt       1 Oct 15 - 31 Dec 15   prior to or equal to 1 Jul 15             YES
MSgt       1 Oct 15 - 31 Dec 15   after 1 Jul 15                            NO
                                  SMSGT CHART
If ratee                                                                    TIG
is:        and EPR c/o date is:   and DOR is:                               Eligibility
SMSgt      1 Jan 06 - 31 Jul 06   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 05             YES
SMSgt      1 Jan 06 - 31 Jul 06   after 1 Mar 05                            NO
SMSgt      1 Aug 06 - 31 Dec 06   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 06             YES
SMSgt      1 Aug 06 - 31 Dec 06   after 1 Mar 06                            NO
SMSgt      1 Jan 07 - 31 Jul 07   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 06             YES
SMSgt      1 Jan 07 - 31 Jul 07   after 1 Mar 06                            NO
SMSgt      1 Aug 07 - 31 Dec 07   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 07             YES
SMSgt      1 Aug 07 - 31 Dec 07   after 1 Mar 07                            NO
SMSgt      1 Jan 08 - 31 Jul 08   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 07             YES
SMSgt      1 Jan 08 - 31 Jul 08   after 1 Mar 07                            NO
SMSgt      1 Aug 08 - 31 Dec 08   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 08             YES
SMSgt      1 Aug 08 - 31 Dec 08   after 1 Mar 08                            NO
SMSgt      1 Jan 09 - 31 Jul 09   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 08             YES
SMSgt      1 Jan 09 - 31 Jul 09   after 1 Mar 08                            NO
SMSgt      1 Aug 09 - 31 Dec 09   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 09             YES
SMSgt      1 Aug 09 - 31 Dec 09   after 1 Mar 09                            NO
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                              135


SMSgt     1 Jan 10 - 31 Jul 10   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 09   YES
SMSgt     1 Jan 10 - 31 Jul 10   after 1 Mar 09                  NO
SMSgt     1 Aug 10 - 31 Dec 10   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 10   YES
SMSgt     1 Aug 10 - 31 Dec 10   after 1 Mar 10                  NO
SMSgt     1 Jan 11 - 31 Jul 11   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 10   YES
SMSgt     1 Jan 11 - 31 Jul 11   after 1 Mar 10                  NO
SMSgt     1 Aug 11 - 31 Dec 11   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 11   YES
SMSgt     1 Aug 11 - 31 Dec 11   after 1 Mar 11                  NO
SMSgt     1 Jan 12 - 31 Jul 12   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 11   YES
SMSgt     1 Jan 12 - 31 Jul 12   after 1 Mar 11                  NO
SMSgt     1 Aug 12 - 31 Dec 12   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 12   YES
SMSgt     1 Aug 12 - 31 Dec 12   after 1 Mar 12                  NO
SMSgt     1 Jan 13 - 31 Jul 13   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 12   YES
SMSgt     1 Jan 13 - 31 Jul 13   after 1 Mar 12                  NO
SMSgt     1 Aug 13 - 31 Dec 13   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 13   YES
SMSgt     1 Aug 13 - 31 Dec 13   after 1 Mar 13                  NO
SMSgt     1 Jan 14 - 31 Jul 14   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 13   YES
SMSgt     1 Jan 14 - 31 Jul 14   after 1 Mar 13                  NO
SMSgt     1 Aug 14 - 31 Dec 14   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 14   YES
SMSgt     1 Aug 14 - 31 Dec 14   after 1 Mar 14                  NO
SMSgt     1 Jan 15 - 31 Jul 15   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 14   YES
SMSgt     1 Jan 15 - 31 Jul 15   after 1 Mar 14                  NO
SMSgt     1 Aug 15 - 31 Dec 15   prior to or equal to 1 Mar 15   YES
SMSgt     1 Aug 15 - 31 Dec 15   after 1 Mar 15                  NO
 136                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013



                                          Chapter 4

                        AF FORM 77, LETTER OF EVALUATION

4.1. Purpose. An AF Form 77, Letter of Evaluation (LOE) can be very helpful for a rater when
preparing OPRs/EPRs. Therefore, we strongly encourage the use of LOEs whenever possible, to
give the rater tasked to prepare the evaluation, as much detail and accurate information on the
ratee’s performance as possible. Additionally, evaluators may request LOEs from others (such
as TDY supervisors and former or temporary raters with less than 120 days of supervision during
the OPR/EPR reporting period, etc.) at anytime; however, unless the LOE is mandatory, the LOE
is optional and only a courtesy. Evaluators preparing an EPR/OPR or TR using an LOE may
quote or paraphrase information contained in LOEs; however if stratification is used it must be
quoted.
4.2. Types of Letters of Evaluation (LOE). There are four types of LOEs:
   4.2.1. Formal Letters of Evaluation.
       4.2.1.1. Formal Letters of Evaluation, (commonly known as the mandatory LOEs), are
       LOEs that must be accomplished and required to be made a matter of record; placed in
       the Master Personnel Record Group (MPerRGp).
       4.2.1.2. As of this printing the only formal LOEs are the Deployed Commander LOE;
       the Wounded Warrior LOE, and when required for separation. Note: When applicable,
       administrative and supplemental LOEs will also be placed in the MPerRGp.
          4.2.1.2.1. Deployed Commander LOEs, (Mandatory). A formal LOE that is used to
          document performance for those officers deployed to fill squadron, group, and wing
          commander positions. Accomplishment is mandatory. See Table 4.2. and paragraph
          5.4.
          4.2.1.2.2. Wounded Warrior LOEs, (Mandatory). A formal LOE that is used to
          document performance for those under the Wounded Warrior Program.
          Accomplishment is mandatory.
              4.2.1.2.2.1. AFPC Evaluations Section (AFPC/DPSIDE) manages AF Form 77
              for AFW2s. Formal LOEs will be completed annually on those AFW2s with a
              minimum of 60 days from the initial date awarded RI 9W200 / 92W1. The start
              date on the LOE will be the day following the close-out date of the last evaluation
              completed. If there are enough days of supervision for an EPR or OPR to be
              accomplished prior to identification as a wounded warrior then an EPR/OPR will
              be accomplished with a close-out date one day prior to identification as a
              wounded warrior.
              4.2.1.2.2.2. The LOE will contain the mandatory comment "Member under the
              Wounded Warrior Program." If the AFW2 has performed duties or served in
              ways that go beyond the self-care expected of a patient, comments may be entered
              to address that performance. These LOEs will be signed by the individual's unit
              commander. Note: In the event the unit commander does not provide the
              completed LOE by 60 days after annual close-out date, AFPC/DPSIDE will
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     137


             complete the LOE with the mandatory statement and this LOE will be placed in
             the member’s permanent record.
          4.2.1.2.3. For A1C and below with less than 20 months’ Total Active Federal
          Military Service (TAFMS), an LOE is required for separation cases involving
          parenthood; conditions that interfere with military service; unsatisfactory
          performance; or failure in the fitness program. See AFI 36-3208, paragraph 6.4.
          4.2.1.2.4. Palace Chase/Front or Transfer to another Service. If the ratee is
          separating to go into the ANG, USAFR or transferring to another branch of service,
          an OPR/EPR is required. If there is less than 120 days supervision, an LOE is
          required. If less than 60 days, no OPR/EPR, or LOE is required. However, if
          required, the gaining reserve/guard unit will prepare an AF Form 77 IAW AFI 36-
          2608 to cover any gaps there may be in the record.
   4.2.2. Informal Letters of Evaluation (LOE).
      4.2.2.1. Informal Letters of Evaluation (LOE), (commonly known as the optional LOE),
      are those LOEs that will NOT be placed in the Master Personnel Records Group
      (MPerRGp).
          4.2.2.1.1. Informal LOEs may be mandated; however only formal LOEs will be filed
          in the MPerRGp, see Table 4.2.
          4.2.2.1.2. Informal LOEs are used by the designated rater to assist in preparing the
          individual’s next performance evaluation.          Although encouraged, using the
          information from the LOE is at the discretion of the designated rater; and if used,
          evaluators may paraphrase or quote information from LOEs; however, they may not
          paraphrase or quote stratification statements from these LOEs.
          4.2.2.1.3. Informal LOEs are not attached to the completed evaluations when the
          evaluations are made a matter of record.
      4.2.2.2. Informal Letters of Evaluation are used to:
          4.2.2.2.1. Document periods when someone other than the designated rater
          supervises the ratee, (optional, but highly encouraged).
          4.2.2.2.2. Document duty performance for periods of performance of at least 60 days,
          unless otherwise stated in this AFI; and are too short (less than 120 days supervision),
          to require an EPR/OPR; i.e. PCS, PCA, CRO, (mandatory).
          4.2.2.2.3. Document duty performance for periods of time when the ratee is under
          other than the designated rater; i.e. loan out to another section, (optional, but highly
          encouraged).
          4.2.2.2.4. Document duty performance of deployed personnel not assigned to a
          deployed commander’s billet, (mandatory).
          4.2.2.2.5. Document duty performance for deployed personnel not assigned to an
          365-day extended deployment billet, (mandatory).
          4.2.2.2.6. Document personnel participation in the World Class Athlete Program
          (WCAP), (mandatory).
138                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         4.2.2.2.7. Document performance for other purposes when directed by HQ USAF,
         (may be mandatory or optional).
  4.2.3. Supplemental Letters of Evaluation.
      4.2.3.1. Supplemental Letters of Evaluation are LOEs that are required to be made a
      matter of record and will be placed in the Master Personnel Record Group (MPerRGp)
      attached to the evaluation they are supplementing.
      4.2.3.2. Types of Supplemental LOEs include:
         4.2.3.2.1. Continuation Sheets for Referral Evaluations. See paragraph 1.10.
         4.2.3.2.2. Continuation Sheets for Evaluator Disagreements. See paragraph 1.9.
         4.2.3.2.3. Continuation Sheets for the Air Force Advisor. See paragraph 1.6.7.
         4.2.3.2.4. Continuation Sheet for the Functional/Acquisition Examiner.           See
         paragraph 1.6.7.
         4.2.3.2.5. Continuation Sheet for the commander’s review comments. See paragraph
         1.9.
  4.2.4. Administrative Letters of Evaluation.
      4.2.4.1. Administrative Letters of Evaluation are LOEs that are required to be made a
      matter of record and will be placed in the Master Personnel Record Group (MPerRGp) to
      document missing/voided evaluations or unrated periods in performance records.
      4.2.4.2. Administrative LOEs are not derogatory in nature.
      4.2.4.3. Administrative LOEs are used to justify legitimate gaps or unrated periods
      between evaluations such as:
         4.2.4.3.1. To document a break in service, see Table 4.1., Note 5b(4)c.
         4.2.4.3.2. To document extended periods of lost time; including military and/or
         civilian confinement, prisoner status and appellate leave. Upon release an AF Form
         77 will be accomplished by the servicing MPS. The start date will be the day after
         the close out of the last evaluation and the end date will be the day the member is
         released from confinement. The next evaluation will begin the day after the close-out
         date of the LOE, see Table 4.1., Note 5e.
         4.2.4.3.3. To document an Educational Leave of Absences; i.e. Bootstrap and/or
         Educational Leave to a civilian institution, see Table 4.1., Note 5g.
         4.2.4.3.4. To document an unrated period when the ratee was on the Temporary
         Disability Retired List (TDRL); then removed and returned to AD, see Table 4.1.,
         Note 5h.
      4.2.4.4. Administrative LOEs are use to substitute lost, missing or removed evaluations
      such as those:
         4.2.4.4.1. Ordered removed by the AFBCMR, in accordance with AFI 36-2603, see
         Table 4.1., Note 5i.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    139


          4.2.4.4.2. Ordered removed by the ERAB, in accordance with Chapter 10, see Table
          4.1., Note 5j.
          4.2.4.4.3. Lost and/or missing evaluations in which all tracer actions have failed. See
          paragraph 1.14. for procedures on tracer actions and Table 4.1, Note 5k for
          preparation of AF Form 77.
       4.2.4.5. The use of Administrative LOEs must be approved by HQ AFPC or HQ ARPC
       prior to placing them into the MPerRGp. Active Duty requests may be made by
       emailing: evalpolicy@randolph.af.mil.
   4.2.5. Other Purposes.
       4.2.5.1. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE may use the AF Form 77 to document when a board specific
       PRF is not required or available as stated below:
          4.2.5.1.1. For officers who are on appellate leave or in prisoner status.
          4.2.5.1.2. For officers who entered active duty directly into Air Force-level training
          or officers who had a break in service and reentered directly into Air Force-level
          training.
   4.2.6. When directed by HQ USAF.
4.3. Who Will Prepare.
   4.3.1. Raters, when there is a CRO with less than 120 days of supervision but more than 30
   days of supervision.
       4.3.1.1. Refer to paragraph 1.7. when the rater has been relieved from their rating
       responsibilities.
       4.3.1.2. Do not skip evaluators who are temporarily unavailable or to afford a higher
       level evaluator the opportunity to endorse or comment on the LOE.
   4.3.2. Personnel responsible for observing a ratee’s performance when the ratee is not under
   the direct supervision of the designated rater.
   4.3.3. Records custodians responsible for maintaining the MPerRGp, OSR, OCSR and NSR.
   4.3.4. Personnel directed to do so by the AFBCMR or ERAB.
   4.3.5. MPS CSS/HR Specialist personnel as authorized.
4.4. Administrative Practices.
   4.4.1. LOEs will cover the period from the first day of supervision (or the day following the
   close-out of the last EPR, OPR or TR, whichever is later) through the last day of supervision.
   4.4.2. Type the AF Form 77 when possible; legibly hand-write or print as a last resort.
   4.4.3. Limit comments to space provided on formal LOEs. If additional space is required on
   informal or supplemental LOEs, continue comments on bond paper and attach it to the LOE.
   4.4.4. Correct minor errors using a pen or correction fluid. Corrections and/or erasures that
   change the meaning of a sentence must be initialed. Re-accomplished forms with excessive
   corrections and/or erasures. Do not use self-adhesive correction tape.
 140                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


   4.4.5. Prepare LOEs in one copy.
   4.4.6. Prepare LOEs using bullet format only.
   4.4.7. Prohibited Comments. See paragraph 1.12. for prohibited comments.
   4.4.8. Raters may show an AF Form 77 to the ratee.
4.5. Completing AF Form 77, Letter of Evaluation.
   4.5.1. See Table 4.1. for step-by-step procedures on completing all LOEs.
   4.5.2. Deployed Commander LOEs, also see paragraph 5.4.
   4.5.3. Referral Procedures, also see paragraph 1.10.6.3.
   4.5.4. General Officer Letters of Evaluation. For GOs and GO selects see Chapter 7,
   paragraph 7.2.2.
4.6. Routing, Updating and Disposition Responsibilities.
   4.6.1. Formal LOEs. Formal LOEs, formerly known as the mandatory LOE, are required to
   be made a matter of record and will be placed in the Master Personnel Record Group
   (MPerRGp) and a copy forwarded to ARMS. Perform any updates as required.
       4.6.1.1. Deployed Commander’s LOE.
          4.6.1.1.1. The officer must be on G-series orders for at least 45 days, filling a
          squadron, group or wing commander requirement, in the deployed location to qualify
          for the deployed commander LOE.
          4.6.1.1.2. PERSCO: Upon verification of eligibility, the PERSCO team forwards the
          completed LOE to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP within 60 calendar days after close-out date
          (paragraph 5.4.5.4).
          4.6.1.1.3. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP will update all the deployed commander LOE in
          MilPDS as an “embedded” evaluation, forward the original LOE to the OSR for Lt
          Col and below, or AF/DPO for Colonels and a copy is forwarded to ARMS.
       4.6.1.2. Separation. If an LOE is mandated for separation, it will be placed in the ratees
       MPerRGp. Prepare when required by AFI 36-3206, AFI 36-3207, , AFI 36-3208, AFI
       36-3205, and AFI 36-3209.
       4.6.1.3. Wounded Warrior. See paragraph 4.2.1.2.2.
   4.6.2. Informal Letters of Evaluation (LOE). Informal LOEs will NOT be placed in the
   MPerRGp. For all other informal LOEs, to include deployed enlisted ANG AGR/Statutory
   Tour personnel, the rater/supervisor forwards the completed LOE to the MPS/CSS/HR
   Specialist/PERSCO who will forward the LOE to the ratee’s new and/or designated rater.
   The rater will hold the LOE until the next EPR/OPR/TR is prepared.
   4.6.3. Supplemental Letters of Evaluation (LOE). Supplemental LOEs are required to be
   attached to the evaluation they are supplementing and will be made a matter of record.
   Supplemental LOEs will be placed in the OSR/NSR (officers/SNCOs) attached to the
   documents they are supplementing and a copy forwarded to ARMS.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    141


   4.6.4. Administrative Letters of Evaluation (LOE). Administrative LOEs are required to be
   placed in the OSR/NSR/ARMS to substitute a missing evaluation or explain a gap between
   evaluations. The preparing agency forwards the original to the OSR/NSR/ARMS. Perform
   any updates if required.
   4.6.5. All other LOEs not listed above. For LOEs not covered above, you may contact
   AFPC/DPSIDE or ARPC/DPB for procedures and/or further guidance.
4.7. CSS/HR Specialist/MPS/PERSCO Responsibilities:
   4.7.1. Quality review LOEs and take corrective action if appropriate.
   4.7.2. When applicable, make appropriate updates and place the LOE into a suspense file
   pending the next evaluation.
   4.7.3. Provide LOEs to the member’s rater for use in preparing the next performance
   evaluation or TR. LOEs closing during the period of the performance evaluation will
   accompany the OPR/EPR notice through the rating chain and remain with the notice and
   evaluation until received by the MPS.
   4.7.4. Forward LOEs to the member’s gaining CSS/HR Specialist or MPS when the member
   departs PCS and no evaluation was required prior to departure.
   4.7.5. Give the LOE to the member upon separation, retirement, or completion of the next
   performance evaluation. Note: LOEs closing during the period of the performance
   evaluation will accompany the OPR/EPR notice through the rating chain and remain with the
   notice and evaluation until received by the CSS/HR Specialist/MPS. Once the CSS/HR
   Specialist/MPS determines the evaluation is acceptable for processing to file, they return the
   LOE to the ratee. LOEs are transitory evaluations that are not filed in any personnel record
   group. Exception: Formal LOEs.

Table 4.1. Instructions for Completing the AF Form 77, Letter of Evaluation.

SECTION I – RATEE IDENTIFICATION DATA
Item/Description          Instructions
1. Name                   Enter last name, first name, middle initial and Jr., Sr., III, etc.
                          Use of “NMI” (no middle initial) is optional. The name will be in
                          all upper case.
2. SSN                    Enter the SSN. Do not use suffix.
3. Grade                  Drop Down Menu. Select the appropriate grade. See Note 1.
4. DAFSC                  Enter the DAFSC held as of the “THRU” date of the evaluation to
                          include prefix and suffix.
5. Duty Title OR Title of Enter the approved duty title as of the “THRU” date of the
   Additional Duty        evaluation.
6. Deployed Location or   Deployed CC LOEs Only. If applicable, enter the
   Name Operation         operation/contingency name ratee was deployed in support of.
                          (i.e. Operation ENDURING FREEDOM).

SECTION II – GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Item/Description      Instructions
 142                                                           AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


PART A - Type of Report     Drop Down Menu. Select either Supplemental Sheet, Letter of
                            Evaluation, or Acquisition Examiner/Functional Examiner/AF
                            Advisor.

                            For Formal/Informal LOEs, enter: Letter of Evaluation;

                            For Supplemental Sheets, enter: Supplemental Sheet;

                            For Acquisition Examiner, Functional Examiner, AF Advisor,
                            enter: Acquisition Examiner, Functional Examiner, AF Advisor

                            For Administrative LOEs, leave blank.


SECTION II – GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Item/Description      Instructions
PART B
1. From               From Date: Enter the date supervision began
   Thru               Thru Date: Enter the date supervision ended
(See Note 2)
2. Report Is          Drop Down Menu. Select either Mandatory or Optional.
                      (See Table 4.2.)
3. Level of Deployed  Deployed CC LOEs Only. Drop Down Menu. Select either
   Commander Duties   Squadron CC, Group CC, or Wing CC.
   Performed

SECTION II – GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Item/Description         Instructions
PART B
4. Number of Days in CC  Deployed CC LOEs Only. Enter the number of consecutive days
   Position              served in the deployed commander position, on G-series orders.
5. G-Series Order Number Deployed CC LOEs Only. Enter the G-Series Order Number.
   Date of Order         Deployed CC LOEs Only. Enter the date of the G-Series Order.

SECTION III – DEPLOYED COMMANDER ASSESSMENT ( For Deployed CCs Only)
Item/Description         Instructions
Officer Satisfactorily   Deployed CC LOEs Only. Select “Yes” if the officer
Completed Their Deployed satisfactorily completed their deployed commander tour. Select
Command Tour             “No” if completion was unsatisfactory. If “No,” the report must
                         be referred.

SECTION IV – COMMENTS/ IMPACT ON MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENT
Item/Description    Instructions
Comments Area       Limit comments to space provided on formal LOEs. If additional
                    space is required on informal or supplemental LOEs, continue
                    comments on bond paper and attach it to the LOE. Comments
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    143


                              must be in bullet format. See paragraph 1.12. for prohibited
                              comments; paragraph 1.11. and Notes 5 and 6 for mandatory
                              comments; and paragraph 1.10.6.3. for referral procedures.

SECTION V – RATER IDENTIFICATION DATA (See Note 3)
Item/Description       Instructions
Name, Grade Branch of  Enter evaluator identification as of close-out.
Service, Organization,
Command, Location
Duty Title             Enter Authorized Deployed Duty Title
Date                   Digital signatures will auto-date form. If not available
                       handwrite, type or stamp. Do not date before close-out date.
SSN                    Enter only the last four of the evaluator’s SSN.
Signature              Digitally Sign. If digital capability is unavailable, sign in “wet
                       signature” in reproducible blue or black ink. Do not sign before
                       the close-out date.

SECTION VI – ADDITIONAL RATER (Deployed CC LOEs Only)
Item/Description        Instructions
Concur/Non-concur Boxes Place an “X” in the appropriate box. If non-concur is marked,
                        explain the reason for the non-concurrence in the comments area.
Comments Area           Insert comments only if referral or to document non-concurrence.
                        Referral LOEs must contain the applicable mandatory statement
                        IAW paragraph 1.10.5.3.2.3.
Name, Grade Branch of   Enter the name in all uppercase. Enter evaluator identification in
Service, Organization,  upper/lower or all upper case. All information will be as of
Command, Location       close-out.

                              (See Note 3)
Duty Title                    Enter the Duty Title as of the close-out.
Date                          Digital signatures will auto-date form. If not available
                              handwrite, type or stamp. Do not date before close-out date.
SSN                           Enter only the last four of the evaluator’s SSN.
Signature                     Digitally Sign. If digital capability is unavailable, sign in “wet
                              signature” in reproducible blue or black ink. Do not sign before
                              the close-out date.

SECTION VII – RATEE’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Item/Description          Instructions
I understand my signature Drop Down Menu. If ratee is unavailable or refuses to sign,
does not constitute       select the applicable statement.
agreement or disagreement
Signature                 Digitally Sign. If digital capability is unavailable or the LOE is a
                          referral, sign in “wet signature” in reproducible blue or black ink.
                          Do not sign before the close-out date.
 144                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


Date                           Digital signatures will auto-date form. If not available
                               handwrite, type or stamp. Do not date before close-out date.

SECTION VIII – REFERRAL REPORT (Deployed CC LOEs Only)
Item/Description                Instructions
I am referring. . .Specifically State specifically what comments make the LOE a referral.
Send Comments to                Enter the Grade and Name of the Referring Evaluator’s deployed
                                rater.
Name, Grade, Br of Svc of       Enter evaluator identification as of close-out.
Referring Evaluator             (See Note 3)
Duty Title                      Enter the Duty Title as of the close out.
Date                            Dates will be handwritten, typed or stamped. Do not date before
                                close-out date.
Signature                       Sign “wet signature” in reproducible blue or black ink. Do not
                                sign before the close-out date.

SECTION VIII – REFERRAL REPORT (Deployed CC LOEs Only)
Item/Description      Instructions
Signature of Ratee    Signature is for acknowledging receipt. It does not constitute
                      agreement or disagreement. Sign in “wet signature” in
                      reproducible blue or black ink. Do not sign before the close-out
                      date.
Date                  Date may be handwritten, typed or stamped. Do not date before
                      close-out date.

SECTION IX – REFERRAL REVIEWER (Deployed CC LOEs Only. Used Only if
Additional Rater Refers the LOE)
Item/Description              Instructions
Ratee Did/Did Not Submit      Place an “X” in the appropriate box.
Comments Box
I Do/Do Not Concur With       Place an “X” in the appropriate box.
Assessment Box
Comments Area                 Insert comments for non-concurrence only.
Name, Grade, Branch of        Enter evaluator identification as of close-out.
Service, Organization,
Command, Location             (See Note 3)
Duty Title                    Enter the Duty Title as of the close out.
Date                          Date may be handwritten, typed or stamped. Do not date before
                              close-out date.
SSN                           Enter only the last four of the evaluator’s SSN.
Signature                     Sign in “wet signature” in reproducible blue or black ink. Do not
                              sign before the close-out date.

SECTION X – ACQUISTION OR FUNCTIONAL EXAMINER/AIR FORCE ADVISOR
REVIEW
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      145


Item/Description               Instructions
Acquisition Examiner Box       Place an “X” in the applicable box
Functional Examiner Box
Air Force Advisor Box          (See Note 4)
Name, Grade, Branch of         Enter evaluator identification as of close-out.
Service, Organization,
Command, Location              (See Note 3)
Signature                      Digitally Sign. If digital capability is unavailable or a referral
                               sign in “wet signature” in reproducible blue or black ink. Do not
                               sign before the close-out date.
Date                           Digital signatures will auto-date form. If not available or referral
                               handwrite, type or stamp. Do not date before close-out date.
Notes:
1. Grade Data. Use the information below to determine the appropriate grade entry. For:
a. Officers. Enter the AD grade in which serving on the close-out date. If the ratee has been
"frocked," enter actual grade; not the grade he or she is wearing.



b. Non-EAD ANG and USAFR Officers, enter grade in which serving and “Non-EAD.” When
an officer awaiting federal recognition of a unit vacancy promotion to a higher grade is due an
evaluation, show the officer's federally recognized grade as of the close-out date of the
evaluation, not the projected grade.
c. All AGR on EAD under Title 10, U.S.C. 10211, 10305, 12310, 12402 or Title 32, U.S.C. 708
(Property and Fiscal Officers). Enter grade in which serving and “AGR”.
d. LEAD officer on EAD under Title 10 U.S.C. Section 12301(d), enter grade in which serving
and “LEAD”.
2. “FROM” and “THRU” Dates. Use the criteria below to establish the correct date to use:
a. On all LOEs, the “FROM” date is the first day of supervision or observation; the
day following the close-out of the last EPR, OPR or TR whichever is later; or if there is not
previous evaluation, the EAD or TAFMSD.
b. On informal LOEs, the “THRU” date is the last day of supervision or observation.
c. On formal LOEs, the “THRU” date is the day before the effective date (departure date) of the
PCS, PCA, TDY action, or the day before the commander’s written notice of a planned
separation IAW AFI 36-3208.
3. Signatures and Dates.
a. Sign and date the original form. Do not sign or date before the close-out date. Enter only the
last four digits of the evaluator’s SSN. If the evaluator is a civilian or a member of a foreign
service the SSN is not required.
b. Upon Senate confirmation, Colonels
on the Brigadier General Select List are
permitted to sign all OES forms as “Brig Gen (Sel)” provided they are either designated by their
respective management level (ML) as a senior rater or they are assigned to an authorized, funded
or nonfunded, Brigadier General officer position, frocked or not.
c. Upon Senate confirmation, Brigadier Generals on the Major General Select List are
permitted to sign all OES forms as “Maj Gen (Sel)” provided that they are either evaluating other
 146                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


general officers or are assigned to an authorized, funded or nonfunded, Maj General officer
position, frocked or not.
d. Upon Senate confirmation, all general officer selects, assigned to joint billets or
unified commands, may sign all OES forms as “NAME, Brig Gen (Sel), USAF”.
e. Any LOEs closing out prior to the senate confirmation date will not reflect the “(Sel)” and, if
necessary, be forwarded up the chain for endorsement. In addition, all frocked general officers
are authorized to sign all OES forms in their frocked grade without designating their “frocked”
status (i.e. Major General vice Major General “frocked”).
4. The examiner/advisor may provide clarification about the ratee's duty performance, or
elaborate on types of functions ratee performs (Advisor), or clarify acquisition-related
considerations (Examiner), and explain any uncommon phrases or terms. Limit comments to the
space provided.        See paragraph 1.6.7. to determine when an Acquisition/Functional
Examiner/AF Advisor is required.
5. Gaps and Unrated Periods between Evaluations. See AFI 36-2608, paragraph 2.4. and
paragraph 2.22.
a. Documenting Unrated Periods between Officer Evaluations. Complete an AF Form 77 with
the inclusive dates of the unrated period. Enter the statement “Prior-service enlistee (or officer)
not rated for the above period” in Section IV of the AF Form 77. When an officer enters the Air
Force from another Service, prepare an AF Form 77 to cover the period between the close-out
date of the officer’s last performance evaluation, in the other Service and the date of entry into
the Air Force. The servicing MPS prepares the AF Form 77 and forwards a copy to the
custodian of the NSR, OCSRGp, OSR and ARMS. The servicing MPS Career Enhancement
element informs the officer of the preparation and filing of the AF Form 77. Responsibility for
the preparation of the AF Form 77 is as follows:
(1) ARPC for individuals recalled under Title 10, U.S.C., Sections 10301, 10211, 12301(d),
12310, 10305, 8038 and 12402; US Property and Fiscal Officers recalls under Title 32, U.S.C.,
Section 708; and recalls to serve with the Selective Service.
(2) The losing ARC MPS, if assigned to nonparticipating status:
(a) For Reservists, HQ ARPC/DPBR documents voids in records for periods of service for
officers assigned to a Reserve section (ORS, NARS, ISLRS, and so forth), voids caused by a
Guard officer moving from one state to another, and voids caused when a member's federal
recognition date is not the day following the close-out of his or her last Officer Performance
Report (OPR).
(b) For unit recalls, the servicing MPS/Career Enhancement element prepares the AF Form 77.
b. For individuals with prior service, who have earlier evaluations. When the ratee, including an
enlistee with prior service, has earlier performance evaluations on file but has gaps in ratings due
to the breaks in military service, the “from” date becomes the day after the close-out date of the
last evaluation prepared. Enter the statement “Prior-service enlistee (or officer) not rated for the
above period” in Section IV of the AF Form 77. For the “through” date:
(1) Update the day before the EAD date in the system for AD personnel.
(2) Update the day before the assignment begins in the system for non-AD SrA and above.
(3) For Enlisted members, project the annual evaluation one year from their EAD, unless the
ratee does not have at least 20 months TAFMS on the EAD date; then, close-out the evaluation
when the ratee completes 20 months TAFMS, as an initial evaluation, provided the rater has had
120 days of supervision or 60 days for referrals. Exception: A Directed by HQ USAF (DBH)
evaluation is required for promotion consideration. For USAFR, less than 20 months DIEMS.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       147


(4) For Officers, project the annual evaluation one year from their EAD date. Exception: A
Directed by HQ USAF (DBH) evaluation is required for promotion consideration.
c. For individuals with prior service, but no earlier evaluations. When an individual with prior
service has no evaluations reports on file, the period of the AF Form 77 begins with the ratee’s
Total Active Federal Military Service Date (TAFMSD) (Enlisted), or Extended Active Duty
(EAD) date (Officers), and closes out the AF Form 77 one day before the reentry to EAD which
is reflected in the system.
(1) Enter the statement “Prior-service enlistee (or officer) not rated for the above period” in
Section IV of the AF Form 77.
(2) For Enlisted members, update the system with rating code “PB” and the close-out date. For
Officers, forward the AF Form 77 to the MPerRGp custodian, see Table 3.5, Table 3.6, and
Table 3.9, for routing and distribution.
(3) For Enlisted members, project the annual evaluation one year from their EAD, unless the
ratee does not have at least 20 months TAFMS on the EAD date; then, close-out the evaluation
when the ratee completes 20 months TAFMS, as an initial evaluation, provided the rater has had
120 days of supervision or 60 days for referrals. Exception: A Directed by HQ USAF (DBH)
evaluation is required for promotion consideration.
(4) For Officers, project the annual evaluation one year from their EAD date. Exception: A
Directed by HQ USAF (DBH) evaluation is required for promotion consideration.
d. Restored to Active Duty. A Release from AD that has been voided by the Board for
Correction of Military Records (BCMR) and the ratee has been ordered back to AD. HQ
AFPC/DPSIDE will prepare the AF Form 77. Enter the statement: “No evaluation available for
the period (date) through (date). Officer restored to active duty by direction of the Secretary of
the Air Force” in Section IV of the AF Form 77.
e. Lost Time, Confinement/Prisoner Status or Appellate Leave. To document extended periods
of lost time, including military and/or civilian confinement, prisoner status and appellate leave.
The member’s servicing MPS or personnel service office will prepare the AF Form 77. Enter the
statement: “No evaluation available for the period (date) through (date). No evaluation
required according to AFI 36-2406” in Section IV of the AF Form 77.
f. Hospitalizations/Convalescent and/or Casual/Patient Status. To document unrated periods on
individuals who are in full-time student (functional category “L”) or , hospitalizations, periods of
convalescent and/or casual/patient status. Enter the statement: “No evaluation available for the
period (date) through (date). No evaluation required according to AFI 36-2406” in Section IV
of the AF Form 77.
g. Educational Leave of Absences. To document unrated periods on individuals who are on an
Educational Leave of Absences; i.e. Bootstrap and/or Educational Leave to a civilian institution.
The period will be from the time the individual started the Educational Program through when
the member returned to the unit (subtracting any ordinary leave). Section II A will have marked
"Supplemental Sheet". No other areas will be marked on the AF Form 77. The AF Form 77 will
be signed ("wet") by no lower than the unit commander of the members' assigned unit. Enter the
statement: “Educational Leave of Absence from (date) through (date). No evaluation required
IAW AFI 36-2406” in Section IV of the AF Form 77. The next evaluation period will start the
day after the thru date on the AF Form 77.
h. Temporary Disability Retired List (TDRL). To document an unrated period when the ratee
was on the TDRL; then removed and returned to AD. Temporary Disability Retired List
(TDRL) removal and return to AD is prepared by HQ AFPC/DPSDD. Enter the statement: "No
 148                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


evaluation for the period (date) through (date). Officer not rated due to placement on the
Temporary Disability Retired List" in Section IV of the AF Form 77.
i. Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR) Directed. Board actions
taken by the AFBCMR under AFI 36-2603, will enter the statement: "Not rated for the above
period. Evaluation removed by the order of the SecAF” in Section IV of the AF Form 77.
j. Evaluation Reports Appeal Board (ERAB) Directed. Board actions taken by the ERAB in
accordance with Chapter 10, Correcting Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Reports, will enter the
statement: "Not rated for the above period. Evaluation removed by order of the Chief of Staff,
USAF" in Section IV of the AF Form 77.
k. Lost and/or Missing Evaluations. See paragraph 1.14. for procedures on tracer actions. For
lost and/or missing evaluations in which all tracer actions have failed, use the AF Form 77 as a
substitute for a missing evaluation. Complete the name, SSN, and grade blocks in section I.
Mark the “Supplemental Sheet” block and complete the "FROM” and “THRU" blocks in section
II. Enter the statement:     “No evaluation available for the period (date) through (date) for
administrative reasons which were not the fault of the member. The system [reflects an overall
rating of “X”]/[does not reflect an overall rating]. in Section IV of the AF Form 77.
l. When an AF Form 77 is used for other than performance evaluations, the HR specialist enters
signature block and sign in Section IV.


Table 4.2. When to submit a Letter of Evaluation.
R
U   When to Prepare an LOE                Type                File in
L                                                             MPerRGp Mandatory        Optional
E                                                             Yes/No
1   Deployed Commander LOEs.              Formal              Yes     X
    See Note 1.
2   Separation.                           Formal              Yes        X
    See Note 3.
3   CRO due to the PCS/PCA of the         Informal            No         X
    ratee or rater; and the ratee is an   (not filed in the
    AD A1C or below, with less than       permanent
    20 months TAFMS, or an AFR            record)
    SrA or below with less than 20
    months from DIEMS. Only 16
    months for those airmen who
    enlisted under the National Call to
    Service (NCS) program.
    See Note 2 and 8
4   CRO due to the PCS/PCA of the         Informal            No         X
    ratee or rater and less than 120      (not filed in the
    days supervision. See Note 2.         permanent
                                          record)
5   Enlisted USAFR personnel when         Informal            No         X
    the rater departs PCS.                (not filed in the
                                          permanent
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      149


                                           record)
6   Enlisted USAFR personnel not on        Formal              Yes         X
    EAD and did not participate during
    the reporting period. See Note 7.
7   Enlisted ANG AGR/Statutory             Informal            No          X
    Tour personnel when deployed in        (not filed in the
    support of contingency operations.     permanent
    See Note 4.                            record)
8   Active duty officer and enlisted       Informal            No          X
    personnel when deployed in             (not filed in the
    support of contingency operations.     permanent
    See Note 2.                            record)
9   Supplemental LOE. See Note 5           Supplemental        Yes         X

10 Administrative LOE. See Note 6          Administrative      Yes         X

11 All LOEs, (Lt Col and below), not       Informal            No                         X
   covered above are optional;             (not filed in the
   however they are highly                 permanent
   encouraged. See Note 2.                 record)
12 Wounded Warrior LOEs. See               Formal              Yes         X
   paragraph 4.2.1.2.2.

NOTES:
1. Deployed CC LOEs. Prepare for officers (in the grade of colonel and below) deployed in
support of contingency operations to fill squadron, group, and wing commander requirements.
Tour length of deployment to fill commander requirement must be 45 calendar days or more. If
a commander is forward deployed to fill another commander requirement at a different location,
he/she may receive more than one LOE provided the minimum 45 calendar day requirement is
met at each location. The commander must be designated on G-series orders. Exception:
Commanders filling 365-day extended deployment billets will have an OPR accomplished.
2. Supervision Requirements. A minimum of 60 days and not more than 120 days supervision is
required. Deployed personnel not covered in Rule 1, or deployed personnel not filling a 365-day
extended deployment, require a minimum of 60 days supervision. However, supervision may be
greater than 120 days, depending on how long the member is deployed and/or extended. The
close out date will be one day prior to the member’s departure date.
3. Prepare when required by AFI 36-3206, AFI 36-3207, AFI 36-3208, AFI 36-3205, Applying
for the Palace Chase and Palace Front Programs, and AFI 36-3209.
4. An LOE will not be completed on enlisted Traditional ANG members or ANG Military
Technicians.
5. Supplemental LOEs are required to be attached to the document they are supplementing and
will be file in the MPerRGp with that document.
6. Administrative LOEs are filed in the MPerRGp for informational purposes, to explain gaps in
records, missing evaluations, breaks in service, etc.
7. If the ratee did not participate during the period of evaluation, a formal AF Form 77, Letter of
Evaluation (LOE) is mandatory, and must state this information. If a rater has limited
 150                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


knowledge of the ratee’s performance during the entire rating period, the rater, as a minimum,
attempts to get information about the ratee through whatever means is available; i.e. the first
sergeant, second/third line supervisors and the commander.
8. If the ratee has less than 20 months TAFMS and comments in the LOE are referral in nature,
only an informal LOE is authorized. The comments from this LOE may be include in the ratee’s
initial evaluation.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      151



                                           Chapter 5

                    CONTINGENCY AND WARTIME PROVISIONS

5.1. Purpose. The USAF has been participating continuously in contingency operations since
the early 1990’s and has recognized the need to document this performance. As a result there
have been two Chief of Staff of the Air Force initiatives that have already been adopted, the
Deployed Commander LOE and the Extended Deployment OPR/EPR procedures.
5.2. General Guidance. This chapter will provide guidance for those deployed in support of
contingency operations; procedures for the deployed commander LOEs and performance
evaluations for extended deployments; and provide guidance for national emergency or wartime
provisions.
5.3. LOEs During Contingency Operations.
   5.3.1. LOEs during contingency operations are informal LOEs that may be required on all
   personnel in support of contingency operations, that are not filling deployed commander
   positions, or extended deployment positions. LOEs will be accomplished no later than seven
   days prior to the ratee’s departure for home station and will cover the period from the first
   day of supervision (at the attached unit) through the last day of supervision while at the
   deployed location. Although they are mandatory, they will not be made a matter of record.
   They are used to provide information to home station raters in preparation of the ratee’s next
   performance evaluation.
   5.3.2. Since there are no official means to track LOEs in a deployed environment, the sole
   responsibility will rest on the deployed rater. As a matter of integrity; the deployed rater is
   responsible for ensuring they document the performance of the personnel under them during
   contingency operations and make every effort to do so and forward to the home station rater.
   5.3.3. Ratee’s are also encouraged to ensure LOEs are accomplished by their deployed rater.
   Failure to receive an LOE is not grounds to appeal a future evaluation based on the absence
   of, or the lack of deployment information in an evaluation.
   5.3.4. When an entire unit deploys to the same location, and/or when the member’s home
   station rater is also the deployed rater, no LOE is required. The member’s performance can
   be documented in the member’s next performance evaluation.
   5.3.5. When the deployed rater is not the home station rater an informal LOE is required.
       5.3.5.1. Minimum number of days supervision is 60 days, however deployed raters may
       write LOEs for periods of less than 60 days.
       5.3.5.2. There is no maximum number of days supervision required. The close-out of the
       LOE will be one day prior to the departure date of the ratee and/or rater.
       5.3.5.3. Deployed rater’s who have supervised for at least 60 days, who departs prior to
       the ratee, will prepare an LOE to pass to the incoming deployed rater. The incoming
       deployed rater can use the information in his/her LOE or prepare a separate LOE, in
       which case the ratee could possibly have more than one LOE for the same deployment.
 152                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


       5.3.5.4. Deployed raters prepare LOEs and provide a copy to the individual and forward
       the original to the servicing PERSCO team.
   5.3.6. In most cases, PERSCO teams can and will set up local procedures to ensure LOEs
   are being prepared on the deployed personnel they service; Example: They can add the LOE
   requirement to their out-processing checklist.
   5.3.7. PERSCO teams will forward the original LOE to the member’s servicing MPS or
   CSS/HR Specialist who will in turn placed the LOE in a suspense file to attached to the
   member’s next OPR/EPR shell. Although highly encouraged, home station raters may or
   may not use the information when preparing the next evaluation.
   5.3.8. In the event circumstances preclude a rater from accomplishing an LOE at the time of
   departure, (i.e. mass evacuation or interruption or loss of automated data processing
   capabilities), the rater should make every attempt to provide an LOE to the member’s home
   station CSS/HR Specialist when feasible or upon return to their home station. Remember as
   a supervisor, it is your responsibility to take care of your people.
5.4. Deployed Commander Letter of Evaluations (LOEs).
   5.4.1. Definition. The Deployed Commander Letter of Evaluation is a formal LOE that
   when completed will be made a matter of record and placed in the Master Personnel Record
   Group (MPerRGp). Completed deployed commander LOEs will not restart the OPR “clock”
   regardless of the TDY tour length. They are considered “embedded” evaluations. Further,
   there is no minimum or maximum number of days “supervision” required—the requirement
   is based upon the number of days the officer filled the commander’s position, which must be
   at least 45 days.
   5.4.2. Eligibility. All deployed officers (Active Duty, Guard, and Reserve) through the
   grade of Colonel, serving as commanders for 45 days or more in support of named
   operations.
       5.4.2.1. Deployed commanders are defined as those officers appointed on G-series orders
       for 45 days or more, occupying a squadron, group, or wing commander position.
       5.4.2.2. If a commander position was filled for less than 45 days, an informal LOE will
       be prepared, unless referred. The informal LOE will not be made a matter of record, but
       home station raters may use the information in the member’s next OPR.
       5.4.2.3. For those officers filling 365-day extended deployment positions as the SQ, GP,
       or WG commander, a deployed commander’s LOE is not appropriate. Those officers
       will receive an OPR IAW paragraph 5.5.
   5.4.3. Effective Date and Implementation. In Oct 04, this CSAF initiative required the
   performance of all commanders, who were on G-series orders, filling a squadron, group or
   wing commander position in the deployed environment be documented and included in the
   officer’s permanent record. This policy became effective with AEF Cycle 5, Pairs 1 and 2.
   This policy will not be grandfathered for officers who were filling deployed commander
   positions prior to AEF Cycle 5.
   5.4.4. Deployed Commander LOE Processing Specifics.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       153


      5.4.4.1. See Table 4.1 for instruction on how to complete AF Forms 77, Letter of
      Evaluations (LOEs) for deployed commanders.
      5.4.4.2. Deployed CC LOEs are mandatory and will be filed in the Officer Selection
      Record for officers through the grade of Colonel deployed for 45 days or more in support
      of named operations and on G-Series orders in a squadron, group, or wing commander
      position. If a commander position was filled for less than 45 days, the LOE is optional
      and will not be filed in the Officer Selection Record (OSR). Completed deployed CC
      LOEs will not restart the OPR “clock” regardless of the TDY tour length. They are
      considered “embedded” reports. Further, there is no minimum number of days
      “supervision” required--the requirement is based upon the number of days the officer
      filled the commander position; a minimum 45 consecutive days.
      5.4.4.3. A negative assessment or negative comments will make the LOE a referral and
      require additional rater comments. If the evaluation is a referral, the reverse side of the
      form (Section VIII) is also completed, see paragraph 5.4.4.10.3. There is no minimum
      number of days (served in the CC position or days of supervision) required for
      completion of a referral LOE. Note: A non-concur does not necessarily make the report
      a referral.
      5.4.4.4. The AF Form 77 must be completed by two evaluators: the immediate next-
      level commander in the rating chain (the rater), and the rater’s rater (the additional rater),
      see paragraph 5.4.4.8. Exception: If the rater is a General Officer, then the rater is
      considered a single evaluator (see paragraph 1.7.1.) and an additional rater is not required
      (unless referral).
      5.4.4.5. Digital signatures will be used except in the following cases: referral
      evaluations; when at least one evaluator does not have a CAC; or at least one evaluator
      does not have access to a CAC enabled computer. In these cases the LOEs will be
      printed and signed with “wet” (hand signed) signatures.
      5.4.4.6. A typed form is mandatory, but if no word processor is available, may be
      handwritten, and completed NLT seven (7) calendar days after ratee relinquishes
      command. The goal should be to ensure that the LOE is completed before returning to
      home station.     The “From” and “Thru” dates are determined by the date
      assumed/relinquished command.
      5.4.4.7. Section IV, Comments/Impact on Mission Accomplishment. This section is
      prepared by the deployed rater and the focus of the evaluation should be on what the
      officer did and on the officer’s leadership, team building, and problem solving abilities in
      accomplishing the mission.
      5.4.4.8. Section VI, Additional Rater. Used only for Deployed CC LOEs. The
      additional rater places an “X” in the concur or non-concur box. No comments are made
      unless the additional rater non-concurs, or the report is a referral, see paragraph 5.4.4.11.
      5.4.4.9. Section VII, Ratee’s Acknowledgement.           The ratee’s signature is an
      acknowledgement only and does not constitute agreement or disagreement. The ratee
      signs acknowledging receipt. Use digital signature unless the report is a referral, or the
      capability is unavailable. If the ratee is unavailable or refuses to sign there is a drop
      down menu which includes: “Ratee Unavailable to Sign” and “Ratee Declined to Sign,”
154                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      select whichever is applicable. In this case the rater or additional rater in the rating chain
      my sign for the ratee.
      5.4.4.10. Section VIII, Referral Report. This section is for Deployed CC LOEs only.
      All other referral LOEs must use the same procedures as outline in chapter 4. The AF
      Form 77 is designed to include the Referral Memorandum directly on the form.
         5.4.4.10.1. To complete Section VIII, enter the comments that specifically make the
         report a referral. Additionally, enter the grade and name of the person to whom the
         ratee must submit comments to (the referral reviewer’s name).
         5.4.4.10.2. The ratee has 3 duty days (30 calendar days for ANG/USAFR) to submit
         comments and the rebuttal. All supporting documentation is limited to a total of 10
         pages, (5 pages front and back).
         5.4.4.10.3. If the evaluator named in the in Section VIII, is the additional rater,
         Section VI, will be completed IAW paragraph 1.10.5.3.
      5.4.4.11. Section IX, Referral Reviewer. Used only if the additional rater referred the
      evaluation or as authorized by HQ AFPC/DPSIDE. When used place an “X” in two of
      the applicable boxes and provide comments.
      5.4.4.12. Section X. Acquisition or Functional Examiner/Air Force Advisor Review.
      Used only as applicable. Comments are for clarification only of Air Force policy only.
      Do not use for additional comments. When the evaluator on a deployed commander LOE
      is not an AF officer or DAF official, an AF Advisor (O-6 or above) will be designated by
      the MAJCOM or Combatant/Component Command. Comments are not mandatory and
      only required to provide clarification and ensure the report is written in accordance with
      AF standards, not to list additional accomplishments/voice disagreement. If clarification
      comments are provided, the comments are limited to five lines. The AF Advisor will
      then forward the completed LOE to the PERSCO Team.
      5.4.4.13. LOEs will be accepted directly from individual officers; however, the LOE will
      not be processed until the PERSCO Team/AFFOR A1 verifies the eligibility of the
      officer and approves the LOE. It is suggested that the officer contact their PERSCO
      Team/AFFOR A1 to route the LOE through the appropriate channels.
  5.4.5. Deployed Responsibilities.
      5.4.5.1. COMAFFOR: Determines the rating chain and ensures compliance with policy
      at the deployed location. (Note: Normally the TACON determines the rating chain.)
      5.4.5.2. AF Component A1: Ensures “G” series orders are completed for expeditionary
      organization structure. Identifies commanders, forwards list to AFFOR/A1, and ensures
      “G” Series orders are completed on all wing, group, and squadron commanders (Colonel
      and below) and maintained IAW AFRIMS RDS Table & Rule: T 33 - 44 R 02.00.
      5.4.5.3. AFFOR/A1: Prepares list of eligible deployed commanders, identifies the
      officers’ service component and forwards to the appropriate PERSCO team. Upon
      receipt of PERSCO validated roster, AFFOR/A1 will forward roster to AFPC/DPSIDEP.
      (Note: Since G-Series orders are normally accomplished and maintained at the unit
      where the commander is serving, AFFOR/A1 and PERSCO teams must work closely
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                  155


      with the servicing JA and commanders when reviewing and validating the list of required
      LOEs. Ensure only those commanders on official G-Series orders are included.)
      5.4.5.4. PERSCO Teams:
         5.4.5.4.1. Identifies raters and ratees projected departure dates to AFFOR/A1, works
         with AFFOR/A1 to review/validate the list of commanders they service on G-Series
         orders, establish tracking and suspense control for all deployed commander LOEs at
         the deployed location. See paragraph 4.6.1.1.3. for transmission of completed LOEs.
         5.4.5.4.2. Provide the deployed rating chain the G-Series Order # and Date for LOE
         preparation.
         5.4.5.4.3. Upon receipt of final LOE from deployed rating chain, verify if AF
         Advisor is required and forward to AF Advisor if required.
         5.4.5.4.4. Final disposition of completed deployed CC LOEs.
             5.4.5.4.4.1. Digitally signed LOEs: Upload the completed LOE into the Case
             Management System evaluation application and submit to AFPC for transmission
             to ARMS. For locations that do not have CMS access, the home station will load
             the AF 77 into CMS.
             5.4.5.4.4.2. Wet signed LOEs: Mails the completed LOEs (AD, Guard, Reserve)
             to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP. In cases where the servicing PERSCO team is not
             collocated with the rater, the rater forwards the report to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP (or
             to the AF Advisor if necessary). If in locations where there is no established
             system for mailing, the ratee, rater, PERSCO or trusted agent will be allowed to
             hand-carry the completed LOE back to their home station. In this event, the
             PERSCO Team will place the completed LOE in a sealed envelope, pre-addressed
             to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP. In such cases, the determination to allow the LOE to be
             hand-carried is made by the AFFOR/A1 and the report must be in a sealed
             envelope preaddressed to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP. Upon arrival back to home
             station, the carrier will then simply drop the completed evaluation in the mail.
             The address for HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP is: HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP, 550 C Street
             West, Suite 7, Randolph AFB TX 78150.                 See paragraph 4.6.1.1.3. for
             transmission of completed LOEs.
      5.4.5.5. Rater: The immediate next-level commander in the rating chain who is equal in
      grade or higher than the ratee. The rater evaluates the ratee and provides assessment on
      AF Form 77 upon ratee’s relinquishment of command and forwards to additional rater.
      The rater completes Section IV IAW paragraph 5.4.4.7.
      5.4.5.6. Additional Rater: The additional rater is the rater’s rater at the deployed
      location.   The additional rater completes Section VI, IAW paragraph 5.4.4.8.
      (COMMENTS ARE ONLY MADE WHEN REPORT IS A REFERRAL OR WHEN A
      “NONCONCUR” ASSESSMENT IS MADE), see paragraph 5.4.4.11. for referral
      procedures.
      5.4.5.7. Ratee: The ratee completes Section VII, paragraph 5.4.4.9. and when applicable
      Section VIII, paragraph 5.4.4.10.
 156                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


       5.4.5.8. Acquisition or Functional Examiner/Air Force Advisor: When applicable,
       complete Section X, IAW paragraph 5.4.4.12. The AF Advisor will then forward the
       completed LOE to the PERSCO Team.
   5.4.6. Additional Processing Responsibilities.
       5.4.6.1. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP.
          5.4.6.1.1. Upon receipt of AF 77, HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP will validate the form and
          update MilPDS for AD officers and send to ARMS.
          5.4.6.1.2. If it is determined that the officer is not eligible at any time in the process,
          then the LOE will be changed to an “Optional” LOE and forwarded to member’s
          home unit rater.
          5.4.6.1.3. For active duty officers, AFPC/DPSIDEP forwards original LOEs to
          ARMS via CMS for digitally signed LOEs. Or sends “wet” signed LOEs to ARMS,
          AF/DPO for O-6s, and either mails or emails a scanned copy to the respective
          MAJCOM and MPS, if applicable.
          5.4.6.1.4. For Guard and Reserve officers, HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP forwards the
          original to HQ ARPC/DPBR, who will then be responsible for distribution and/or
          update to applicable organizations, depending on component/status, see paragraph
          4.6.1.1.3.
       5.4.6.2. HQ ARPC/DPBR // AF/DPO:
          5.4.6.2.1. Will coordinate with HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP to identify officers meeting
          upcoming promotion boards.
          5.4.6.2.2. Will conduct a quality control review of all deployed CC LOEs, process
          through ARMS, and file the LOE in the officer’s selection record.
       5.4.6.3. ARMS: Once a deployed CC LOE is received, ARMS will transfer to
       permanent storage.
       5.4.6.4. MAJCOM or COMBATANT/COMPONENT COMMAND: Responsible for
       designating the AF Advisor (must be an Colonel or above) when the final evaluator on a
       deployed commander LOE is not an AF officer or DAF official.
       5.4.6.5. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE: Functional OPR. Responsible for ensuring operational
       instructions and guidance, in conjunction with AF/A1PPP policy, is developed and
       disseminated to the field.
5.5. 365-day       Extended       Deployment    Officer/Enlisted    Performance       Reports
(OPRs/EPRs). Note: These instructions apply only to those individuals who are actually
selected to fill an official Extended Deployment requirement. Do not use these instructions for
individuals filling other requirements, even though they may be extended to, or beyond 365-
days.
   5.5.1. Home Station Rating Chain Responsibilities:
       5.5.1.1. Prior To Departure:
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    157


         5.5.1.1.1. If there has been at least 120 days supervision, the home station CSS/HR
         Specialist will generate a Change of Rating Official (CRO) evaluation.
         5.5.1.1.2. If there has been less than 120 days supervision, an informal LOE is
         required and home station CSS/HR Specialist will send the LOE the deployed
         PERSCO when the member’s annual evaluation becomes due. The deployed rater
         may or may not use the information when preparing the annual evaluation.
         5.5.1.1.3. If there has been less than 120 days supervision, but it has been more than
         1 year since the member’s last evaluation, only 60 days supervision is required and an
         annual evaluation will be accomplished.
         5.5.1.1.4. If the deployed rater is known prior to departure, the CSS/HR Specialist
         will update the deployed rater. In most cases, however, the deployed rater will not be
         known until the member arrives to the deployed location. In that case, use the home
         station commander as a temporary rater. This will facilitate home station and
         deployed commander’s direct line of communication to ensure the rating chain is
         established and updated in a timely matter. Example: If the data is not updated
         immediately, a feedback notification rip will produce within 30 days and that alone
         should act as a reminder to the commander that the deployed data needs to be
         updated.
      5.5.1.2. Upon Arrival in the AOR: The home-station CSS/HR Specialist will coordinate
      with the deployed PERSCO and update MilPDS to reflect member’s deployed duty title
      and DAFSC effective the date the member arrives in the AOR. They will also update the
      deployed rater if rater was unknown prior to departure. All updates should be completed
      as soon as possible but no later than 30 days after member arrives in the AOR.
         5.5.1.2.1. Duty Title format: All Extended Deployment personnel duty titles will be
         standardized to reflect the Extended Deployment “duty title/country” assigned. If
         space allows include the unit assigned. Example: “Commander, 442 ECS/Iraq” or
         “Comm Mentor, GSU/Afghanistan.”
         5.5.1.2.2. When updating the DAFSC, use the required AFSC and skill level of the
         deployment tasking if different from the individual’s current DAFSC skill level. If
         the DAFSC skill-level rejects (i.e. individual is assigned to a 5-skill level position
         number but filling a 7-level deployment requirement), reassign the individual to a
         position number that matches the skill level of the deployment and then update the
         DAFSC. If no positions exist in the unit, change the job AFSC to the deployed AFSC
         and skill level and save the record (do not assign to a position number), then update
         the DAFSC.
         5.5.1.2.3. When determining deployed rating chain, the rater should typically be the
         person who directly supervises the individual’s day to day activities. The unit that
         owns the ULN (and will typically have TACON) will determine the rating
         chain. Raters may be in any United States or foreign military service or a civilian in a
         supervisory position and must be in a grade equal to or higher than the ratee. In joint
         environments, an Air Force unit will be designated to have ADCON
         responsibilities. ADCON responsibilities, per AFDD-2, include personnel
         management. With regard to evaluations, this involves managing the evaluation
158                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         program, ensuring evaluations are accomplished on individuals on extended
         deployments, formal LOEs are accomplished on deployed commanders, and
         decorations and informal LOEs are processed per local and AFCENT
         direction. ADCON responsibility does not necessarily extend to writing the
         evaluations on those attached to the Air Force unit for ADCON purposes.
      5.5.1.3. Upon Return from the AOR:
         5.5.1.3.1. The home station CSS/HR Specialist will change the member’s rater,
         DAFSC, and duty title in MilPDS to reflect home-station (post-deployment)
         information.
         5.5.1.3.2. The home station senior rater/commander will continue to complete the
         commander’s review/reviewer’s (senior rater) portion of all evaluations, including
         those completed by the deployed rating chain.
      5.5.1.4. Senior Rater Responsibilities: The senior rater matched to the ratee’s home
      station PASCODE must perform senior rater duties. Home-station senior raters will
      prepare a Promotion Recommendation Form (PRF) for promotion-eligible officers
      (officers will be on the home station senior rater’s master eligibility list and will meet
      respective management level review).
      5.5.1.5. Interrogators TR : Officer and enlisted members who attend the Interrogator
      training program will receive a training report upon graduation from the course. The 314
      TRS/CC will sign all TR . These TRs (officer and enlisted) will be updated in MilPDS.
      The start date will be based off of the previous evaluation close-out date and the end date
      will be based upon the graduation date. See Table 6.3., for update procedures.
      5.5.1.6. Annual evaluations that become due while in the AOR.
         5.5.1.6.1. Extended (365-day) Deployments: If an annual evaluation becomes due
         while deployed and the deployed rater has had at least 120 days supervision, the
         evaluation will be prepared by the deployed rater. If the deployed rater has not had
         120 days supervision, the close out would be extended out to where there would be
         120 days supervision. Multiple evaluations may result and are authorized under these
         circumstances. If an annual evaluation was accomplished earlier in the deployment,
         and there has been at least 60 days but less than 120 days supervision by time
         member departs, an informal LOE will be prepared.
         5.5.1.6.2. All others. The evaluation will be prepared by the home station rater. If
         there was not at least 120 days supervision before the departure, the close-out date
         will be extended until the member returns and the number of days supervision is 120
         days. Home station and deployed raters are encourage to work together in preparing
         the evaluation. The deployed rater may have some significant inputs for the rating
         period.
      5.5.1.7. Home station and deployed Commander will ensure a direct line of
      communication to the deployed rating chain is established to preclude evaluations not
      being completed at the deployed location. This is very important, as a majority of
      individuals on extended deployments may have individuals from other services in their
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      159


      rating chain. The commander’s direct involvement in this area is critical and will
      preclude any problems.
   5.5.2. PERSCO Teams: The owning PERSCO Team will be responsible for tracking the
   evaluations on all deployed personnel filling Extended Deployment TDY billets.
   5.5.3. Deployed Rating Chain Responsibilities.
      5.5.3.1. Updates: Ensure the home station has updated MilPDS to reflect member’s
      DAFSC, duty title and deployed rater.
      5.5.3.2. Feedback: Perform initial and mid-term feedback IAW Chapter 2.
      5.5.3.3. Evaluations: The deployed rater (and additional rater[s]) will render an
      evaluation (Officer: OPR, AF Form 707) or (Enlisted: EPR, AF Form 910/911) versus a
      LOE (AF Form 77), under the following circumstances:
          5.5.3.3.1. The individual is assigned to a legitimate 365-day extended deployment
          requirement.
          5.5.3.3.2. There has been at least 120 days of supervision.
          5.5.3.3.3. Upon completion of the extended deployment.
          5.5.3.3.4. If the individual is an officer filling a commander’s billet. An OPR versus
          the formal Deployed CC LOE will be required.
          5.5.3.3.5. If the deployed rater changes after 120 days of supervision, a CRO
          evaluation must be completed. (Note: Multiple evaluations may result and are
          authorized under these circumstances.)
          5.5.3.3.6. If ratee is returned early or the deployed rater changes prior to completing
          120 days supervision, an informal LOE is required. 60 days minimum supervision is
          required.
      5.5.3.4. Evaluation Form: For instructions on completing AF Forms 707, 910 and 911
      see Table 3.1. (OPRs) and Table 3.2 (EPRs).
          5.5.3.4.1. The deployed rating chain completes the evaluation through the additional
          rater’s comments/signature.
             5.5.3.4.1.1. AF Form 707: Sections I through V.
             5.5.3.4.1.2. AF Form 910: Sections I through VI.
             5.5.3.4.1.3. AF Form 911: Sections I through VI.
          5.5.3.4.2. Provide recommended comments for the reviewer (senior rater) when
          applicable.
          5.5.3.4.3. Forward the evaluation to the home station rating chain for completion.
             5.5.3.4.3.1. AF Form 707: Sections VI through VIII.
             5.5.3.4.3.2. AF Form 910: Sections VII through IX.
             5.5.3.4.3.3. AF Form 911: Sections VII through XII.
 160                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


       5.5.3.5. Two GOs in rating chain: Currently Table 3.1. and Table 3.2. prohibits multiple
       GOs from serving as evaluators on performance evaluations. However, see paragraph
       1.7.1. for the exceptions.
          5.5.3.5.1. Deployed GO Raters: Evaluation will qualify as a single evaluator and no
          additional rater will be required. Complete rater block and forward evaluation to the
          home station senior rater. Enter the applicable mandatory statement IAW paragraph
          1.11.5.
          5.5.3.5.2. Deployed GO Additional Raters:
              5.5.3.5.2.1. Provide recommended comments for the reviewer (senior rater) when
              applicable.
              5.5.3.5.2.2. Complete the additional rater block and forward to the home-station
              senior rater/unit commander.
          5.5.3.5.3. Home-station Rating Chain: If one of the following situations apply, enter
          the applicable mandatory statement in the feedback comment section of the
          evaluation, see paragraph 1.11.9.
              5.5.3.5.3.1. Evaluations signed by a Deployed GO and the Home Station Senior
              Rater is a GO, see paragraph 1.11.5.1.
              5.5.3.5.3.2. Evaluations Signed by a Deployed Officer who out ranks the Home
              Station Senior Rater, see paragraph 1.11.5.2.
5.6. 365-day extended deployment Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs).
   5.6.1. Senior Rater Responsibilities: Home-station senior raters will prepare a PRF for
   promotion-eligible officers (officers will be on the home station senior rater’s master
   eligibility list and will meet respective management level review).
   5.6.2. PRF: Follow the procedures in Table 8.1., when accomplishing the AF Form 709 and
   the following:
       5.6.2.1. DAFSC: Use the DAFSC the ratee is assigned to at the deployed location.
       5.6.2.2. Organization, Command, Location: Use the home-station organization, with
       duty at…(Example: 341st Space Wing (AFSPC), Malmstrom AFB MT, with duty at 447
       AEG, Baghdad International Airport (USAFCENT), Iraq). For centrally managed IMAs,
       PIRR & PIRR Cat E, use attached home-station PAS code.
       5.6.2.3. PAS Code: Use the home-station PAS Code. For centrally managed IMAs,
       PIRR & PIRR Cat E, use attached home-station PAS code.
       5.6.2.4. Mission Description: Use the deployed unit mission description approved by the
       applicable Air Component A1. (Example: AFCENT/A1). Home-stations can obtain the
       deployed mission description from the ratee’s deployed PERSCO team. PERSCO Teams
       should work with their servicing A1 to ensure they have the approved Unit Mission
       Description for their location.
       5.6.2.5. Duty Title and Key Duties, Tasks, Responsibilities: Use the deployed location.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                  161


   5.6.3. Home-stations can obtain the deployed data from the ratee’s servicing PERSCO team.
   PERSCO Teams should work with their servicing A1 to ensure they have the approved Unit
   Mission Description for their location.
5.7. Force Shaping Boards.
   5.7.1. For officers on Extended Deployments as of the Retention Recommendation Form
   (RRF) Accounting Date for Force Shaping Board purposes, the first O-6/GS-15 in the
   deployed chain of command will serve as the first evaluator on the officer's AF Form 3538,
   Retention Recommendation. The senior rater remains their home station senior rater. Home
   station MPSs are responsible for providing copies of the Duty Qualification History Brief
   (DQHB), Record of Performance (ROP) and UIF if applicable, to the deployed location so
   that first evaluators may prepare comments and recommendations.
   5.7.2. Deployed commanders should be aware of the potential effects on officers who are
   deployed when results of a Force Shaping Board are announced. Officers who are not
   selected for retention by a Force Shaping Board should be returned NLT 30 days prior to the
   mandatory DOS for separation processing unless mission needs require otherwise. If an
   officer is needed to remain in the deployed location for longer, the commander should submit
   an exception to policy to AFPC/DPPRS requesting a later DOS NLT 30 days past the
   member’s projected return using AF Form 780, Officer Separation Actions. An officer may
   not be extended to a DOS that puts him/her past the FSB separation authority.
5.8. National Emergency or Wartime Provisions. (Used only when directed by the
appropriate authority).
   5.8.1. During times of war or national emergency, authorities may change certain evaluation
   policies and procedures to reduce the workload on field commanders and supervisors while
   ensuring they still document important performance information. The following changes
   apply to emergencies, and only when HQ AFPC/DPSIDE, HQ AFPC/PRC, HQ USAF/A1
   USAF/PRC direct, or when one of these agencies specifically delegates this authority to the
   MAJCOMs. MAJCOMs may implement these procedures totally or in part depending on the
   nature and scope of the situation. In implementing wartime provisions, the MAJCOM must
   provide specific instructions (with information to the implementing authority) to its
   respective MPSs regarding completing evaluations, routing evaluations once completed, and
   any other appropriate actions.
   5.8.2. In implementing wartime provisions, HQ AFPC/DPSIDE will provide specific
   instructions regarding completion of evaluations, routing evaluations once completed, and
   any other appropriate actions. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB or HQ ARPC/DPB will announce
   officer promotion recommendation form (PRF) procedures (see Chapter 8).                 HQ
   USAF/A1PPP and HQ AFPC/DPSIDE will determine whether to restrict provisions for the
   performance evaluations to certain theaters or organizations and whether to implement them
   in part, totally, or incrementally. They may make performance feedback optional.
   Commands must implement the provisions outlined below or as HQ AFPC/DPSIDE directs.
   5.8.3. When to Submit Performance Evaluations. (when implemented, supersedes the
   requirements of chapter 3).
      5.8.3.1. Evaluations due prior to deployment:
162                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         5.8.3.1.1. Deployment does not change the requirement to prepare annual/biennial
         evaluations.
         5.8.3.1.2. CRO evaluations resulting from a ratee’s or rater’s deployment to a
         contingency or war zone are waived provided the ratee has received an evaluation
         within 180 calendar days of the deployment date and provided the ratee's
         performance is not of a referral nature.
      5.8.3.2. Evaluations required during deployments:
         5.8.3.2.1. Raters will submit annual evaluations when one year has passed (for
         USAFR, biennial if two years has passed) since the close-out date of the last
         evaluation and the period of supervision has been at least 120 calendar days, see
         Table 3.3, Table 3.4., Table 3.7. and Table 3.8.
         5.8.3.2.2. Raters will submit initial evaluations for A1Cs and below who have 20
         months TAFMS, or a USAFR SrA or below with less than 20 months from DIEMS
         [16 months for airmen who enlisted under the National Call to Service (NCS)
         program] and the period of supervision has been at least 120 calendar days, (see
         Table 3.7). Not applicable to the ANG.
         5.8.3.2.3. ANG and USAFR officers ordered to EAD under Title 10, U.S.C., Section
         12304 (200K call up), or 12302 continue to receive OPRs according to Table 3.1. and
         Table 3.2. Officers ordered to EAD under Title 10, U.S.C, Section 12301 (war or
         national emergency) receive evaluations under the active duty list provisions in this
         instruction.
      5.8.3.3. Evaluations rendered in the Combat Zone. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE may suspend all
      provisions of this instruction in the combat zone except as follows:
         5.8.3.3.1. Supervisors must prepare LOEs to document periods of time spent in the
         combat zone (unless paragraph 5.8.3.3.2 applies); however, supervisors will not
         prepare the AF Form 77 until outside the combat zone.
         5.8.3.3.2. When the ratee’s performance does not meet minimum standards, and/or
         evaluators determine a referral evaluation is appropriate, evaluators prepare and
         process an LOE according to paragraph 1.10. instead of preparing an LOE.
         5.8.3.3.3. MPSs will continue to provide evaluators with technical assistance, help
         ratees with referral rebuttals, and control access to performance evaluations or LOEs,
         if written.
      5.8.3.4. Evaluations rendered in the Communications Zone.        All provisions of this
      instruction remain in effect, except:
         5.8.3.4.1. Authorities waive CRO evaluations resulting from the deployment to the
         combat zone, provided the ratee has received an evaluation within 180 calendar days
         of the deployment date and the ratee's performance meets minimum standards. For
         ratees not meeting minimum standards, prepare a referral evaluation and process it
         according to paragraph 1.10.
         5.8.3.4.2. IMAs or those who are members of USAFR mobilized units receive EPRs
         as required for other airmen on active duty according to Table 3.7.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      163


      5.8.3.5. Evaluations rendered at noncombat ports and MPSs. The procedures are the
      same as for paragraph 5.8.3.4.
   5.8.4. Evaluator Requirements and Procedures for EPRs and OPRs.
      5.8.4.1. Minimum Grade Requirements for Senior Raters and Reviewers remain
      unchanged. See paragraph 1.5.
      5.8.4.2. Rater, Additional Rater and Final Evaluator requirements remain unchanged.
      See paragraph 1.5.
      5.8.4.3. The rater cannot be substituted for any reason other than those outlined in
      paragraph 1.7.
      5.8.4.4. “In-place” Additional Rater. Commander’s may authorize the next evaluator in
      the rating chain (the additional rater’s rater) or “in-place” additional rater to assume the
      responsibilities of the additional rater, when the additional rater is unable to perform
      evaluator duties due to deployment. When this occurs, section VII (OPRs) and section
      VI (EPRs) must include a statement explaining why the original additional rater did not
      prepare the evaluation (ex: additional rater deployed as of close-out date). Note: “In-
      place” additional rater is defined as the person responsible for the original additional
      raters normal day to day duties. To endorse the evaluation, this individual must still meet
      additional rater grade requirements as defined in paragraph 1.5.2.
          5.8.4.4.1. When the squadron or group commander is deployed and is the additional
          rater or completes the commander review, the “acting” commander on “G” series
          orders, may be substituted as the additional rater or commander’s review.
          5.8.4.4.2. For SNCOs, time-in-grade (TIG) eligibility provisions still apply. (Not
          applicable for the ANG/USAFR).
      5.8.4.5. For deployed senior raters.      Vice wing commanders may assume the
      responsibilities of the senior rater/wing commander for OES/EES forms only when
      placed on “G” series orders and designated by the management level (ML) as the senior
      rater.
      5.8.4.6. Comments are mandatory when there is significant disagreement with the
      previous evaluator. Evaluators must make specific comments to justify referral ratings.
   5.8.5. Referral Evaluation Procedures. Use referral procedures in paragraph 1.10. with the
   following exception: Ratee comments on the referral evaluation must reach the next
   evaluator not later than 30 calendar days after receipt of the referral letter when the ratee is
   deployed in support of contingency operations. Type, legibly hand-write, or print referral
   correspondence in dark blue or black ink using paragraph 1.10. as a guide.
   5.8.6. Routing Evaluations. Route evaluations according to Chapter 1.                Distribute
   evaluations per Table 3.5., Table 3.6., and Table 3.9. except:
      5.8.6.1. Performance evaluations are due to the servicing MPS or personnel activity 30
      days after close-out, and to the office of record 60 days after close-out.
      5.8.6.2. Forward evaluations directed under Table 3.3., Rule 4, and Table 3.7., Rule 9,
      for CSB use, to arrive at HQ AFPC or HQ ARPCR (as appropriate) by the suspense date
      provided in the directing letter.
164                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      5.8.6.3. Forward evaluations in a sealed envelope clearly marked, OPR/EPR DATA--TO
      BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY.
      5.8.6.4. Alternate routing procedures. Some crisis conditions may result in temporary
      changes to routing procedures. If this occurs, units will receive specific instructions.
  5.8.7. Quality Control Review. Quality control of the appearance of performance
  evaluations may relax, but the content and data contained must be accurate. Evaluations
  prepared under wartime provisions may be handwritten.
  5.8.8. Interruption or Loss of Automated Data Processing (ADP) Support. See         the
  PSD Handbook.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                  165


                                         Chapter 6

                  AF FORM 475, EDUCATION/TRAINING REPORT

6.1. When to Use Training Reports (TR).
   6.1.1. Mandatory Submission (See Table 6.2).
      6.1.1.1. Officers. Upon completion or interruption of, or elimination from formal
      training or education when the scheduled course length is eight weeks or more (see note)
      or as authorized in this chapter when the specific course is less than eight weeks
      (Chaplain programs, Medical Programs, Aerospace Basic Course [ASBC] and COT).
      USAFR Air Reserve Technicians (ART) and ANG Military Technicians attending formal
      training or education in civilian status receive TR and credit in the civilian evaluation
      system. Note: All training of 20 weeks or more will be updated in MilPDS and restart
      the next evaluation inclusive dates.
      6.1.1.2. Enlisted. Upon completion or interruption of, or elimination from, training or
      education when the scheduled course length is 20 weeks (140 days) or more. This
      excludes Airmen completing initial pipeline qualification training. The TR will be a
      mandatory evaluation documenting performance for the period of the course. The start
      date of the follow on EPR will be the day after the close out date of the TR (day after
      course completion date). In-place policy will be used for WAPS calculations (EPR
      points). The TR will be considered a nonrated period unless the TR is a referral report.
      Referral TRs will be processed IAW paragraph 1.10.6.4.
      6.1.1.3. Officer. For self-paced courses when the prescribed course length is eight weeks
      or more, regardless of the time actually required to complete the course.
      6.1.1.4. Officer. At the end of each academic year, unless the course completion date is
      within four months of the annual TR . The academic year for officers attending law
      school under FLEP or ELP ends after the officer's summer internship training.
      6.1.1.5. Officer and Enlisted. For personnel participating in the WCAP, one year from
      beginning training, then annually until training is completed or member is eliminated
      from training.
      6.1.1.6. Reserve Chaplain Candidates. At the end of each active duty training tour of 10
      days or more and processed as prescribed by HQ AFRC.
      6.1.1.7. Officer and Enlisted. Member is assigned to a full-time degree program through
      the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT). Requirements are same as in effect for
      officers in attendance. The rater of the TR is designated by the commandant of each Air
      Force school or the detachment commander. The designee must serve in a grade equal to
      or higher than the ratee.
      6.1.1.8. Officer and Enlisted. Interrogator Duty Training. Members fulfilling these
      requirements must complete six months of training with the US Army prior to departing
      for the actual deployment. Therefore, students attending Interrogator Training are
      administratively assigned to the 314th Training Squadron, Fort Huachuca, for the 23-week
      program. These evaluations will be updated in MilPDS
166                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  6.1.2. Submission for Advanced Academic Degree Subsequent Completion.
      6.1.2.1. Upon completion of AADs , a member who left full-time student status prior to
      completing thesis or dissertation degree requirements may request to have a TR filed in
      his or her record. The eligibility criteria (all of which must be met) and the procedures
      which a member must follow to reflect degree completion are as follows:
         6.1.2.1.1. The member was assigned to a full-time degree program through the Air
         Force Institute of Technology (AFIT).
         6.1.2.1.2. The member completed all but the thesis or dissertation portion of the
         degree program.
         6.1.2.1.3. The member has a previous AF Form 475 posted to the MPerRGp that
         clearly identifies the reason for non completion as, "Thesis or dissertation not
         completed during AFIT tour," in accordance with Table 6.1, Note 6.
         6.1.2.1.4. The member completes the degree requirements of the AFIT program in
         which he or she was originally enrolled.
         6.1.2.1.5. The officer documents degree completion through AFIT channels (verified
         via Personnel Data System inquiry).
      6.1.2.2. The member who meets the above criteria is responsible for submitting an
      official transcript to AFIT/RRE requesting completion of a TR.
  6.1.3. Directed Submission. When directed by HQ USAF, for courses 8 weeks (officers), 20
  weeks (enlisted) or longer unless specifically waived.
  6.1.4. Officer and Enlisted. AFIT Master Degree Students and Other Long School Students.
  AFIT Master Degree student and other long school students will receive one final TR upon a
  course completion of 18 months or less, with the exception of above the promotion zone
  (APZ) officers and enlisted time-in-grade eligible students who will receive directed by HQ
  USAF TRs as required for their applicable central selection boards. AFIT PHD students will
  receive a mid-course and final training report. If a student is disenrolled for unsatisfactory
  progress or eliminated/withdrawn for other reasons, a TR is rendered when the member is
  reassigned. In addition, officer and enlisted Directed by Commander referral TR should be
  considered if student does not meet standards in an area other than training progress.
  6.1.5. Enlisted Prior Service Airmen.
      6.1.5.1. Retrainees completing initial skills courses lasting more than 20 weeks will
      receive a TR (AF Form 475) upon completion of the course.
      6.1.5.2. Prior service Airmen completing initial skills training lasting more than 20
      weeks will receive a TR. However, in the current environment, there are only a very few
      AFSCs where the AF is accessing prior service Airmen to complete lengthy technical
      training courses. In the vast majority of instances, Airmen who are fully qualified are
      being recruited, they then complete a two week “blueing” course prior to being sent to
      their initial assignment.
  6.1.6. Guard and Reserve.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      167


       6.1.6.1. Students completing initial skills training courses will not receive a TR. It is a
       total force policy and same consistent rules apply.
       6.1.6.2. Students completing training (not initial training) courses 20 weeks or longer in
       duration will receive a TR.
       6.1.6.3. Students taking advanced or supplemental courses longer than 20 weeks will
       receive a TR.
       6.1.6.4. There are no special or unique distribution instructions for Guard or Reserve
       members on TR. The same procedures used to process EPRs/OPRs will be used to
       process TR.
6.2. Who Prepares Training Reports.
   6.2.1. The officer designated by the commandant of each Air Force school or the
   commander of each Air Reserve squadron. The designee must be serving in a grade equal to
   or higher than the ratee, except for TRs submitted under paragraph 6.2.2.
   6.2.2. In exceptional cases, the student's commander and a military training institution may
   mutually agree on an evaluator (civilian or military) not under the jurisdiction of the unit of
   assignment. An official of a civilian institution will not sign or submit a TR .
   6.2.3. The education services officer may complete a TR only when he or she is the rater.
   6.2.4. AFIT personnel prepare TR for officers under FLEP or ELP. The staff judge advocate
   of the student’s assigned unit for internship training may prepare an optional LOE and submit
   it to AFIT at the end of each summer internship.
   6.2.5. Graduate School of Engineering and Management, AFIT, prepares TRs for officers
   participating in the Ph.D. program during both the academic and the research phases. During
   the research phase, sponsoring laboratory and research facility personnel may prepare an
   optional LOE and submit it to AFIT.
   6.2.6. AFIT/RRE standardizes TRs that document completion of AADs received after
   leaving AFIT full-time student status, if all the criteria listed in paragraph 6.2.2 are met.
   6.2.7. AFIT personnel prepare TRs on officers in graduate level study Bootstrap programs
   that are 26 weeks or longer. The evaluator may communicate directly with the institution to
   obtain the information required to prepare the evaluation. See table 6.1, notes 6 and 7, for
   recording adverse actions.
   6.2.8. Commissioned Officer Training (COT) School personnel prepare TRs for officers
   who complete COT.
   6.2.9. HQ AFSVA/CC prepares TRs on members participating in the WCAP.
6.3. Referral Training Reports. See paragraph 1.10.6.4.
6.4. Routing and Responsibilities.
   6.4.1. For officers attending school in TDY status:
       6.4.1.1. The school prepares the TR, performs a quality review, and makes distribution
       as follows:
 168                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


          6.4.1.1.1. Forward the original to HQ AFPC (ADL) or HQ ARPC/DPBR (RASL),
          who files the TR into the MPerRGp and updates MilPDS. For judge advocates
          (Lieutenant Colonel and below), forward a copy of the TR to HQ USAF/JAX.
       6.4.1.2. TR on EAD officers are due to HQ AFPC 60 calendar days after evaluation
       close-out date. AGR and LEAD officers’ evaluations are due to HQ ARPC/DPBR 60
       days after the close-out date.
       6.4.1.3. TRs on non-EAD officers are due to HQ ARPC/DPBR 60 calendar days after
       evaluation close-out date.
   6.4.2. For officers attending school in PCS status:
       6.4.2.1. The school prepares the TR and forwards the original to HQ AFPC.
       6.4.2.2. TRs are due to HQ AFPC 60 calendar days after evaluation close-out date (120
       calendar days for AFIT/civilian institution programs).
   6.4.3. For non-EAD ANG officers, send TRs to the servicing MPS for quality review,
   adding of opening dates and AFSCs. The MPS will distribute the completed original
   Training Report to HQ ARPC/DPBR and copies to OCSRG and State Adjutant General not
   later than 60 calendar days after close-out date.
   6.4.4. AFIT/RRE will forward the completed TR that documents subsequent completion of
   an advanced academic degree to all appropriate agencies for filing in the MPerRGp. The TR
   will be filed based on the signature date of the AF Form 475, not with the original AF Form
   475 that indicated non completion of the advanced academic degree.
   6.4.5. For enlisted personnel attending school (course length greater than 20 weeks,
   excluding those with less than 20 months TAFMS) in PCS status:
       6.4.5.1. The school prepares the TR and forwards the original to the school’s servicing
       MPS.
       6.4.5.2. The MPS quality reviews the TR and forwards the original Training Report to
       the ratee’s servicing MPS. It is the responsibility of the ratee’s servicing MPS to forward
       the evaluation to HQ AFPC/DPSIRR. Note: When the ratee is a MSgt(s) through
       CMSgt, forward the original TR to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP IAW Table 3.9.
       6.4.5.3. TRs are due to the ratee’s servicing MPS 30 calendar days after evaluation
       close-out date, HQ AFPC 60 calendar days after evaluation close-out (120 calendar days
       for AFIT/civilian institution programs).
       6.4.5.4. The MPS will ensure all TRs are updated in the MilPDS, see Table 6.3.

Table 6.1. Instructions for Completing AF Form 475, Training Report. See Notes 1 and 9.
SECTION I
L   A                          B
I
N   Item
E   To Complete                Instructions
1                              The evaluator is responsible for accuracy. If adverse information
                               is maintained at the training location, all TR evaluators are
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    169


                            required to review the member’s UIF if applicable, before
                            accomplishing the TR.
2    Name                   Enter last name, first name, middle initial, and Jr., Sr., etc. Use
                            of “NMI” when there is no middle initial is not mandatory. The
                            name will be in all upper case.
3    SSN                    Enter SSN. Do not use suffix.
4    Grade                  Enter grade. See Table 3.1. or Table 3.2., line 4, and related
                            notes for differences based on status (officers on EAD, Non-
                            EAD ANG and USAFR officers, AGR officers).
5    DAFSC                  Enter DAFSC held as of the "THRU" date of the TR. Include
                            prefix and suffix.
6    Organization           Enter organization data. See Table 3.1. or Table 3.2., line 9 and
                            related notes for differences on EAD, Non-EAD ANG and Non-
                            EAD USAFR officers.
7    Period of              See Table 6.2. (notes 1, 2, 5 and 9).
     Report
8    Course Length          For all formal training or education, enter number of weeks
                            (rounded down to the nearest whole week and followed by the
                            word “weeks”) of the scheduled training or education. Use
                            scheduled length of training even if the officer completes a self-
                            paced course early, course completion is delayed, the officer is
                            temporarily held beyond the actual course/training completion
                            date, or the officer is eliminated from training (see note 3).
9   Reason for              Place an “X” in the appropriate box (see note 4).
    Report
10  School Info             Enter required information (see note 5).
11  Course Title            Enter title of major subject or problems presented or discussed.
SECTION I I
L   A                       B
I
N   Item
E   To Complete             Instructions
12  Evaluation Report       Complete only the applicable items in this section; leave non-
    Data                    applicable items blank.
13  AFSC Award              Enter AFSC, aeronautical rating, or degree awarded.
14  Completion              Place an “X” in the box, if applicable.

15   DG Program             Place an “X,” if appropriate, in the "Yes" or "No DG Program"
                            block on final TR. Leave item blank if DG program exists and
                            ratee did not receive such a designation.
16   Award/Non-             Enter DG Award Criteria or Course Non-completion Reason.
     completion             For a student designated as a DG in item 3, provide the criteria
                            (Example: Top 10 percent of class or GPA above 3.5) (see note
                            6).
SECTION I I I
L   A                       B
 170                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


I
N      Item
E      To Complete              Instructions
17     Comments                 Comments are mandatory concerning general attitude, military
                                bearing and appearance, conduct and fitness. Place these
                                comments in the “Professional Qualities” section. When an
                                evaluator cannot observe professional qualities due to geographic
                                separation (e.g., civilian institution AFIT students), include the
                                statement, "Ratee is geographically separated from evaluator" in
                                the “Professional Qualities” block of section III. Do include
                                comments if the ratee received recognition for specific or above
                                average achievement, such as designation as a DG. Do not make
                                promotion/DE recommendations (see paragraph 1.12. and notes
                                7 and 8).

18     Evaluator Data           Enter information required and command of assignment for
                                evaluator in the spaces provided. Sign the original (Copies: sign,
                                initial, or stamp SIGNED). Do not sign or date an evaluation
                                before close-out date. The grade and duty title must coincide
                                with those held on the close-out date of the evaluation. Enter
                                only the last four digits of the SSN. If the evaluator is a civilian
                                or a member of a foreign service the SSN is not required.

Notes:
1. See TR notice for ratee identification data. If any data is incorrect, notify the CSS/HR
Specialist and MPS for computer correction.
2. For TRs prepared under paragraph 6.2.2., enter “N/A” in the “FROM” and “THRU” areas.
3. For USAFR Selective Service officers attending a National Security Seminar, leave blank.
4. Use the following guidelines in determining the reason for the evaluation:
a. Final. On completion of, interruption by official orders of, or elimination for any reason from
scheduled course/training program, or when released by the training organization.
b. Annual. At the end of each academic year, except for final year, for officers in extended
programs. When the graduation date is within four calendar months of the annual evaluation,
submit a final TR in place of the annual TR.
c. Directed. When directed by HQ USAF or an appropriate commander for EAD officers or
USAFR officers not on EAD, or NGB for ANG officers not on EAD. Evaluations prepared
under paragraph 6.2.2. will reflect "Directed."
5. For USAFR officers in Selective Service performing their annual active duty tour for training
through attendance at a National Security Seminar, enter "National Security Seminar" and
location.
6. If the student has failed to complete the course of training, use one of the following phrases
and indicate whether the elimination was due to factors over which the student did or did not
have control (if derogatory comments are used, the TR must be referred):
a. Withdrawn without prejudice for the needs of the Air Force.
b. Withdrawn for humanitarian reasons.
c. Eliminated for academic deficiency.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    171


d. Eliminated for flying deficiency.
e. Eliminated for physical reasons.
f. Eliminated for fear of flying.
g. Eliminated for manifestation of apprehension.
h. Eliminated for instructor non-adaptability.
i. Eliminated for skill or aptitude deficiency.
j. Voluntary self-elimination.
k. Physical Fitness failure.
l. Thesis or dissertation not completed during AFIT tour.
m. If none of the above reasons apply, state the reason. To explain further, also enter "See
Comments," and explain in the appropriate comment section.
7. The following entries are mandatory when applicable:
a. Comments regarding courts-martial convictions.
b. Comments regarding elimination or interruption of training by official orders, citing specific
reason when possible.
c. Comments mandatory for USAFR Selective Service officers: enter "Officer is attending this
section of National Security Seminar as his or her annual short tour." Note: Although not
mandatory for inclusion, evaluators are strongly encouraged to consider making comments on
TRs regarding Article 15 action, letters of reprimand, admonishment or counseling, or Control
Roster action.
8. Comments are standardized on TRs prepared by AFIT/RRE under paragraph 6.2.2.
9. Hold evaluations for students who complete a course early (Example: Self-paced course)
until the course supervisor determines whether the student is a distinguished or outstanding
graduate. The thru date on the TR is the date the officer completes the course, not the date the
school determines the officer is a distinguished or outstanding graduate.



Table 6.2. When to Prepare AF Form 475, Training Report.
R   A                                        B                            C
U
L                                            and education or
E   If the member is attending               training is                  then the IMT is
1   A degree granting academic education     any length.                  filed in OCSRG,
    program through AFIT, (Officers and      (See Notes 1 and 2)          NSRG and MPerRGp.
    Enlisted).                                                            (See Note 3)
2   Developmental Education, In-             8 weeks or more, but less
    Residence, PDE, IDE, SDE.                than 20 weeks.
    (Officers only).                         (See Notes 4 and 5)

3                                            20 weeks or more.
                                             (See Note 1)
4   Formal Training or Education             20 weeks or more.
    Program, (Enlisted).                     (See note 1)
5   The final semester or final year TDY     any length.
    under AFI 36-2306, The Education         (See note 1)
 172                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


    Services Program (Officers only).
6   The National Security Seminar for all
    Selective Service USAFR officers not
    on EAD, (USAFR Officers only).
7   A course or series of courses            8 weeks or more, but less
    considered initial training in an        than 20 weeks.
    utilization field, (Officers only).      (See notes 5 and 9)
    (See note 6)
8                                      20 weeks or more.
                                       (See notes 1 and 9)
9 A direct commissioning program, such 8 weeks or less
   as Commissioned Officer Training,
   (Officers only).
   (See Note 7)
10 The World Class Athlete Program,    any length.
   (Officer and Enlisted).             (See Note 1)
   (See note 12)
11 The Air Force Intern Program,       20 weeks or more.
   (Officers only).                    (See Note 1)
   (See note 8)
12 The Reserve Chaplains Program,      10 days or more.                    filed in the OSR at HQ
   (USAFR Officers only).              (See note 9)                        ARPC/DPBR

13 The Chaplain Candidate Program,           active duty tour of 10 days
   (USAFR Officers only).                    or more.
                                             (See Notes 1 and 10)


14                                           8 weeks or less
15 Training or education not covered         8 weeks or more but less      filed in OCSRG,
   above, (Officers only).                   than 20 weeks.                NSRG and MPerRGp.
   (See Note 11)                             (See Notes 5 and 9)           (See Note 3)
16                                           20 weeks or more
                                             (See Notes 1 and 9)
17 Interrogator Duty Training                23 weeks or more
     (Enlisted and Officers)                 (See Note 13)
Notes:
1. Evaluations prepared under this rule begin the day following the “THRU” date of the
student’s last OPR/EPR or TR unless it is an initial evaluation. For initial evaluation, the
“FROM” date is: the date of officer’s entry on EAD or start of the current AGR/LEAD
assignment; or the date of the first federally recognized appointment for ANG students not on
EAD; or for USAFR students not on EAD, the date of the last assignment to the Ready Reserve
position presently held. The “THRU” date is the date of completion, interruption, or elimination
from formal training or education training. Example: A student has an OPR/EPR that closed
out on 1 July 1995 and attends a course beginning on 6 August 1995. The course graduated on 5
August 1996. The period of evaluation should be 2 July 1995 to 5 August 1996. USAFR Air
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      173


Reserve Technicians (ART) and ANG Military Technicians attending formal training or
education in civilian status receive TRs and credit in the civilian evaluation system. Note: For
course lengths, refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) at
site https://etca.randolph.af.mil, or other appropriate directive. ETCA is a database that replaced
AFCAT 36-2223, USAF Formal Schools Catalog.
2. Do not accomplish Training Reports on student in the Education Leave of Absence Program
(ELAP) in TDY status unless course length is 26 weeks or more.
3. The OCSRG is not maintained on lieutenants or non-promotion eligible captains on the ADL.
4. ASBC graduates will receive AF Form 475 regardless of course length.
5. Evaluations prepared under this rule cover a period independent of the officer’s OPR period
of evaluation. Therefore, it is not necessary to prepare an OPR solely because the officer is
going to school. Use the following period of report: “FROM” date is the course start date; and
the “THRU” date is the date of completion, interruption, or elimination from formal training or
education training. Example: An officer had an OPR that closed out on 1 Nov 1995 and
attends a course from 1 January 1996 to 1 Apr 1996. The AF Form 475 covers the period from 1
January 1996 to 1 Apr 1996. The officer’s next OPR will have a “FROM” date of 2 November
1995 and the time the officer is absent will be subtracted from the period of supervision on the
next OPR. USAFR Air Reserve Technicians (ART) and ANG Military Technicians attending
formal training or education in civilian status receive TRs and credit in the civilian evaluation
system. Note: For course lengths, refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) at site https://etca.randolph.af.mil, or other appropriate directive.
ETCA is a database that replaced AFCAT 36-2223, USAF Formal Schools Catalog.
6. Includes Undergraduate Pilot Training (UPT), Student Undergraduate Pilot Training (SUPT),
Undergraduate Navigator Training (UNT), Student Undergraduate Navigator Training (SUNT),
Undergraduate Space and Missile Training (USMT), Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course and
other entry-level courses (as determined by the MAJCOM). Officials at MAJCOM HQs and HQ
USAF are responsible for the course content and curriculum and determine if the course is initial
qualification. Note: Officers in the second year of AF/XO-sponsored Nuclear Technology
Fellows Program, working in their primary specialty, and Health Profession Officers who are in
in-utilization training for 1 Year or more will have an OPR versus a TR. AF/XO and AF/SG will
determine the rating chain for the identified officers and in coordination with HQ AFPC/DPP,
will determine which positions will be designated senior rater for these officers. These nuclear
technology fellows and health profession officers still remain students in training status. This
policy affects OPRs only and will have no impact on the requirement for narrative only PRFs for
the officers in training.
7. This training applies to judge advocates, chaplains, and medical officers.
8. Annual, directed, and final TRs, as appropriate, will be prepared at the end of each training
phase.
a. Annual TRs will be prepared by the sponsoring organization for interns in Phase IIIA; they
will close out on 30 Jun.
b. Directed TRs will be prepared by the sponsoring organization for interns in Phase IIIB who
opt to complete a masters degree or elect a third rotation; TRs will cover the period 1 Jul to 31
Dec.
c. Final TRs will be prepared by the sponsoring organization for interns who opt for a post-
training assignment upon completion of Phase IIIB or who opt for and complete a third rotation.
For interns who opt to complete the masters degree, final TRs will be completed by HQ
 174                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


USAF/DPPE.
9. For self-paced formal AF training courses when the prescribed course length is eight weeks or
more, regardless of the time actually required to complete the course.
10. AF Form 475 on chaplain candidates are prepared and processed as prescribed by HQ
ARPC. HQ ARPC/DPBR will file chaplain AF Forms 475 in the selection folder.
11. This is generally training designed to upgrade or enhance an officer's qualification in a
utilization field. Includes initial qualification in a weapon system for officers qualified in that
utilization field. Example: Pilots undergoing initial F-15 training would be evaluated under this
rule.
12. For members participating in the WCAP, one year from beginning training, then annually
until training is completed or member is eliminated from training.
13. Members fulfilling these requirements must complete six months of training with the US
Army prior to departing for the actual deployment. Therefore, students attending Interrogator
Training are administratively assigned to the 314th Training Squadron, Fort Huachuca, for the
23-week program. These evaluations will be updated in MilPDS.



Table 6.3. Updating Training Reports Pending System Change.
Rule MilPDS           Enlisted Input                      Officer Input
     Data
     Element
1    Type             EPR (See Note 1)                    TR (See Note 2)
2    Status           Clos                                Clos
3    Reason           Annual                              Annual/Final/DBH
4    Rating           N                                   N/A
5    Start Date       Date following the close out of     20 weeks or more: Date following
                      the last evaluation                 the close out of the last evaluation.
                                                          Less than 20 week: Class start date.
6      Close Date     Date ratee completes training or    Date ratee completes training,
                      graduation date                     graduation date, or date eliminated
                                                          from training.
7      Performance    N/A                                 T (Meet Standards)
       Indicator                                          N (Does Not Meet Standards)
8      History        N/A                                 F (19 weeks or less)
       Control                                            E (20 weeks or more)
       OPR
9      OPR Grade      N/A                                 Applicable Grade
10     OPR
       DAFSC          N/A                                 Applicable DAFSC
11     Course         N/A                                 Scheduled Course Length. See
       Length                                             Table 6.1. Line 8.
Note:
1. A MilPDS system change is pending to add TR as an option.
2. When updating officer TRs use the applicable data that applies. For assistance use the List
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                       175


of Values (LOV) drop down menu options located in the upper left hand corner.
 176                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013



                                          Chapter 7

                          GENERAL OFFICER EVALUATIONS

7.1. Overview. This chapter covers procedures for completing GO evaluations (AF Form 78).
It applies to all ADL and Reserve of the Air Force Brigadier Generals and Major Generals (and
selectees to those grades) except State adjutants general who are not required to be rated.
7.2. Forms Used.
   7.2.1. Use AF Form 78, to document performance and promotion recommendation (as
   applicable) for all Brigadier Generals, Major Generals and those selected or frocked to those
   grades (see table 7.1).
   7.2.2. Use AF Form 77 to document performance and potential and to provide that
   information to the ML. It is also used to document performance of GOs/selectees who are
   serving in a TDY status for more than 60 days but less than 179. GOs/selectees that are
   serving in a TDY status for more than 180 days receive an AF Form 78 (see table 7.2).
7.3. Reasons for Reports.
   7.3.1. Annual Reports. Brigadier General and Brigadier General selectee reports close out
   31 July; NonEAD Brigadier General (to include BG select) reports closeout 31 May; Major
   General and Major General selectee reports close out 30 June.
   7.3.2. CRO Reports. In the event a CRO occurs and there are at least 90 days of supervision,
   a CRO report is optional if the CRO occurs outside 90 days from the annual requirement with
   the approval of AF/DPG (AF/REG for Non-EAD Officers).
   7.3.3. Directed by HQ USAF Reports. AF/DPG (AF/REG for Non-EAD officers) may
   direct GO reports at any time, regardless of the days of supervision.
   7.3.4. Directed by NGB Reports. NGB-GO may direct GO reports at any time, regardless of
   the days of supervision.
   7.3.5. Officers Selected for Brigadier General. This report covers the period of supervision
   since the member’s last report as a Colonel and transitions the member to the Brigadier
   General Annual Report cycle. The AF Form 78 is used to document the member’s
   performance. See paragraph 7.4.8 for further details.
7.4. General Instructions.
   7.4.1. Who receives reports. Brigadier and Major Generals and selectees to those grades
   will receive at least one AF Form 78 per calendar year.
   7.4.2. GOs nominated for Lieutenant General. Once a GO is nominated for appointment to
   Lieutenant General, completion of the report is optional. Remove the GO from the ML
   control group.
   7.4.3. GOs who have applied for retirement. Completion of the report is optional once
   AF/DPG (AF/REG for Non-EAD officers) publicly announces a GO's retirement or, for
   ANGUS, NGB-GO has received the orders transferring a GO to ARPC, Retired Reserves.
   Remove the GO from the ML control group, and:
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    177


      7.4.3.1. Write a report if a GO withdraws his or her retirement. The report will close out
      on the appropriate current cycle OPR close-out date.
      7.4.3.2. Make a promotion recommendation on AF Form 78, block 15, only if the
      promotion-eligible officer withdraws his or her retirement within 90 days prior to the
      annual cycle close-out date.
   7.4.4. Officers with Dual Responsibilities in Separate MLs.         The ratee's ML of
   administrative assignment controls the promotion recommendation (or evaluation) of officers
   with dual responsibilities in separate MLs. However, any of the ratee's supervisors may
   submit appropriate communications to the ML for consideration.
      7.4.4.1. Use the ratee's duty effective date and the annual cycle close-out date to
      determine the ML of administrative assignment.
      7.4.4.2. Any member of the ratee's rating chain (in either ML) may submit appropriate
      communications to the endorsing official for consideration.
   7.4.5. Officers Removed for Cause. Document the reason an officer was removed from duty
   for cause in the appropriate annual or CRO report. Contact AF/DPG (AF/REG for Non-EAD
   Officers, or NGB-GO for ANGUS general officers) if you have less than 90 days supervision
   as the individual's rater.
   7.4.6. Officers Reassigned to a New ML during the Evaluation Process (includes Command
   Redesignations). If an officer is reassigned to a new ML within 60 days before or after the
   annual cycle close-out date, either the gaining or losing ML completes the endorser portion
   (block 16) on the AF Form 78. Both MLs must agree on which ML will function as the
   endorsing official. HQ AF/A1 and AF/DPG (AF/REG for Non-EAD Officers) must concur
   with the decision. If a CRO occurs within the period 60 to 90 days before the annual cycle
   closes out and the ratee changes MLs during this period, the losing ML completes the CRO
   report (do not complete block 15). Follow the directions in the next subparagraphs to
   determine who completes the final endorsement and/or promotion recommendation.
      7.4.6.1. If the ratee worked directly for the losing ML (no intermediate supervisor), then
      the losing ML prepares the rater portion of the AF Form 78 (through block 15) and
      forwards it to the gaining ML for completion, to include the final endorsement or
      promotion recommendation.
      7.4.6.2. If the ratee did not work directly for the losing ML, then the losing rater
      completes the rater portion of the AF Form 78 (through block 15) and forwards it to the
      losing ML. The losing ML completes a mandatory AF Form 77, attaches it to the AF
      Form 78 and forwards both forms to the gaining ML for completion, to include the final
      endorsement or promotion recommendation.
   7.4.7. Officers Reassigned within the Current ML during the Evaluation Process. If an
   officer moves within 90 days of the appropriate annual cycle close-out date and the officer's
   ML does not change, the rater completes a CRO report (minimum 90 days supervision). This
   report will serve in place of the annual report. Provide the report to the ML for completion
   of blocks 15 through 19 (on promotion-eligible officers) or blocks 16 through 19 (officers not
   promotion-eligible). The ML will complete the report upon the annual cycle close-out date
   along with other annual reports on officers in the same control group. If a CRO occurs
 178                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


   within the period 60 to 90 days before the annual cycle closes out and the ratee does not
   change MLs during this period (e.g., rater departs PCS or ratee changes jobs within ML), the
   rater completes a CRO report and the ML holds the report until the end of the annual cycle.
   The CRO report will serve as the annual report.
   7.4.8. Officers Selected for Brigadier General.
       7.4.8.1. When an officer's selection for Brigadier General is publicly announced by HQ
       AF/DPG (AF/REG for Non-EAD Officers), prepare an AF Form 78. Comply with table
       7.1. Open the ratee’s evaluation report on the day following the close-out of the
       Colonel's previous report.
       7.4.8.2. If the member’s last OPR as a Colonel closes out before the annual Brigadier
       General cycle (31 Jul or 31 May for Non-EAD), the member’s next performance report
       will close out 31 Jul or 31 May for Non-EAD, unless a CRO or Directed by HQ USAF
       report is required. The member’s next report will comply with paragraph 7.3.
       7.4.8.3. If the member’s last OPR as a colonel closes out after the annual BG cycle (31
       Jul), AF/DPG will direct a “Directed by HQ USAF Report” be completed with a close-
       out of 31 Jul, unless a CRO report is required beforehand. For Non-EAD, if the
       member’s last OPR closes out after the annual Brigadier General cycle (31 May),
       AF/REG will direct a DBH with a closeout date of 31 May, unless a CRO is required
       beforehand. The member’s next report will comply with paragraph 7.3.
       7.4.8.4. Forward reports within 30 days of the close-out to: AF/DPG for EAD officers;
       NGB-GO for ANG officers; and AF/REG for Reserve officers.
7.5. Processing and Mailing General Officer Evaluations. Mark envelopes containing GO
evaluations with "To Be Opened By Addressee Only--Contains General Officer Evaluation
Reports".
   7.5.1. EAD Officers Assigned to an Air Force Activity. In activities with a Director of
   Personnel (A1) function (e.g., MAJCOMs), the A1 ensures evaluators complete all reports
   correctly and forwards them to AF/DPG within 30 days of the report close-out date.
   7.5.2. EAD Officers Assigned to Air Force Secretariat, Air Staff, or Non-AF Activities. For
   activities not serviced by an Air Force A1, AF/DPG prepares forms for appropriate raters,
   reviewing officials, and MLs approximately 30 days prior to the report close-out date.
   7.5.3. Air Force Reserve General Officers. Send reports to AF/REG within 30 days of the
   report close-out date.
   7.5.4. ANGUS GOs. Send reports on ANG GOs to NGB-GO within 30 days of the report
   close-out date.
   7.5.5. When a Report Becomes A Matter of Record. Once the CSAF reviews the report and
   AF/DPG accepts the report for file, the report becomes a matter of record. For ANGUS
   GOs, the report becomes a matter of record when NGB-GO accepts the report for file. For
   Non-EAD officers, the report becomes a matter of record when AF/REG accepts the report
   for file.
   7.5.6. Release of Reports to Ratees by Reporting, Reviewing, and Endorsing Officials. The
   ML should provide a copy of the completed report to the ratee. The rater, reviewing official
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                         179


     or ML (at their discretion) should discuss its contents with the ratee. Ratees may request
     copies of reports from AF/DPG, NGB-GO for ANG general officers, or AF/REG for Non-
     EAD officers. Advise ratees a report is not considered a matter of record until it is reviewed
     by CSAF (does not apply to ANG GO or AFR reports) and filed in the member’s general
     officer selection folder.
     7.5.7. AF/DPG maintains all EAD performance reports with close-out dates on or after 1
     February 1991. Note: AF Forms 71, 77, and 78 that closed out on or before 31 January
     1991 are not available for review. They were rendered under an express promise of
     confidentiality and are exempt from release under the Freedom of Information Act and
     Privacy Act.
     7.5.8. AFIs 37-138 and 36-2608 govern the management and disposition of all reports.

Table 7.1. Instructions for Completing AF Form 78.
A     B                  C
To Complete              Instructions
Block Item
1     Name               Self-explanatory.
2     SSN
3     Grade              Enter the appropriate grade and include the status if the ratee is a selectee
                         or is frocked. For example Maj Gen, Brig Gen (Sel) or Brig Gen
                         (Frocked). See Table 7.2. Notes.
4        Duty Title      Self-explanatory.
5        Organization
6        TAFSCD/
         TYSD
7        MRD/DOS
8        Reason

9        Fitness         Check appropriate block regarding member’s most recent, current fitness
                         assessment. Only mark the exempt block if the member is exempt from
                         all components of the fitness assessment.
10       “FROM”          Members selected to brigadier general and publicly announced by
         Date            AF/DPG: The report opens on the day following the close-out of the
                         colonel’s previous report (see paragraphs 7.4.8.2 and 7.4.8.3).
                         Subsequent general officer reports will open the day following the close-
                         out date of the previous report.
         “THRU”          USAF and USAFR EAD brigadier general reports (includes brigadier
         Date            general selectees and those frocked to brigadier general) will close out
                         31 July (31 May non-EAD) unless a CRO or directed by HQ USAF or
                         NGB report is necessary. All major general reports (includes major
                         general selectees and those frocked to major general) will close out on 30
                         June unless a CRO, directed by HQ USAF (for ANG officers, directed
                         by Chief, NGB) report is necessary.
180                                                            AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


A     B             C
To Complete         Instructions
Block Item
11    Comments    Type comments in Times New Roman, 12 pitch. Limit comments to
                  space provided. Include comments concerning the ratee's personal and
                  professional characteristics with emphasis on the ratee's potential to
                  assume a higher grade or increased responsibilities. As supporting
                  rationale, identify specific jobs where he or she could be used in a higher
                  grade. If not being recommended for promotion, but is being
                  recommended for further service in his or her current grade, identify
                  options for future use. If an officer is the subject of a substantiated
                  allegation, complaint, or investigation, or if the officer was removed
                  from duty for cause, use this section to address issue. Do not consider or
                  comment on marital status or the employment, educational activities, or
                  volunteer service activities of his/her spouse. As applicable, include
                  comments on achievements in implementing the recommendations of the
                  Secretary of Defense's Report to the President on Defense Management
                  of July 1989.
12    Rater’s ID Major general selectees may, once confirmed by the Senate, sign the AF
      (name,      Form 78 as a selectee. See Table 7.2 Notes. Do not date or sign prior to
      grade, and the “TO” date.
      duty title)
13    Signature     Self explanatory
14    Date          Date of signature
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    181


A     B              C
To Complete          Instructions
Block Item
15a   Promotion      ALL: Check “Eligible For Promotion This Cycle” Complete this block
      Recommend      only if the officer is eligible for promotion as defined in AFI 36-2501,
      -ation         Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation, and the evaluation
                     serves as the annual report as defined in paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of this
                     AFI. otherwise enter “N/A” in each box of block 16. Active duty
                     officers are ranked by grade and competitive category. USAFR does not
                     rank by competitive category. Otherwise check Use Promote in the
                     Future” and “Not Eligible For Promotion This Cycle No
                     Recommendation” blocks to leave open the possibility for future
                     consideration. Only use the “Retain in Grade” block if the officer should
                     not be promoted in the future under any circumstances. Use the or
                     “Retirement” block if the ratee’s retirement is approved has applied for
                     retirement. FOR MAJOR GENERALS: The major general ML control
                     group contains all major generals, including selects and those serving in
                     a frocked status. DO NOT provide “Promote Now” numerical rankings
                     for those in the major general ML control group. You may comment on
                     future potential to serve in a higher grade in block 1112, “Rater
                     Comments,” or in block 16, “Endorser's Comments” (if applicable).
                     FOR BRIGADIER GENERALS: For officers receiving a " Eligible For
                     Promotion This Cycle" recommendation, show their ranking in block
                     15b among all who receive " Eligible For Promotion This Cycle Promote
                     Now" in the brigadier general ML control group and the total number of
                     promotion eligible’s within the control group. For example, if the
                     control group has 10 promotion eligible officers, and two of those have "
                     Eligible For Promotion This Cycle Promote Now" recommendations,
                     they would be ranked "1 of 10" and "2 of 10." If a ratee does not receive
                     a " Eligible For Promotion This Cycle Promote Now" recommendation,
                     do not assign a numerical ranking. All promotion eligible brigadier
                     generals will receive a promotion recommendation when the report
                     serves as the annual report as defined in paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4.
15b    Numerical     Complete this block for Brigadier Generals only if "Eligible For
       Rank          Promotion This Cycle" is checked in block 15a.
16     Comments      See instructions for block 11 (this table). If the rater is also the ML, use
                     block 12 to enter comments or type “The rater is also the endorsing
                     official” in block 16.
17     Endorser’s    Self-explanatory. Do not sign or date prior to the “TO” date.
       ID (name,
       grade, and
       duty title)
18     Signature
19     Date
 182                                                                  AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


Table 7.2. Instructions for Completing AF Form 77 for General Officers.
A    B                  C
To Complete
Sec Block               Instructions
I    Name               Self-explanatory.
     SSN                Self-explanatory.
     Grade              Enter the appropriate grade, and include the status if the ratee is a selectee
                        or is frocked. For example, Maj Gen, Brig Gen (Sel) or Brig Gen
                        (Frocked). See Notes.
       DAFSC            Enter "90G0."
       Duty Title       Self-explanatory.
II     Type of          Mark box entitled, "Supplemental Sheet" If a TDY rating official is
A      Report           rendering a report resulting from the ratee's TDY of 90 days or more, mark
                        the box entitled "Letter of Evaluation."
IIB Report Dates        Enter the dates as they appear on the AF Form 78. If a TDY rating official
                        is rendering a report because of the ratee's TDY of 90 days or more, enter
                        the inclusive dates of the TDY.
       “Report is...”   If the AF Form 77 will be attached to the AF Form 78, or is being rendered
                        by a TDY rating official resulting from the ratee's TDY of 60 days or
                        more, mark the box entitled, "Mandatory." All other AF Forms 77 are
                        optional.
       Reason for       If the AF Form 77 is being rendered by a TDY rating official as a result of
       Report           the ratee's TDY of 60 days or more, mark the block entitled, "TDY 60 or
                        more days supervision." For all others, mark the block entitled, "Other -
                        Explain in section III."
III    Comments         Hand-write comments in dark blue or black ink. Limit comments to space
                        provided. Include comments concerning his or her personal and
                        professional characteristics with emphasis on potential to assume a higher
                        grade or increased responsibilities. As supporting rationale, identify
                        specific jobs where he or she could be used in a higher grade. If not being
                        recommended for promotion but is being recommended for further service
                        in his or her current grade, identify options for future use. If an officer is
                        the subject of a substantiated allegation, complaint, or investigation, or if
                        the officer was removed from duty for cause, use this section to address
                        issue. Do not consider or comment on the marital status or the
                        employment, educational activities, or volunteer service activities of his or
                        her spouse. As applicable, include comments on achievements in
                        implementing the recommendations of the Secretary of Defense's Report
                        to the President on Defense Management of July 1989.
IV     Evaluator        Information will be as of the “THRU” date of the report. Sign original on
       Data             or after “THRU” date. Once the Senate confirms the promotion, Major
                        General selectees may sign the AF Form 77 as a selectee. See Notes.
                        Remaining blocks are self-explanatory.
NOTES:
Major General & Brigadier General “(Sel)”/“Frocked” signing OES forms:
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    183


A      B               C
To Complete
Sec Block              Instructions
a. Once Senate confirmed, Colonels on the Brigadier General select list are permitted to sign all
OES forms as “(Sel)” provided that they are either designated by their respective management
level (ML) as a senior rater or they are assigned to an authorized Brigadier General officer
position.
b. Once Senate confirmed, Brigadier Generals on the Major General select list are permitted to
sign all OES forms as “(Sel)” provided that they are either evaluating other general officers or
are assigned to an authorized Maj Gen officer position.
c. Frocked GOs are authorized to sign all OES forms in their frocked grade without designating
their “Frocked” status (i.e. Major General vice Major General “Frocked”).
d. Once Senate confirmed, all GO selects assigned to joint billets or unified commands may sign
all OES forms as “(Sel)”.
 184                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013



                                           Chapter 8

    PROMOTION RECOMMENDATION AND MANAGEMENT LEVEL REVIEW
                          PROCESS

8.1. AF Form 709 (for Active Duty List [ADL] officers).
   8.1.1. Purpose. The purpose of the promotion recommendation process is to provide
   performance-based differentiation to assist Central Selection Boards (CSBs). The AF Form
   709, Promotion Recommendation (PRF), is used for promotion purposes only. Note: Except
   for paragraphs 8.2 and 8.6, this chapter does not pertain to ANG or USAFR officers who are
   not on the ADL.
   8.1.2. Types of PRFs:
       8.1.2.1. Narrative-Only (N-O) PRFs. The losing senior rater completes these on all
       officers who are departing PCS for a school (e.g. Developmental Education, AFIT, or
       other AF-level training programs as described by 8.3.5.2) or PCA/PCS to patient status.
       Complete N-O PRFs regardless of promotion zone. Do not complete PRFs on
       Lieutenants or Captains who will have less than four years TIG as a Captain upon
       completion of schooling. Exception: For Medical Corps/Dental Corps officers only,
       complete N-O PRF regardless of their current grade, date of rank or promotion selection
       status, due to the possibilities of their continual long term training status. See paragraph
       8.1.5.6.
       8.1.2.2. Recommendation-Only (R-O) PRFs. The Air Force Student MLR President
       completes these for all officers who are eligible for consideration by that review. Attach
       the R-O PRF to the N-O PRF and file both in the OSR. See paragraph 8.1.5.6.
       8.1.2.3. Regular PRFs. An eligible officer's senior rater completes the PRF no earlier
       than 60 days prior to the CSB for which the officer is promotion eligible (PRF cutoff
       date) and awards one of three recommendations:
          8.1.2.3.1. A “Definitely Promote” (“DP”) recommendation means the strength of the
          ratee’s performance and performance-based potential warrants promotion.
          8.1.2.3.2. A “Promote” (“P”) recommendation means the ratee is qualified for
          promotion and should compete on the basis of performance, performance-based
          potential, and other considerations such as duty history, developmental education,
          advanced degrees, etc.
          8.1.2.3.3. A “Do Not Promote This Board” (“DNP”) recommendation means the
          ratee does not warrant promotion and should not be promoted by the CSB for which
          the officer is eligible. A senior rater must make comments explaining to the CSB
          why the officer should not be promoted.
   8.1.3. Completing the PRF. See Table 8.1 (and paragraph 8.6 on promotion-eligible
   Colonels) for specific guidance on preparing PRFs.
       8.1.3.1. If promotion opportunity is 100%, regular PRFs are not required. This includes
       individuals competing for in and above the zone; any eligibles below the zone will still
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                         185


       require a PRF to be completed. Exceptions: Senior raters will prepare PRFs on all
       officers who receive "DNP" recommendations and on all officers who receive a “P”
       recommendation but have derogatory information (Article 15, court-martial, referral-
       evaluation, LOR, etc) filed in their OSR.
       8.1.3.2. For LAF Capt PRFs: MLRs are prohibited (except for AF Level Students);
       “Definitely Promote” recommendation PRFs are not authorized any comments; “
       Promote/Do Not Promote” recommendation are limited to a maximum of 5 lines. Each
       SR with one eligible officer (regardless of zone) will receive one allocated “DP”. Any
       additional “DPs” the allocation rate will be applied which is announced approx. 60 days
       prior to the CSB.
8.1.4. Responsibilities:
       8.1.4.1. The Senior Rater:
           8.1.4.1.1. Reviews the ratee's Officer’s Command Selection Records Group
           (OCSRGp), decoration citations, Duty Qualification History Brief (DQHB) and
           Unfavorable Information File (UIF) (if applicable) before preparing the PRF. May
           consider other reliable information about duty performance and conduct except as
           paragraph 1.12. or other regulatory guidance prohibits. Examples of other reliable
           information may include but are not limited to LOE, bullets from a draft OPR and/or
           decoration, etc. To reference the “other reliable information” in their record, the
           officer meeting the board may submit a letter to the CSB. Do not use any other
           Single Uniform Request Formats (SURFs) other than those indicated above when
           preparing the PRF (i.e., AMS SURFs). Note: The intent of the "other reliable
           information" passage is to allow SRs to comment on performance accomplishments
           since the closeout of the last evaluation. This allows a SR who has personal
           knowledge of an accomplishment to comment about it in the PRF although not part of
           the official record yet.
           8.1.4.1.2. Must be knowledgeable of the ratee's most recent performance. The senior
           rater may request subordinate supervisors to provide information on an officer's most
           recent duty performance and performance-based potential and may ask for
           suggestions based upon the officer's duty performance for PRF recommendations.
           8.1.4.1.3. Will ensure no subordinate commander/supervisor asks or allows, an
           officer to draft or prepare his or her own PRF. Note: Eligible officers may provide
           input.
           8.1.4.1.4. Will ensure there are no boards, meetings or panels of officers convened to
           collectively score, rate, rank, stratify, produce stratification inputs for use in PRFs, or
           tally the records and/or generate a priority list of eligible officers unless specifically
           authorized by this instruction. Note: Senior Raters may request subordinate
           supervisors provide their assessment (without the use of any boards, meetings, or
           panels) of the rank order of officers in their chain of command).
           8.1.4.1.5. Is solely responsible for evaluating each officer's OCSRGp and DQHB and
           for either awarding PRF recommendations among officers or submitting officers to
           compete for aggregation or carry-over "DP" recommendations. The senior rater
           submits the PRF with section IX unmarked when submitting an officer for
186                                                            AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      competition in aggregation or carry-over categories at an MLR and/or HQ USAF
      review.
      8.1.4.1.6. Completes promotion recommendations. Corrects any error that results in
      awarding more "DP" recommendations than allocated by the ML. However, if he or
      she fails to fulfill this responsibility, the management level review president makes
      the appropriate corrections, to include re-accomplishing a PRF a senior rater
      prepared.
      8.1.4.1.7. Provides the ratee a copy of the PRF (hand-delivered or sent in a sealed
      envelope clearly marked, “To Be Opened By Addressee Only”) approximately 30
      days before the CSB. The reason for this is twofold:
         8.1.4.1.7.1. Advise the ratee of the senior rater’s promotion recommendation.
         8.1.4.1.7.2. Provide the ratee an opportunity to point out any typographical,
         administrative or errors of fact to the senior rater so they may be corrected prior to
         the CSB. Note: If the ratee is geographically separated, send it to the ratee by
         “return receipt requested” mail. Contact the MPS for assistance if necessary.
      8.1.4.1.8. Will ensure the PRF remains a private matter with access being only
      between the senior rater, the ratee, senior rater administrative support staff if senior
      rater desires (i.e. executive officer, secretary, MPS), the MLR, and the CSB.
      Subordinate evaluators or others may have access to a PRF’s comments or rating only
      if permitted by the ratee. Note: No officer eligible for a particular board will be
      involved with the PRF process for that particular board.
      8.1.4.1.9. Must attach a memo (Figure 8.1) telling the ratee who receives a PRF with
      a “DNP” recommendation that he or she has the right to submit a letter to the CSB.
      8.1.4.1.10. Considers preparing a PRF on a newly assigned eligible officer who
      received an outright "P" recommendation from his or her previous senior rater, (an
      outright “P” is someone who received a promote recommendation from the senior
      rater and was not competed at a MLR). The exception is AF-level students meeting
      the AF Student MLR, and whose effective date of duty as a result of PCS or PCA to a
      new senior rater occurs after the PRF accounting date, but on or before the PRF cutoff
      date. See paragraph 8.4.1.
      8.1.4.1.11. Provides a signed master eligibility list (MEL) of officers considered for
      promotion recommendations to the ML.
      8.1.4.1.12. Ensures the ML receives PRFs as required by paragraph 8.1.5.
      8.1.4.1.13. Ensures his or her SRID in the Air Force Promotion System
      (AFPROMS), (formerly known as Promotion Recommendation-In-Board Support
      Management [PRISM]) information system reflects only his or her eligible officers
      NLT 105 days before the CSB.
      8.1.4.1.14. Evaluates all additions to and deletions from the MEL through their MPSs
      to their ML (i.e., officers who are gains as a result of a PCA/PCS movement
      occurring prior to the PRF Accounting Date or officers initially assigned to the wrong
      PAS code and SRID).
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                  187


         8.1.4.1.15. Officers Added or Deleted from Promotion Eligibility. This paragraph
         applies to officers who become eligible or ineligible for promotion consideration in a
         particular competitive category on or after the PRF accounting date. Causes for a
         change in eligibility status may include: SSB or Air Force Board for Correction of
         Military Records (AFBCMR) actions, administrative errors, changes in DOS, or
         similar circumstances.
            8.1.4.1.15.1. For officers whose eligibility for promotion consideration is
            established after the PRF accounting date, the senior rater of record at the time
            eligibility is established will write the PRF.
            8.1.4.1.15.2. If the PRF is written after the senior rater completes the rank
            ordering (Day-66) and determines that a “DP” should be awarded, then place a
            “1” in block VI for BPZ/IPZ officer, or place a “0” in block VI for APZ officers.
            See Table 8.2.
      8.1.4.2. The MPS.
         8.1.4.2.1. Assists the ML in verifying accuracy of SRIDs and PAS codes.
         8.1.4.2.2. Provides two copies of PRF notices, a MEL, and a DQHB on each eligible
         to senior raters. (Note: for officer’s not located w/SR, provide these documents to
         eligible officers servicing MPS to be used in preparing PRF inputs for the SR).
         8.1.4.2.3. Provides other senior rater support and review as requested (sends PRFs to
         the appropriate ML when requested by the senior raters).
         8.1.4.2.4. Makes OCSRGps available to senior raters, to include records of officers
         serviced by other MPSs.
         8.1.4.2.5. Reviews PRFs to ensure administrative accuracy, when requested.
         8.1.4.2.6. Processes narrative-only PRFs. (See paragraph 8.1.5.6).
         8.1.4.2.7. Advises senior raters when officers change promotion eligibility status
         after PRF allocation date (Day 66). (See paragraph 8.1.4.1.15.)
         8.1.4.2.8. Ensures senior raters are provided a listing of newly assigned eligible
         officers. (Note: RIPs are produced in AFPROMS, ensure SR validate RIPs by
         signing them and kept on file until public release.)
         8.1.4.2.9. Evaluates any potential adds or deletions to their senior raters and ML.
         (See paragraph 8.1.4.1.14).
         8.1.4.2.10. Monitors AFPROMS Audit Transactions at least twice a week to identify
         any board adds, deletions, SRID changes, PCS/PCA/DAS actions.
         8.1.4.2.11. Coordinates with ML and senior raters as needed.
         8.1.4.2.12. Check AFPROMS news daily.
         8.1.4.2.13. Upon receipt of PRFs following the USAF Student MLR, distributes
         these PRFs to the eligible officers. See paragraph 8.1.4.1.7.
      8.1.4.3. The ML.
188                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


        8.1.4.3.1. Designates senior rater positions for all units within their jurisdiction and
        assigns SRIDs to those positions.
        8.1.4.3.2. Identifies officers occupying those senior rater positions by name, assigns
        them SRIDs accordingly by name and PAS code and ensures AFPROMS is updated
        accordingly.
        8.1.4.3.3. Validates SRID alignment in MilPDS with PAS Code. (Note: Ensure
        MilPDS is updated accordingly, contact AFPC for any assistance.)
        8.1.4.3.4. Notifies senior raters and MPSs of preliminary "DP" allocations.
        8.1.4.3.5. Notifies affected senior raters on the final PRF allocation date of available
        “DPs” senior raters may award.
        8.1.4.3.6. Ensures all eligible officers are considered for promotion recommendations
        and are guaranteed at least one look for a “DP” recommendation (the guaranteed look
        is the senior rater).
        8.1.4.3.7. Ensures senior raters and MLRs do not exceed the authorized number of
        "DP" allocations.
        8.1.4.3.8. Ensures PRF results of I/APZ and BPZ eligible officers are updated in the
        AFPROMS information system no later than 35 days before the CSB.
        8.1.4.3.9. Send all regular PRFs to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB to arrive no later than 30
        days before the CSB.
        8.1.4.3.10. Maintains copies of all PRFs and MELs until announcement of CSB
        results. Destroy all materials pertaining to the MLR upon announcement of results.
        Exception: MLs must maintain a copy of the OCSRG, including the PRF and
        DQHB, that earned the last DP and the top two that earned a P rating in carry-over
        competition for each competitive category. These OCSRG will serve as the
        “Benchmark” records in support of supplemental MLR (SMLR) requirements
        (paragraph 8.7).
        8.1.4.3.11. Processes PRFs in accordance with paragraph 8.1.5.
        8.1.4.3.12. Evaluates any potential adds or deletions to their senior raters and HQ
        AFPC/DPSIDEB MLR as needed.
        8.1.4.3.13. Monitors AFPROMS Audit Transactions at least twice a week to identify
        any board adds, deletions, SRID changes, PCS/PCA/DAS actions.
        8.1.4.3.14. Coordinates with senior raters, MPSs, and HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB as
        needed.
        8.1.4.3.15. Monitors AFPROMS news daily.
      8.1.4.4. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB MLR.
        8.1.4.4.1. Establishes and announces PRF eligibility criteria and administrative
        requirements for processing PRFs.
        8.1.4.4.2. Ensures completed PRFs are disposed of in accordance with paragraph
        8.1.5.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    189


          8.1.4.4.3. Flows PRF Notices and DQHBs approximately 120 days prior to the CSB
          in AFPROMS.
          8.1.4.4.4. Processes all SRID changes with multiple MLs involved. (Note: It
          remains the initiating MLs responsibility to obtain all concurrences for other affected
          MLs prior to submission to AFPC.)
      8.1.4.5. The Ratee.
          8.1.4.5.1. Contacts the senior rater if he/she has not received a copy of his/her PRF
          NLT 15 days prior to CSB. Prior to the CSB, must contact the senior rater to discuss
          any inaccuracies, omissions or errors pertaining to his/her PRF.
          8.1.4.5.2. Ensures his/her record is current and accurate.
          8.1.4.5.3. May correspond by letter with his/her CSB and address any matter of
          record concerning themselves that they believe important to their consideration.
          Letters must be submitted in good faith and contain accurate information to the best
          of the ratee’s knowledge and must be signed by the ratee.
          8.1.4.5.4. Air Force-Level students/patients (SRID “ST101”) eligible for promotion
          may write a letter to the Air Force Student MLR to address any matter of record
          concerning themselves that they believe important to their consideration. Letters
          must be submitted in good faith and contain accurate information to the best of the
          ratee’s knowledge and must be signed by the ratee. The letters will be destroyed
          upon conclusion of the Student MLR and will not be forwarded to the CSB.
   8.1.5. Processing and Use of the PRF.
      8.1.5.1. MPSs send PRF notices and MELs to senior raters upon receipt, normally day
      120 prior to the CSB.
      8.1.5.2. Senior raters sign completed PRFs on or after the PRF cutoff date. Senior raters
      who intend to compete in aggregation (see paragraph 8.3.1.10), or carry-over (8.3.1.9),
      must prepare and sign the PRFs, leaving section IX blank.
      8.1.5.3. Senior raters will submit all completed I/APZ PRFs for quality review and
      ensure all BPZ PRFs are available for AFPROMS update by the ML no later than 40
      days before the CSB.
      8.1.5.4. The ML sends completed PRFs to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB, 550 C Street West
      Suite 7, Joint Base San Antonio -Randolph TX 78150-4705 to arrive no later than 30
      days before the CSB. MLs forward PRFs for non-line aggregate and carry-over officers
      to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB, 550 C Street West Suite 7, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709,
      with the “Overall Recommendation” left blank, to arrive NLT 35 days prior to the CSB.
      8.1.5.5. HQ AFPC/PBSE ensures the removal of the PRFs from the OSR immediately
      following the CSB and forwards them to HQ AFPC/DPSIR to be placed on optical disk.
      DPSIR destroys the PRFs after imaging. PRFs filed on optical disk have limited access.
      Do not use them for assignments, promotions (except Special Selection Boards [SSB]), or
      other personnel actions. Retain these PRFs for historical, legal, and appeal purposes
      only.
      8.1.5.6. Narrative-only/Recommendation-only PRFs.
190                                                           AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      8.1.5.6.1. MPSs are responsible for processing N-O PRFs and ensuring all eligible
      officers receive a copy of their N-O PRF prior to departure for PCS. Note: Officers
      will not depart without a N-O PRF being accomplished unless an approved waiver
      was granted IAW paragraph 8.1.5.6.4.1.
      8.1.5.6.2. The senior rater sends the N-O PRF to the MPS no later than 30 days prior
      to the officer departing PCA or PCS for school. Note: An officer may become
      eligible for BPZ or I/APZ consideration by a CSB before departing for school. In this
      case, both a narrative-only PRF and a regular PRF (see paragraph 8.1.2.3.) must be
      prepared. An officer may also be eligible for two or more promotion boards while in
      AF-level student status, depending on the length of training. Since N-O PRFs are not
      board specific, statements such as “My #1 BPZ” may become outdated before the
      officer meets a promotion board, however this should not preclude the senior rater
      from stratifying the officers as he would on a regular PRF.
      8.1.5.6.3. The senior rater sends the narrative-only PRFs to the MPS for officers in
      patient or Missing in Action (MIA)/Prisoner of War (POW) status to HQ
      AFPC/DPSIDEB no later than 60 days after the officer enters this new status.
      8.1.5.6.4. The MPS forwards the original PRFs to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB NLT 30
      days after the officer departs and updates a code “B” in MilPDS. The MPS maintains
      copies of the PRFs until PRF receipt is confirmed by an update of NAR PRF Flag to
      code “C” in MilPDS by HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB. MPSs can verify that the “C” code is
      updated under officer grade data/grade miscellaneous in PDS. Once confirmed, the
      MPS destroys its copies. All N-O PRF waiver requests will be worked directly with
      HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB. See PSD Handbook for update instructions.
         8.1.5.6.4.1. All N-O PRF waiver requests will be worked directly with HQ
         AFPC/DPSIDEB.
         8.1.5.6.4.2. When requesting N-O PRF waivers, please include the following
         information: Full name, SSN, DOR, competitive category, projected graduation
         date, and reason for the request. Note: As waivers are reviewed using current
         schedules, should an officer become eligible after a waiver has been granted, the
         N-O PRF will then be required from the Senior Rater whom was in the position
         when the officer departed for school. Only if the Senior Rater is not available
         (retired and unable to be contacted or deceased, etc.) will the current Senior Rater
         in the position be authorized to sign the N-O PRF after the officer departed.
      8.1.5.6.5. Senior raters provide a copy of the N-O PRF to the ratee approximately 30
      days prior to departure for AF Level Training/Patient Status.
      8.1.5.6.6. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB maintains N-O PRFs until officers leave student,
      patient, or MIA/POW status. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB destroys narrative-only PRFs
      when the officer no longer competes as a student. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB maintains
      the N-O PRFs until distributed as specified below:
         8.1.5.6.6.1. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB forwards the N-O PRF to the HQ USAF
         Student MLR. After completion of the recommendation-only PRFs (which are
         attached to the narrative-only PRFs), HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB forwards the N-O PRF
         and R-O PRF to HQ AFPC/PBSE for inclusion in the OSR and provides copies to
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    191


              ratees via the ratees servicing MPS.
              8.1.5.6.6.2. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB maintains the original narrative-only PRF in a
              separate file for use during future promotion consideration as a student.
              Exceptions to the disposition of PRFs must be approved by HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB
              and be in the best interest of the officer and the Air Force.
              8.1.5.6.6.3. Immediately after completion of the CSB, HQ AFPC/PBSE removes
              the PRFs from the OSR and forwards them to HQ AFPC/DPSIR for placement on
              optical disk.
       8.1.5.7. The HQ USAF Student MLR (see paragraph 8.3.5.2.2.) prepares R-O PRFs and
       attaches them to the student N-O PRFs.
8.2. AF Form 709 (for Reserve Active Status List officers).
   8.2.1. Reserve of the Air Force. Use AF Form 709 for promotion to Lieutenant Colonel and
   Colonel. Refer to paragraph 8.6. for recommending Colonels for promotion to the grade of
   Brigadier General. USAFR will use AF Form 709 for Position Vacancy promotion
   nomination to all grades. HQ ARPC/DPB will issue instructions specific to each board.
       8.2.1.1. Mandatory Boards. An eligible officer’s senior rater completes the PRF no later
       than 45 days prior to the CSB. The senior rater awards one of three recommendations:
       8.2.1.2. A “Definitely Promote” (“DP”) recommendation means the strength of the
       ratee’s performance and performance-based potential warrants promotion.
       8.2.1.3. A “Promote” (“P”) recommendation means the ratee is qualified for promotion.
       8.2.1.4. A “Do Not Promote This Board” (“DNP”) recommendation means the ratee
       does not warrant promotion and should not be promoted at this time. A senior rater must
       make specific comments to support the DNP recommendation in Section IV of the PRF.
       8.2.1.5. The ResAF is not constrained by the number of “DPs” it can award. A senior
       rater may award as many “DPs” as desired.
   8.2.2. Completing the PRF. See Table 8.1 for specific guidance on preparing PRFs.
   8.2.3. Responsibilities:
       8.2.3.1. The Senior Rater:
          8.2.3.1.1. Reviews the ratee's OPRs, decoration citations, DQHB, PIF, and UIF (if
          applicable) before preparing the PRF. May consider other reliable information about
          duty performance and conduct except as outlined in paragraph 1.12, Prohibited
          Evaluator Considerations and Comments, or other regulatory guidance. Examples of
          other reliable information may include but are not limited to LOE, bullets from a draft
          OPR and/or decoration, etc. To reference the “other reliable information” in their
          record, the officer meeting the board may submit a letter to the CSB. Note: Do not
          use any other SURFs other than those indicated above when preparing the PRF (i.e.,
          AMS SURFs). The intent of the "other reliable information" passage is to allow SRs
          to comment on performance accomplishments since the closeout of the last
          evaluation. This allows a SR who has personal knowledge of an accomplishment to
192                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         comment about it in the PRF although not part of the official record yet. The senior
         rater of record on the PRF accounting date will write the PRF.
         8.2.3.1.2. May obtain information on an officer’s most recent duty performance and
         performance-based potential from subordinate or previous supervisors and may
         consider their suggestions based upon the officer’s duty performance for PRF
         recommendations. No officer will be asked to draft or prepare his or her own PRF.
         There will be no boards or panels of officers convened to collectively score, rate,
         rank, or tally the records and/or generate a priority list of eligible officers.
         8.2.3.1.3. Is solely responsible for evaluating each officer’s ROP and DQHB, to
         award recommendations.
         8.2.3.1.4. Completes promotion recommendations.
         8.2.3.1.5. Provides the ratee a copy of the PRF (hand-delivered or sent in a sealed
         envelope clearly marked, “To Be Opened By Addressee Only”) approximately 30
         days before the CSB. PRFs are a private matter between the senior rater and the
         ratee. Subordinate evaluators may have access to a PRF rating to assist in the
         feedback process only if desired by the ratee. The senior rater must attach a memo
         (Figure 8.1) telling the ratee who receives a PRF with a “DNP” recommendation that
         he or she has the right to submit a letter to the CSB. The ratee must acknowledge
         receipt of the memorandum. If the ratee is geographically separated, send it to the
         ratee by “return receipt requested” mail. Contact the MPS for assistance, if
         necessary.
      8.2.3.2. The MPS or HQ ARPC/DPB (as applicable):
         8.2.3.2.1. Verifies accuracy of SRIDs and PAS codes.
         8.2.3.2.2. Provides to senior raters the PRF notice, a MEL, and a DQHB on each
         eligible officer.
         8.2.3.2.3. Provides other senior rater support as requested (sends PRFs to the
         appropriate ML as requested by senior raters).
         8.2.3.2.4. Makes ROPs available to senior raters, to include records of officers
         serviced by other MPSs.
         8.2.3.2.5. Reviews PRFs to ensure administrative accuracy, when requested.
         8.2.3.2.6. Informs senior raters when officers have a change in promotion eligibility
         status after the PRF accounting date. See paragraph 8.2.5.
         8.2.3.2.7. Provides senior raters a listing of newly assigned eligible officers.
      8.2.3.3. HQ ARPC/DPB. Will announce PRF criteria for ResAF CSBs.
  8.2.4. Processing and Use of PRFs.
      8.2.4.1. MPSs send PRF notices and MELs to senior raters upon receipt, usually just
      after the PRF accounting date.
      8.2.4.2. The senior rater will complete the PRF in enough time to arrive at HQ ARPC not
      later than 45 days before the CSB.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      193


      8.2.4.3. HQ APRC/DPB removes PRFs from the OSR immediately following a CSB,
      and forwards them to HQ ARPC/DPS for placement on optical disk. PRFs placed on
      optical disk have limited access.
   8.2.5. Officers Relocating During the PRF Process. To ensure officers with a change in
   assignment to a new senior rater effective after the PRF accounting date, but on or before the
   CSB, receive full consideration for their PRF, special provisions apply. For ANG/USAFR,
   the senior rater of record on the PRF accounting date will write the PRF and award
   performance rating.
      8.2.5.1. To provide these officers fair consideration, the losing and gaining senior raters
      may discuss the officer’s performance and their intentions (via phone, memo, etc.).
      8.2.5.2. Award a “DNP” recommendation when derogatory information has been
      received since departure from previous assignment. If the losing senior rater awards a
      “DNP” recommendation, the gaining senior rater has no further action. A senior rater
      must make specific comments to support the DNP recommendation in Section IV of the
      PRF.
      8.2.5.3. The MPS or HQ ARPC/DPB (as appropriate) will.
          8.2.5.3.1. Screen all officers gained after the PRF accounting date to determine
          eligibility and notify senior raters accordingly (refer to AFPROMS (PRISM) User’s
          Guide). Ensure senior raters certify a review of all gained eligibles.
          8.2.5.3.2. Provide the senior rater a ROP and DQHB on newly assigned officers.
          8.2.5.3.3. Update corrections to SRIDs on officers who arrive at new locations on or
          before the PRF accounting date. Notify HQ ARPC/DPB when a change is made.
   8.2.6. Officers added to Promotion Eligibility. This paragraph applies to officers who
   become eligible for promotion consideration or change component or competitive categories
   on or after the PRF accounting date. Cause for a change in eligibility may include (but is not
   limited to): ANG to USAFR transfer; USAFR to ANG transfer; change from Participating
   Reserve to Non-Participating Reserve or Non-Participating Reserve to Participating Reserve;
   change from active duty list to Reserve active status list (without a break in military status);
   change from other branch of service to USAF Reserve active status list; change in DOS;
   administrative errors; SSB or AFBCMR actions; or similar circumstances.
   8.2.7. Ranking of Definitely Promotes. Enter the rank order for all officers awarded a “DP”
   recommendation within each competitive category, e.g. line, judge advocate, nurse corps, etc.
   For example: 2/5/10; the senior rater has 10 officers in that competitive category meeting the
   Promotion Selection Board. The officer is ranked number 2 of 5 officers awarded a DP. For
   officers awarded other than a DP, leave GROUP SIZE blank. For officers gained after
   completion of PRFs, to which the SR chooses to award a DP, the ranking will be 1/1/1. For a
   Position Vacancy (PV) Board, enter the rank order for all officers nominated for PV within
   each competitive category. For example: 3/5; the senior rater has 5 officers in that
   competitive category meeting the PV Promotion Selection Board. This officer is ranked
   number three of five officers awarded a DP.
   8.2.8. Prisoners, Deserters, and Officers on Appellate Leave. Do not accomplish PRFs for
   officers who become prisoners or deserters, or who are on appellate leave on or before the
 194                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


   PRF accounting date. HQ ARPC/DPBR will prepare an AF Form 77. However, officers
   identified as prisoners, deserters, or on appellate leave after the PRF accounting date will
   require PRFs from the losing senior rater. His or her total number of eligibles will include
   these officers.
   8.2.9. Air Force Advisors for PRFs. If the senior rater on the PRF is not an Air Force officer
   or DAF official, an Air Force advisor is designated to advise evaluators on matters pertaining
   to PRFs. Normally, this will be the same officer who conducts the review of the officer’s
   OPR (see paragraph 1.6.7. The Air Force advisor will not change any statements or the
   promotion recommendation on the PRF.
   8.2.10. Promotion Recommendations for Colonels. See paragraph 8.6 for USAFR General
   Officer CSB or an ANGUS Federal Recognition Board information and instruction.
   8.2.11. AGR Officers in Student Status. The Deputy to the Chief of Air Reserve (Deputy
   RE) is the senior rater for AGR students only.
       8.2.11.1. When an AGR officer leaves for a school tour, the losing senior rater will
       prepare a PRF as if the officer is still assigned. The PRF will be signed, but blocks VI,
       Group Size; VII, Board; and IX, Overall Recommendation will remain blank. The PRF
       follows the officer to the next assignment, and a copy is sent to HQ USAF/REPS.
       8.2.11.2. If, while in student status, the officer becomes eligible for consideration by a
       promotion board, the N-O PRF is sent to the Deputy RE for a R-O PRF.
       8.2.11.3. The Deputy RE prepares the R-O PRF according to Table 8.1. and rank orders
       all officers awarded a “DP” recommendation by competitive category within the student
       population. For example, a 1/2/2 rank order means the senior rater has two officers in
       that competitive category meeting the selection board; the officer is ranked number one
       of the two “DPs” awarded. Note: Student AGR PRFs are not included within the senior
       rater ID that applies to the Chief of Air Force Reserve.
       8.2.11.4. The N-O PRF is attached to the signed R-O PRF, and is forwarded to the
       Promotion Secretariat at the Air Reserve Personnel Center.
8.3. MLRs (ADL Lieutenant Colonel and Below).
   8.3.1. The Allocation Process:
       8.3.1.1. Definitely Promote. “DP” recommendations are limited in number to ensure
       only the most qualified records are endorsed. They send a strong signal to the CSB that
       the officer is ready for immediate promotion. “DP” allocation rates for IPZ and APZ
       officers are lower than the IPZ promotion opportunity; this ensures a significant number
       of officers receiving “P” recommendations will be promoted. MLs receive a share of
       “DP” allocations based on the number of IPZ or BPZ officers assigned. Allocation rates
       vary for each competitive category, grade and promotion zone, and may fluctuate
       according to changes in the promotion opportunity to guarantee the minimum promotion
       rate for eligibles receiving a “P” recommendation (40% to Major, 35% to Lieutenant
       Colonel and 25% to Colonel); this is called the promotion rate (P-Rate). Allocation rates
       for BPZ officers are higher than the BPZ promotion opportunity to ensure all senior raters
       have the same opportunity to nominate their most deserving officers for an early
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   195


      promotion with the limited number of BPZ promotions available. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB
      publicizes the “DP” allocation rates for each PRF cycle in the Day 66 message.
      8.3.1.2. PRF Accounting Date (150 days before the CSB). On the PRF accounting date,
      AFPC matches eligible officers to SRs based on the officers’ unit of assignment data in
      MilPDS. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB announces the actual PRF accounting date. Between the
      PRF accounting date and the 66th day before the CSB, MLs ensure AFPROMS is
      accurate.
      8.3.1.3. PRF Allocation Dates (150/66 days before the CSB). The initial allocation date
      is 150 days before the CSB. This is when MLs estimate the number of allocations
      available to each senior rater and evaluation board under their jurisdiction. After this
      date, the number of allocations is adjusted to account for officers who become eligible or
      ineligible for promotion and for officers who are still not aligned under the correct SRID
      as verified and reported by the management level activity to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB.
      These adjustments are made up until the day before the PRF final allocation date (which
      is 66 days before the CSB). On that day, the ML determines the actual number of
      allocations and distributes these allocations to SRs and MLRs based on the number of
      eligible officers for that level. No changes are made to the number of an ML's allocations
      on or after the final allocation date unless specifically authorized by HQ AFPC/DPSIDE
      as an exception. In addition, no changes in the ML’s allocations are authorized in cases
      where a Brig Gen (Sel) is confirmed by the U.S. Senate on or after day 66 and
      subsequently becomes eligible to be the SR for Lt Cols in the organization. HQ
      AFPC/DPSIDE will approve exceptions in order to maintain integrity in the OES and to
      ensure fair and proper consideration is given to all affected officers. (Note: the DP
      Allocations will not be adjusted automatically in AFPROMS (PRISM) for any approved
      exceptions, these calculations will need to be accomplished manually).
      8.3.1.4. PRF Cutoff Date. This date is 60 days prior to the CSB. PRFs cannot be signed
      prior to this date.
      8.3.1.5. Determining Line of the Air Force (LAF) Allocations.
         8.3.1.5.1. MLs determine the number of "DP" allocations they have by applying the
         appropriate allocation rate to their IPZ or BPZ eligibles. Round up fractions to the
         next whole number, e.g., if an ML has 462 BPZ eligibles and the allocation rate is
         10%, the ML earns 47 “DP” allocations (462 BPZ eligibles x 10% allocation rate =
         46.2 which rounds up to 47 allocations). Note: AFPROMS should be reviewed to
         determine DP allocation but this should not preclude MLs from doing a manual
         calculation.
         8.3.1.5.2. Although the allocation rate for I/APZ eligibles is different, the same
         procedure applies. APZ officers do not generate separate allocations. However, if
         the ML has only LAF APZ eligibles, then a single “DP” is available. In this case, the
         APZ officers would receive a "0" in section VI on the PRF. Refer to Table 8.2, Note
         2.
         8.3.1.5.3. MLs receive separate allocations for in-utilization permanent party
         students, see paragraph 8.3.5.1.
      8.3.1.6. Determining Senior Rater Allocations.
 196                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


           8.3.1.6.1. Minimum group size for one DP allocation is at least three eligibles, even
           if the DP allocation rate is 50% or higher. See Table 8.3.
           8.3.1.6.2. MLs determine each SRs share of allocations in the same manner as
           discussed in paragraph 8.3.1.5.1, except instead of rounding up, SRs round down.
           Example: A 55% allocation rate applied to a SR’s 10 IPZ Captains would yield five
           “DP” allocations (10 IPZ eligibles x 55% allocation rate = 5.5 which rounds down to
           5 allocations).
       8.3.1.7. Returning Allocations. SRs may return earned allocations to the ML if they
       believe the quality of officers in their unit does not warrant the full share of allocations.
       Additionally, any “DPs” awarded by the senior rater to eligibles that subsequently
       become ineligible is returned to the SR which may be reallocated using the SRs order of
       merit or returned to the ML for distribution.
       8.3.1.8. Redistributing “DP” allocations.
           8.3.1.8.1. Prior to the MLR convening, if a SR chooses not to use the full quota of
           “DPs,” those unused “DPs” go to the carry-over quota.
           8.3.1.8.2. Following an MLR, the MLR owns all “DPs.” Any returned “DP”
           allocations for IPZ/APZ eligibles are redistributed through the MLR carry-over
           process using the carry-over order of merit.
           8.3.1.8.3. BPZ “DPs” are redistributed at the next higher level or through the ML
           review carry-over process.
           8.3.1.8.4. Redistribution must occur prior to the PRF becoming a matter of record.
       8.3.1.9. Carry-over. Since allocations are rounded down when applying the allocation
       rate to a senior rater's eligible population, there are normally fractions of allocations
       remaining. These fractions accrue at the ML and result in allocations called “carry-over”
       DP allocations. Carry-over allocations (and any returned allocations) are awarded to
       account for variations of quality within organizations under the ML. For I/APZ officers,
       MLs distribute allocations to ML reviews for award. For BPZ eligibles, they distribute
       carry-over allocations directly to SRs or through the ML review process.
       8.3.1.10. Aggregation.
           8.3.1.10.1. SRs without the minimum number of I/APZ officers assigned to earn a
           “DP” in their (SR’s) own right may compete their officers for “DP” recommendations
           through aggregation. Grouping of all such officers and the application of the
           allocation rate yields, after rounding down, the number of “DP” allocations available
           to officers competing in aggregation. Example: If there are 2 SRs in a given ML
           with eligible officers and each SR has only 1 eligible and the “DP” allocation rate is
           65% then:
1 eligible x 65% = 0.65
+ 1 eligible x 65% = 0.65
   ML total        = 1.30
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    197


Note: After rounding down, the ML earns 1 “DP” to award in aggregation and transfers the
remaining .30 to carry-over.
          8.3.1.10.2. SRs without the minimum number of BPZ officers assigned to earn an
          allocation aggregate their officers to the next higher SR in rating chain until the
          number of eligibles is large enough to earn at least one allocation.
          8.3.1.10.3. SRs below the head of the ML who award BPZ "DP" recommendations to
          eligible officers aggregated from subordinate senior raters' populations must make the
          promotion recommendation decision without convening a board or panel of
          subordinates.
              8.3.1.10.3.1. If aggregation proceeds to the ML to satisfy the requirements of
              paragraph 8.3.1.10.2, the head of the ML may: NOTE: For Joint MLs, all PRFs
              (including BPZ) must be quality reviewed and the quality review process is
              extremely important in every ML during the IPZ/APZ process. See paragraph
              8.3.2.4.2.2.:
                 8.3.1.10.3.1.1. Personally distribute DPs on their own.
                 8.3.1.10.3.1.2. May ask for inputs from senior raters, but may make all final
                 decisions on DPs awarded, can convene MLRs and allow the MLRs to score
                 records determining the DPs awarded,
                 8.3.1.10.3.1.3. Can convene a MLR, seek inputs, and still make all final
                 decisions on DPs awarded.
          8.3.1.10.4. If the total number of line BPZ officers aggregated to the MLR is still too
          small to earn a “DP” allocation, all panel members, not just those with officers
          competing for aggregation, score the records of the officers in the aggregated group
          and may award one “DP” recommendation. If awarded, this “DP” allocation will
          come from the carry-over allocation.
       8.3.1.11. Determining Non-line of the Air Force and Line of the Air Force Judge
       Advocate (LAF-J) Allocations. Non-line (Chaplain [HC], Medical Corps [MC], Dental
       Corps [DC], Nurse Corps [NC], Biomedical Sciences Corps [BSC], and Medical Service
       Corps [MSC]) and LAF-J officers compete for promotion within their own separate
       competitive category.
          8.3.1.11.1. Minimum group size for one “DP” allocation is three eligibles, even if the
          DP allocation rate is 50% or higher. For allocation rates below 35%, the minimum
          group size will increase relative to the DP allocation rate.
          8.3.1.11.2. MLs determine the number of “DP” allocations in the same manner as
          discussed in paragraph 8.3.1.5.1 and 8.3.1.5.2, except MLs round down when
          computing I/APZ allocations and round up when computing BPZ allocations. If the
          ML does not have enough IPZ eligibles to earn an allocation, the MLR may submit
          I/APZ officers to compete at the Air Force Management Level Review for non-line
          officers, subject to the limits established by HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB.
          8.3.1.11.3. Allocation rates applied to non-line I/APZ officers within competitive
          categories may be different from those applied to line officers. BPZ allocation rates
198                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         are the same for both line and non-line competitive categories. Changes in promotion
         opportunity will cause adjustment of allocation rates.
         8.3.1.11.4. SRs without enough BPZ or I/APZ eligible officers to receive an
         allocation may submit their officers to compete for aggregation allocations at their
         ML review, subject to limits established by the ML.
         8.3.1.11.5. SRs may submit their officers to compete for carry-over allocations at the
         MLR, subject to the limits established by the ML. The MLR may submit I/APZ
         officers to compete for carry-over allocations at the Air Force Management Level
         Review for non-line officers, subject to the limits established by HQ
         AFPC/DPSIDEB.
      8.3.1.12. Determining Non-Line SR Allocations. SR compute allocation rates as they do
      for line officers, by rounding down for both I/APZ and BPZ officers. If SRs do not have
      enough I/APZ eligible officers to receive an allocation, they may compete them for “DP”
      recommendations through aggregation at the ML. SR who do not have enough BPZ
      officers assigned to earn an allocation aggregate their officers to the next higher senior
      rater in the rating chain until the number of eligibles is large enough to earn at least one
      allocation.
  8.3.2. MLR Requirements:
      8.3.2.1. General. MLs designate the organization or agency responsible for holding a
      review. The commander or head of the designated organization holds the MLR and may
      establish more than one MLR (e.g., at the Numbered Air Force level or Center level). If
      the head of the ML is the sole SR, there is no MLR and the completed PRFs are
      forwarded to USAF MLR for quality review.
      8.3.2.2. Timing and functions. Conduct MLRs 60 to 40 days before the CSB. They
      have five functions: (1) to quality review all I/APZ PRFs; (2) to award “DP”
      recommendations to those officers whose SR had too few eligibles to earn a “DP”
      allocation; (3) to award carry-over “DP” allocations available to the ML; (4) to award
      “DP” allocations to ML students; and (5) to nominate non-line officers from their ML to
      compete for DP allocations available at the HQ USAF Non-line MLR.
      8.3.2.3. Composition: President (an Air Force line officer), those SR who have either
      awarded a “DP” recommendation or have officers competing for aggregation or carry-
      over “DP” recommendations, and a nonvoting recorder designated by the commander or
      head of the organization responsible for conducting the MLR. Note: No officer eligible
      for a particular board will be involved with the process for that particular board.
         8.3.2.3.1. The head of the ML designates the MLR president. The president must be
         an AF GO when evaluating Lieutenant Colonels, and at least an AF Colonel when
         evaluating Majors and below.
         8.3.2.3.2. In cases where SRs are not available to serve on the panel due to some
         extraordinary circumstance, the head of the ML may authorize SRs to designate
         senior officials who meet the minimum grade requirement (a GO when evaluating
         Lieutenant Colonels or at least a Colonel when evaluating Majors and below) from
         their organization or higher chain of command to serve on their behalf.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                199


         8.3.2.3.3. If extraordinary circumstances require a SR’s departure during the MLR,
         the MLR president or another SR, as designated by the affected SR, may represent
         him or her. In all cases, the MLR president or SR designated to represent another
         group of officers is still limited to one vote. Additionally, if extraordinary
         circumstances require the MLR president to depart during an MLR, the head of the
         ML will designate another MLR president or assume the MLR presidency. In these
         cases, the records already scored will remain and the MLR will continue.
         8.3.2.3.4. MLs may establish a representative sample of SRs to conduct the quality
         review of the I/APZ PRFs and OCSRGps at the MLR. At the discretion of the ML,
         all SR who awarded a “DP” or who are competing officers for a “DP”
         recommendation do not need to participate in the quality review process at the MLR.
            8.3.2.3.4.1. All SRs with eligibles competing for an aggregation “DP” must serve
            as a member of the MLR during the aggregation phase. However, in those cases
            where SRs are not available to serve on the MLR due to some extraordinary
            circumstance, the MLR President may authorize SRs to designate senior officials
            (a GO when evaluating Lt Cols or at least a Colonel when evaluating Majors and
            below) from their organization or higher chain of command to serve on their
            behalf. If necessary, the MLR President may represent those SRs, however the
            MLR President is still limited to one vote. If during the MLR a senior rater must
            be excused, the SR may designate another SR already attending the MLR or the
            MLR President to act on their behalf, however, the MLR President or another
            senior rater which was designated is still limited to one vote.
            8.3.2.3.4.2. When practical, all SRs competing officers for carry-over “DPs”
            attend the MLR. If the ML determines this is not practical or deems it otherwise
            appropriate, it may establish a representative sample of SRs to award carry-over
            “DPs.” The ML uses a representative sample to ensure the SRs selected do not
            score the records of officers for whom they are the SR.
      8.3.2.4. MLR Preparation.
         8.3.2.4.1. MLs.
            8.3.2.4.1.1. Establish MLRs.
            8.3.2.4.1.2. Distribute aggregation and carry-over “DP” allocations to the MLR.
            8.3.2.4.1.3. Notify each SR of the number of officers he or she may submit to
            compete for carry-over allocations subject to limits established by the ML.
            8.3.2.4.1.4. Ensure MLRs are completed no earlier than 60 or no later than 40
            calendar days before convening of the CSB for which the PRFs are prepared.
            8.3.2.4.1.5. Determine the location of the MLR (normally held where
            performance records on the officers being considered are available).
            8.3.2.4.1.6. Ensure the OCSRGp and DQHB for each officer are available for the
            review.
            8.3.2.4.1.7. Ensure the MLR president is provided a listing of eligible officers,
            identifying those with UIFs, LORs and/or Articles 15. MLR presidents use this
200                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


             list at their discretion to ensure senior raters (and MLR members, when
             appropriate) have considered this information when preparing promotion
             recommendation forms.
             8.3.2.4.1.8. Establish scoring procedure for MLRs.
         8.3.2.4.2. MLR Purpose and Process:
             8.3.2.4.2.1. Ensure SRs do not exceed their share of “DP” recommendations.
             8.3.2.4.2.2. Ensure all BPZ records are reviewed separately from I/APZ eligibles.
             8.3.2.4.2.3. Quality review the OCSRGps, DQHBs and PRFs of all I/APZ
             officers in order to identify and discuss with appropriate SRs those PRFs that
             appear to contain exaggerated or unrealistic comments or comments that do not
             appear to support the overall recommendation based on the OCSRGp and
             information considered according to paragraph 1.12. Note: DP recommendations
             are limited in number to ensure that only the best qualified records are endorsed.
             A DP recommendation sends a strong signal to the CSB that this officer is ready
             for immediate promotion. If a SR or Head of the ML does not have officers
             fitting this definition, a DP should not be awarded even though DPs may be
             available. To award DPs to BPZ when the record does not support a DP
             recommendation, gives the officer unrealistic feedback and sends mixed signals to
             the CSB.
             8.3.2.4.2.4. Award “DP” recommendations to I/APZ officers aggregated from
             units with less than minimum group size needed for senior raters to award “DP”
             recommendations.
             8.3.2.4.2.5. Award carry-over “DP” recommendations to I/APZ officers.
         8.3.2.4.3. Senior Raters:
             8.3.2.4.3.1. Serve as members of the MLR.
             8.3.2.4.3.2. Submit PRFs to the MLR on all I/APZ officers including officers
             competing for aggregation and carry-over “DP” recommendations. (Note: Since
             BPZ records are not required to be quality reviewed, SRs must submit their BPZ
             PRFs to the ML for update.)
             8.3.2.4.3.3. Submit to the MLR recorder a single list of the names of their I/APZ
             officers. For those officers on the list with completed PRFs, include name and
             overall promotion recommendation; for those officers on the list submitted to
             compete for aggregation or carry-over, indicate whether competing for
             aggregation or carry-over “DP” recommendations by annotating a “A” for
             aggregation or “C” for Carryover.
      8.3.2.5. Review Procedures.
         8.3.2.5.1. General Procedures.
             8.3.2.5.1.1. For all MLRs, the recorder provides to the MLR president the total
             number of “DP” recommendations to be awarded by each SR.
             8.3.2.5.1.2. The MLR president ensures no SR exceeds the allowable number of
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   201


            “DP” recommendations. If a SR has awarded more “DP” recommendations than
            allowed, the SR specifies which PRFs need correction, new PRFs are prepared,
            and the SR completes sections IX and X.
                8.3.2.5.1.2.1. If the SR does not specify which PRFs need correcting, the
                panel reviews the OCSRGps and DQHBs of all officers assigned to that SR to
                determine which overall recommendations need changing. The panel then
                prepares a new PRF, with sections I through VIII copied verbatim from the
                original PRF submitted by the SR.
                8.3.2.5.1.2.2. The MLR president marks the "Promote" block in section IX of
                the re-accomplished PRF and signs the form. Note: The president will leave
                section IX blank when the officer competes under aggregation or carry-over.
                8.3.2.5.1.2.3. The panel will change the minimum number of PRFs required
                to ensure compliance with prescribed “DP” limits.
                8.3.2.5.1.2.4. The records of any officer whose PRF is re-accomplished under
                this provision will automatically compete for carry-over “DP”
                recommendations.
         8.3.2.5.2. PRF Review. MLR members will review the OCSRGps, DQHBs and
         completed PRFs of all I/APZ officers assigned to a SR as a group. If the MLR
         believes a “DP” recommendation is unsupported by the ratee's OCSRGp, they discuss
         this with the SR. Open discussion among MLR members is encouraged. In all cases,
         a SR has the final authority to determine the content of the PRFs he or she prepares
         (unless the content is inappropriate IAW paragraph 1.12. of this instruction), and to
         award “DP” recommendations allocated by the ML.
         8.3.2.5.3. Aggregation and Carry-over. The MLR assesses the relative merit of
         OCSRGps of competitors for aggregation and carry-over “DP” recommendations.
         This is by a combination of numerical scoring and open discussion among panel
         members. The MLR must ensure consistent and equitable procedures apply to the
         OCSRG of each officer. The scores of all MLR members are totaled, rank-ordered
         and “DP” recommendations awarded. If two or more records tie, and there are
         insufficient numbers of “DP” recommendations to award one to each, the MLR
         President will determine an appropriate method for breaking the tie.
         8.3.2.5.4. Procedures for Award of I/APZ Aggregation “DP” Recommendations:
            8.3.2.5.4.1. Officers submitted to compete for aggregation “DP”
            recommendations compete among themselves. The MLR president and only
            those senior raters with officers competing under aggregation will review and
            score the OCSRGps of these officers.
            8.3.2.5.4.2. If the total number of line IPZ officers aggregated to the MLR is still
            too small to earn a “DP” allocation, all panel members, not just those with officers
            competing for aggregation will score the records of the officers in the aggregated
            group and may award one “DP” recommendation. If awarded, this DP allocation
            will come from the carry over allocations. Example: If there are 2 SRs with
            eligible officers and each SR has 1 eligible and the DP allocation rate is 45%,
 202                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


              then:




Note: The fraction in aggregation (0.90) is added to the remainder in carry-over (1.15) and
rounded up from 2.05 (for LAF officers) to equal 3 “DPs.” Since the ML didn’t have enough
eligibles to earn a “DP” in aggregation, a “DP” is taken from the carry-over. This results in 1
“DP” to award in aggregation and 2 “DPs” to award in carry-over.
              8.3.2.5.4.3. After all records are reviewed and scored and the MLR has awarded
              the “DP” recommendations, SRs or their designated representatives complete
              Section IX on the PRFs for their officers. The MLR President verifies the results
              of the completed MLR by signing the order of merit. SRs may make any changes
              to the PRF as a result of the MLR (i.e., if the last line states “my next DP” and the
              officer received a “DP” from the MLR then the SR should change the last line).
              8.3.2.5.4.4. The records of officers from the aggregated group that did not receive
              a “DP” recommendation may compete for carry-over “DP” recommendations at
              the discretion of the SR, within the limits prescribed by the ML.
          8.3.2.5.5. Procedures for Award of I/APZ Carry-over “DP” Recommendations:
              8.3.2.5.5.1. At the MLR’s discretion, and subject to the limit of DPs available in
              the carry-over phase, those officers who do not receive a “DP” recommendation
              from aggregation will be submitted for carry-over “DP” recommendations. Note:
              This is based on the order of merit from the aggregation phase.
              8.3.2.5.5.2. Normally, the MLR President and all SRs with officers competing for
              carry-over recommendations participate in the carry-over decision (Exception:
              See paragraph 8.3.2.3.3). At the discretion of the MLR President, other SRs
              available may also participate in carry-over decisions.
              8.3.2.5.5.3. SRs or their designated representatives complete section IX on PRFs
              for their officers by marking either a "DP" or a "P" as appropriate. The MLR
              President verifies the results of the MLR by signing the order of merit. SR may
              make any changes to the PRF as a result of the MLR (i.e., if the last line states
              “my next DP” and the officer received a “DP” from the MLR then the SR should
              change the last line).
          8.3.2.5.6. Recorder Responsibilities. The MLR Recorder forwards all PRFs and
          annotated master eligible lists to the personnel activity responsible for updating the
          AFPROMS. Note: No officer eligible for a particular board will be involved with
          the PRF process for that particular board.
   8.3.3. Officers Assigned Outside the DoD and to Other Military Departments:
       8.3.3.1. LAF officers in this category require special provisions because their
       organizations of assignment do not fall within the jurisdiction of a ML.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    203


         8.3.3.1.1. Allocation Process. For these officers, the Air Force District of
         Washington (AFDW) acts as the ML. The responsibilities of AFDW are the same as
         those in paragraph 8.1.4.3, except for aggregated BPZ officers. The HQ USAF MLR
         (as described in paragraph 8.3.3.3) evaluates BPZ officers aggregated to the highest
         SR in the rating chain for whom the SR does not have the minimum group size
         required to receive an allocation.
         8.3.3.1.2. PRFs. SR submitting officers to compete for aggregation or carry-over
         “DP” recommendations prepare and forward PRFs to AFDW, leaving Section IX
         blank.
      8.3.3.2. Non-LAF Officers:
         8.3.3.2.1. Allocation Process.       HQ AFPC acts as the ML for promotion
         recommendations only. When the primary SR does not have the minimum group size
         required to receive an allocation, the HQ USAF Non-line MLR at AFPC will review
         and evaluate the PRFs for these officers as a separate group. SRs for non-line officers
         assigned outside DoD earn “DP” allocations as specified in paragraph 8.3.1.11.
         8.3.3.2.2. PRFs. SRs who submit their officers to compete for aggregation or carry-
         over “DP” recommendations prepare PRFs, leaving section IX blank. SRs forward
         PRFs to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB NLT 35 days prior to CSB.
      8.3.3.3. HQ USAF Review:
         8.3.3.3.1. The AFDW Commander directs the HQ USAF MLR to convene 40 to 60
         days before the CSB for which the PRFs are prepared. The AF/CV, or officer
         designated by the AF/CC, serves as MLR President. The AFDW Commander with
         the assistance of HQ USAF/A1, selects a minimum of four members, consistent with
         the minimum grade requirements for SRs, to serve as members.
         8.3.3.3.2. The HQ USAF MLR will review all completed I/APZ and BPZ PRFs and
         award aggregation and carry-over “DP” recommendations. AFDW is responsible for
         providing SRs copies of completed PRFs on their ratees. This MLR will also review
         all PRFs completed by sole SRs. Sole SR are defined as when the ML authority is the
         only SR with eligibles within the entire ML (see definition of sole senior rater in this
         instruction).
         8.3.3.3.3. The recorder consolidates information on the number of BPZ officers
         assigned, the number of BPZ “DP” recommendations available, and the number of
         “DP” recommendations awarded. Note: No officer eligible for a particular board
         will be involved with the PRF Process for that particular board.
         8.3.3.3.4. If, during the review of completed PRFs, the board discovers that a senior
         rater awarded more “DP” recommendations than allowed, the MLR president
         discusses this with the SR.
            8.3.3.3.4.1. After the SR decides which PRFs to correct, he or she forwards the
            re-accomplished PRFs to the MLR by the most expeditious means.
            8.3.3.3.4.2. If the SR does not specify which PRFs need correcting, the panel
            reviews the OCSRGps and DQHBs of all officers assigned to that SR to
            determine which overall recommendations need changing. The panel then
204                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


             prepares a new PRF, with sections I through VIII copied verbatim from the
             original PRF submitted by the SR.
                 8.3.3.3.4.2.1. The MLR President marks the "Promote" block in section IX of
                 the re-accomplished PRFs and signs section X.
             8.3.3.3.4.3. The MLR holds PRFs they re-accomplish pending receipt of a re-
             accomplished PRF from the SR. If they receive the SR’s re-accomplished PRF
             before MLR conclusion, the re-accomplished PRF is submitted to the MLR for
             review. If the MLR has concluded, the PRF is re-accomplished by the panel
             president, submitted to AFDW and the original submitted by the SR will be
             destroyed. The ML will then process the PRF as appropriate.
         8.3.3.3.5. Award of “DP” recommendations to I/APZ officers is always separate and
         distinct from award of "DP" recommendations to BPZ officers.
         8.3.3.3.6. The MLR President completes PRFs with section IX left blank.
         8.3.3.3.7. Since panel members may not be SRs for the officers meeting the MLR,
         members are encouraged to discuss an officer's OCSRGp and current performance
         with the SR in any case where the panel members believe it necessary.
  8.3.4. Joint MLRs:
      8.3.4.1. Evaluation Reviews. The president of a panel held to evaluate Joint officers is
      always an Air Force GO. Joint MLs may exercise one of two options: 1) hold their own
      reviews, or 2) allow the HQ USAF MLR to evaluate their officers. If the Joint ML is the
      sole SR, the HQ USAF MLR will review all completed Joint ML sole SR PRFs.
      8.3.4.2. PRF. When SRs submit officers to compete at the HQ USAF MLR, section IX
      of the PRF is left blank.
      8.3.4.3. If the ML chooses to hold a review but there is no Air Force GO assigned to the
      activity, the ML may obtain the assistance of an Air Force GO assigned to another
      activity. If necessary, the HQ USAF/A1 will assist the ML in obtaining a GO to serve as
      the president.
         8.3.4.3.1. SRs submit to the panel all I/APZ and BPZ completed PRFs as well as the
         PRFs (section IX blank) on all I/APZ officers submitted to compete for aggregation
         or carry-over “DP” recommendations.
         8.3.4.3.2. The responsibilities and procedures of Joint Reviews are the same as in
         paragraph 8.3.2, except for the requirement for all BPZ PRFs, regardless of
         recommendation, to be reviewed by an MLR (Joint MLR hosted by an Air Force GO
         or HQ USAF MLR). This is to ensure our Air Force officers in a Joint environment
         are getting an Air Force look.
  8.3.5. Officers Assigned as Permanent Party Students.
      8.3.5.1. Management Level Students - Officers assigned as permanent party students
      training in their utilization field to include TDY in a training status. In-utilization
      training includes any follow-on, specialized, requalification, upgrade, enhancement, or
      broadening training in the officer’s utilization field. MLs receive separate allocations
      based on those populations since permanent party eligibles and students must be
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   205


      evaluated as two distinct categories. For both I/APZ and BPZ LAF permanent party
      students, allocations round up at the ML and down at the SR level. For I/APZ non-line
      permanent party students, allocations round down. BPZ non-line permanent party
      student allocations round up at the ML and down at the SR level. Evaluation procedures
      are the same as outlined in paragraph 8.3.2.5. Responsibilities of the ML with regard to
      students are the same as those in paragraph 8.3.2.4.1.
      8.3.5.2. AF Level Students - Officers assigned as permanent party students training
      outside their utilization field. Outside utilization training includes DE, degree-granting
      programs (usually AFIT-sponsored), language training, Education With Industry
      programs, attaché/designate training, Medical Corps/Dental Corps residency programs
      (when a new AFSC or suffix is awarded upon completion of training or when determined
      by the competitive category functional representatives), internships, and initial
      qualification training into a new utilization field.
         8.3.5.2.1. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB acts as the ML for AF level students and receives
         “DP” allocations based on the number of BPZ or IPZ officers eligible for
         consideration by the HQ USAF Student ML Review discussed in paragraph 8.3.5.2.2.
         The allocation rate is applied to students, patients and MIAs/POWs separately and
         rounded up at the ML.
         8.3.5.2.2. HQ USAF Student ML Review. Convened by USAF/A1, it considers both
         Line and Non-Line permanent party students, patients and MIAs/POWs. It convenes
         approximately 70 days prior to the CSB. HQ USAF/A1 designates an MLR president
         and a minimum of four MLR members consistent with the minimum grade
         requirements for senior raters. The MLR is responsible for the following:
             8.3.5.2.2.1. Reviewing the OCSRGp, DQHB and N-O PRFs.
             8.3.5.2.2.2. Separately evaluating the records of those officers competing for
             BPZ “DP” recommendations and those officers competing for I/APZ “DP”
             recommendations.
             8.3.5.2.2.3. Scoring all BPZ and I/APZ records and awarding “DP”
             recommendations based on the allocation rate prescribed for that grade and zone.
             8.3.5.2.2.4. Scoring records and awarding promotion recommendations to
             officers in patient, MIA and POW status.
             8.3.5.2.2.5. Awarding all promotion recommendations. There are no separate
             procedures to award aggregation and carry-over allocations.
             8.3.5.2.2.6. Ensuring the R-O PRF is accomplished for each officer, the
             appropriate recommendation in section IX is marked and signed by the MLR
             president and is attached to the N-O PRF prepared by the officer’s last permanent
             party SR.
             8.3.5.2.2.7. Ensuring ratees receive a copy of the completed R-O and the attached
             N-O PRFs. Note: These are distributed per paragraph 8.1.4.2.13.
      8.3.5.3. Writing Letters to Air Force Student Management Level Review (MLR).
206                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


         8.3.5.3.1. Air Force-level students eligible for promotion may write a letter to the Air
         Force Student MLR. Ensure you:
             8.3.5.3.1.1. Submit the letter in good faith and ensure it contains accurate
             information to the best of your knowledge.
             8.3.5.3.1.2. Sign and date the letter.
             8.3.5.3.1.3. Send the letter to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB so it arrives no later than the
             5 days prior to the MLR convening date. The MLR will not consider letters that
             arrive on or after the convening date. Address letters to: CY (insert appropriate
             year and grade) USAF Student MLR, HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB. Letters may be
             faxed, emailed or mailed but must have an actual signed signature (i.e., payroll
             signature).
             8.3.5.3.1.4. If requesting return of the letter, provide a stamped self-addressed
             envelope. Otherwise, the letter will be destroyed upon conclusion of the Student
             MLR. Letters will not be forwarded to the CSB.
         8.3.5.3.2. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB advises officers when letters do not meet the above
         requirements and either returns or destroys the letter.
         8.3.5.3.3. Letters on behalf of other officers are not permitted (to clarify: eligible
         officers may provide letters as attachments to their letter; however, a stand-alone
         letter cannot be submitted on their behalf).
         8.3.5.3.4. The following attachments are not permitted: documents that can become
         a permanent part of the officer's selection folder (i.e., PRFs considered by previous
         CSBs, unsigned OPRs and TRs, decoration narratives or LOEs which become part of
         the permanent record).
  8.3.6. Non-line officers and Line of the Air Force Judge Advocate. Non-line officers (HC,
  MC, DC, NC, BSC, MSC) and Line of the Air Force Judge Advocate (LAF-J) compete for
  promotion by competitive category. In some cases, their promotion opportunity is different
  from line officers. Also, the total number of officers in each of these competitive categories
  is relatively small. Consequently, the number of eligible officers under a SR will frequently
  be insufficient to receive a "DP" allocation, as is often the case even when officers aggregate
  to the ML.
      8.3.6.1. PRFs. Section IX is blank on PRFs for officers submitted by the MLR to the
      USAF Non-Line MLR. The USAF Non-Line MLR president completes section IX with
      either a “DP”, "P", or "DNP" recommendation. Section VI (Group Size) for I/APZ non-
      line officers will always be “N/A”.
      8.3.6.2. Non-Line Evaluation Reviews. An MLR and/or the HQ USAF MLR may
      evaluate I/APZ and BPZ non-line officers.
      8.3.6.3. MLR. SRs submit completed PRFs, and PRFs with section IX left blank, on all
      officers submitted to compete for aggregation or carry-over recommendations. This
      includes PRFs on permanent party ML students.
         8.3.6.3.1. For each competitive category, the MLR composition is: The president (a
         line officer); SRs who awarded a “DP”; SRs with officers competing for aggregation
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    207


          or carry-over “DP” recommendations; an officer from the competitive category
          concerned who meets the minimum grade requirement to be a SR and non-voting
          recorders. If an officer from a competitive category in the Health Professions who
          meets the criteria is not available, the ML may designate an officer from one of the
          other Health Professions who meets the minimum grade requirements to serve on the
          panel. For promotion to Colonel, if a GO is not assigned to represent the competitive
          category, the ML may designate a Colonel from the competitive category to serve on
          the MLR.
          8.3.6.3.2. The MLR evaluates the records of officers competing for BPZ “DP”
          recommendations as a separate process.
          8.3.6.3.3. MLs identify officers to compete for aggregate and carry-over
          recommendations at the Air Force MLR for non-line officers (subject to limits
          established by HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB).
       8.3.6.4. HQ USAF Non-Line MLR:
          8.3.6.4.1. This panel considers those officers aggregated from MLs and senior raters
          outside DoD and those recommended to compete for aggregate and carry-over “DP”
          recommendations. It also evaluates non-line officers assigned as permanent party Air
          Force-level students and non-line officers in patient, MIA and POW status. HQ
          AFPC convenes these reviews at AFPC approximately 30 days before the CSB.
          8.3.6.4.2. Composition: President (a line officer) and a minimum of four members as
          designated by the AF/DP, or designated representative, consistent with the minimum
          grade requirements, where possible. The competitive category under consideration
          will not form the majority of MLR membership. For MLRs considering the Health
          Professions (MSC, BSC, MC, DC, and NC), no more than two members may come
          from the competitive category under consideration. The remaining two normally will
          be from a medical profession competitive category not under consideration. Line
          officers may serve if obtaining panel members from the medical professions is
          impractical.
          8.3.6.4.3. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB limits the number of officers each ML may submit to
          compete for aggregate and carry-over allocations to the total number of “DP”
          allocations available. Ensures a OCSRGp and PRF on each officer being submitted
          are available for review, and holds an Air Force MLR for each competitive category.
          8.3.6.4.4. ML Review responsibilities are the same as discussed in paragraph 8.3.2.4.
8.4. Special Provisions (applies to ADL officers only).
   8.4.1. Officers Relocating During the PRF Process. To ensure officers with a PCA or PCS
   assignment to a new senior rater effective after the PRF accounting date, but on or before the
   PRF cutoff date, receive full consideration for a “DP” recommendation, special provisions
   apply. The gaining SR considers all eligible officers (except patients) regardless of
   promotion zone, who have a DAS (in PDS) effective after the PRF accounting date, but on or
   before the PRF cutoff date, for a “DP” recommendation. For similar rules on promotion-
   eligible colonels, see paragraph 8.6.2.
208                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      8.4.1.1. The losing SR’s total number of eligibles always includes officers in this
      category when determining the losing SR’s share of “DP” allocations. As a result, the
      losing SR is responsible for preparing PRFs and ensuring quality review is completed.
      8.4.1.2. Do not adjust the gaining SR’s number of “DP” allocations to include officers in
      this category. Take any “DP” recommendations awarded by a gaining SR from available
      allocations already established by the gaining SR’s ML.
      8.4.1.3. To provide these officers fair consideration, the losing and gaining SRs may
      discuss the officer’s performance and their intentions (via phone, memo, etc.).
      8.4.1.4. The gaining SR:
         8.4.1.4.1. Must consider only those eligible officers who will be given an outright
         “Promote” recommendation by their losing SR. Gaining SRs have no option to award
         an outright “DP”, nor can they nominate newly assigned officers for aggregation or
         carry-over consideration when the losing senior rater nominates them to the
         aggregation or carry-over process at the officer’s losing ML review or to the AF Non-
         Line MLR regardless of the outcome from the ML review.
         8.4.1.4.2. Must consider all newly assigned officers who received a “Promote”
         recommendation on their PRF from the HQ USAF Student MLR. Eligibles
         considered by the HQ USAF Student MLR are not competed in aggregation or
         carryover; therefore, the gaining senior raters may award an outright “DP”, or
         compete the officer(s) in aggregation and/or carry-over.
         8.4.1.4.3. Will accomplish a new PRF only if this provision is authorized IAW
         paragraph 8.4.1.4.1. The new accomplished PRF will contain the gaining SRID in
         section VIII of the PRF and complete ratee identification data, unit mission
         description, and job description as of the DAS (PCS) or duty effective date (PCA) to
         the gaining senior rater. Note: If the gaining SR is unable to obtain a “DP”
         recommendation, either outright or by aggregation/carryover, then the accomplished
         PRF is destroyed and the original PRF accomplished by the losing SR will be used
         for the CSB.
      8.4.1.5. The gaining SR will exercise the following options, as appropriate:
         8.4.1.5.1. Decide to take no action to submit an individual for a “DP”
         recommendation.
         8.4.1.5.2. Award a “DP” recommendation from earned allocations.
         8.4.1.5.3. Submit I/APZ officers to compete for aggregation and carry-over.
         8.4.1.5.4. Submit BPZ officers for aggregation and/or carry-over as appropriate for
         the officer's competitive category.
         8.4.1.5.5. Award a “DNP” recommendation when substantiated derogatory
         information has been received since departure from previous assignment if time does
         not allow for not-qualified-for-promotion action processing. This is considered a
         Stop File (see paragraph 8.5) and must be submitted in writing through the ML to HQ
         AFPC/DPSIDEB. Gaining SRs must get the concurrence of the gaining MLR
         President and ensure the losing SR is informed of the “DNP” action. This will allow
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      209


          the opportunity for possible redistribution of any previously awarded “DPs” to other
          deserving officers prior to the CSB.
      8.4.1.6. If the gaining SR submits an officer for aggregation or carry-over “DP"
      recommendation, the gaining SR must ensure the officer's record of performance is
      available.
      8.4.1.7. The gaining SR should notify the losing SR of his or her intentions.
      8.4.1.8. The ML will:
          8.4.1.8.1. Ensure consideration of all officers in this category for promotion
          recommendation and manage all necessary actions to ensure full consideration by the
          losing and gaining SRs.
          8.4.1.8.2. Work with MPSs to notify SRs of their eligible officers who fall in this
          category to ensure consideration for a “DP” recommendation, as outlined in
          paragraph 8.4.
          8.4.1.8.3. Notify HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB when a gaining SR awards a “DP” or “DNP”
          recommendation. This includes those awarded within a ML as a result of a PCA
          action. This is considered a Stop File under paragraph 8.4 (commonly known Old
          Guy/New Guy) circumstances and must be in writing IAW paragraph 8.5.
          8.4.1.8.4. Ensure allocations are not adjusted to account for officers in this category.
      8.4.1.9. The MPS will:
          8.4.1.9.1. Screen all officers gained after the PRF accounting date to determine
          eligibility and notify SRs accordingly. Ensure SRs certify a review of all gained
          eligibles by signing the old guy/new RIP or projected eligibles MEL which is
          generated from AFPROMS.
          8.4.1.9.2. Notify the ML of newly assigned officers whose SRID is not correct as
          soon as possible; monitor DAS for changes (resulting from finance office updates)
          that would necessitate a correction to the SRID.
          8.4.1.9.3. Provide the senior rater a OCSRGp and DQHB on newly assigned
          members.
      8.4.1.10. HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB will:
          8.4.1.10.1. Update all “DP” and “DNP” recommendations awarded by gaining SRs
          upon Stop File notification from MLs.
          8.4.1.10.2. Receive “DP” PRFs accomplished by the gaining senior rater thru the
          Stop File process. If the losing and gaining senior rater both award the same overall
          recommendation, the PRF from the gaining senior rater is destroyed.
          8.4.1.10.3. Update inter-command SRID changes upon receipt of                STOP File
          requests.
   8.4.2. Officers Added to or Deleted from Promotion Eligibility. This paragraph applies to
   officers who become eligible or ineligible for promotion consideration in a particular
   competitive category on or after the PRF allocation date. Causes for a change in eligibility
210                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  status may include: SSB or AFBCMR actions, administrative errors, changes in dates of
  separation (DOS), or similar circumstances.
      8.4.2.1. When an officer is added to a CSB or changes promotion zone eligibility, the
      SR:
         8.4.2.1.1. Prepares a PRF without a restriction as to the type of recommendation
         awarded, since there are no adjustments made to allocations of “DP”
         recommendations on or after the PRF allocation date.
         8.4.2.1.2. Only awards “DP” recommendations to officers whose OCSRGp and
         DQHB are comparable to other officers who received “DP” recommendations during
         the normal PRF process.
         8.4.2.1.3. Completes PRFs according to Table 8.1 (except section VI, Group Size).
         In this section, enter a "1" for IPZ or BPZ officers and a "0" for APZ officers. Note:
         Group size for Non-Line is always “N/A”
         8.4.2.1.4. Either recommends or does not recommend the officer for promotion, if
         the promotion opportunity is 100%. A PRF is required only for officers who are not
         recommended for promotion.
      8.4.2.2. SRs void PRFs completed on officers subsequently deleted from promotion
      eligibility following the PRF allocation date. When a PRF is voided and an outright
      “DP” was awarded, SRs may reallocate these “DPs” to other officers and re-accomplish
      PRFs. See paragraph 8.3.1.8.2. for disposition of “DPs” after the MLR convenes. The
      appropriate MLR must approve changes to I/APZ, Joint BPZ and Non-line BPZ PRFs.
      Line BPZ PRFs changes do not require MLR approval.
      8.4.2.3. When an officer's zone of eligibility for promotion changes (i.e., from BPZ to
      IPZ), the above provisions apply. SRs prepare a new PRF as appropriate to reflect the
      officer's correct promotion zone and void the old PRF.
  8.4.3. Prisoners, Deserters, and Officers on Appellate Leave. Do not accomplish PRFs for
  officers who become prisoners or deserters, or who are on appellate leave on or before the
  PRF accounting date. Notify HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB through the ML to have these officers
  removed from the SR MEL unless the status is after the PRF accounting date. HQ
  AFPC/DPSIDEB prepares a board-specific AF Form 77 for ADL officers who fall into this
  category and places it into their selection record. However, officers identified as prisoners,
  deserters, or on appellate leave after the PRF accounting date will require PRFs from the
  losing SR. His or her total number of eligibles will include these officers when determining
  “DP” allocations.
  8.4.4. Officers Eligible for Promotion when the Promotion Opportunity is 100%. When the
  promotion opportunity for any grade at the CSB is 100%, SRs will prepare PRFs only on
  officers who receive “DNP” recommendation and on officers who receive a “P” but have
  derogatory information (e.g. Article 15, court-martial, referral evaluation, LOR, etc.) filed in
  their OSRs. Exceptions to this rule can be addressed to HQ AFPC/DPSIDE. SRs will
  annotate the MEL with either a “P” (for "promote") or “N” (for “do not promote this board”)
  and forward the MEL and “DNP” PRFs to the ML. MLs will review all “DNP” promotion
  recommendations at the MLR, update AFPROMS to show either “P” (recommended for
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       211


   promotion) or “N” (not recommended for promotion), and forward any completed PRFs to
   arrive at HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB no later than 30 days prior to the CSB start date. MLs may
   use a representative sample of senior raters to evaluate these “DNP” recommendations.
   8.4.5. Officers Assigned to Units Above the Management Level (AML). Officers assigned
   directly to the Offices of the CSAF, SecAF CJCS, SECDEF, VPOTUS, or POTUS, with that
   individual as their direct reporting official, are “above the management level.” As such,
   officers in this category require special provisions because these offices do not fall within the
   usual jurisdiction of an ML. These select units generally have few promotion eligible
   officers for most boards.
       8.4.5.1. Allocation Process. To ensure these officers receive full and fair consideration,
       the individual AML unit acts as the ML and receives separate DP allocations for IPZ and
       BPZ officers assigned. Since there is no opportunity for this small pocket of quality
       officers to aggregate up or compete for carry-over, the AML heads are authorized to
       award additional DPs.
       8.4.5.2. PRFs. The AML heads are sole SRs and must prepare PRFs on all promotion
       eligible officers under consideration by the appropriate CSB. They award all PRF
       recommendations.
       8.4.5.3. MLR. Since the AML heads are sole SRs, they do not conduct MLRs; the PRFs
       are forwarded to the HQ USAF MLR (AFDW) for a quality review only.
8.5. Correction of Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRF) (ADL Officers) (Stop File
process). A PRF is considered a working copy until the start of the CSB. If the PRF is not a
matter of record, SRs have the flexibility to change PRFs. Note: All changes to PRFs should be
completed no later than 2 weeks prior to the CSB. However, in extreme circumstances and on a
case-by-case basis, AFPC/DPSIDEB may approve changes up to one duty day prior to the CSB.
The request must be from an O-6/equivalent or above, who has oversight of the MLR process
and justification as to why the correction was not discovered within the time limit.
   8.5.1. For typographical errors, concurrence by the MLR President is not required. For
   content changes, MLR President concurrence is necessary. The following steps should be
   followed:
       8.5.1.1. SR contacts the ML to discuss the issue. The ML will notify HQ
       AFPC/DPSIDEB to place an immediate “Stop File” on the affected officer’s PRF(s) with
       written communication, identifying the change, (fax, email, letter) within 24 hours of
       initial notification.
       8.5.1.2. The SR must notify the affected officer (in writing or, if verbal, follow-up in
       writing) of the intent to change the PRF.
       8.5.1.3. SR forwards the corrected PRF to the ML and provides a copy to the officer.
       8.5.1.4. ML forwards the corrected PRF to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB.
   8.5.2. If the change to the PRF serves to weaken the narrative portion, is a negative content
   change, or a downgrade in the overall rating, the MLR process that the original PRF met
   must be re-accomplished. In addition to the steps above, the officer must be provided a copy
   of the re-accomplished PRF and a letter, similar to the letter provided to an officer who
   receives a “DNP” recommendation, stating the officer’s right to write a letter to the CSB.
 212                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


   8.5.3. Correction of Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRF) (ResAF Officers) (Stop File
   process). A PRF is considered a working copy until the start of the CSB. If the PRF is not a
   matter of record, SRs have the flexibility to change PRFs. Note: All changes to PRFs
   should be completed NLT two weeks prior to the CSB. However, in extreme circumstances
   and on a case-by-case basis, ARPC/DPB may approve changes up to one duty day prior to
   the CSB. The request must be from the SR (in writing or, if verbal, follow-up in
   writing/electronic mail within 24 hours of initial notification).
       8.5.3.1. The SR must notify the affected officer (in writing or, if verbal, follow-up in
       writing) of the intent to change the PRF.
       8.5.3.2. If the change to the PRF serves to weaken the narrative portion, is a negative
       content change, or a downgrade in the overall rating, the PRF must be re-accomplished.
       In addition to the steps above, the officer must be provided a copy of the re-accomplished
       PRF and a letter, similar to the letter provided to an officer who receives a “DNP”
       recommendation, stating the officer’s right to write a letter to the CSB.
8.6. Promotion Recommendations for Colonels. This section describes how to recommend
Colonels for promotion to the grade of Brigadier General. It applies to officers eligible for
consideration by the HQ USAF or USAFR GO CSB or an ANGUS Federal Recognition Board.
   8.6.1. Responsibilities in the Promotion Recommendation Process.
       8.6.1.1. Heads of MLs must:
          8.6.1.1.1. Prepare PRFs on all promotion-eligible Colonels under consideration by
          the appropriate selection or federal recognition board (e.g., EAD colonels with two
          years’ time in grade as of the board convening date). Note: Do not prepare PRFs on
          prisoners or officers on appellate leave, or on ANGUS Colonels being considered for
          certificates of eligibility to the grade of Brigadier General. When preparing PRFs on
          promotion-eligible Colonels, MLs may consider, in addition to the OCSRGp, other
          reliable sources of information., to include the SOUIF (if applicable). Table 8.1.,
          Notes 4 and 6, contain further guidance. Instructions in this AFI take precedence
          over those printed on the AF Form 709. For ANGUS Colonels, the AF Form 709
          must be signed by the Adjutant General. For Adjutants General, the AF Form 709
          must be signed by the Governor.
          8.6.1.1.2. Personally complete, must be handwritten, PRFs by competitive category
          on all promotion-eligible Colonels who receive a "DP" recommendation. Complete
          PRFs no earlier than 60 calendar days and no later than 30 calendar days before the
          selection or federal recognition board convenes.
          8.6.1.1.3. Designate one or more representatives to perform this function for all other
          promotion recommendations. Representatives must be senior in grade to the ratees.
          Note: Brigadier General selectees may not be designated as a representative for PRF
          purposes.
          8.6.1.1.4. Rank order all Colonels who receive a “DP” recommendation. Rank order
          the Colonels of each competitive category separately (USAFR does not rank order by
          competitive category). Include the ranking on the PRF in Section VI, “Group Size.”
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     213


          Rankings must be sequential with no duplication within an ML. This paragraph does
          not apply to ANGUS officers.
          8.6.1.1.5. Send completed PRFs on all USAFR Colonels to HQ USAF/REPS no later
          than 30 calendar days prior to the CSB convening date.
          8.6.1.1.6. Provide each ratee a copy of his or her PRF approximately 30 calendar
          days prior to the appropriate board. Attach a memo (Figure 8.1) for ratees who
          received a “DNP” to advise him or her of the right to submit a letter to the CSB.
      8.6.1.2. Vice Chief of Staff, USAF (AF/CV). The AF/CV, or designated representative,
      serves as the single ML for Air Force Colonels assigned outside the DoD, to other
      military services, or as Air Force-level (e.g. senior service school) students.
      8.6.1.3. Air Force Colonel Management Office (AF/DPO). Manages the PRF process
      for all ADL Colonels. It announces the PRF accounting date and matches promotion
      eligible officers to the appropriate ML on that date.
      8.6.1.4. General Officer Management (AF/REG). Manages the PRF process for all
      USAFR Colonels.
      8.6.1.5. National Guard Bureau ANG General Officer Management Office (NGB-
      GO/AF). Manages the PRF process for all ANGUS colonels.
   8.6.2. Officers Relocating During the PRF Process. Colonels reassigned to a new ML within
   60 days (before or after) the PRF accounting date may have their PRF written by either the
   gaining or losing ML at the discretion of the two MLs. If there is a conflict, the officer's ML
   of administrative assignment (as of the PRF accounting date) prepares the PRF. Note: For
   promotion-eligible colonels, the head of the ML is the person serving in that capacity as of
   the date PRFs are due to AF/DPO.
   8.6.3. Processing and Use of the PRF for Colonels.
      8.6.3.1. Send completed PRFs on all ADL Colonels to AF/DPO no later than 30 calendar
      days prior to the CSB convening date.
      8.6.3.2. Send completed PRFs on all USAFR Colonels to HQ USAF/REPS
      approximately 30 calendar days prior to the CSB convening date.
      8.6.3.3. Send completed PRFs on all ANGUS colonels to NGB-GO/AF no later than 30
      calendar days prior to the ANGUS Federal Recognition Board convening date, or as
      directed by NGB-GO.
      8.6.3.4. N-O/R-O PRFs for Permanent-Party students, Patients and MIAs/POWs.
          8.6.3.4.1. The SR sends the narrative-only PRF to AF/DPO no later than 30 days
          prior to the officer departing PCA or PCS for school.
          8.6.3.4.2. The SR sends evaluations for officers in patient or MIA/POW status to
          AF/DPO no later than 60 days after the officer enters this new status.
          8.6.3.4.3. SRs provide a copy of the N-O PRF to the ratee prior to the officer’s
          departure from home station.
 214                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


          8.6.3.4.4. AF/DPO maintains N-O PRFs until the officer leaves student, patient, or
          MIA/POW status. AF/DPO destroys N-O PRFs when the officer no longer competes
          for promotion in this status. AF/DPO maintains the N-P PRFs until distributed as
          specified below:
              8.6.3.4.4.1. For officers who become eligible for promotion consideration by a
              Brigadier General CSB before they change status, AF/DPO forwards the
              narrative-only PRFs to 11 WG/DPJ.
              8.6.3.4.4.2. After completion of the AF/CV recommendation-only PRFs (which
              are attached to the N-O PRFs), the AF/CV forwards the PRFs back to AFCMO
              for inclusion in the HQ USAF selection folder and provides copies to the ratees.
       8.6.3.5. Restrict the use of the AF Form 709 to the Brigadier General CSBs. Do not use
       PRFs for any other personnel action.
       8.6.3.6. A PRF becomes a “matter of record” upon the convening date of the CSB for
       which it was prepared.
       8.6.3.7. Destroy a Colonel’s PRF within 30 days of the officer’s promotion, retirement,
       or separation.
       8.6.3.8. Only the offices listed below may maintain copies of the PRF.
          8.6.3.8.1. AF/DPO for all ADL Colonels.
          8.6.3.8.2. HQ USAF/REPS for all USAFR Colonels.
          8.6.3.8.3. NGB-GO/AF for all ANGUS Colonels.
   8.6.4. Instructions for Completing the AF Form 709 for Colonels. See Table 8.1.
8.7. Supplemental Management Level Reviews (SMLRs) for Recommendation Upgrade
(POST-CSB), (For ADL Only). The SMLR is a “competitive process” required to ensure
fairness and equity in the “post-CSB” PRF appeal process. As stated in paragraph 8.1.4.3.10.,
MLs must maintain copies of OCSRs awarded to the bottom DP and the top two Ps in carry-over
at their MLR for each competitive category as it appeared before the MLR. The OCSR will
serve as the “DP benchmark” record to be competed via SMLR against OCSRs of officers
seeking a “post-CSB” PRF upgrade of the overall recommendation (Section IX) to a “definitely
promote” (DP) rating.
   8.7.1. Granting SMLR Consideration. MLs will grant SMLR consideration only if they have
   the written support of both the original SR and MLR President in accordance with
   Attachment 2, paragraph A2.6.
   8.7.2. SMLR Procedures. MLs will conduct SMLRs in conjunction with their next
   scheduled MLR, when appropriate membership is present. When conducting a SMLR, the
   applicant’s OCSR, to include the revised PRF as supported by both the original SR and MLR
   president, will be competed head-to-head against the “DP” and “P” benchmarks and scored
   by all members of the MLR. MLs must ensure the applicant’s OCSR contains only those
   documents that would have been present during the original MLR. Scoring of the records
   will be a simple vote. The applicant’s OSR must tie or beat the bottom “DP” benchmark in
   order to be awarded a DP rating.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     215


   8.7.3. Disclosing of SMLR Results. At the conclusion of the SMLR, the ML must ensure
   the MLR President certifies the results via a results letter. If the applicant earned a “DP”
   rating from the SMLR, the letter, along with the PRF, should be returned to the applicant to
   be included in his/her appeal package (Evaluation Report Appeals Board process IAW
   chapter 10), see paragraph 10.4.4.1.2. In addition, a copy of the letter and PRF must be
   forwarded to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB. If the applicant is not granted a “DP” from the SMLR,
   his/her appeal to change the overall recommendation of the PRF to a “DP” is without merit.
   As such, the results letter and PRF should be returned to the applicant, and only a copy of the
   letter must be forwarded to HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB.
 216                                                        AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


Figure 8.1. Officer's Right to Submit a Memorandum to the Central Selection Board
(CSB) or ResAF CSB. See AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions, Chapter 4, for further
guidance.




Table 8.1. Instructions for Completing AF Form 709, Performance Recommendation
Forms.
L      A    B                   C
I      To
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                              217


N    Complete
E    Sec  Item              Instructions (See Note 1 and Note 4; 365-day extended
                            deployment see Note 11 and paragraph 5.6)
1    I     RATEE            See PRF notice for ratee identification data. If any data is
           IDENTIFICATION   incorrect, notify the CSS/HR Specialist and MPS for
           DATA             computer correction for ADL officers. For RASL officers,
                            notify the MPS (unit assigned) or HQ ARPC/DPBR to
                            correct any erroneous data.
2          Name             Enter last name, first name, middle initial, and Jr., Sr., etc.
                            If the officer has no middle initial, the use of “NMI” is not
                            mandatory. The name will be in all upper case.
3          SSN              Enter SSN. Suffix is optional.
4          Grade            See Table 3.1., for EAD, Non-EAD ANG and USAFR, and
                            AGR officers.
5          DAFSC            Enter the DAFSC to include prefix and suffix as of the date
                            the PRF notice is generated. See Note 2. See also Note 3
                            For Recommendation-Only PRFs.
6          Organization     Enter organization, command, and location of assignment
                            (with attachment if applicable). See also Note 3 for
                            recommendation-only PRFs. For centrally managed IMAs,
                            PIRR or PIRR Cat E, use attached organization.
7          PAS Code         Enter PAS code as reflected on PRF notice. If PAS code is
                            incorrect, advise the CSS/HR Specialist and MPS (ADL
                            officers) or MPS (unit) or HQ RMG/DPME (IMAs). For
                            centrally managed IMAs, PIRR or PIRR Cat E, use attached
                            organization. See Note 3 for recommendation-only PRFs.
8    II    Unit Mission     Provides a description of primary unit responsibilities (e.g.,
           Description      what it is and does, and to whom it is responsible), and is
                            the same for all members of a unit. Limit to four lines.
                            This is normally for the organization listed on the PRF.
                            However, in very large organizations, it may be necessary
                            to use the mission description for a lower level, such as the
                            Division Level if it more accurately portrays the activity in
                            which the officer performs duty. Note: For R-O PRFs,
                            leave blank.
9    III   JOB              Complete as you would on an AF Form 707.
           DESCRIPTION
218                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


10    Duty Title   Enter the approved duty title as reflected in the Personnel
                   Data System. Pending or projected duty titles will not be
                   used (Example: Officer departs to new duty location, losing
                   SR may not use new duty title). See the PSD Handbook for
                   further guidance on duty title construction. For students,
                   enter the student duty title (see Note 2). For AGR student
                   recommendation-only PRFs, enter “Student, type of school”
                   (i.e., Student, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, etc.)
                   For USAFR PV, see Note 10. For those assigned to an 365-
                   day extended deployment billet, see Table 3.1., Item 11.
11    Key Duties   This description must reflect the uniqueness of each ratee’s
                   job and not be standardized. Be specific—include level to
                   which responsible, number of people supervised, dollar
                   value of resources accountable for/projects managed, etc.
                   Make it clear; avoid jargon, acronyms and topical
                   references as they obscure rather than clarify meaning. You
                   may mention significant additional duties only if directly
                   related to mission accomplishment, and previous jobs held
                   during the period of the evaluation that impact on the
                   evaluation. For accessions receiving an evaluation while
                   awaiting the start of formal training, the first line of the
                   description will read “Officer is awaiting training.” This
                   may mirror the Job Description. See Notes 4 and 5
                    For R-O PRFs, leave blank.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                            219


12   IV    Promotion        Explain why the officer should or should not be promoted.
           Recommendation   This section covers the entire record of performance and
                            provides key performance factors from the officer's entire
                            career, not just recent performance. Limit comments to the
                            next higher grade, see Notes 4 and 5. For N-O PRFs and
                            RASL officers, comments on all PRFs are mandatory.
                            Comments are mandatory for in the promotion zone (IPZ)
                            and one time deferred (passed over) above the promotions
                            zone (APZ) eligible officers. Comments are optional for
                            Below the promotion zone (BPZ) eligible officers; and two
                            or more times deferred (passed over) above the promotion
                            zone (APZ) eligible officers; and for promotion to the grade
                            of Brigadier General (Brig Gen) when the overall
                            recommendation is “Promote.” When comments are
                            optional, the final decision authority for including
                            comments remains with the SR. Comments are required on
                            all PRFs with a “Do Not Promote This Board”
                            recommendation, regardless of zone. For DNP PRFs, refer
                            to paragraph 1.12.27. For ADL Recommendation-Only
                            PRFs, this section is blank. See Note 6 for expanded
                            guidance on PRFs for ADL Colonels being considered for
                            Brig Gen selection. Comments are limited to nine lines on
                            all PRFs. AF/A1P may limit comments on the PRFs
                            competing at the Captain’s Central Selection Board to
                            ensure equity and a level playing field for all eligible
                            officers.
13   V     Promotion Zone   Place an “X” in the BPZ block for ADL BPZ officers. For
                            ADL IPZ/APZ officers, place an “X” in the I/APZ block.
                            See PRF notice for promotion zone. Type or hand-write
                            entries. No entry is required on PRFs for ADL Colonels
                            being considered for Brig Gen selection. For ResAF
                            officers, leave blank. For ANGUS Colonels nominated for
                            Brig Gen, enter “N/A.” For N-O PRFs, leave blank.
 220                                                            AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


14     VI     Group Size          For ADL officers, see Table 8.2. Type or hand-write the
                                  entry. For N-O PRFs, leave blank. See Note 6 for
                                  instructions pertaining to Colonels being considered for
                                  Brig Gen selection. For ResAF, (I/APZ) rank order all
                                  officers awarded a “DP” recommendation, within each
                                  competitive category, i.e., 2/5/10; the officer is ranked
                                  number 2 of 5 officers awarded a “DP” out of 10 officers in
                                  that competitive category meeting the CSB. PV: rank order
                                  all officers nominated for PV within each competitive
                                  category, i.e., 2/5; the officer is ranked number 2 of 5
                                  officers. (The SR has 5 officers in that competitive
                                  category meeting the PV CSB). The Deputy RE ranks AGR
                                  student R-O PRFs according to the competitive category
                                  within the student population. These PRFs are not included
                                  with the PRFs under the SRID that applies to the Chief of
                                  Air Force Reserve. For ANGUS Colonels nominated for
                                  Brig Gen, enter “N/A.”
15     VII    Board ID            Enter the CSB for which the senior rater prepared the PRF
                                  (Example: P0408A indicates the Calendar Year 08 Major
                                  board, and A0409A indicates the Fiscal Year 09 ANG
                                  major board). The PRF notice includes the board ID. For
                                  N-O PRFs, enter the date signed in this section. For RASL
                                  N-O PRFs, leave blank. For ANGUS Colonels nominated
                                  for Brig Gen, enter “N/A.”
16     VIII   Senior Rater ID     The five-character code used to identify the position of the
                                  SR. Enter this code as shown on the PRF notice. For
                                  centrally managed IMAs, PIRR or PIRR Cat E, use attached
                                  organization. For N-O PRFs, and PRFs on Colonels being
                                  considered for Brigadier General, leave blank. For ANGUS
                                  Colonels nominated for Brig Gen, enter “N/A.”
17     IX     Overall             The SR marks one of three recommendations, as
              Recommendation      appropriate. Electronically “X” or hand-write this entry in
                                  dark blue or black ink. See Note 7 for additional
                                  information on N-O PRFs, Non-Line and aggregate PRFs.
                                  For RASL, do not mark a recommendation for Position
                                  Vacancy or N-O PRFs. Nominees for ANG Colonel and
                                  Brigadier General are exempt.
18     X      SR Data             See instructions at Note 8 for Lieutenant Colonels and
                                  below, Note 9 for ADL Colonels.
Notes:
1. SRs complete PRFs no earlier than 60 days before the CSB (the PRF cutoff date). For
USAFR, complete the PRFs in time to arrive at HQ ARPC not later than 45 days before the
board convening date. SRs award one of three overall recommendations: "Definitely Promote,"
"Promote," or "Do Not Promote This Board." Excluding USAFR and AGR officers, there is a
limit on "DP" recommendations to ensure they convey the intended message. Except for PRFs
written on promotion-eligible Colonels (see also Note 6), there is a limit on "DP"
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                         221


recommendations to ensure they convey the intended message. There is no limit on "P" and
"DNP" recommendations.
2. If changes to DAFSC or duty title are approved after the MLR, but before the CSB, see
paragraph 8.5. for correction procedures. Once the PRF is a matter of record, a formal
application for correction must be submitted in accordance with Chapter 10 of this instruction.
For RASL officers, contact HQ ARPC/DPS if data is incorrect. For AGR students, enter
“Student of (type of school),” (i.e. PDE, IDE, SDE, etc).
3. For Recommendation-Only PRFs.
a. Enter in Item 4, student DAFSC; for Item 5, the organizational designation, MAJCOM, and
location of the ratee's assigned school; and for Item 6, student PAS code.
b. For AGR students only. Enter in Item 4, student DAFSC; for Item 5, Office of Air Force
Reserve (HAF), Washington DC; and for Item 6, student PAS code.
4. Some general guidelines:
a. Comments must be in bullet format.
b. May include recommendations for promotion, developmental education (DE), and next
assignment (limit comments to the next higher grade).
c. Evaluators may neither consider nor comment on candidacy, selection, completion of, or
enrollment in DE. (Note: Comments are authorized only on those officers which will be
departing for DE and may only be on the PRF completed just prior to departure. This may be a
regular PRF or a Narrative-Only PRF).
d. SRs may consider and/or include information from other reliable sources (i.e. UIF, LOE,
ROTC DGs, OTS DGs, etc). For promotion-eligible Colonels and Brigadier Generals; SRs may
consider information in an officer’s SOUIF. If stratification is used on the PRF then it is either
quoted or attributed. Most comments on a PRF are factual (i.e., CGO of the Quarter) and does
not need to be quoted or attributed. However, when using stratification (because this is
individual/previous evaluator specific) on the PRF and when that stratification statement is from
someone other than the individual signing the PRF then it needs to be quoted or attributed (i.e.,
"#1 of 50" or #1 of 50 - 2 WG/CC). (Note: Stratification cannot be used from a previous
evaluation not in an officer official record. The intent is to put the stratification which an officer
receives in their career in its proper content).
e. Do not comment on ratings or recommendations on prior AF Forms 709. However, a
previous BPZ selection may be mentioned.
f. Comments may be warranted if an officer displays a reluctance to accept responsibility, a
negative attitude toward the job, or a decrease in performance-based potential. However, if an
officer has a date of separation, has an approved retirement date, or is unsure about career intent,
it does not necessarily detract from performance-based potential and should not be commented
on in the PRF.
g. Do not discuss classified information.
h. Do consider including comments related to Article 15 action, or letters of reprimand,
admonishment or counseling. It is strongly recommended that Control Roster action be
recorded. It is mandatory to record court-martial results unless actions resulted in acquittal.
i. Do not make recommendations for selective continuation since Selective Continuation Boards
do not see PRFs. On CSBs where promotion and selective continuation are involved, PRFs are
removed from the selection records before the start of the selective continuation process.
j. Refer to paragraph 1.12. for guidance on inappropriate evaluator considerations and comments
on PRFs.
 222                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


k. Duty information must be within the SR’s jurisdiction as of the PRF accounting date.
l. May not comment on an officer’s prior enlisted time.
5. Comments are mandatory when an officer receives a "DP" or "DNP" recommendation, and
must substantiate, amplify, or explain the recommendation. Comments for “P”
recommendations are optional for BPZ ADL officers.
6. On PRFs prepared on promotion-eligible Colonels, entries in Section VI may be handwritten
(in dark blue or black ink) but on all “DP” PRF entries must be “Handwritten”. Rank officers
by competitive category. Focus on potential to serve at the GO level. Use ratee’s
accomplishments as a Colonel to demonstrate potential and to explain why an officer uniquely
qualifies for promotion more so than others. Use comparative terms and gauge difficulty of job
challenge, but do not repeat content of OPRs (unlike PRFs for FGOs and CGOs). Highlight
factors that demonstrate desired GO traits (breadth, depth, versatility, adaptability, generalist
qualities, leadership, management intellect, presence, image, communication skills, experience,
functional expertise, appreciation for future vision, etc.). Use personal terms and be clear and
concise. Identify true contenders and place heavy emphasis on future use as a GP. The head of
the ML (or designated representative) may solicit advice and information from the ratee's
supervisors and commanders, both current and past. If rendering a "DP" recommendation,
indicate the officer's rank order among the total number of promotion-eligible officers in the ML
and competitive category. Example: An officer receiving a "DP" recommendation who is
second in an ML of 150 total eligibles would have the entry "2/150" in Section VI. If the officer
does not receive a "DP" recommendation, leave this section blank or enter “N/A.” MLs are not
limited in the number of "DP" recommendations they award to their eligibles.
7. For N-O PRFs, do not mark any of the three blocks and type "No Overall Recommendation"
in the top of this section. For Non-Line of the AF officers: MC and DC promotion to Major and
Lt Col; LAF, NC, MSC, BSC, and HC promotion to captain--only "P" or "DNP"
recommendations are used on the PRF (applies when the promotion opportunity is 100 percent).
Do not prepare a PRF for Judge Advocate (LAF-J) promotion to Captain. For officers submitted
in aggregate or carry-over to an evaluation board, leave this section blank.
8. SR (Lieutenant Colonels and below):
a. Enter name, grade, branch of service (military officers and DAF civilians only), organization,
command of assignment, and location. Grade must be that in which the SR is serving,
Exception: Enter “Brig Gen (S)” for Brigadier General selectees confirmed by the U.S. Senate
and designated as SR by the Management Level (ML). Enter “Major Gen (S)” for Major
General selectees confirmed by the U.S. Senate. Retired grade is not authorized. If an officer
has been "frocked," enter his or her actual grade unless the officer is serving in a funded billet
and the ratee is a Lieutenant Colonel or above.
b. Enter only the last digits of the SSN if the evaluator is a USAF officer (suffix not entered).
The SSN is optional, though encouraged, if the evaluator is a civilian or a member of another
U.S. military service.
c. Do not include command level, unless it is an integral part of the duty title, with the official
duty title.
d. Do not enter any classified information.
e. For ADL officers, enter current data as of the date of PRF completion. Do not complete the
PRF before the PRF cut-off date.
f. For ADL R-P PRFs, the President of the Air Force MLR acts as the SR. Enter the following
information: name; grade; branch of service; for organization, enter "HQ USAF Student MLR;"
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      223


for location, enter the location of the review; SSN; and for duty title, enter "President, HQ USAF
Student MLR."
9. For ADL Colonels, the head of the ML must complete this section if the recommendation is a
"DP." For other recommendations, the head of the ML may designate one or more
representatives, senior in grade to the ratees, to complete this section.
10. For PV nomination, place the position number to the far right in this block. All PV
nominations must have a valid funded position number with an authorized grade higher than the
officer’s current grade when it arrives at HQ ARPC/DPB. PRFs with missing/invalid position
numbers or those for nominees not the incumbent (an UMD overage) in the position for which
nominated, may be returned. Questions should be directed to HQ ARPC/DPB.
11. PRFs for 365-day extended deployments, see paragraph 5.6.



Table 8.2. What to Enter in (Group Size) on the PRF (ADL Lt Col and below only).
R    A               B                                C
U
L                    and the number of IPZ or
E    If the          BPZ eligibles in an entire
     allocation      ML is                            then enter
     rate is         (See Notes 1 and 2)
1    10 percent      10 or more                       “N/A.”
2                    9 or less                        the actual number of eligibles within the
                                                      entire ML.
3    15 percent      7 or more                        “N/A.”
4                    6 or less                        the actual number of eligibles within the
                                                      entire ML.
5    20 percent      5 or more                        “N/A.”
6                    4 or less                        the actual number of eligibles within the
                                                      entire ML.
7    25 to 30        4 or more                        “N/A.”
     percent
8                    3 or less                        the actual number of eligibles within the
                                                      entire ML.
9    35 to 90        3 or more
     percent                                          “N/A.”
10                   2 or less                        the actual number of eligibles within the
                                                      entire ML.
Notes:
1. For Line of the Air Force (LAF) officers only, the following rules apply:
a. APZ eligibles do not generate "Definitely Promote" allocations; therefore, they do not apply
when determining the entry for section VI on the PRF.
b. If there are only APZ eligibles in an ML, a single "Definitely Promote" allocation is still
available. In this case, the most deserving APZ officer, with a record of such quality to warrant a
“DP,” may be awarded a "Definitely Promote" recommendation, and all APZ officers in the ML
 224                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


receive a "0" in section VI on the PRF.
c. When an officer is added to a CSB to change promotion zone eligibility after Day 66, enter a “1”
for IPZ or BPZ officers or a “0” for APZ officers.
d. Group size for BPZ eligibles are calculated in the same manner as IPZ.

2. For Non-Line officers (I/APZ and BPZ), always enter “N/A” regardless of the number of
eligibles unless they fall under the criteria of paragraph 8.4.2 (Board Adds/Promotion Zone
Changes).


Table 8.3. Senior Rater “Definitely Promote” Allocation Rate Table - ADL Officers, see
Note.
          Allocation Rates (Percentages)
Numb
er of
IPZ or
BPZ       5    1    15 2     2    3   3    4    4   5    5    6   6    7    7    8   8    9    9
Eligibl        0       0     5    0   5    0    5   0    5    0   5    0    5    0   5    0    5
es
1         0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0    0   0    0    0
2         0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0    0   0    0    0
3         0    0    0   0    0    0   1    1    1   1    1    1   2    2    2    2   2    2    2
4         0    0    0   0    1    1   1    1    1   2    2    2   2    2    3    3   3    3    3
5         0    0    0   1    1    1   1    2    2   2    2    3   3    3    3    4   4    4    4
6         0    0    0   1    1    1   2    2    2   3    3    3   3    4    4    4   5    5    5
7         0    0    1   1    1    2   2    2    3   3    3    4   4    4    5    5   5    6    6
8         0    0    1   1    2    2   2    3    3   4    4    4   5    5    6    6   6    7    7
9         0    0    1   1    2    2   3    3    4   4    4    5   5    6    6    7   7    8    8
10        0    1    1   2    2    3   3    4    4   5    5    6   6    7    7    8   8    9    9
11        0    1    1   2    2    3   3    4    4   5    6    6   7    7    8    8   9    9    1
                                                                                               0
12        0    1    1   2    3    3   4    4    5   6    6    7   7    8    9    9   1    1    1
                                                                                     0    0    1
13        0    1    1   2    3    3   4    5    5   6    7    7   8    9    9    1   1    1    1
                                                                                 0   1    1    2
14        0    1    2   2    3    4   4    5    6   7    7    8   9    9    1    1   1    1    1
                                                                            0    1   1    2    3
15        0    1    2   3    3    4   5    6    6   7    8    9   9    1    1    1   1    1    1
                                                                       0    1    2   2    3    4
16        0    1    2   3    4    4   5    6    7   8    8    9   1    1    1    1   1    1    1
                                                                  0    1    2    2   3    4    5
17        0    1    2   3    4    5   5    6    7   8    9    1   1    1    1    1   1    1    1
                                                              0   1    1    2    3   4    5    6
18        0    1    2   3    4    5   6    7    8   9    9    1   1    1    1    1   1    1    1
                                                              0   1    2    3    4   5    6    7
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                              225


19        0   1   2    3   4   5    6      7   8   9   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1    1
                                                       0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7    8
20        1   2   3    4   5   6    7      8   9   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1    1
                                                   0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8    9
21        1   2   3    4   5   6    7      8   9   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1    1
                                                   0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8    9
22        1   2   3    4   5   6    7      8   9   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1    2
                                                   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9    0
23        1   2   3    4   5   6    8      9   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   2    2
                                               0   1   2   3   4   6   7   8   9   0    1
24        1   2   3    4   6   7    8      9   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   2   2    2
                                               0   2   3   4   5   6   8   9   0   1    2
25        1   2   3    5   6   7    8      1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2    2
                                           0   1   2   3   5   6   7   8   0   1   2    3
26        1   2   3    5   6   7    9      1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2    2
                                           0   1   3   4   5   6   8   9   0   2   3    4
27        1   2   4    5   6   8    9      1   1   1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2    2
                                           0   2   3   4   6   7   8   0   1   2   4    5
28        1   2   4    5   7   8    9      1   1   1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2    2
                                           1   2   4   5   6   8   9   1   2   3   5    6
29        1   2   4    5   7   8    1      1   1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2    2
                                    0      1   3   4   5   7   8   0   1   3   4   6    7
30        1 3 4 6 7 9 1                    1   1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2    2
                                    0      2   3   5   6   8   9   1   2   4   5   7    8
31        1 3 4 6 7 9 1                    1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2   2    2
                                    0      2   3   5   7   8   0   1   3   4   5   7    9
32        1 3 4 6 8 9 1                    1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2   2    3
                                    1      2   4   6   7   9   0   2   4   5   7   8    0
33        1 3 4 6 8 9 1                    1   1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2   2    3
                                    1      3   4   6   8   9   1   3   4   6   8   9    1
34        1 3 5 6 8 1 1                    1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2   2   3    3
                                0 1        3   5   7   8   0   2   3   5   7   8   0    2
          Allocation Rates (Percentages)
Numb
er of
IPZ or
BPZ       5   1   15 2     2   3    3      4   4   5   5   6   6   7   7   8   8   9    95
Eligibl       0      0     5   0    5      0   5   0   5   0   5   0   5   0   5   0
es
35        1   3   5    7   8   1    1      1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2   2   3    33
                               0    2      4   5   7   9   1   2   4   6   8   9   1
36        1   3   5    7   9   1    1      1   1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2   3   3    34
                               0    2      4   6   8   9   1   3   5   7   8   0   2
37        1   3   5    7   9   1    1      1   1   1   2   2   2   2   2   2   3   3    35
                               1    2      4   6   8   0   2   4   5   7   9   1   3
226                                                            AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


38       1   3    5    7   9        1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 36
                                    1 3 5 7 9 0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4
39         1 3 5 7 9 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 37
                                    1 3 5 7 9 1 3 5 7 9 1 3 5
40         2 4 6 8 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 38
                               0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6
41         2 4 6 8 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 38
                               0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6 8 0 2 4 6
42         2 4 6 8 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 39
                               0 2 4 6 8 1 3 5 7 9 1 3 5 7
43         2 4 6 8 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 40
                               0 2 5 7 9 1 3 5 7 0 2 4 6 8
44         2 4 6 8 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 41
                               1 3 5 7 9 2 4 6 8 0 3 5 7 9
45         2 4 6 9 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 4 42
                               1 3 5 8 0 2 4 7 9 1 3 6 8 0
46         2 4 6 9 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 4 43
                               1 3 6 8 0 3 5 7 9 2 4 6 9 1
47         2 4 7 9 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 4 44
                               1 4 6 8 1 3 5 8 0 2 5 7 9 2
48         2 4 7 9 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 4 4 45
                               2 4 6 9 1 4 6 8 1 3 6 8 0 3
49         2 4 7 9 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 4 4 46
                               2 4 7 9 2 4 6 9 1 4 6 9 1 4
50         2 5 7 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 4 4 4 47
                           0 2 5 7 0 2 5 7 0 2 5 7 0 2 5
Note: To determine the number of senior rater “DP” allocations when there are more than 50
BPZ or IPZ eligible officers, multiply the number of BPZ or IPZ eligibles times the allocation
rate. If the result is not a whole number, round down to the next lower whole number.
Example: A SR who has 63 eligibles applied to a 65% allocation rate earns 40 “DP”
allocations (63 X 65% = 40.95 allocations, rounded down to 40). This table applies to all
competitive categories. Exception: When the SR has three IPZ officers and the allocation rate
is 65%; SRs may award two “DP” allocations even though the computation does not result in
two allocations (1.95). Table 8.3 reflects this exception.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    227



                                          Chapter 9

              AF FORM 3538, RETENTION RECOMMENDATION FORM

9.1. When to Use the AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form (RRF). Use the AF
Form 3538 to provide performance-based differentiation and retention recommendations to assist
involuntary separation/retirement CSBs (such as Force Shaping, Reduction in Force [RIF], or
Selective Early Retirement Boards [SERB]).
9.2. Responsibilities.
   9.2.1. First Evaluator:
       9.2.1.1. Reviews the ratee's OCSRGp, DQHB, and UIF before preparing the RRF. May
       consider other reliable information about duty performance and conduct except as
       prohibited by paragraph 1.12. or other regulatory guidance.
       9.2.1.2. Must be knowledgeable of the ratee's most recent performance. The first
       evaluator may request subordinate supervisors provide information on an officer's most
       recent duty performance and may ask for suggestions based upon the officer's duty
       performance for PRF recommendations.
       9.2.1.3. Is responsible for evaluating each officer's OCSRGp and DQHB and awarding
       one of two retention recommendations for eligible officers:
           9.2.1.3.1. A “Definitely Retain” recommendation means the strength of the ratee’s
           performance and performance based potential alone warrants retention.
           9.2.1.3.2. A “Retain” recommendation means the strength of the ratee’s performance
           warrants retention.
           9.2.1.3.3. A “Do Not Retain” recommendation means the ratee does not warrant
           retention and should not be retained by the board for which the officer is eligible.
           The first evaluator must make comments explaining to the board why the officer
           should not be retained.
           9.2.1.3.4. Evaluators may not base their retention recommendations on a member’s
           intention to separate or retire or a board’s retention or separation quota.
           Recommendations must be based on the member’s record of performance and his/her
           potential for further service.
           9.2.1.3.5. Comments are mandatory. Refer to paragraph 1.12. for inappropriate
           comments. In addition, promotion recommendations are not permitted in the RRF.
           9.2.1.3.6. For Colonel RRFs only: Comments may be handwritten. Comments
           should only relate to the officer’s record as a colonel.
   9.2.2. Second Evaluator:
   9.2.2.1. Endorses the RRF no earlier than 60 days before the CSB (the RRF cutoff date).
       9.2.2.2. Ensures no subordinate commander/supervisor asks, or allows, an officer to draft
       or prepare his or her own RRF.
 228                                                                  AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


       9.2.2.3. Ensures there are no boards or panels of officers convened to collectively score,
       rate, rank, or tally the records and/or generate a priority list of eligible officers unless
       specifically authorized by this instruction. However, senior raters may request
       subordinate supervisors to provide their assessment of the rank order of officers within
       their direct chain of command.
       9.2.2.4. Comments only if he/she non-concurs with the first evaluator’s recommendation.
       If the second evaluator non-concurs with the first evaluator’s recommendation, then
       comments are mandatory explaining his/her decision. Note: AFPC may provide
       alternate guidance when appropriate.
       9.2.2.5. Provides the ratee a copy of the RRF (hand-delivered or sent in a sealed
       envelope clearly marked, “To Be Opened By Addressee Only”) approximately 30-45
       days prior to the board (see note). The reason for this is two-fold: 1) to advise the ratee
       of the retention recommendation and 2) to provide the ratee an opportunity to point out
       any errors of fact so they may be corrected prior to the CSB. Note: If the ratee is
       geographically separated, send it to the ratee by “return receipt requested” mail.
       9.2.2.6. Ensures the RRF remains a private matter with access being only between the
       evaluators, the ratee and the board. Subordinate evaluators or others may have access to
       a RRF’s comments or recommendation only if permitted by the ratee.
       9.2.2.7. Attaches a memo telling the ratee who receives an RRF with a ‘Separate/Retire’
       recommendation that he or she has the right to submit a letter to the board. See figure
       9.1.
   9.2.3. The Ratee:
       9.2.3.1. It is the ratee’s responsibility to contact the second evaluator if he/she has not
       received a copy of the RRF NLT 15 days prior to the board.
       9.2.3.2. It is the ratee’s responsibility to ensure his/her record is current and accurate.
9.3. RRF Submission. Administrative processing for the RRF, to include SRID accounting,
AFPROMS management, etc, unless stated otherwise, will mirror that of the PRF except for
those actions directly associated with the MLR process. There is no MLR process for the RRF.
Refer to paragraph 8.1.4., for processing procedures and responsibilities.
9.4. Air Force Advisor Examination. When applicable, type, “AF Advisor Review” on the left
margin of the RRF and include the AF advisor’s name, grade, “USAF,” date, and signature. See
paragraph 1.6.7. for more guidance.
9.5. Correction of Retention Recommendation Form (RRF). A RRF is considered a working
copy until the start of the board. If the RRF is not a matter of record, second evaluators have the
flexibility to change RRFs no later than 2 weeks prior to the CSB. Use the “Stop File” process
(see paragraph 8.5.) when correcting RRFs.
   9.5.1. If the change to the RRF serves to weaken the narrative portion of Section V or
   Section VIII, is a negative content change, or is a downgrade in the recommendation, the
   officer must be provided a copy of the re-accomplished RRF and a letter, similar to the letter
   provided to an officer who receives a “Separate” recommendation, stating the officer’s right
   to write a letter to the CSB.
      AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    229


          9.5.2. A RRF becomes a “matter of record” upon the convening date of the CSB for which it
          was prepared.

      Figure 9.1. Officer's Right to Submit a Memorandum to the Central Selection Board
      (CSB).




      Table 9.1. Instructions for Completing AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form
      (RRF).
A A   L      A      B                      C
      I      To
      N      Complete
      E      Sec    Item                   Instructions (see note 1)
      1      I      Ratee                  See RRF notice for ratee identification data. If any data is
 230                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                Identification Data incorrect, notify the CSS/HR Specialist and MPS for
                                    computer correction.
                Name                Enter last name, first name, middle initial, and Jr., Sr., etc.
                                    If the officer has no middle initial, the use of NMI is not
                                    mandatory. The name may be all upper case or a
                                    combination of upper and lower case.
                SSN                 Enter SSN.
                Grade               Enter appropriate grade.
                DAFSC/Core ID       Enter the DAFSC to include prefix and suffix or three-digit
                                    Core ID as of the date the RRF notice is generated, as
                                    directed in specific board guidance. See Note 2.
                Organization        Enter organization, command, and location of assignment
                                    (with attachment if applicable).
                PAS Code            Enter PAS code as reflected on RRF notice. If PAS code is
                                    incorrect, advise the CSS/HR Specialist and MPS.
         II     Unit Mission        Enter the Unit Mission Description. See Table 3.1., Item
                Description         53.
         III    Job Description     Complete as you would on an AF Form 707.
                Duty Title          Enter the approved duty title as reflected in the Personnel
                                    Data System. Pending or projected duty titles will not be
                                    used. See AFMAN 36-2622 for further guidance on duty
                                    title construction. For students, enter the student duty title.
                                    See Note 2.
                Key Duties          As in Table 3.1., Item 54.

         IV     First Evaluator       Place an X in the appropriate block.
                Recommendation
         V      First Evaluator       Explain why the officer should or should not be retained.
                Comments              This section covers the entire record of performance and
                                      provides key performance factors from the officer's entire
                                      career, not just recent performance. Comments must be
                                      typed. Do not make prohibited comments, see paragraph
                                      1.12. See Note 3.
         VI     Board ID/ Senior      Enter the board for which the SR prepared the RRF. The
                Rater ID              RRF notice includes the board ID. Enter the five-character
                                      code used to identify the position of the SR. Enter this
                                      code as shown on the RRF notice.
         VII    Second Evaluator      The second evaluator indicates concurrence or
                                      nonconcurrence with the first evaluator’s recommendation
                                      by placing an “X” in the appropriate box.
         VIII   Second Evaluator      Comments are mandatory when the second evaluator
                Comments              marks the nonconcur block. The second evaluator must
                                      provide specific comments to explain the disagreement.
                                      Comments must be typed. Comments are not allowed if
                                      the second evaluator concurs.
Notes:
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        231


1. Some general guidelines:
a. Comments must be in bullet format.
b. May include recommendations for PME and next assignment, but not promotion.
c. Paragraph 1.12. applies.
d. Evaluators may consider and/or include information from other reliable sources (i.e. ROTC
DGs, OTS DGs, etc).
e. Do not comment on rankings or recommendations from prior AF Forms 3538.
f. Comments may be warranted if an officer displays a reluctance to accept responsibility, has a
negative attitude towards the job, or performance has diminished. However, if an officer has a
DOS, an approved retirement date, intends to separate or retire, or is unsure about career intent, it
should not be commented on in the RRF.
g. Do not discuss classified information.
h. Do consider including comments related to Article 15 action, or letters of reprimand,
admonishment or counseling. It is strongly recommended that Control Roster action be
recorded. It is mandatory to record court-martial results unless actions resulted in acquittal.
2. If changes to DAFSC or duty title are approved after the RRF is a matter of record, a formal
application for correction must be submitted in accordance with Chapter 10.
3. Senior Rater (Lieutenant Colonels and below):
a. Enter name, grade, branch of service (military officers and DAF civilians only), organization,
command of assignment, and location. Grade must be that in which the SR is serving.
Exception: Enter “Brig Gen (S)” for brigadier general selectees. Retired grade is not
authorized. If an officer has been “frocked,” enter his or her actual grade unless the officer is
serving in a funded billet and the ratee is a Lieutenant Colonel or above.
b. Show SSN if the evaluator is a USAF officer (last four only). SSN is optional though
encouraged if the evaluator is a civilian or a member of another US military service.
c. Do not include command level, unless it is an integral part of the duty title, with the official
duty title.
d. Do not enter any classified information.
 232                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013



                                          Chapter 10

              CORRECTING OFFICER AND ENLISTED EVALUATIONS

10.1. Purpose.
   10.1.1. The Evaluation Reports Appeal Board (ERAB) was established to provide all Air
   Force personnel with an avenue of relief for correcting errors or injustices in evaluations at
   the lowest possible level.
   10.1.2. If an evaluation cannot be corrected under Table 10.2., Correcting Minor Errors on
   Evaluations, an applicant’s first avenue of relief for correcting an evaluation is through the
   ERAB, which is accessible via the vMPF/vPC-GR, (see the PSD Handbook for further
   guidance).
   10.1.3. An applicant’s second and last avenue of relief is via the Air Force Board for
   Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR) by submitting a DD Form 149, Application for
   Correction of Military Records under the Provisions of Title 10, U.S. Code, Section 1552,
   IAW AFI 36-2603 and Air Force Pamphlet 36-2607, Applicant’s Guide to the Air Force
   Board for Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR). Note: Applicant should exhaust all
   other avenues of relief (i.e. the ERAB) before submitting their request to the AFBCMR.
   10.1.4. Retired or separated personnel are not eligible to apply for correction through the
   ERAB; therefore, they must submit a DD Form 149 to the AFBCMR.
10.2. Program Elements.
   10.2.1. Who Establishes the Board. The Commander, Headquarters Air Force Personnel
   Center (HQ AFPC/CC) directs the Chief of AF Evaluation programs to establish an
   Evaluation Report Appeals Board (ERAB) to assess requests to correct evaluations and to
   correct substantiated errors or injustices on AD or EAD personnel. The Commander,
   Headquarters Air Reserve Personnel Center (HQ ARPC/CC) directs the establishment of the
   ERAB to assess requests to correct evaluations and to correct substantiated errors or
   injustices on non-EAD and ANG/USAFR personnel.
       10.2.1.1. For officer appeals, the board president must be at minimum an Air Force
       commissioned officer or civilian in the grade of O-5/GS-12 and above. For enlisted
       appeals, the board president must be equal to or higher than the requester or at a
       minimum an Air Force SNCO or civilian in the grade of E-7/GS-9.
       10.2.1.2. Each Board will consist of a three-person panel composed of two board
       members and a board president. A board member or president who was, or is, an
       evaluator for an applicant cannot consider that person's appeal.
       10.2.1.3. The ERAB works under the assumption that evaluations are accurate and
       objective. The applicant filing an appeal must provide strong evidence to overcome the
       evaluation's presumed validity beyond a reasonable doubt.
   10.2.2. Who Administers the Appeal Process. The Evaluations Programs Section (HQ
   AFPC/DPSIDE and HQ ARPC/DPB) manages the appeals process and executes board
   decisions.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    233


   10.2.3. How the Board Will Operate:
      10.2.3.1. Board Members.      Review applications and make recommendations to the
      ERAB President.
      10.2.3.2. The ERAB President:
          10.2.3.2.1. Reviews the member's request, considers each board member’s
          recommendations, and makes the final decision for the appeal.
          10.2.3.2.2. Acts for the full Board on applications which involve administrative and
          technical corrections, or in cases that clearly lack the evidence necessary for
          presentation to the full board, or in cases that require waiving the time limit for an
          appeal.
      10.2.3.3. The Board:
          10.2.3.3.1. May be formal or informal.
          10.2.3.3.2. Does not permit personal appearances.       Neither applicants nor their
          representatives can appear before the ERAB.
          10.2.3.3.3. Handles all appeals confidentially and does not normally disclose
          information to outside agencies.
          10.2.3.3.4. Refers cases for action to appropriate agencies or individuals, such as Air
          Force Office of Special Investigations, unit commander, and so on, if documents or
          statements do not appear to be authentic. The Manual for Courts-Martial specifies
          penalties for creating false or forged official statements and documents. Civilian Air
          Force employees may be punished under federal law.
          10.2.3.3.5. Reviews cases based on information supplied in the application. The
          ERAB is not an investigative body and does not solicit additional documentation in
          support of an application. However, if the board decides to consider information that
          was not available to the applicant, the ERAB will notify the applicant and allow
          him/her time to comment on the information. Exception: Information contained in
          MilPDS or the MPerRGp.
          10.2.3.3.6. Directs removal, inclusion, substitution and/or corrections to evaluations.
          The ERAB is authorized to modify evaluations that differ from the applicant's
          request, (i.e. the applicant request the report be voided because the feedback date is
          incorrect; the ERAB may deny voiding the report and instead direct the feedback date
          be corrected).
   10.2.4. Prohibited Requests. The Board will not consider nor approve requests to:
      10.2.4.1. Void an evaluation when the error or injustice can be corrected
      administratively.
      10.2.4.2. Void an evaluation while keeping attachments to that evaluation.
      10.2.4.3. Void an evaluator's section while keeping comments or ratings of subsequent
      evaluators.
      10.2.4.4. Void an evaluator's comments, but keep the ratings (or vice versa).
234                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


      10.2.4.5. Delete required information or add unauthorized information to an evaluation.
      10.2.4.6. Change (except for deletions) an evaluator's ratings or comments if the
      evaluator does not support the change. When an evaluator supports changing ratings, all
      subsequent evaluators must also agree to the changes, (including the commander on
      EPRs, the reviewer on OPRs, and the MLR Board President on PRFs); see paragraph
      A2.3.
      10.2.4.7. Re-accomplish an evaluation without the applicant furnishing the new
      evaluation.
      10.2.4.8. Void, correct or change an evaluation that does not meet the 3-year time limit
      without a waiver, see paragraph 10.5.
      10.2.4.9. Correct or rewrite an evaluation post-board based solely on the omission of an
      optional statement, or to make the evaluation stronger, (i.e. PME/DE/Assignment
      recommendations, awards, deployment information, SR endorsement and/or stratification
      are not mandatory, therefore omission of any does not make the report inaccurate or
      unjust.
      10.2.4.10. Void or correct an evaluation because an action, (i.e. UIF, Control Roster,
      Article 15, etc.), was removed:
         10.2.4.10.1. Early or on the disposition date. Removal does not mean the action did
         not take place. If the corrective action existed on or before the close-out date of the
         evaluation, the evaluation is still valid.
         10.2.4.10.2. Because the corrective action was “set-aside.” If the corrective action
         (i.e. Article 15) was “set-aside,” but the behavior that led to the corrective action is
         still valid and the behavior existed on or before the close-out date of the report, the
         evaluation may still be valid if the report only reflects the behavior and not the
         corrective action that was “Set Aside.” If the action that was “Set Aside” is
         mentioned in the evaluation, the ERAB would only remove the reference to it; not the
         behavior that led to the action. For example,
             10.2.4.10.2.1. The ratee received an Article 15 for DUI, and later the Article 15
             was set aside for reasons other than innocence. However, the report only states
             “Used poor judgment—picked up for DUI.” Since the ratee was picked up for
             DUI, and the evaluation does not mention the Article 15, the evaluation is still a
             valid report.
             10.2.4.10.2.2. The ratee received an Article 15 for DUI, and later the Article 15
             was set aside for reasons other than innocence. The report states “Used poor
             judgment—rcvd Art 15 for DUI.” In this case, the ERAB would not void the
             evaluation but would correct the evaluation to reflect “Used poor judgment—
             DUI.”
             10.2.4.10.2.3. For the ERAB to decide favorably to void the evaluation, the
             applicant must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the behavior did not
             take place and the corrected action taken was officially set aside and not just
             removed or expired.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        235


   10.2.5. Appeals based on Promotion/Career Opportunity. Although not prohibited, ERAB
   requests based solely on a willingness by evaluators to change evaluations after non-selection
   for promotion will not be favorably considered unless proven the evaluation was erroneous
   or unjust based on content, see paragraph A2.5.1.
10.3. Correcting Evaluations.
   10.3.1. Prior to Becoming a Matter of Record. Once a digital signature is applied, the
   comments and ratings are locked and cannot be changed. In addition, the digital signatures
   cannot be deleted. If a correction needs to be made after the form has been digitally signed,
   then the rater will need to re-accomplish the form. He/she will be able to copy the text areas
   from the erroneous form and paste them into the new form. The corrections can be made and
   the form resigned. The form will reflect the date of the new signature.
   10.3.2. Appealing Evaluations and Requesting Changes After Evaluations Have Become a
   Matter of Record. See paragraph 1.4.3. to determine when an evaluation becomes a matter of
   record. Applicants must exhaust all avenues of relief before submitting their requests to the
   AFBCMR. The other avenues available are:
      10.3.2.1. Administrative Correction. See Table 10.2. to determine if the requested
      correction can be made through administrative procedures without referral to the ERAB
      or AFBCMR. Due to the electronic process only HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP can make
      corrections to evaluations; and in most cases, once an evaluation becomes a matter of
      record, even administrative corrections will require an applicant to submit an ERAB. An
      example of a case that would not require an ERAB or AFBCMR would be when a report
      is not viewable in ARMS. In this case a simple email to evalpolicy@randolph.af.mil
      would suffice; or when the “YE” is not updated in MilPDS. In this case the MPS should
      be contacted; since these changes does not require the evaluation itself to be corrected.
      10.3.2.2. When the correction cannot be corrected administratively, the next avenue of
      relief is through the ERAB. Procedures for appealing evaluations (EPRs, OPRs, PRFs,
      RRFs, TRs, Formal LOEs) through the ERAB are prescribed in this chapter.
      10.3.2.3. If the correction cannot be corrected administratively, the ERAB denies the
      appeal, or the requested action is not authorized by this chapter, the next avenue of relief
      would be through the AFBCMR. Procedures can be found in AFI 36-2603.
      10.3.2.4. Performance Feedback Worksheets (PFW) and sessions are not subject to
      appeal.
   10.3.3. Any changes or corrections that substantially alter the content from the original
   version require original signatures from all evaluators. If an evaluator (other than the rater) is
   unavailable (due to retirement, for example) and all attempts to contact him or her have
   failed, the individual who replaced the missing evaluator must sign the evaluation. When
   correcting an administrative error prior to the evaluation becoming a matter of record, and
   one or more of the evaluators are unavailable (due to retirement, for example) to sign the re-
   accomplished evaluation, an Air Force Personnel official (officer or SNCO) in the MPS will
   certify the authenticity of the comments of the missing evaluator.                           The
   Commander/Superintendant, MPS is the lowest level which will authenticate a missing
   signature. The SR may also certify authenticity. To do this, copy the evaluator's comments
   and ratings verbatim, and place the following statement in the block where the missing
 236                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


   evaluator would have signed: "Original Signed." Enter in the right margin (on the reverse
   side of the form) the grade, name, signature, duty title, unit of the certifying official, and the
   original date signed. Note: When utilizing the “original signed” all other signatures must be
   “wet” signed. Digital signatures are not authorized.
   10.3.4. Re-accomplish evaluations containing an excessive number of erasures, change
   sentence meaning, or requiring corrections to the ratings. Do not use paper correction tape.
   Do not correct ratings.
   10.3.5. Evaluations will not be appealed under Chapter 10 or AFI 36-2603 before becoming
   a matter of record.
   10.3.6. For PRF corrections, see paragraph 8.5. and Attachment 2, paragraph A2.6.
   10.3.7. Certifying Copies of Digitally Signed Documents. See paragraph 1.4.5.2. or .1.4.5.3.
10.4. Responsibilities.
   10.4.1. The Military Personnel Section (MPS).
       10.4.1.1. Responsible for training the base population on the ERAB process.
          10.4.1.1.1. A detailed explanation of the new process and complete documentation
          for the new process can be found in the PSD Handbook.
          10.4.1.1.2. Detailed training packages are also available under PSD Training Tools.
       10.4.1.2. Retains only an advisory role in the ERAB process and will provide guidance
       to members after they have exhausted support from their local HR specialist. Exception:
       When the request is initiated by someone other than the ratee, or the ratee does not have
       access to the vMPF/vPC-GR. See paragraph 10.4.1.3. and paragraph 10.4.5.
       10.4.1.3. Opens a CMS case when paragraph 10.4.5. is applicable. See paragraph in the
       PSD Handbook for instructions.
   10.4.2. The Unit/Group Level Human Resource (HR) Specialist.
       10.4.2.1. The HR Specialist will have a very limited role in the ERAB appeal process.
       However, the HR Specialist must have a basic knowledge of the process and be able to
       provide applicants with guidance on how to access the HQ AFPC Evaluations/vPC-GR
       website.
       10.4.2.2. The HR Specialist may be asked to provide HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or HQ
       ARPC/DPB copies of UIF if applicable, or other documents kept at the unit/group level.
       10.4.2.3. The HR Specialist may be required to open a CMS case when paragraph 10.4.5.
       is applicable. See the PSD Handbook for instructions.
   10.4.3. The Total Force Service Center (TFSC) Personnel.
       10.4.3.1. Must be knowledgeable of the appeals process, thoroughly familiar with the
       contents of this AFI, and in particular, must carefully review attachment 2.
       10.4.3.2. General Responsibilities. When an applicant contacts the TFSC regarding the
       ERAB process, the TFSC will:
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   237


         10.4.3.2.1. Be responsible for answering customer inquiries concerning corrections
         and appeals.
         10.4.3.2.2. Determine if the correction is minor or requires a formal application by
         the member. Minor corrections will be processed by the applicable office of primary
         responsibility IAW Table 10.2. Note: Any and all corrections involving AF Forms
         709, Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs) and AF Forms 3538, Retention
         Recommendation Forms (RRFs) will immediately be forwarded to HQ
         AFPC/DPSIDE for correction.
         10.4.3.2.3. Counsel applicants.
         10.4.3.2.4. Explains application procedures and documentation requirements via the
         vMPF/vPC. The addresses for sending original documents are:
             10.4.3.2.4.1. Active Duty:
      HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP
      Attn: ERAB
      550 C Street West, Suite 7
      Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709
             10.4.3.2.4.2. Reserves/Guard (USAFR/ANG):
      HQ ARPC/DPB
      Attn: ERAB
      6760 E. Irvington Place #2000
      Denver, CO 80280-2000
         10.4.3.2.5. Assist applicants in completing the on-line application through the
         vMPF/vPC-GR. If applicant is other than the ratee, the TFSC refers the applicant to
         the MPS or HR Specialist who will initiate a CMS case. If the applicant does not
         have access to the vMPF/vPC-GR, the TFSC will refer the applicant to the MPS or
         HR Specialist who will initiate a CMS case.
         10.4.3.2.6. Provide the military addresses of personnel, and assists applicants in
         contacting retirees through the Worldwide Locator IAW AFI 33-332, Privacy Act
         Program. Note: The Privacy Act protects retirees' addresses. See Attachment 2,
         paragraph A2.3.7. for procedures.
         10.4.3.2.7. Explain and emphasize expedite and waiver procedures IAW paragraph
         10.4. and Attachment 2, paragraph A2.4. Advise member that it takes approximately
         30-90 days (AD) or 90-120 days (ANG/USAFR) to process a case, and if they are
         requesting a correction to be completed before a board to please plan accordingly.
         Expedited cases must reach HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP no later than 45 days before the
         board convening date, (not applicable for ANG/USAFR). Note: Although every
         attempt is made to get cases completed prior to a pending board, there is no guarantee
         that an application will be completed prior to the board.
      10.4.3.3. The TFSC will provide a cadre of specialists to act as liaisons for, and provide
      guidance to, base level commanders and MPS/HR Specialist personnel for any questions
      related to the ERAB process or to check on the status of an application.
238                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  10.4.4. The Applicant.
      10.4.4.1. Submits request for correction, insertion or removal of evaluations via the
      vMPF/vPC, see the PSD Training Handbook for guidance. All requests are submitted
      thru the vMPF/vPC/CMS unless authority is granted otherwise (see para 10.4.4.1.2).
         10.4.4.1.1. If applicant does not have access to the vMPF/vPC-GR, he/she should
         contact the servicing MPS or HR Specialist who will open a CMS/vPC-GR case.
         10.4.4.1.2. If applicant does not have access to the vMPF and the servicing MPS/HR
         Specialist, then he/she must obtain HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP approval. If approved, the
         applicant must submit an AF Form 948, Application for Correction/Removal of
         Evaluation Report, see Table 10.6 for instructions. AF Form 948 will be authorized
         only on a case-by-case basis, and under extremely extenuating circumstances, (i.e.,
         someone who is in confinement and has absolutely no access to the vMPF). Non-
         availability waiver requests due to being out-of-the office, on leave or TDY, will not
         be approved, (not applicable for ANG/USAFR).
      10.4.4.2. Clearly and concisely state what he/she wants (i.e., “Request my EPR rendered
      for the period 1 Jan 08 – 31 Dec 08 be removed,” or “Correct the duty title in my EPR
      that closed out on 15 Jun 08”).
      10.4.4.3. Supply clear and credible evidence to support your application, see Attachment
      2.
         10.4.4.3.1. Supporting statements are required when making changes to an evaluation
         and must have dates and signatures. These statements must relate specifically to the
         period of the contested report. When information is not firsthand, the author must
         identify the source, see Attachment 2, paragraph A2.2.
         10.4.4.3.2. All documents can be processed through the vMPF. All documents will
         be scanned into the Personnel Processing Application of the vMPF with the
         application; however all original documents must then be mailed to:        HQ
         AFPC/DPSIDEP, Attn: ERAB, 550 C Street West, Suite 7, Randolph AFB, TX
         78150-4709, (not applicable for ANG/USAFR).
         10.4.4.3.3. The applicant can obtain copies of the contested evaluations and or
         documents required for their appeal through the ARMS access in vMPF/vPC-GR.
      10.4.4.4. Make sure that no rule in this instruction prohibits their request, see paragraph
      10.2.4., Prohibited Request, and Attachment 2, Appeal Guidance for Applicants.
      10.4.4.5. Applicant’s may contact the TFSC for guidance and application procedures.
      10.4.4.6. CTC and Corrected Copies. See paragraph 1.4.5.2. and paragraph 1.4.5.3.
  10.4.5. Corrections Initiated by Someone Other than the Ratee. When someone other than
  the ratee finds an error in an evaluation, they will:
      10.4.5.1. Determine if the evaluation can be corrected administratively IAW Table 10.2.
      10.4.5.2. Take corrective action by contacting the MPS or HR Specialist to initiate a
      CMS/vPC-GR case, or have the ratee to take corrective action on his/her own behalf via
      the vMPF/vPC-GR.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     239


      10.4.5.3. Provide a statement from the ratee, acknowledging he/she is aware of the
      pending action and concur/non-concur with the request. Note: The ratee does not have
      to concur to submit the request. This statement is for acknowledgement purposes only,
      and gives the ratee an opportunity to dispute the action.
          10.4.5.3.1. If the ratee disagrees, he/she must explain why the correction should not
          be approved and suggest an alternative. The omission of any remarks will be
          considered acceptance by the ratee.
          10.4.5.3.2. If the ratee is unavailable to submit a statement, send a copy of the appeal
          to the member with a memorandum explaining the error, and ask the member to
          provide written comments within 10 calendar days from the date received. To ensure
          the member has had an opportunity to review the appeal, have him/her acknowledge
          receipt on the statement or use certified mail to document the date of receipt.
          10.4.5.3.3. Reasonable requests for an extension of the time limit should be
          approved.
          10.4.5.3.4. When the member provides written comments, submit the applicant's
          response and a copy of the memorandum with the application.
          10.4.5.3.5. If the member fails to respond, annotate the remarks section of the
          application with, "Comments from the ratee were requested but not received." Attach
          a copy of the memorandum and either the member’s acknowledgment or the certified
          mail receipt with the application.
   10.4.6. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE and HQ ARPC/DPB.
      10.4.6.1. Review all ERAB applications for compliance with this AFI.
      10.4.6.2. Process all applications that meet the requirements for submitting an ERAB.
      10.4.6.3. Return all applications that do not meet the requirements for submitting an
      ERAB.
      10.4.6.4. When applicable, make corrections to evaluations; update MilPDS; and
      forward the corrected evaluations to the appropriate offices.
      10.4.6.5. Notify applicant of results via the vMPF/vPC-GR or email.
      10.4.6.6. Provide guidance to commanders, MPS and HR Specialist as required.
10.5. Meeting Time Limits and Expedited Requests.
   10.5.1. Time Limits.
      10.5.1.1. You must submit your appeal within 3 years following the date the evaluation
      became a matter of record. If you do not know the exact date, add 2 months to the date
      the final evaluator signed the evaluation.
      10.5.1.2. If the evaluation is more than 3 years old, you must submit a waiver of the time
      limit, see Attachment 2, paragraph A2.4.
      10.5.1.3. Normal processing time for appeal applications is 90-120 days.
      10.5.1.4. Promotion Boards are closed out (cut-off) 30 to 45 days prior to the board
      convening date. In order to process an appeal in time, AFPC/DPSIDE or ARPC/DPB
 240                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


       must receive the appeal no later than 45 day before the cut-off date, (90 days before the
       particular special selection board or supplemental board). Although every attempt is
       made to expedite these cases, there is no guarantee that the case will be worked in time to
       meet the particular board, even when the case is marked “Expedited.”
   10.5.2. Expedited Processing.
       10.5.2.1. If you must resolve an appeal before a specific date or event, such as a pending
       promotion or special selection board, you must submit your application to HQ
       AFPC/DPSIDE (Active Duty) or HQ ARPC/DPB (USAFR/ANG) no later than 90 days
       before the specific date or event.
       10.5.2.2. See the PSD Handbook for procedures for requesting expedited processing.
       10.5.2.3. The only cases that will be accepted for expedited processing after the 90-day
       cut-off will be evaluations, including PRFs, that have closed out within 90 days of the
       board convening date.
10.6. Using Classified, Privacy Act, and Restricted Release Information:
   10.6.1. Do not include classified information in the body of an appeal. You may, if
   necessary, include classified information in attachments. The applicant ensures classified
   attachments are submitted in accordance with security directives establishing control and
   mailing rules.
   10.6.2. When submitting documents on someone else (i.e. evaluations on other individuals,
   AF Forms 2096, Classification/On-The-Job Training Action, PCS orders, travel vouchers,
   etc., on supervisors or coworkers), you must submit a statement from the concerned
   individual granting you permission to submit the particular document. Applications that do
   not comply will be returned without action. The applicant may then resubmit the application
   with the permission statement, or remove the document from his/her application.
   10.6.3. If you feel that information in a restricted release file is essential to your case, you
   may ask the releasing agency to forward the information directly to HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or
   ARPC. When submitting your request to the releasing agency, you must waive, in writing,
   the right to review the information. Include a copy of this waiver with the appeal application.
   When the Board has decided the appeal, HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or ARPC/DPB destroys the
   restricted file or returns it to the releasing agency.
10.7. Requesting    Special    Selection    Board     (SSB)    or    Supplemental      Promotion
Consideration:
   10.7.1. Active duty officers can, in conjunction with their appeal, request SSB consideration
   for promotion, Regular Air Force appointment, In-resident PME, Selective Early Retirement,
   or Reduction-in-Force separation boards. You should review AFI 36-2501, Chapter 6, for
   additional information on SSBs.
   10.7.2. Reserve of the Air Force officers can, in conjunction with their appeal, request SSB
   consideration for promotion. You should review AFI 36-2504, Officer Promotion,
   Continuation, and Selective Early Removal in the Reserve of the Air Force, Chapter 10, for
   additional information on SSBs.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     241


    10.7.3. Active duty enlisted personnel may request supplemental promotion consideration in
    conjunction with the appeal application. Such a request must be indicated on the appeal
    application; however, squadron commander’s concurrence is required when submitting the
    request. The commander must complete the endorsement on Personnel Processing
    Application (PPA) by using the HR Review button in CMS; by submitting a statement for
    application submitted by someone other than the ratee; or by signing the AF Form 948 when
    the applicant does not have access to the vMPF or MPS/HR Specialist, see paragraph
    10.4.4.1.2. The commander must indicate concurrence or non-concurrence and provide an
    explanation for non-concurrence.
10.8. Resubmitting an Appeal:
    10.8.1. Applicants can resubmit an appeal only if they have substantial new evidence which
    the board did not initially consider.
        10.8.1.1. Do not resubmit an application when the only documentation added to the case
        is a statement which simply rebuts the ERAB’s previous decision. The ERAB does not
        view a rebuttal statement as new evidence and will decline to reconsider the case.
        Statements from members of the rating chain which respond directly to questions or
        concerns posed in the previous decision memorandum are acceptable new evidence.
        10.8.1.2. Include all previous documentation with the new application.
    10.8.2. If dissatisfied with the decision of the ERAB, submit an appeal to the AFBCMR, see
    paragraph 10.1.3.

Table 10.1. How to Submit Requests for Correction.
R   A                       B                  C                                 D
U
L                           the desired
E   If you are              action is          then submit the request           then forward to
1   the ratee is serving    allowed under      To the ERAB via the vMPF/         AFPC/DPSIDEP
    on Active Duty          this instruction   using the Personnel               550 C Street West
                            (See paragraph     Processing Application (PPA).     Suite 7 (Bldg
                            10.4.4.)                                             499), Randolph
                                               See paragraph 10.4.4.1.2.         AFB TX
                                               when the PPA is unavailable.      78150-4709.

                                                (See Notes 1 and 2)
2   the ratee is a                             on AF Form 948, Application       ARPC/DPB, Attn:
    participating                              for Correction/Removal of         ERAB 6760 East
    USAF Reserves or                           Evaluation Reports, via vPC-      Irvington #2000,
    Air National Guard                         GR . see paragraph 10.4.4..       Denver CO
    enlisted or officer                        (See Notes 1 and 3)               80280-2000.

3   the ratee is a non-     not allowed        on DD Form 149, Application       Air Force Review
    participating           under this         for Correction of Military        Boards Office
    reservist, retired,     instruction.       Record Under the Provisions       (SAF/MRBR),
    discharged,             (See paragraph     of Title 10, U.S. Code, Section   550 C Street West
 242                                                                 AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


    separated, dismissed,    10.1.4.)          1552, IAW AFI 36-2603 (See        Suite 40
    or dropped from                            Note 3)                           (Bldg 499),
    rolls; or request is                                                         Randolph AFB
    not allowed.                                                                 TX 78150-4742
4   not the ratee and        allowed under IAW paragraph 10.4.5. and             the office shown
    have found an error      this instruction rules 1 or 2 above (as             in rules 1 or 2
    in an evaluation.        (See paragraph applicable)                          above (as
                             10.4.5.)                                            applicable).

Notes:
1. Table 10.2. lists errors that are correctable without a formal application.
2. Submit the original AF Form 948, see paragraph 10.4.4.1.2, with all supporting documents.
3. Submit original AF Form 948, see paragraph 10.4.4., or DD Form 149 (whichever is
applicable) with all supporting documents.


Table 10.2. Correcting Minor Errors on Evaluations.
R      Minor Errors
U      Note: Once a digitally signed evaluation has been transmitted to AFPC/ARPC, only
L      AFPC/ARPC is authorized to make the correction. Submit an ERAB request via the
E      PPA, vMPF/vPC-GR.
       The error is consider minor if the request is to correct an error in:
1      The ratee identification data:
       Name, grade, Social Security Number (SSN), (component, ANG/USAFR only), or
       organizational element, or the identification data of an evaluator who signed the
       evaluation.
       Name, grade, SSN, duty title, organizational element, date of signature, or final evaluator's
       position.

       (See notes 1, 2, and 3.)
       Go to Table 10.3.
2      Enlisted: The ratee's Duty Air Force Specialty Code (DAFSC), duty title, or level of duty.
       DAFSC must be reflected in the ratee’s duty history.

       Officers: Not an administrative correction. Applicant must submit an ERAB via the
       vMPF/vPC-GR. For ADL officers, the DAFSC authorization must be approved by the
       applicable HQ AFPC Assignment Functional Manager and reflected in the ratee’s duty
       history.
       Note: The MPS/HR specialist performs the duty history update once duty title is
       approved.

       (See notes 1, 4, and 8)
       Go to Table 10.3.
3      The "from" or "thru" date of the evaluation, the number of days of supervision, or the
       reason for evaluation.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                     243


     (See notes 1, 5 and 6.)
     Go to Table 10.3.
4    The marking of a concur or non-concur box, or to add a missing rating.

     (See notes 1 and 7.)
     Go to Table 10.3.


5    Spelling, punctuation or heading in an evaluator's comments.

     (See notes 1, 9, and 10.)
     Go to Table 10.3.


6    The ratee's name or grade in an evaluator's comments.

     (See notes 1 and 9.)
      Go to Table 10.3.
     Notes:
     1. Do not make corrections using this table if any doubt exists about the appropriateness
     of the request. Instead, submit a formal application IAW Table 10.1. with the
     questionable circumstances fully outlined. Any person who knows of an error that is
     correctable under Table 10.2 should bring it to the attention of the MPS Evaluations or the
     records custodian responsible for maintaining the original evaluation.
     2. Submit an application according to Table 10.1. if the request is to change or add
     signatures, change or add signature dates on referral evaluations and supporting
     documents, and/or to substitute a re-accomplished evaluation. Changes to the final
     evaluator's position (AF Form 911, Enlisted Performance Report, MSgt thru CMSgt) will
     be made only when the MPS Evaluations or the records custodian having custody of the
     original evaluation determines conclusively that an error exists. Do not correct TIG
     eligibility as an administrative correction, it must be corrected through the ERAB.
     3. If a SSB, Supplemental Promotion Board, or the AFBCMR has changed an
     individual’s grade due to retroactive promotion resulting from a review, submit a request
     according to Table 10.1. In these cases, the evaluation will be annotated with a statement
     that reads “Member promoted to **** with a retroactive effective date prior to the date
     this evaluation was rendered.”
     4. You can change the evaluation when approved documentation existed on or before the
     close out date of the evaluation and a CSB has not considered the evaluation. If approved
     documentation did not exist, was subsequently approved, or the contested evaluation has
     been considered by a CSB, submit a request according to Table 10.1.
     5. If a correction to either the period of the evaluation or the number of days of
     supervision would invalidate the requirement for that or any other evaluation on file, you
     must submit a request according to Table 10.1.
     6. If changing the close date of an enlisted evaluation would result in the ratee receiving a
     supplemental promotion consideration, you must submit a request according to Table 10.1.
     7.    Caution:      Take extreme care when adding missing ratings or correcting
 244                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


        concur/nonconcur boxes. Submit an application IAW Table 10.1. anytime the rater’s or
        endorser’s rating(s) are missing and the nonconcur box is also marked, or neither box is
        marked. However, you can correct an unmarked or mismarked concur or nonconcur box
        when, after reviewing the evaluator’s comments and ratings, there is no question as to
        which box should have been marked. If a rating is also missing or doubt exists, submit an
        application according to Table 10.1.
        8. Submit a formal application according to Table 10.1. to request changes to the unit
        mission description or the job description.
        9. Do not change references such as Airman or Sergeant to reflect the person’s actual
        grade.
        10. Do not change words (other than misspellings), phrases, sentence structure, or
        grammar under this table.


Table 10.3. Minor Corrections – Offices Authorized to Make Corrections and Disposition.
R   A                          B
U                              Note: Once the evaluation has been transmitted to AFPC, only
L                              AFPC is authorized to correct digitally signed evaluations and
E   If the correction is       an ERAB case must be submitted via the vMPF/vPC-GR.
    authorized IAW Table
    10.2 and the ratee is a: The agency authorized to make the minor correction is the:
1   All enlisted grades      AFPC
    (AD) – AB - CMSgt        (See Notes 1 through 6)


2   2Lts through
    Lt Cols (ADL)
3   CMSgts selectees and       AF/DPE
    CMSgts (AD)                Chiefs Group
4   Colonel selects and        Colonels Group
    Colonels (ADL )            USAF/DPO
                               2221 South Clarke Street
                               Crystal Plaza 6, Suite 500
                               Arlington VA 22202
                               (See Notes 1 through 6)



5   All general officers and   General Officers Group
    brigadier general          AF/DPG
    selectees                  1040 AF Pentagon, Room 5C238
                               Washington DC 20330-1040
                               (See Notes 1 through 6)


6   All ANG or USAFR           HQ ARPC/DPB
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       245


    officers and enlisted      Attn: ERAB
    personnel in the grade     6760 E. Irvington Place #2000
    of colonel and below       Denver CO 80280-2000
                               (See Notes 1 through 6)


Notes:
1. Do not change words (other than misspellings), phrases, sentence structure, or grammar
under this table.
2. If the request is invalid, incomplete or questionable, return it through any previous
processing levels to the correction initiator with appropriate instructions. The initiator must
identify all required changes because changing an evaluation’s closing date can change the
number of days of supervision, the reason for evaluation, the signature dates, or the "from" date
of the subsequent evaluation.
3. If the correction is authorized under this Table, the office that maintains the original
evaluation will make the correction to the original and forward copies to the appropriate offices.
4. If the request is valid, correct and annotate the original evaluation according to Table 10.4.
The person certifying the correction must be a SSgt, GS-4 or above, or Pay Band 1.
5. The ERAB and the AFBCMR has the authority to correct or direct correction and
distribution of all evaluations.
6. Disposition.

a. TSgt and below:            Original – AFPC/DPSIR(ARMS)

b. MSgt selects and above     Original – AFPC/DPSIDEP
   and officers:              Copy – AFPC/DPSIR (ARMS)

c. All ANG              Original – HQ ARPC/DPB, AFPC/DPSIR (ARMS)
   USAFR AB through Col



Table 10.4. Board Directed Corrections - Correcting and Disposition of Documents.
R A                B               C                      D                    E
U                                  then the agency
L If the action is                 authorized to
E a correction     that            make the               who will             and
                                   correction is
1   directed by the   changes      HQ AFPC/DPSIDE         correct and          distributes
    ERAB              an           ARPC/ DPB              initiate             copies of the
    and ratee is in   evaluation   AF/DPG                 correction of the    corrected
    the grade of                   AF/DPO                 evaluation.          evaluation,
    E-7 select or                                         (See Notes 2         AF Form 77,
    higher                                                and 3)
                                                                               Letter of
                                                                               Evaluation, or
 246                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                                                                              other documents to
2                                                       prepares an AF        records custodians
                                                        Form 77               with appropriate
                                                        (See Note 4)          instructions.
                                                                              (See Note 9)
3                                                       annotates the
                                                        document
                                                        (See Note 7)

4   directed by the               MPS Evaluations       correct the
    ERAB and                      Element               evaluation (See
    ratee is in                   (See Note 1)          Notes
    grade                                               2 and 3)
    E6 or below
5                                                       prepare an AF
                                                        Form 77
                                                        (See Note 4)

6                                                       annotate the
                                                        document
                                                        (See Note 7)

7   directed by the               HQ AFPC/DPSIDE        correct and
    Air Force                     ARPC/ DPB             initiate correction
    Board for                     AF/DPG                of the
    Correction of                 AF/DPO                evaluation as
    Military                                            directed by the
    Records                                             AFBCMR (See
    (AFBCMR)                                            Note 8)

Notes:
1. Do not correct or remove evaluations until either HQ AFPC/DPSIDE or ARPC/- DPB
provides written instructions. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE and ARPC/ DPB also has authority to correct
these evaluations.
2. On the bottom, reverse margin, type “CC” (for corrected copy), followed by the date,
authenticator's organization, office symbol, and signature. (Example: CC, 1 Jun 97, HQ
AFPC/DPSIDEP...) Align authenticator data in margin to allow adequate space for punched
holes. The person signing the annotation must be a SSgt, GS-4 equivalent or above or Pay Band
1.
3. For evaluations being re-accomplished, you can annotate the signature blocks of evaluators
not reasonably available ORIGINAL SIGNED. If used, the comments and ratings of the
evaluators must be copied verbatim from the original evaluation. NOTE: All measures must be
exhausted before this measure can be used.
4. For voided evaluations (excluding imbedded training reports and PRFs), prepare an AF Form
77 with the statement: "Not rated for the above period. Evaluation was removed by Order of the
Chief of Staff, USAF." If voiding evaluations for two or more consecutive reporting periods, you
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      247


can prepare one AF Form 77, but you must show the close out dates of each evaluation.
5. For voided imbedded training reports, prepare an AF Form 77 with the statement: "A training
report for the above period was removed by Order of the Chief of Staff, USAF." For missing
imbedded training reports, no action will be taken since there is no gap in the ratee’s record. The
best course of action is to obtain a certified true copy (see paragraph 1.4.5.2.) or a replacement
TR and request it be included through the ERAB.
6. For a voided PRF, enter the statement: "AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation, for
promotion board (specify the promotion board, for example, 0589A) was removed by Order of
the Chief of Staff, USAF." Use a similar statement for voided retention forms.
7. For documents that are attached to an evaluation, annotate documents with ACCEPTED FOR
FILE--ATTACH TO (closing date) EVALUATION followed by the authenticator's data listed in
Note 2.
8. Unless otherwise directed by the AFBCMR, annotate evaluations according to Note 2. For
voided evaluations, prepare an AF Form 77 according to Note 4 except show the evaluation was
removed "By Order of the Secretary of The Air Force."
9. Disposition.
a. TSgt and below:              Original – AFPC/DPSIDEP, processing to AFPC/DPSIR (ARMS)
b. MSgt selects and above: Original – AFPC/DPSIDEP, processing to AFPC/DPSIR (ARMS)
   and officers
c. All ANG                      Original –/ ARPC/DPB, processing to AFPC/DPSIR (ARMS)
and USAFR AB to
Colonel



Table 10.5. Correcting AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation Forms.
R   A                           B                       C                  D
U                               and the error is
L                               verified by, and
E   If you wish to correct      supporting              then request       and forward the
    an error in                 documents come          the correction     request for
    (See Note 1)                from:                   by:                correction to:
1   Sections I, III (Item 1),   the SR, MPS             Message, scan      HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP,
    V, VI, VIII, or X;          or the management       or fax             550 C Street West,
    or the spelling or          level                                      Suite 7, Randolph
    punctuation in the                                                     AFB, TX
    comments                                                               78150-4709 or HQ
    (See Notes 2 and 3)                                                    ARPC/DPB, 6760 E.
                                                                           Irvington Pl, #2000,
                                                                           Denver, CO 80280-
                                                                           2000

2   Sections II or III          the SR                  an application
    (Item 2)                                            under Table
                                                        10.1.
                                                        (See Note 4)
 248                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


3   Sections IV or IX         the SR and
                              the president of the
                              Management Level
                              Review Board
                              (MLR) (See Note 5
                              and Attachment 2,
                              paragraph A2.6.)
Notes:
1. When you have sent a PRF to HQ AFPC//ARPC, but it is not yet a matter of record (has not
been filed in the Officer Selection Folder/Scanned into ARMS) contact the Evaluations
Operations Branch (HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB//ARPC/DPB) for instructions.
2. You can change the duty title under this rule when the approved documentation existed on or
before the date the PRF was prepared. If approved documentation did not exist, or was approved
after the PRF preparation date, submit a formal application under Rule 2.
3. Do not change words (except misspellings), phrases, sentence structure, or grammar under
this rule.
4. If a promotion board has not considered the PRF, you can scan or fax the application to HQ
AFPC/DPSIDEP. Please state that the evaluation it is a pre-board PRF that requires EXPEDITE
processing and list the board date.
5. If a promotion board has not considered the PRF, the management level can confirm
coordination with the MLR president, with his/her recommendation, by message, scan or fax.


Table 10.6. Instructions For Completing AF Form 948, Application for
Correction/Removal of Evaluation Reports. Note: See paragraph 10.4.4. before
completing.
I
T
E
M   TITLE                       INSTRUCTIONS
1   Name                        - Self-explanatory.

2   Grade                       - Enter data pertaining to the ratee of the contested evaluation.

3   SSN                         - If an appeal was previously submitted under another name
                                   i.e. changed due to marriage, divorce, etc., indicate the
                                   previous name in Item 12, Remarks.

4   Return Address              - Provide current mailing address of applicant

5   Office Phone                - Enter DSN and Commercial

6   Current Military Status     - Place an “X” in the appropriate box.

7   Email Address               - Enter a working email address to contact you in case of
                                  questions and/or to forward the Decision Memorandum.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   249



8   Type of Evaluation(s)     - List all evaluations being appealed by type of evaluation (i.e.
    being appealed and the    EPR, OPR, Training Report, LOE, or PRF).
    thru date
                              - Identify EPR/OPR/Training Reports/LOEs by their THRU
                                 (close-out) date.

                              - Identify PRFs by the BOARD ID (Found in Section VII on
                                 the AF Form 709).




9   SSB/Supplemental          Applies only to:
    Promotion consideration   Enlisted: Active Duty Only
    for officers and active   Officers: Active Duty, Extended Active Duty, Reserve, and
    duty enlisted personnel   Air National Guard.
                              For Reserve and Air National Guard enlisted personnel, check
                              the “N/A” block.

                              Special Selection Board (SSB) consideration applies to
                              Central Promotion Boards; Regular AF Boards; In-Resident
                              Central DE Boards; SERB and RIF Boards.

                              Clearly identify the Board for which you desire
                              reconsideration. Example: “promotion to Major,
                              CY04A” P0404A, “RegAF augmentation, CY 05”, or
                              “SMSgt, 07E8”.
                              See paragraph 10.4.2. for expedited processing requirements
10 Commander’s                Enlisted Only. CC must recommend approval/disapproval for
   certification              SSB consideration, by placing an “X” in the appropriate box
                              and signing/dating this section.
11 Action Requested           Clearly identify the action desired for each evaluation being
                              appealed. Example: “Void 31 Dec 08 OPR;” “Change
                              DAFSC to reflect...”; “Add Senior Rater Deputy
                              endorsement.” If a new evaluation is to be substituted, ask for
                              substitution, not to void the original evaluation (e.g.,
 250                                                      AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                         “Substitute attached evaluation containing Senior Rater
                         endorsement for evaluation currently on file”). Make sure the
                         action you are requesting is not prohibited by paragraph 10.2.4.
                         For enlisted members, indicate if you are also requesting
                         supplemental promotion consideration; you must have the
                         commander complete Item 10 of the application.
12 Reasons to Support    Completely describe the error or injustice. For ease of
   Requested Action      consideration, list each allegation that applies to your
                         application sequentially. Then, as needed, fully address each
                         allegation. If you need more space, continue on plain bond
                         paper. If your statement is extremely lengthy, you may enter
                         “See Statement at Attachment ___” and attach your full
                         statement.
13 List of Attachments   List all attachments in chronological order and identify each.
                         Example:
                                  1. TDY Travel Voucher 12 Mar 95
                                  2. Contested EPR C/O 14 May 95
                                  3. Substitute 14 May 95 EPR
                                  4. Statement MSgt Smith 13 Sep 95

                         If you need more room, continue on plain bond paper. If you
                         have numerous attachments, use tabs to make the case easier
                         to review.

14 Signature/Date        Applicant will sign and date application. In cases where
                         application is submitted by someone other than the ratee, refer
                         to paragraph 10.4.5.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                            251


Figure 10.1. Sample, AF Form 948, Application for Correction/Removal of Evaluation
Reports.




                                       DARRELL D. JONES, Lt General, USAF
                                       DCS, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
 252                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-24, Military Evaluations, 11 June 1993
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces
Title 32, United States Code, National Guard
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
AFMAN 10-3902, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program, 13 November 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, AFPC Supplement, 16 July 2010
AFI 33-360, Publications Management Program, 18 May 2006
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFI 36-2306, The Education Services Program, 16 October 2000
AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation, 16 June 2004
AFI 36-2504, Officer Promotion, Continuation and Selective Early Removal in the Reserve of
the Air Force, 9 January 2003
AFI 36-2603, Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records, 1 March 1996
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFI 36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity and Treatment (MEO) Program, 5 October 2010
AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program, 17 June 2005
AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 2004
AFI 36-3209, Separation Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members,
14 April 2005
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 65-201, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures, 12 October 2006
AFI 51-903, Dissident and Protest Activities, 1 February 1998
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                    253


AFRIMS, Air Force Records Information Management System, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/
AFSUPDODR5400-7, Freedom of Information Act Program, 1 July 1999
Executive Order 9397, 22 November 1943
NGR (AF) 36-1, Federal Recognition of General Officer Appointment and Promotion in the Air
National Guard of the United States and as a Reserve of the Air Force
Public Law 93-579, Privacy Act of 1974, Title 5, United States Code, Sections 552a and 553
System of Records Notice F 036 AF PC A, Effectiveness/Performance Reporting Systems
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 77, Letter of Evaluation
AF Form 78, Air Force General Officer Promotion Recommendation
AF Form 475, Education/Training Report
AF Form 707, Officer Performance Report (Lt through Col)
AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation
AF Form 724, Officer Performance Feedback Worksheet (Lt through Col)
AF Form 910, Enlisted Performance Report (AB through TSgt)
AF Form 911, Enlisted Performance Report (MSgt through CMSgt)
AF Form 931, Performance Feedback Worksheet (AB through TSgt)
AF Form 932, Performance Feedback Worksheet (MSgt through CMSgt)
AF Form 948, Application for Correction/Removal of Evaluation
Adopted Forms
AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling
AF Form 330, Records Transmittal/Request
AF Form 780, Officer Separation Actions
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award
AF Form 1613, Statement of Service
AF Form 2096, Classification on the Job Training Action
AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form
AF Form 3849, PME/AFT/RTFB/Officer Worksheet
DD Form 149, Application for Correction of Military Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAD—Advanced Academic Degree
 254                                                        AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


A1C—Airman First Class
AB—Airman Basic
AD—Active Duty
ADL—Active Duty List
AFBCMR—Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records
AFGOMO—Air Force General Officer Matters Office (SAF/DPG)
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFISR—Air Force Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPROMS—Air Force Promotions System (formerly PRISM)
AFR—Air Force Regulation
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFW2—Air Force Wounded Warrior
AG—Adjutant General
AGR—Active Guard/Reserve
ALS—Airman Leadership School
AML—Above the Management Level
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGUS—Air National Guard of the United States
APR—Airman Performance Report
APZ—Above-the-Promotion Zone
ARMS—Automated Records Management System
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
ART—Air Reserve Technician
AWOL—Absent without leave
BPZ—Below-the-Promotion Zone
Brig Gen—Brigadier General
BSC—Biomedical Sciences Corps
BTZ—Below-the-Zone (SrA)
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                             255


CAC—Common Access Card
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
CMS—Case Management System
CMTS—Case Management Tracking System
CMSgt—Chief Master Sergeant
CRO—Change of Reporting Official (change of rater)
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
CSB—Central Selection Board
CSS/HR Specialist—Commander Support Staff/Human Resource Specialist
DP—Definitely Promote
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DAFSC—Duty Air Force Specialty Code
DBH—Directed by HAF
DC—Dental Corps
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
DE—Developmental Education
DG—Distinguished Graduate
DNP—Do Not Promote
DoD—Department of Defense
DOR—Date of Rank
DQHB—Duty Qualification History Brief
EAD—Extended Active Duty
EES—Enlisted Evaluation System
ELP—Excess Leave Program
ERAB—Evaluation Reports Appeal Board
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
ETCA—Air Force Education and Training Course Announcement
FLEP—Funded Legal Education Program
GM—General manager
GO—General officer
GS—General Schedule
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
 256                                                          AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


HC—Chaplain Corps
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
IPZ—In-the-promotion zone
I/APZ—In-or-above-the-promotion zone
JA—Judge Advocate
JPME—Joint Professional Military Education
LAF—Line of the Air Force
LEAD—Limited Extended Active Duty
LOE—Letter of Evaluation
MAJCOM—Major Air Command
MC—Medical Corps
MEL—Master Eligibility List
MIA—Missing-in-Action
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
ML—Management Level
MLR—Management Level Review
MPerRGp—Master Personnel Record Group
MPS—Military Personnel Section (formerly Military Personnel Flight [MPF])
MSC—Medical Service Corps
MSgt—Master Sergeant
NC—Nurse Corps
NCO—Noncommissioned officer
NCOIC—Noncommissioned officer-in-charge
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NMI—No Middle Initial
NSR—Senior NCO Selection Record
OCSRGp—Officer Command Selection Record Group
OCSR—Officer Command Selection Record
OER—Officer Effectiveness Report
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                  257


OES—Officer Evaluation System
OPR—Officer Performance Report
OSR—Officer Selection Record
P—Promote
PAS—Personnel Accounting Symbol
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PDE—Primary Developmental Education
PDS—Personnel Data System
PFW—Performance Feedback Worksheet
PME—Professional Military Education
PPA—Personnel Processing Application
PRF—Promotion Recommendation Form
PRISM—Promotion Recommendation-In-Board Support Management (See AFPROMS)
PSD—Personnel Services Delivery
POW—Prisoner of War
RASL—Reserve Active Status List
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
RegAF—Regular Air Force
ResAF—Reserve of the Air Force
RIP—Report on Individual Personnel
ROP—Record of Performance
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SDE—Senior Developmental Educations
SEJPME—Senior Enlisted Joint Professional Military Education
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SrA—Senior Airman
SSgt—Staff Sergeant
SMSgt—Senior Master Sergeant
SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officer
 258                                                              AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


SOS—Squadron Officer School
SORN—System of Record Notice
SOUIF—Senior Officer Unfavorable Information File
SRID—Senior Rater Identification Code
SSB—Special Selection Board
SSN—Social Security Number
SUNT—Student Undergraduate Navigator Training
SURF—Single Uniform Request Format
TAFMS—Total Active Federal Military Service
TDY—Temporary Duty
TED—Transfer Effective Date
TFSC—Total Force Service Center (formerly the Air Force Contact Center)
TSgt—Technical Sergeant
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
UPRG—Unit Personnel Record Group
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
U.S.C.—United States Code
UST—Undergraduate Space Training
vMPF—Virtual Military Personnel Flight
vPC—GR-Virtual Personnel Center-Guard and Reserve
WAPS—Weighted Airman Promotion System
WCAP—World Class Athlete Program

Terms
Above the Management Level (AML) Organizations—- There are six units that are above the
level this AFI defines as management levels (MLs): `President of the United States, Vice
President of the United States, SECDEF, CJSC, SecAF, and CSAF. For purposes of the AFI,
these units are also known as MLs.
Acquisition Examiner—-A person, either within the rating chain or appointed by the ML
(minimum colonel/captain (USN) or civilian equivalent for officers; major or Navy lieutenant
commander or an equivalent civilian for enlisted) serving in an acquisition position and in the
same acquisition career field as the ratee who provides examination of evaluations for
individuals serving in certain acquisition positions (paragraph 1.6.7). The Acquisition Examiner
examines evaluations to ensure the evaluation reflects acquisition-related considerations.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        259


Active Duty List (ADL)—-Officers on active duty except (per Title 10, U.S.C. 641). Reserve or
Guard officers on active duty for training, for administration of reserve components, to pursue
special work, for the administration of the Selective Service System, LEAD and AGR officers;
warrant officers; retired officers on active duty; students at the Uniformed Services University of
the Health Sciences. For the purposes of this instruction, The Director of Admissions, Dean and
permanent professors at the Air Force Academy are considered to be on the active duty list. The
list is arranged by competitive category in the order of the seniority of the grade in which they
are serving.
Active Guard/Reserve—-An ANG or USAFR officer on voluntary EAD in support of the Guard
or Reserve mission, under Title 10, U.S.C., Sec. 10211, 10305, 12310, 12402 or 32 U.S.C. 708
(Property and Fiscal Officers).
Additional Rater—The second evaluator in the rating chain, after the rater, to endorse a
performance evaluation. See paragraph 1.6.3. for restrictions, requirements and exceptions.
Advisor—-An Air Force designated representative who provides a special review of evaluations
in activities outside the DAF (paragraph 1.6.7.) The Air Force Advisor advises non-DAF
evaluators of Air Force rating policies and procedures and reviews OPRs, EPRs, and PRFs for
compliance with the provisions of this instruction.
Aggregation—-The process used when the number of eligible officers does not meet the
minimum number required for the senior rater to award promotion recommendations (paragraph
8.3.1.10).
Air Force Level Student—-Receives Training Reports and Narrative-Only PRF. The eligible
officer's records meet the Air Force Student Review since Air Force Level Students do not have
senior raters. Training is outside the officer's utilization field (paragraph 8.3.5).
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS)—-Located within Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS).
Annual Cycle Closeout Date (applies to GOs)—-Annual Major General and Major General
selectee evaluations close out 30 June; annual Brigadier General and Brigadier General selectee
evaluations close out 31 July.
Carry-over—-For line officers, the difference between the "Definitely Promote" allocations
(rounded up) based on the population of an ML, and the sum of "Definitely Promote" allocations
authorized SRs (rounded down) based on each SR’s population (including those SRs whose
population is aggregated) (paragraph 8.3.1.9).
Commander—-The commander (or officer so designated) for administrative purposes (that is,
control roster action, Article 15 jurisdiction, and so on) of the ratee's assigned organization. Also
see Other Authorized Reviewers.
Company Grade—-Officers in the grades of Second Lieutenant through Captain.
Combat Zone—-That area required by combat forces for the conduct of operations.                 The
territory forward of the Army rear area boundary.
Commander’s Review—-See Other Authorized Reviewer.
Communications Zone—-Rear part of theater of operations (behind but contiguous to the
combat zone) which contains the lines of communications, establishments for supply and
 260                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


evacuation, and other agencies required for the immediate support and maintenance of the field
forces. See also combat zone; rear area.
“Definitely Promote" (Lieutenant Colonels and below)--Recommendation on AF Form 709
that says the strength of the ratee's performance and performance-based potential alone
warrants promotion; (colonels only)—Recommendation on AF Form 709 which indicates an
officer demonstrates the potential for immediate promotion.
"Do Not Promote This Board"(Colonels and below)—-Recommendation on AF Form 709 that
says the ratee does not warrant promotion on the Central Selection Board (CSB) for which the
PRF is being prepared.
“Duty Qualification History Brief”—-A computer product used by senior raters in the
Promotion Recommendation Process which includes such whole person factors as DE, advanced
academic information, board certification, joint duty and acquisition corps data and award and
decoration information.
Effective Date of Change of Strength Accountability—-The date an individual is dropped from
the strength accountability of one PAS and gained to strength accountability of another PAS.
The effective date a member is assigned to or between units of the USAFR or to a specific
Reserve program (participating or nonparticipating).
Evaluations—-A general reference to the PFW (AF Forms 724, 931, and 932), OPR (AF Form
707), PRF (AF Form 709), Education/Training Report (TR, AF Form 475), Letter of Evaluation
(AF Form 77), and the GO promotion recommendation (AF Form 78), and EPR (AF Forms 910
and 911).
Evaluator—-Any individual who signs a performance evaluation in a rating capacity.
Field Grade—-Officers in the grade of Major through Colonel.
Final Evaluator—-The evaluator in the rating chain who closes out an OPR or EPR. (Officer)--
The SR will be the final evaluator (Exception: See paragraph 1.6.4.). (Enlisted)—For MSgts
through CMSgts, the last officer to endorse the AF Form 911 will be the final evaluator. When
the rater is a Colonel or above or a civilian (GS-15 or above), they qualify as a single evaluator
and may close the evaluation at their level, unless they refer the evaluation. When the rater is a
colonel or civilian (GS-15 or above) who works directly for the SR, and the ratee is not TIG
eligible for SR endorsement, the EPR will be closed out by the rater. When the rater is a SR or
the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force, the EPR will close out at their level.
Inappropriate Items—-Items that evaluators must not consider or refer to when recording
performance (see paragraph 1.12.).
Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)—-An individual filling a funded authorization
identified as augmenting the active duty components within departments or agencies of the U.S.
Government. This is further defined by Joint Publication 1-02 which states, in part: an
individual reservist attending drills who receives training and is pre-assigned to an active
component organization, or a Selective Service System billet that must be filled on, or shortly
after, mobilization.
Last Duty Day—-The day before an individual's departure from his/her station for PCS,
retirement, separation, terminal leave, leave in conjunction with PCS, or unit PCA.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       261


Limited EAD—RASL member serving on EAD for a specified period of time and in a specified
grade to pursue special work. While serving on this tour, the member is ineligible to retire, or
pin-on a higher grade, if selected for promotion.
Mandatory Comments—-Comments evaluators must include in EPRs, OPRs, and TRs (see
paragraph 1.11.).
Matter of Record (Officer)—All digitally signed evaluations are considered a matter of record
once they are loaded into ARMS. “Wet” signature evaluations on all officers and SNCOs are
considered a matter of record once they have been filed in the OSR/NSR. “Wet” signature
evaluations on TSgt and below are made a matter of record once they are loaded into ARMS.
All evaluations are considered working copies until they are made a matter of record.
Military and Civilian Grade Equivalents—-For the purposes of this instruction, it is necessary
to equate certain military grades with civilian grades. The appropriate authority, as listed below,
determines equivalency based on the responsibilities and location of the civilian position in the
rating chain (see AFI 36-3026, Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services,
their Eligible Family Members, and Other Eligible Personnel, Table A13.1. for grade
comparison chart).
a. For officer grades: The reviewer/SR determines equivalency for raters and additional raters.
The ML determines equivalency for reviewer/SR designations.
b. For MSgt through CMSgt (AF Form 911): The unit commander determines
equivalency for all evaluators (except for the reviewer when the reviewer is also the SR—
the ML determines SR).
c. For AB through TSgt (AF Form 910): The unit commander determines equivalency for
raters. Additional raters must meet the grade requirements in paragraph 1.6.3.
ML—-DoD organizations (i.e., major command) where the senior official evaluations directly to
the SECDEF, SecAF, CJCS, CSAF, or State Adjutant General or Governor. Only the CSAF
may approve exceptions; however, the HQ USAF/A1, may exercise similar authority in cases
involving the MLs of GOs. No individual can serve as the head of two separate MLs for the
same board, unless the individual is serving in a dual-hatted capacity. As used in this instruction,
ML also refers to the personnel activity that supports the senior official.
ML Control Group (Applies to GOs)—-The number of promotion eligible GOs assigned to an
ML, subdivided by grade and competitive category.
ML Review (MLR)—A process used in the Promotion Recommendation phase of the OES
(Chapter 8).
ML Student—-Receives TRs and normal PRFs. The eligible officers’ records meet the
respective ML evaluation review as a separate category. Training is within the eligible officer's
utilization field.
MPerRGp—-Consists of Officer Selection Record Group, Senior NCO Selection Record (AD
only), and Correspondence and Miscellaneous Record Group (officer and airmen). The
MPerRGp is maintained at HQ AFPC for AD members, and at HQ ARPC for ResAF members.
Noncombat Ports and MPSs—All ports and MPSs not falling within either the combat zone or
communications zone.
 262                                                                   AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


Non-Line—-As used in this instruction, non-line is a collective general reference to legal
officers (AFSC 51JX), chaplains (AFSC 52RX), and health profession officers (AFSC 4XXX).
Offices of Record—-The offices which maintain evaluations (original or copies).
Other Authorized Reviewer—The unit commander may designate in writing a senior official
within his/her unit to perform the commander’s review.                Personnel such as
Officer/Enlisted/Civilian detachment chiefs and PME commandants in the grade of MSgt and
above may sign the Commander's Review block if the unit commander is not serving in the same
duty location and delegates this authority in writing.
P-Rate—-The promotion rate that guarantees the minimum promotion rate for eligible officers
receiving a “Promote” recommendation.
Performance Feedback—-A progress evaluation from raters to ratees.
Period of Report—-The length of time covered by an evaluation.
Period of Supervision—-The period of time a member is under the supervision of a rater.
“Promote (P)” (Lieutenant Colonels and below)—-Recommendation on AF Form 709 that
says the ratee is qualified for promotion and should compete at the CSB on the basis of
performance, performance-based potential, and broader considerations; (Colonels only)--
Recommendation of AF Form 709 which indicates an officer is making a valuable contribution
to the mission and has potential for promotion.
PRF Accounting Date—-The date that determines the SR responsible for PRF preparation. The
SR of the unit the eligible officer is assigned on this date is the SR for the promotion cycle. For
officers in grades Lieutenant Colonel and below, it is approximately 150 days prior to the CSB
convening date. For Colonels, it is 60 days prior to the CSB convening date.
PRF Allocation Date—-66 days before a selection board, when "Definitely Promote" allocations
are final (does not apply to ResAF).
PRF Cutoff Date—-60 days prior to the selection board, when final PRF processing begins.
PRFs cannot be completed prior to this date (does not apply to ResAF).
Ratee—-The individual being rated.
Rater (officer and enlisted)—-The official (usually the ratee's immediate supervisor) designated
by management to provide a ratee periodic performance feedback and initiate performance
evaluations. The rater may be an officer or NCO (for enlisted ratees) of a United States or
foreign military service serving in a grade equal to or higher than the ratee, or a civilian in a
supervisory position that is higher than the ratee in the ratee’s rating chain. Management may
appoint raters serving in the same grade as ratees without regard to date of rank. (enlisted)--A
civilian rater must be at least a GS-5 or a comparable grade or higher. Active-duty members in
the grade of SrA may serve as raters only if they have completed ALS. Only non-active-duty
USAFR members in the grade of SSgt or above may serve as raters.
Rater’s Rater (officer)—-The second official in the rating chain, after the rater, serving in a
grade equal to or higher than the rater and in a grade higher than the ratee. See paragraph 1.6.3.
for other restrictions. (enlisted)--The second official in the rating chain, after the rater, serving in
a grade equal to or higher than the rater (for TSgts and below, at least the grade of MSgt or
civilian equivalent).
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      263


Rating Chain—-The succession of officials responsible for preparing evaluations. Evaluators
other than the rater may be assigned after the close-out date. Commanders set up the rating chain
within their organization. The rating chain is normally the same as the supervisory chain.
Exceptions: An individual in the supervisory chain may not be an EPR evaluator when the ratee
is a TSgt or below and the rater’s rater does not meet the minimum grade requirement to be the
additional rater. When the ratee is a MSgt or higher, the reviewer (AF Form 911, section VII)
does not have to be the immediate supervisor of the additional rater. Flexibility in this case lets
authorities better distinguish between individuals with similar performance records. When the
SRID designates more than one position as a senior rater within a common rating chain
(Example: Headquarters Chief of Staff, vice commander, and commander), the SR who signs
the evaluation does not have to be the rater’s rater, but must be the SR designated for the ratee’s
grade and assigned PAS (only one SR may sign an evaluation).
Recommendation-Only PRF—Refer to paragraph 8.1.2.2 (does not apply to ResAF).
Record of Performance (OPR)—-Consists of the following AF Forms (when filed in the OSR):
AF Forms 707, Officer Performance Report; AF Forms 707A and AF Forms 707B, Field Grade
and Company Grade Officer Performance Report; AF Forms 709, Promotion Recommendation;
Air Force Forms 475, Education/Training Report; 77, Letter of Evaluation, and Duty
Qualification History Brief. Evaluators may also use LOEs filed in the CSS/HR Specialist.
Referral Evaluation—-A performance evaluation that contains any of the following is a referral:
a. Comments in any OPR, EPR, LOE or TR, regardless of the ratings if applicable, or the
attachments to that evaluation, that are derogatory in nature, imply or refer to behavior
incompatible with, or not meeting minimum acceptable standards of personal or
professional conduct, character, judgment or integrity, and/or refer to disciplinary actions.
This includes, but is not limited to, comments regarding omissions or misrepresentation of
facts in official statements or documents, financial irresponsibility, mismanagement of
personal or government affairs, a fitness score of less than 75, unsatisfactory progress in
Fitness Education and Intervention Programs, confirmed incidents of discrimination or
mistreatment, illegal use or possession of drugs, AWOL, Article 15 action, and conviction
by court—martial.
b. An officer fails to meet standards in any one of the listed performance factors, in Section III
or Section IX of the OPR, the overall evaluation will be a "Does Not Meet Standards" evaluation
and the evaluation must be referred.
c. An evaluator marks “Does Not Meet Standards” in Section III of the EPR.
d. An evaluator marks an overall “1” (Poor) or “2” (Needs Improvement) in Section V of the
EPR.
e. When doubt arises as to whether a comment is a referral comment or not, refer the evaluation.
Example: If the comment was on your evaluation, would you want the opportunity to respond
to that comment; if yes refer the evaluation. It is better to afford the ratee the due process now
while all evaluators are available, than to try and refer it later if directed by the ERAB or
AFBCMR. See paragraph 10.1. for Referral Procedures.
Relieved From Supervisory Responsibility—-For evaluation purposes, this means an individual
was removed from supervisory duties due to either personal or professional shortcomings or
 264                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


misconduct that, in the supervisor’s view, made the member incapable of handling, or unsuitable
for holding, the position. Personnel removed from supervisory responsibility must be notified in
writing and acknowledge understanding. Further judicial, nonjudicial, or administrative actions
do not have to fit this definition.
Reserve Active Status List (RASL)—-A list of all ResAF officers in an active status, not on the
ADL, and in the order of seniority of the grade in which they are serving. Officers serving in the
same grade are carried in order of their date of rank to that grade. The RASL for the Air Force
shall include officers in the ANG and Air Force Reserve. Except as otherwise provided by law,
an officer must be on the RASL to be eligible for consideration for selection for promotion,
continuation, or selective early removal as a member of the ResAF.
Reviewer—The third evaluator on an OPR and on a SNCO EPR (see paragraph 1.6.4.).
Reviewing Official—-Any intermediate-level supervisor above the rater, but below the ML.
Senior Rater (Officer)—-The evaluator designated by the ML who completes the Performance
Recommendation form (paragraph 8.1.4.1) and also serves as reviewer on the OPR/EPRs. SRs
must be in a position to have personal knowledge or access to personal knowledge of the ratee's
performance. They must also have the scope of responsibility and breadth of experience to
assess performance and its significance as it relates to potential for promotion. The same SR
normally evaluates all officers in an organization in a particular grade and promotion zone. For
all Majors and below, the SR must be at least a Colonel (or equivalent) serving as a wing
commander or equivalent. For all Lieutenant Colonels and Colonels, the SR must be a GO (or
equivalent) and will be the first GO in the rating chain (Brigadier General selectees may serve as
SRs if so designated). HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB (ADL) or HQ AFRC/A1 (USAFR unit) must
approve exceptions. (Enlisted)--Position that the MAJCOM, field operating agency, direct
reporting unit, and other organizations with Air Force enlisted personnel designate to be the
highest level endorser in the ratee's rating chain. For AD members, SRs must be at least a
Colonel or civilian equivalent (GS-15 or higher), serving as a wing commander or equivalent.
For non-AD members, a Lieutenant Colonel serving as a wing or group commander may be the
SR.
Senior Rater Identification Code—-A five-character code identifying a SR position as the
MAJCOM or ML specifies.
Significant Disagreement—-The disagreement by an evaluator with the previous evaluator that
results in one of the following: A change of any Performance Factor rating in section V; or any
statement anywhere in an OPR that indicates obvious disagreement with the previous evaluator.
Single Evaluator—-An individual (Colonel or equivalent) who may close out an EPR with a
single signature (also see the definition of "final evaluator").
Single Senior Rater—-The single SR is not the head of the ML, but is the only SR who has
I/APZ and/or Non-line BPZ eligibles. The ML review process must review PRFs
Sole Senior Rater—-The sole SR is the head of the ML and is the only SR who has I/APZ
and/or Non-line BPZ eligibles for a specific board. The sole SR awards all PRF
recommendations; however, the HQ USAF MLR must review all PRF ratings.
Stratification—Quantitative comparison of an individual standing among peers within a
definable group and within a specific evaluators scope of authority (i.e., direct rating chain).
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                           265


Total Force Service Center (TFSC)—Formerly known as the Air Force Contact Center (AFCC).
When referenced, use the applicable components TFSC; i.e., AD would use the AFCC at AFPC
and the ANG/USAFR would use the AFCC at ARPC.
Whole Person Factors—-Factors included in the whole person assessment include job
performance; leadership; professional competence; breadth and depth of experience; job
responsibility; academic and professional military education; and specific achievements.
 266                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


                                            Attachment 2
APPEAL GUIDANCE FOR APPLICANTS (LOCAL REPRODUCTION AUTHORIZED)

A2.1. Overview. If you intend to file an appeal, you should read this attachment. The Military
Personnel Section (MPS), and Commander Support Staff (CSS/HR Specialist) technicians must
be familiar with the contents of this attachment. In this attachment, the term "evaluation"
encompasses all versions of enlisted and officer performance reports, training reports, letter of
evaluations, promotion recommendation forms, retention recommendation forms and any other
forms used by SERB and RIF separation boards. Complying with the following guidelines will
not guarantee you a favorable decision; however, not complying can cause the board to delay its
decision, return your application without action, or not have sufficient information to reach a fair
and equitable decision.
A2.2. Documenting Your Appeal. You must provide convincing documentation for your
appeal. The willingness of evaluators to change an evaluation is not enough. You must offer
clear evidence that the original evaluation was unjust or wrong. Quality, not quantity of
documentation is the issue. If the reason you are including a particular item of evidence is not
obvious, explain why you have attached it to the application or what it proves. Do not bother to
submit general documents (letters of appreciation, character reference statements, nonspecific
inspection reports, etc.). If your application has many attachments, use tabs to separate them.
Before submitting your appeal, review the documents you have attached and make sure they are:
   A2.2.1. Credible - does the support come from a person who is credible; was in a position to
   have firsthand knowledge of the situation and provide a reasoned evaluation? (Or are they
   former or subsequent supervisors, peers, friends, onetime customers, etc.?) If you are
   submitting a document, does it prove what it is supposed to? Example: Shift schedules,
   OJT records, and feedback notices do not prove when supervision began.
   A2.2.2. Relevant - to the time and issue. Evaluations assess performance over a very specific
   period of time and your support must relate to that period. Does your documentation stick to
   the issues (i.e., the basis for your appeal)? Example: If you are appealing based on a
   “personality conflict,” general character references, job recommendations, or letters of
   appreciation would do little to support the alleged “conflict” and usually are not relevant.
   A2.2.3. Believable - from a common sense standpoint.                 Look at your evidence
   dispassionately and ask, “Can I buy this?”
A2.3. Statements . The most effective evidence consists of statements from the actual
evaluators who signed the contested evaluation. These statements should:
   A2.3.1. Cite important facts or circumstances that were unknown when the evaluators signed
   the evaluation.
   A2.3.2. Detail the error or injustice.
   A2.3.3. Explain how and when it was discovered.
   A2.3.4. Include the correct information.
   A2.3.5. Relate to the contested reporting period.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                      267


   A2.3.6. Address the allegations and substantially challenge or disprove comments or ratings
   in the evaluation.
   A2.3.7. Contacting Retirees. To contact a retired person, place your memorandum in a
   stamped envelope.
       A2.3.7.1. Address the envelope partially by writing your name and return address, and
       the retired person's name.
       A2.3.7.2. Enclose the partially addressed envelope in a separate envelope to the
       Worldwide Locator (HQ AFPC/DPDXIDL, 550 C St. West, Suite 50, Randolph AFB TX
       78150-4752).
       A2.3.7.3. Include the retired person's grade, full name, and SSN, if known.
       A2.3.7.4. Include a note explaining about the appeal and asking the Locator to forward
       your memorandum.
A2.4. Time Limit Waivers. The applicant can request a waiver of the 3-year time limit by
citing unusual circumstances that prevented filing the appeal in a timely manner. However,
ratees are responsible for reviewing their records at least annually for accuracy and the board can
consider the due diligence of the applicant to apply for correction. Applications that do not
include a waiver will be returned without action. Grounds for a waiver do not include:
   A2.4.1. Failing to understand the appeals process.
   A2.4.2. Being discouraged from appealing by superiors, peers, or counselors.
   A2.4.3. Failing to understand how serious an impact an evaluation could have on your career
   in later years.
   A2.4.4. Not reviewing your records during the intervening years.
A2.5. Common Appeal Reasons and Related Documentation Requirements. Some common
reasons for appealing and types of documentation are outlined below. Complying with these
guidelines will not ensure approval of a request.
   A2.5.1. Impact on Promotion or Career Opportunity. An evaluation is not erroneous or
   unfair because the applicant believes it contributed to a non-selection for promotion or may
   impact future promotion or career opportunities. The Board recognizes that non-selection for
   promotion is, for many, a traumatic event, and the desire to overturn that non-selection is
   powerful motivation to appeal. However, the Board is careful to keep the promotion and
   evaluation issues separated, and to focus on the evaluation only. The simple willingness by
   evaluators to upgrade, rewrite, or void an evaluation is not a valid basis for doing so.
   Example: Requests to add optional statements (such as DE/PME, assignment/job/command
   "push" recommendation, add an omitted award or stratification) to an evaluation or PRF will
   normally not form the basis for a successful appeal. As these statements are not mandatory
   for inclusion, their omission does not make the evaluation inaccurate. You must prove the
   evaluation is erroneous or unjust based on its content.
   A2.5.2. Ratings and Comments Inconsistent with Prior or Subsequent Evaluations. Ratings
   are not erroneous or unjust because they are inconsistent with other ratings you have
   received. An evaluation documents performance during a specific period and reflects your
   performance, conduct, and potential at that time, in that position. An ability to function well
268                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  in one position at a given time may change in another job at another time. Sometimes an
  individual can stay in the same job and a change in supervisors will produce a change in
  performance standards which, depending on how well the individual adapts, could cause a
  marked change in the next evaluation. The Board will not approve requests to void
  evaluations simply because they are inconsistent with other evaluation evaluations.
 A2.5.3. Comments Inconsistent with Assigned Ratings. Retrospective views of facts and
 circumstances, months or even years after the evaluation was written, will usually not
 overcome the Board's presumption that the initial assessment remains valid. You are
 unlikely to convince the Board simply by comparing an evaluator's comments and ratings.
  A2.5.4. Deflationary Rating Programs. Evaluators must accurately assess personnel and
  control inflation. Therefore, to appeal on this basis, you must clearly establish that the
  evaluator did not use the Air Force evaluation policy in effect at the time and, as a result, you
  were not rated fairly in comparison to your peers evaluated at the same time.
  A2.5.5. Personality Conflict. In worker-supervisor relationships, some disagreements are
  likely to occur since a worker must abide by a supervisor's policies and decisions. Personnel
  who do not perform at expected standards or require close supervision may believe that an
  evaluator is personally biased; however, the conflict generated by this personal attention is
  usually professional rather than personal. To convince the Board that an evaluator was
  unfavorably biased, you must cite specific examples of the conflict or bias. Provide firsthand
  evidence that clearly shows how the conflict prevented the evaluator from preparing a fair
  and accurate evaluation. If other evaluators support an appeal because they were unaware of
  a conflict at the time, they should provide specific information (and cite their sources) which
  leads them to believe the evaluation is not an objective assessment.
  A2.5.6. Coercion by Superiors. The Board seriously and carefully evaluates any allegation
  of coercion by superiors. The Air Force requires endorsers, reviewers, and commanders to
  review evaluations for quality and to control inflationary tendencies. These officials must
  reject poorly prepared evaluations and downgrade or reject inflated evaluations. Evaluators
  who change their evaluations after talking with a superior have not necessarily been coerced.
  Clear evidence must exist proving that the superior violated the evaluator's rating rights.
  Supporting statements must identify the person who did the coercing, list the specific threats
  that were made, and identify any witnesses who can corroborate the incident.
  A2.5.7. Undue Emphasis on Isolated Incidents. Although you may feel that evaluators have
  over stressed an isolated incident or a short period of substandard performance or conduct,
  the evaluators are obliged to consider such incidents, their significance, and the frequency
  with which they occurred in assessing performance and potential. Only the evaluators know
  how much an incident influenced the evaluation; therefore, the opinions of individuals
  outside the rating chain are not relevant. Retrospective statements from evaluators prepared
  several months (or even years) after the incident or following a period of improved
  performance do not carry as much weight as assessments made when the facts and
  circumstances were fresh in their minds. To convince the Board, evaluators must provide
  specific information about the incident and why they now believe it was overly emphasized.
  A2.5.8. Lack of Counseling or Feedback. Only the rater can confirm if counseling was
  provided. While current Air Force policy requires performance feedback for personnel, a
  direct correlation between information provided during feedback sessions and the
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                        269


   assessments on evaluations does not necessarily exist. Example:              If after a positive
   feedback session, an evaluator discovers serious problems, he or she must record the
   problems in the evaluation even when it disagrees with the previous feedback. There may be
   occasions when feedback was not provided during a reporting period, or a specific issue was
   not addressed; the lack of counseling or feedback, by itself, is not sufficient to challenge the
   accuracy or validity of an evaluation. Evaluators must confirm they did not provide
   counseling or feedback, and that this directly resulted in an unfair evaluation. You must also
   supply specific information about the unfair evaluation so the Board can make a reasoned
   judgment on the appeal. Finally, every Airman should know the existing standards for
   indebtedness, weight, fitness, etc. Lack of counseling in these areas provides no valid basis
   for voiding an evaluation.
   A2.5.9. Alleged Discrimination or Unfair Treatment. Air Force members must report any
   form of discrimination to their supervisors or commander. If you file a complaint late in a
   reporting period or after an evaluation closes, it may appear that you complained to create
   doubts about the evaluation's fairness and accuracy. If you believe that you have been the
   victim of discrimination, your best evidence is an official equal opportunity and treatment
   (EOT) investigation, reviewed and validated by appropriate officials. As an alternative, you
   may use statements from officials in the rating chain or other credible sources who have
   firsthand knowledge of the discrimination. You must prove that an evaluator was biased and
   that the bias affected the person's objectivity to a point that a fair and accurate evaluation was
   impossible.
   A2.5.10. Evaluation Completed on Wrong Form. The Board does not void an evaluation
   because it was completed on the wrong form. The evaluation will either be re-accomplished
   or superimposed on the correct form.
   A2.5.11. Administrative Issues. The Board does not normally void evaluations because of
   administrative errors. To convince the Board, you must prove that the evaluation would have
   been substantially different without the error. Normal procedure is to correct the
   administrative error rather than void the evaluation.
   A2.5.12. Evaluation Inconsistent with Awards or Decorations Covering the Same Reporting
   Period. Citations are not specific enough to offset the comments and ratings in an evaluation.
   Awards and decorations are usually submitted by members of the rating chain who are fully
   aware of the contested evaluation. Therefore, an approved award or decoration alone does
   not challenge the accuracy of an evaluation.
   A2.5.13. Personal Opinions and Unsupported Allegations. Do not make statements you
   cannot support with evidence. Your personal opinions will not convince the Board to
   approve your application. Unsubstantiated conjecture about the motives of your evaluators,
   or how or why your evaluation turned out as it did, do not contribute to your case. You must
   provide factual, specific, and substantiated information that is from credible officials and is
   based on firsthand observation or knowledge. Statements or Memorandum for Records
   (MFRs) written by yourself on the events which you believe lead to the contested evaluation
   are not creditable evidence unless supported by another creditable official.
   A2.5.14. Mismarked Ratings. The instructions governing the Officer and Enlisted
   Evaluation Systems clearly require evaluators (and no one else) to mark evaluations, and
   prohibit them from signing blank or unmarked forms. You will need statements from all
270                                                                AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


  evaluators who signed the evaluation. These statements must fully explain how the error
  occurred and why the evaluators did not notice the error when they signed the evaluation.
  Sometimes the typist or administrative section is blamed for such errors, in which case a
  statement from them can help. If the unit has a policy which requires raters to sign blank
  forms, or prohibits them from marking their ratings, a statement from the unit commander (or
  other person that imposed and enforced the policy) will be needed. The Board usually directs
  the evaluation be corrected or re-accomplished rather than voided.
  A2.5.15. Evaluation Not Endorsed by Mandatory Endorser. An evaluation not endorsed at
  the required level is normally corrected instead of voided. Identify the proper mandatory
  endorser and obtain the omitted endorsement. You can have the evaluation re-accomplished
  or have the endorsement placed in the correct section of a blank form and signed. Include
  statements from the evaluators explaining the error.
  A2.5.16. Lack of Observation. Applications based on the fact that you and your evaluators
  were geographically separated, working on a different shift, or your evaluators were new to
  the job, require conclusive documentation showing they had no valid basis on which to
  assess performance. Many individuals have to perform duties without the benefit of direct
  daily supervision; therefore, separation alone is not a good argument. Finally, endorsing
  officials have to be in the rating chain only on or after the evaluation's close-out.
 A2.5.17. Evaluation Not Written by Designated Rater. The Air Force does not require the
 designated rater to be your immediate supervisor. Inaccurate designations and failures to
 change raters can occur when personnel are reassigned, work centers reorganized, functional
 areas or units realigned, etc. To prove your case, you will need statements from both the
 individuals who signed the evaluation and from the individuals who believe they should have
 written the evaluation. They should cite the from and thru dates of their supervision and
 explain what happened. The “erroneous” evaluator must clearly explain why he or she wrote
 and signed the evaluation when they were not the rater. Likewise the “correct” evaluator
 must explain why he or she did not write the evaluation even though they were supposed to.
 Also helpful is a statement from the unit commander, if possible, providing specific
 information.
 A2.5.18. Insufficient Supervision. To appeal based on insufficient supervision, you need:
      A2.5.18.1. Computer-generated products or other documents that substantiate when
      supervision began and ended.
      A2.5.18.2. Understand that OJT records, feedback notices, and performance feedback
      worksheets do not document the date supervision began. They document only that an
      OJT entry was made, a feedback notice produced, or a feedback session took place.
      A2.5.18.3. Often, evaluators feel that 60 or 120 days is not a sufficient time to evaluate a
      ratee. However, Air Force standards establish that normally 120 (and in certain
      situations, as little as 60) days are adequate to be able to provide a valid assessment. This
      standard applies Air Force-wide and appeals based on the rater’s belief that the 120 days
      are not enough time are not approved.
  A2.5.19. Memorandum of Mitigation. You can get a memorandum of mitigation to attach to
  an evaluation from an evaluator who signed the original evaluation or from someone in the
  rating chain at the time of the original evaluation. The memorandum must present
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                       271


   information that was not known at the time of the evaluation's preparation and must explain
   the comments or ratings. You cannot use a memorandum of mitigation simply to add
   information to an evaluation when there was not enough space on the original evaluation to
   include it. The memorandum must be no more than a single, typed page. It must not discuss
   promotion status or potential or any other subject or material if this information was not
   allowed in the original evaluation. Do not emphasize comments by using bold type,
   underlines, unusual fonts, etc.
   A2.5.20. Lack of Training. You will require supporting statements from rating chain
   officials who can give specific information about the training problem and its impact on the
   evaluation. Since failing to provide training and failing to document training are different
   problems, OJT records, reviews of OJT records, and OJT inspection reports do not prove
   training was not conducted, only that training was not documented.
   A2.5.21. Forged Signature. Allegations of a forged signature on an evaluation must be
   confirmed by a notarized statement from the actual evaluator or by the results of an
   investigation.
   A2.5.22. Fitness: If you are requesting a change pertaining to the fitness area, you must
   justify why the fitness area is incorrect and provide relevant, supporting documents (i.e., past
   fitness history, profiles, medical authority input, etc.). Any request without supporting
   documents will be returned or not favorably considered.
   A2.5.23. Re-accomplishing an evaluation. If you are requesting an evaluation be re-
   accomplished, you must furnish a substitute evaluation in your appeal case (See paragraph
   10.2.4.7.). The substitute evaluation must:
      A2.5.23.1. Be signed by all the evaluators who signed the original evaluation (this
      includes the commander on EPRs). If an evaluator cannot be located, you must submit
      evidence of all attempts to locate the missing evaluator (i.e. certified mail receipt, emails,
      postal service, etc). After all attempts have been exhausted, contact AFPC/DPSIDE for
      guidance.
      A2.5.23.2. Be on the correct form not only for your grade, but also for the time the
      original evaluation was written. Example: If you are re-accomplishing a Promotion
      Recommendation Form (PRF) for a CY93 Board, the Aug 88 version of the AF Form 709
      must be used, not the Jun 95 edition of the form. Similarly, if you are re-accomplishing
      an EPR which has a close-out date of Jan 95, the substitute must be on the Jan 93 edition
      of the AF Form 910/911, not the Jun 95 version.
A2.6. Special Information on Appealing AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation Form
(PRF). (See Table 10.5.) (Note: The MLR process does not apply to the ResAF).
   A2.6.1. General Information. A material error in the PRF itself; substantive changes to the
   record of performance used to assess your performance-based potential; or, a material error
   in the PRF preparation process, may justify changes to your PRF. Normally, comments and
   recommendations are required from the senior rater who signed the PRF and the MLR
   President who reviewed it. If the SR is deceased or retired and not available, the MLR
   president who originally reviewed the PRF can act instead. When the senior rater is available
   but the original MLR President is deceased or retired and not available, the current MLR
   President can act in his or her place. (Note: An evaluator is considered not available when
272                                                               AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


 they are incapacitated or, after reasonable efforts, cannot be located or contacted. You should
 include in your application documentation that shows when and how you attempted to
 contact an evaluator, such as certified mail receipts, and so forth. An evaluator will not be
 substituted or bypassed simply because they will not support an application, or because you
 do not believe you will have time to locate or contact them prior to a specific date or event).
      A2.6.1.1. Substantive additions, deletions, changes, or corrections to an officer's record
      of performance include voiding a referral or negative evaluation; adding a previously
      missing OPR or TR; removing a negative endorsement or adding a positive one;
      replacing an evaluation with a substantially different one, and so on. The change must, in
      effect, remove negative information from an officer’s record or add positive information
      which was not previously known. A simple administrative change to an evaluation rarely
      meets this criteria.
      A2.6.1.2. SR and MLR Presidents who provide comments and recommendations must
      carefully consider what, if any, impact the correction or change may have had on the final
      PRF content, rating, or the preparation process. They will need to explain the change to
      the record of performance, its impact on the PRF, and how the requested PRF action
      relates to the changed record of performance. Appeals based on errors in the preparation
      process must also be fully explained and substantiated. SRs must weigh the impact of the
      processing error on the PRF and explain how the error justifies the requested PRF
      change.
      A2.6.1.3. The ML that initially processed the PRF can best route PRF appeals to the
      appropriate MLR President. Since MLs may have different procedures for processing
      PRF appeals, contact the appropriate one for instructions. If the ML no longer exists,
      contact HQ AFPC/DPSIDEB for instructions.
  A2.6.2. PRF Appeal Requirements. It is impossible to list exact instructions for each type of
  appeal; so, if necessary, contact HQ AFPC/DPSIDEP or ARPC/DPB for guidance on appeals
  not covered in this instruction.       The following list describes minimum required
  documentation for the Board to reach a fair and equitable decision on your appeal:
      A2.6.2.1. Voiding a PRF. You must provide substantial evidence proving the PRF does
      not contain a valid promotion potential assessment, and that it is not possible to correct
      the form.
      A2.6.2.2. Changing the (Promotion Recommendation) requires the concurrence of both
      the SR and MLR President. The PRF should “provide key performance factors from the
      officer’s entire career.” Obviously, the space on the form is limited and it is not usually
      possible to describe every achievement in an officer’s career. The SR bears the
      responsibility of selecting what to include in the PRF, and what to leave out; which
      portions of the officer’s career to concentrate on, and which portions to have supported
      by the record. While he or she may request inputs from subordinate commanders, to do
      so is not mandatory. To change the promotion recommendation, the SR will need to
      demonstrate there was a material error in the PRF; a material error in the record of
      performance which substantially impacted the content of the PRF; or, a material error in
      the process by which the PRF was crafted. In all instances, the requested change to the
      promotion recommendation must be related to the documented error. Appeals to rewrite
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                                   273


      the promotion recommendation simply to include different, but previously known or
      documented accomplishments will not be approved.
      A2.6.2.3. Changing the overall promotion recommendation to a "promote" rating
      requires the concurrence of both the SR and MLR President. The SR provides detailed
      information about the circumstances surrounding the requested change and the rationale
      for the correction. The MLR President reviews the request and recommends for or
      against the change. The SR and MLR President should not support a requested change to
      the PRF unless a material error exists.
      A2.6.2.4. Changing the overall promotion recommendation to a "DP” rating must be
      fully justified and requires the concurrence of both the SR and MLR President. In the
      promotion process, DP ratings are strictly controlled, and awarded after a competitive
      review of the SR’s pool of eligibles identifies the top officers. The MLR validates the
      SR’s decision and conducts a similar competitive review in awarding carry-over or
      aggregate DPs. In determining whether to seek award of a DP via an appeal, SRs and
      MLR Presidents must, as much as possible, replicate the original competitive process.
      SRs and MLRs needing assistance in identifying their original pool of eligibles should
      contact HQ AFPC/DPSIDE, 550 C Street West, Suite 7, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709
      to obtain a MMEL and copies of records of performance which may be needed for the
      board in question. The SR details the circumstances surrounding the requested change,
      the rationale for the correction, and the method (an earned DP allocation, aggregation or
      carry-over) by which the DP rating would have been awarded originally. As with other
      PRF appeals, there must be a material error in the PRF, record of performance, or
      process, and it must be shown how that error resulted in an erroneous rating. In addition:
          A2.6.2.4.1. When the SR identifies an "earned DP allocation," he or she certifies that
          the applicant's corrected record would have been awarded a DP rating in competition
          with the SR’s original pool of eligibles. After reviewing the circumstances of the
          appeal and the applicant's record, the MLR President recommends whether the DP
          rating should be confirmed.
          A2.6.2.4.2. If the SR believes a DP rating would have been awarded under
          aggregation or carry-over, the MLR President reviews the request, the circumstances
          surrounding the error, and its impact on the strength of the applicant’s record. The
          MLR President, after a competitive review, determines if the corrected record would
          have been sufficiently strong to have earned a DP at the original MLR, and makes the
          appropriate recommendation.
   A2.6.3. Changing PRFs reviewed by a USAF Student Evaluation Board or a USAF
   Evaluation Board for Officers in Competitive Categories Other Than Line of the Air Force.
   The same requirements listed above apply except after meeting the SR’s requirement,
   forward the appeal to HQ AFPC/DPSIDE for processing. HQ AFPC/DPSIDE serves as the
   ML for these boards and will secure a recommendation from the MLR President.
   A2.6.4. Board Review. The Board is extremely careful in considering appeals of PRFs. The
   decision whether or not to grant or deny the appeal rests with the Board, which has the
   independent responsibility to make the determination. SR, MLR President, and other inputs
   and/or recommendations are factors which the Board will consider in making its
 274                                                             AFI36-2406 2 January 2013


   determination. It is not bound by any of the recommendations. The Board determines the
   weight it will give to all such inputs.
A2.7. Special Information on Appealing AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form
(RRF).
   A2.7.1. The Board carefully evaluates RRF appeals and obtaining the support outlined
   below does not guarantee approval, but is the minimum required for the Board to reach a fair
   and equitable decision.
   A2.7.2. Voiding an RRF. Evidence requirements are similar to evidence requirements for
   voiding other evaluation types. You must provide substantiating evidence that the form
   contains an unjust or inaccurate assessment of your potential for continued service.
   A2.7.3. To change the narrative comments, or the retention recommendation, you must have
   the support of the evaluators who signed the form. The first evaluator is generally the
   primary person to substantiate the form is inaccurate. He or she details the circumstances
   surrounding the error and explains why it should be corrected. The second evaluator reviews
   the circumstances and provides a recommendation. On occasion, the same person may be
   responsible for the first and second evaluators' portions of the form. If major changes are
   needed, fill out a new form and attach it to the request for correction.
AFI36-2406 2 January 2013                                                             275


                                       Attachment 3
                 SUBJECT MATTER QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE

L   C    A                                            B            C         D
I   H
N   A    Subject
E   P    Matter                                       Paragraphs   Figures   Tables
    1    General Considerations

    2    Performance Feedback Process

    3    Performance Evaluations

    4    AF Form 77, Letter of Evaluation

    5    Contingency and Wartime Provisions

    6    AF Form 475, Education/Training
         Report

    7    General Officer Evaluations

    8    Promotion Recommendation Process

    9    AF Form 3538, Retention
         Recommendation Form


    10   Correcting Officer/Enlisted Evaluations
