BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7061,
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                 32 CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS,
COMMAND                                                                            PART 989

                                                    AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND
                                                                                Supplement

                                                                                  6 JUNE 2007
                                                          CERTIFIED CURRENT, 20 JANUARY 2010
                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS
                                                                              PROCESS (EIAP)

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
____________________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the HQ AETC Publishing Web site at
https://www-r.aetc.af.mil/im/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: HQ AETC/A7CPP                                                         Certified by: HQ AETC/A7C
Supersedes 32CFR989_AETCSUP1, 29 September 2003                            (Colonel Mark A. Pohlmeier)
                                                                                             Pages: 10
This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Title 32, Code of Federal Regulations,
Part 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) (32 CFR 989). This supplement applies to
all activities conducted on the Air Education and Training Command (AETC) bases, including those
conducted by tenants. As such, this supplement applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air
National Guard (ANG) units on or associated with AETC bases. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR), the Planning and
Programs Branch (HQ AETC/A7CP), using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
(AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), prescribes AF Form 847. Refer to that publication
for guidance on filling out the form.)
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with the Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Note: The CFR is available at
http://www.gpoaccess.gov/cfr/index.html. Each volume of the CFR is updated once each calendar year
and is issued on a quarterly basis. Title 32 is updated 1 July of each year. Paragraph numbers in this
supplement correspond to those used in the CFR. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
realigns with the paragraph numbering system in 32 CFR 989. It provides guidance that contractors
cannot sign as certifiers on AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 813, Request for Environmental
Impact Analysis; defines cumulative actions; provides guidance that the chairperson of the installation
Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC) signs the finding of no significant
impact (FONSI), if appropriate, for actions that have the potential to impact flood plains or wetlands;
adds provisions for keeping administrative records electronically; and adds references to Council on
2                                                       AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC               6 JUNE 2007

Environmental Quality (CEQ) guidance on cumulative effects, emergency actions, and environmental
justice.
989.3(e)(4) At an installation, the environmental flight chief (military or civilian, but not a contractor) or
the first-level (noncontractor) supervisor of the equivalent position at a contracted installation is the
responsible environmental planning function (EPF) member who signs the certification on AF
Information Management Tool (IMT) 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis. Similarly, HQ
AETC/A7CP signs the AF IMT 813 certification for a proposed HQ AETC action (which typically
involves non-Air Force agencies or a mission beddown at multiple bases). In either case, authority will
not be delegated to a lower level.
989.3(f) The chairperson of the ESOHC approves releasing Air Force documents for the public and
regulatory agencies to review.
989.4(d) The EIAP document (environmental impact statement [EIS], environmental assessment [EA],
or categorical exclusion [CATEX]) used to support a real estate transaction will be no more than 1 year
old. If an EIAP document is older than 1 year, the chief of the EPF will either (1) recertify that there are
no substantive changes in the proposal and the analysis of potential impacts or (2) prepare supplemental
documentation. If it is the former, the chief of the EPF prepares the appropriate documentation for the
administrative record.
989.9(a)(1) (Added)(AETC) The EPF evaluates all Air Force actions to determine the propriety of
inviting non-Air Force agencies to participate in the EIAP as cooperating agencies. If participation is
deemed appropriate, the EPF prepares and sends a draft memorandum to HQ AETC/A7CPP for staffing.
For an EIS, the cooperating agency memorandum is staffed to and signed by the Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety and Occupational Health (SAF/IEE). For an EA, the
cooperating agency memorandum is staffed to and signed by the AETC Civil Engineer (HQ
AETC/A7C) or the Deputy Civil Engineer (HQ AETC/A7C2) and a copy is provided to SAF/IEE. The
transmittal memorandum must indicate coordination with the proponent, staff judge advocate (SJA), and
public affairs (PA).
989.9(a)(2) (Added)(AETC) If an agency invites the Air Force to participate as a cooperating agency or
asks to be a cooperating agency in the EIAP for an Air Force action, the EPF sends HQ AETC/A7CPP a
draft memorandum accepting or declining the request using the procedures described in paragraph
989.9(a)(1) (Added)(AETC) of this supplement. To facilitate prompt replies, send the proposed response
within 3 weeks of receipt of a request.
989.11(a)(1) (Added)(AETC) The EPF should determine as early as possible if the proposed action or
alternatives have the potential to cause effects on cultural or historic properties. If the potential to cause
effects exists, the EPF should initiate consultation with state and (when applicable) tribal historic
preservation officials as early as practicable to resolve preservation issues before completion of the
EIAP. To the extent possible, complete the consultation and public notification requirements of the
National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) (Title 16 United States Code Section 470 [16 USC 470] et
seq) during the EIAP. Compliance with the NHPA is mandatory before funds can be committed to
execute a proposed action or alternative. See AFI 32-7065, Cultural Resources Management Program,
for requirements and guidance.
989.11(a)(2) (Added)(AETC) The EPF should determine as early as possible if the proposed action or
alternatives have the potential to cause effects on federally listed threatened or endangered plants,
animals, or their habitats. If the potential to cause effects exists, consultation with other federal agencies
(for example, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service) required under the Endangered Species Act
AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC             6 JUNE 2007                                                           3

(16 USC 1531-1544) should occur as soon as practicable to avoid delaying completion of the EIAP. See
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, for requirements and guidance.
989.13(d) For a CATEX which is documented on AF IMT 813 at the installation, the environmental
flight chief (military or civilian but not a contractor) or the first-level (noncontractor) supervisor of the
equivalent position at a contracted installation, with appropriate SJA staffing, determines if a proposed
installation action qualifies for a CATEX. Similarly, HQ AETC/A7CP, with the appropriate
Environmental Law Division (HQ AETC/JAV) staffing, determines if a proposed HQ AETC action
qualifies for a CATEX. In either case, this authority will not be delegated to a lower level.
989.14(e) The EPF must comply with the CEQ Memorandum, Emergency Actions and the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), Attachment 2, Preparing Focused, Concise and Timely
Environmental       Assessments,       8    September        2005,     which    is     available   at
http://ceq.eh.doe.gov/nepa/nepanet.htm. In addition, refer to the recommended format for EAs and EISs
provided in HQ USAF/A7C’s Environmental Impact Analysis Process Desk Reference, Attachment K,
General Format for Environmental Analyses (EAs and (or) EISs), May 1995, which is available at
https://www-r.aetc.af.mil/ce/cev/library/NEPA_files/EIAP Desk Ref Atch K.pdf. Additional
recommendations follow:
989.14(e)(1) (Added)(AETC) Tracking Matrix. To ensure issues and objectives are addressed
throughout the EIAP document, place this matrix after the table of contents to help the reader locate
relevant topics.
989.14(e)(2) (Added)(AETC) Scope of the Environmental Review. In Chapter 1, address all resource
categories including land use, visual resources, environmental justice, and coastal zone management.
For those resource categories that are not applicable, list them in the introductory material and provide
the rationale for their elimination from further discussion. Be sure to provide enough factual information
and analysis to support the decision to eliminate each of these categories from further discussion.
989.14(e)(3) (Added)(AETC) Selection Criteria. In Chapter 2, list the criteria used to develop the
proposed action and alternatives. Then use them to justify the elimination of any alternatives from
further consideration.
989.14(e)(4) (Added)(AETC) Cumulative Actions. “Cumulative actions” are past, present, and
reasonably foreseeable future actions, regardless of what organization (federal, nonfederal, or private) or
person undertakes such other actions. Cumulative actions occur in the vicinity of the proposed action, on
and off the installation, within the region of influence. The EPF should consider CEQ guidance on
cumulative impact analysis provided in Guidance on the Consideration of Past Actions in Cumulative
Effects Analysis, 24 June 2005, and Considering Cumulative Effects Under the National Environmental
Policy Act, January 1997, both of which are available at http://ceq.eh.doe.gov/nepa/nepanet.htm.
989.14(e)(4)(i) (Added)(AETC) In Chapter 1, under scope of the environmental review, discuss any
special meetings or coordination actions taken to assure the availability of information on cumulative
actions.
989.14(e)(4)(ii) (Added)(AETC) In Chapter 2, list and briefly describe all cumulative actions. To the
extent possible, cumulative actions should be included as part of the no action alternative. In the
comparison matrix at the end of Chapter 2, summarize the results of the cumulative impact analysis
from Chapter 4.
989.14(e)(4)(iii) (Added)(AETC) In Chapter 3, establish a baseline for the resource categories as they
exist at a given point in time. Use this baseline to compare (in Chapter 4) the proposed action and
alternatives to existing conditions. The start date of data collection is generally accepted as the baseline
4                                                      AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC             6 JUNE 2007

date. The text of the document must provide the justification if some other timeframe is chosen. The
baseline should discuss the methodology for profiling the existing conditions, summarize the cumulative
actions as they relate to resource categories, and define the area of potential effect for each resource
category. The geographical area of potential effect may vary between the various resource categories.
989.14(e)(4)(iv) (Added)(AETC) Chapter 4 depicts potential impacts. Assess the proposed action and
alternatives against the baseline established in Chapter 3 for each resource category. The cumulative
impact analysis is the process of adding the impacts of the cumulative actions to the potential impacts of
the proposed action and alternatives, resulting in the total environmental impact.
989.14(e)(5) (Added)(AETC) Environmental Consequences. In Chapter 4, under each resource category
(for example, noise), evaluate all environmental consequences or impacts to the same level of detail for
the proposed action and each alternative. Discussion must include cumulative impacts, mitigation
measures, compatibility with the objectives of existing land-use directives, short-term versus long-term
uses of resources, and irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources.
989.14(e)(6) (Added)(AETC) Coordination and Comments. Coordination with the public and applicable
federal, state, and local agencies is required. To show that adequate coordination has occurred, maintain
in the administrative record copies of all correspondence used in the coordination effort, including Air
Force correspondence to agencies and the public, comments received, and responses to those comments.
For an EA or EIS, bind all of this correspondence as an appendix in the document used to support the
decision.
989.14(g) For actions that might impact wetlands or flood plains, the EPF must ensure compliance with
Executive Order (E.O.) 11988, Floodplain Management; E.O. 11990, Protection of Wetlands; and AFI
32-7064.
989.14(g)(1) (Added)(AETC) The HQ AETC/A7C signs the finding of no practicable alternative
(FONPA) for actions within AETC that have the potential to impact flood plains and wetlands. This
authority will not be delegated to a lower level, and does not apply to actions supported by an EIS.
FONPAs associated with EISs are staffed to the Air Staff for signature. In addition, the following
procedures apply to a FONPA:
989.14(g)(1)(i) (Added)(AETC) HQ AETC/A7C will continue to uphold the strict standards that
strongly discourage unwise land use and development in and around flood plains and wetlands. Unwise
land uses are those that destroy the special qualities of flood plains and wetlands without genuine efforts
to mitigate adverse impacts; pose a severe threat or unnecessarily increase the risk to human life, health,
and property; and lead to increases in flood losses or losses of natural and beneficial flood plain and
wetland values. HQ AETC/A7C will limit development within flood plains and wetlands to those
functionally dependent uses that are compatible with these areas.
989.14(g)(1)(ii) (Added)(AETC) An action that preserves flood plains and wetlands or the existing
facilities in them does not require a FONPA. Generally, when a proposal in a wetland or flood plain is
only for routine operations and maintenance (grass-cutting, controlled burning, repairing utility systems,
facility maintenance and repair, etc.), a FONPA is not required. However, an action that would either
modify or permit occupancy of flood plains or wetlands (whether by facilities, utilities, or pavements)
requires a FONPA. Clean Water Act, Section 404, permits are required.
989.14(g)(2) (Added)(AETC) If HQ AETC/A7C approves a FONPA for an action supported by an EA,
the installation ESOHC chairperson (the installation commander or vice commander) is authorized to
determine if a FONSI is true and supportable. If a FONSI is warranted, the decision document will
contain the signature block of the AETC Civil Engineer after the FONPA determination and the
signature block of the ESOHC chairperson signature block after the FONSI determination.
AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC            6 JUNE 2007                                                         5

989.15(d) The actual distribution of a FONSI and its supporting EA is normally accomplished from the
point at which they are collated and bound. If documents are prepared by contract, the contractor makes
the distribution as an attachment to an Air Force letter which has been reviewed and signed by the
appropriate Air Force (noncontractor) entity. Otherwise, the installation preparing the documents
distributes them to all required addressees. The local EPF must provide a copy of the distribution list to
HQ AETC/A7CPP.
989.15(f) For a proposed installation action, the installation ESOHC chairperson signs the FONSI
following coordination of appropriate members of the installation ESOHC. For a proposed HQ AETC
action, the AETC ESOHC chairperson (AETC/CV) signs the FONSI following coordination of
appropriate members of the AETC ESOHC. In either case, signature authority will not be delegated to a
level below the ESOHC chairperson.
989.19(a) The recommended format in Attachment K and the recommendations in 989.14(e)
(Added)(AETC) also apply to EISs.
989.24(e) (Added)(AETC) A “privacy advisory” is required as follows:
989.24(e)(1) (Added)(AETC) Any draft EIS or EA must contain the following “privacy advisory”
placed conspicuously (and not in fine print) on a separate page (for example, the cover sheet) toward the
very front of the document and tailored, as appropriate, for the draft EIS or EA: “Public comments on
this draft (EIS or EA) are requested pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 United States
Code 4321, et seq. All written comments received during the comment period will be made available to
the public and considered during Final (EIS or EA) preparation. Providing private address information
with your comment is voluntary and such personal information will be kept confidential unless release is
required by law. However, address information will be used to compile the project mailing list and
failure to provide it will result in your name not being included on the mailing list.”
989.24(e)(2) (Added)(AETC) The “privacy advisory” must also be printed conspicuously on each
request for written or oral comments on an EIS or EA. The advisory will not be in fine print or in a
place difficult to find. Examples of such requests include the notice of intent (NOI) and notice of
availability (NOA). The “privacy advisory” should also be printed on material used at public meetings
and hearings (including “scoping” meetings and draft EIS public hearings). Examples of such material
include printed attendance records and any other documents soliciting names and expressions of interest
in speaking publicly, being on the mailing list, or receiving copies of the final EIS or EA.
989.24(e)(3) (Added)(AETC) The prepared public hearing script and (or) briefing given at public
“scoping” meetings or public hearings held on an EIS or EA should include the following:
       “When making an oral comment, please clearly state your name and the name of the
       organization you are representing before you begin your comments. Do not provide any
       other personal information such as your home address and telephone number. When
       making an oral comment, such personal information will become part of the public record
       of this proceeding. Your oral comments will be used to develop a transcript and
       permanent record of this meeting. This transcript may be published in the final (EIS or
       EA). If you would like to know how to obtain a copy of the final (EIS or EA) or other
       associated documents, you may state that on a written comment card or add your name
       and address to the mailing list. Unless otherwise required by law, private addresses will
       only be used to develop the mailing list; personal home addresses and telephone numbers
       are not published in the final (EIS or EA).”
6                                                     AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC             6 JUNE 2007

989.24(e)(4) (Added)(AETC) The final EIS or EA must describe the public comment process,
specifically including the exact privacy advisories used in soliciting public comments and how the
public was notified of these advisories.
989.30(a) (Added)(AETC) For a CATEX at a base in an area designated by government regulators as
nonattainment or maintenance for air quality, place the following statement on AF IMT 813, block 18,
or as a separate document:
       “(Name of installation) is located in an area that is in (nonattainment or maintenance) for
       the following criteria air pollutants: (name of pollutants). Direct air emissions from
       construction and indirect emissions from visiting traffic and (or) follow-on operations,
       when totaled, are less than the de minimis amounts in 40 CFR 93.153, Determining
       Conformity of Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans (Applicability).
       Therefore, an air conformity determination is not required.”
989.30(b) (Added)(AETC) For a CATEX at a base in an area designated by government regulators as
attainment for air quality, place the following statement on AF IMT 813, block 18:
       “(Name of installation) is located in an area that is in attainment for air quality.
       Therefore, an air conformity determination is not required.”
989.33 The EPF should also ensure compliance with the CEQ Guidance, Environmental Justice:
Guidance Under the National Environmental Policy Act, 10 December 1997, which is available at
http://ceq.eh.doe.gov/nepa/nepanet.htm, and HQ USAF/A7C procedures in the Guide for Environmental
Justice Analysis with the Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP), November 1997, which is
available at https://www.afceeprivweb.brooks.af.mil/ec/eiap/ejustice.pdf. If environmental justice is
eliminated from detailed treatment according to paragraph 989.14(e)(2) (Added)(AETC), ensure the
EIAP document provides enough factual information and analysis to support the elimination decision. In
all cases, be sure the document explains what environmental justice means and when environmental
justice analysis is required.
989.34(b) The EPF should ensure compliance with the CEQ Memorandum, Emergency Actions and
NEPA, 8 September 2005, which is available at http://ceq.eh.doe.gov/nepa/nepanet.htm. The following
additional information and requirements apply in AETC:
989.34(b)(1) (Added)(AETC) Emergency situations are those that demand immediate response actions
to secure the safety of personnel and protect property. Many urgent situations (for example, a need to
expand training programs, facilities, or infrastructure in response to changes in the threat) may not be
emergencies. Urgent situations require planning and analysis of potential environmental impacts in
compliance with the Air Force EIAP prior to implementation.
989.34(b)(2) (Added)(AETC) Commanders will not delay immediate actions necessary to secure the
safety of personnel and protect property in emergencies, and will consult with their EPF and SJA prior
to taking the emergency actions, if possible. The EPF must determine whether the actions result in
significant impacts (that is, would normally require an EIS) and whether alternative arrangements will
be pursued. If alternative arrangements are needed, the EPF must immediately advise HQ AETC/A7CP
and prepare a formal request. Consultation with the Air Staff and CEQ must begin as soon as feasible. If
the action does not cause significant impacts and only an EA is warranted, the approval authority for
alternative arrangements is SAF/IEE, not CEQ.
989.35(c) An administrative record is the collection of documents that discloses or reflects the
decisionmaking process for an Air Force action. In the event the action is challenged in court for not
AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC            6 JUNE 2007                                                       7

complying with the NEPA, these are the documents a judge will review to determine if the Air Force’s
decisionmaking process and decision were proper.
989.35(c)(1) (Added)(AETC) The EPF at the base or AETC level where the NEPA decision document
(CATEX, FONSI, or record of decision [ROD]) was signed will maintain the official administrative
record for that action. Each installation should keep a list of the NEPA administrative records it is
currently maintaining.
989.35(c)(2) (Added)(AETC) To keep the administrative record electronically, all documents need to be
scanned, in Adobe Acrobat format, on a read-only disk, or the equivalent. Electronic-mail (e-mail),
documents in text format and the equivalent are susceptible to editing and therefore not acceptable for
the administrative record.
989.35(c)(3) (Added)(AETC) For a CATEX, the NEPA administrative record will contain the signed
decision document (AF IMT 813 or AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request) and any
supporting material. (AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, prescribes AF IMT 332. Refer to this AFI
when using this form.)
989.35(c)(4) (Added)(AETC) For an EA or EIS, some of the following documents may be bound with
the final NEPA documents and, if so, separate file copies need not be retained in the administrative
record.
989.35(c)(4)(i) (Added)(AETC) Pubic Involvement Efforts and Results. This includes items (1) evidence
of notification for public participation and comments (including notices published in the Federal
Register); (2) local advertisements, copies and distribution of news releases, and records of news media
coverage (newspaper articles, etc.); (3) all NEPA documents and appendices made public (including
distribution lists); (4) minutes of any public meetings (including attendance); (5) interagency and
intergovernmental coordination for environmental planning (IICEP) letters and responses (including
dated copy of any interagency agreements); and (6) copies of public comments, Congressional inquiries,
correspondence, and responses to comments or inquiries.
989.35(c)(4)(ii) (Added)(AETC) Interdisciplinary Process. This includes items (1) selected members’
specific qualifications (including criteria for selection of interdisciplinary planning team members, if
available); (2) distribution lists or correspondence showing what offices received documents for
interdisciplinary review and copies of all review comments or coordination returned by those offices;
and (3) all directions and recommendations from responsible agency officials and staff (including e-mail
correspondence, handwritten or typewritten notes, and facsimile sheets).
989.35(c)(4)(iii) (Added)(AETC) NEPA Documents. This includes items (1) the final EA or EIS with
the signed FONSI or ROD, and associated FONPA, if required; (2) draft documents, if a draft was used
in the planning and decisionmaking process or was circulated externally for comment; (3) support
memorandums, if not bound in the final NEPA documents; and (4) documents incorporated by reference
in the EA or EIS, such as air conformity determinations.
989.35(c)(4)(iv) (Added)(AETC) Other Documents. This includes items (1) completed work products
that contribute information or lend support to the EA or EIS, such as a cultural resources survey
completed for the site or an environmental baseline survey (EBS) performed for the project; (2)
electronic information used in the NEPA documents frozen at a specific date as hard copy or electronic
storage media; (3) final computer runs used in the analysis; and (4) location of pertinent documents not
included in the administrative record.
989.35(c)(5) (Added)(AETC) Some documents may be relevant to the EA or EIS while it is being
prepared, but these documents add little or no value to demonstrating that the NEPA procedural
8                                                       AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC               6 JUNE 2007

provisions have been followed or decisions have been made according to the NEPA. Therefore, upon
completion of the EA or EIS, the following documents may be purged from the NEPA planning file
prior to compilation of the administrative record and disposed of according to the Air Force RDS located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
989.35(c)(5)(i) (Added)(AETC) Documents related to contract preparation of the EA or EIS. Unless
they provide evidence of the NEPA process (that is, interdisciplinary approach or public involvement
efforts) not provided elsewhere in the planning file, the following documents may be removed from the
file: (1) procurement documents, including statements of work, delivery orders, government cost
estimates, purchase request, contractor proposals, technical review of contractor proposals, and contract
modifications; (2) the contractor-prepared work plan and description of proposed action and alternatives
(DOPAA); (3) routine unofficial contractor or contracting correspondence such as monthly progress
reports, certification or acceptance of services, and document transmittal letters that are not unique to the
NEPA process but merely reflect administration of a contract; (4) contractor-prepared draft documents
that were not released outside the Air Force; and (5) electronic (disk) copies of draft NEPA documents
provided by a contractor for ease in reproducing or modifying the documents.
989.35(c)(5)(ii) (Added)(AETC) Internal Air Force correspondence. This includes items: (1) notes,
memorandums, e-mail, and facsimiles giving project status (weekly activity reports, answers to
suspenses, etc.); (2) advance copies or draft copies of Air Force correspondence, when the final copy is
available in the file; (3) duplicate copies of Air Force correspondence, unless they are needed to show
coordination by different offices (interdisciplinary involvement), in which case, they should be attached
for a complete package; (4) real estate planning report for land acquisition; and (5) draft EBS, draft
cultural resources survey, or other draft survey reports and review comments or correspondence related
to them, when the final copy is available.
989.35(c)(6) (Added)(AETC) Generally, with the exceptions noted in paragraph 989.35(c)(7)
(Added)(AETC) of this supplement, NEPA administrative records will be retained for a minimum of 2
years after the action is implemented.
989.35(c)(7) (Added)(AETC) Litigation risks or other policy considerations may warrant retention of
administrative records for longer than 2 years. The following special cases provide the recommended
retention periods for administrative records:
989.35(c)(7)(i) (Added)(AETC) Coastal zone management, flood plain management, wetlands
protection actions (an EA or EIS that includes a FONPA) or projects requiring air conformity
determinations. Retain (1) until superseded; (2) until the project, program, or plan they support is
replaced or removed; or (3) as long as federal, state, or local requirements dictate; whichever is later.
989.35(c)(7)(ii) (Added)(AETC) Proposals that generate (or have generated) controversy. Retain for a
minimum of 7 years after the controversy has been cleared. Examples of controversial actions include
airfield expansion or construction projects, airspace and range proposals, base realignment and closure
actions, and actions historically generating public interest or litigation, such as (but not limited to) those
involving endangered species.
989.35(c)(7)(iii) (Added)(AETC) Historic preservation programs or projects. Retain indefinitely
pending a disposition instruction published by the Air Force.
989.35(c)(7)(iv) (Added)(AETC) Actions requiring mitigations or mitigation plans. Retain throughout
the time period mitigations are required.
AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC           6 JUNE 2007                                                       9

989.35(c)(7)(v) (Added)(AETC) Classified actions. Retain until the completed actions are declassified
and released to the public (and then according to paragraph 989.35(c)6 (Added)(AETC) of this
supplement).
989.35(c)(7)(vi) (Added)(AETC) Tiered documents. Documents used for tiering become part of the
administrative record. Retain according to paragraph 989.35(c)6 (Added)(AETC) of this supplement.
989.35(c)(8) (Added)(AETC) If space is available, keep administrative records as long as possible
beyond the 2 years. If space is not available and the minimum time periods specified in paragraphs
989.35(c)(6) (Added)(AETC) and 989.35(c)(7) (Added)(AETC) have elapsed, the integrity of the
administrative record may be destroyed, with the concurrence of the SJA. In these cases, keep at least
the decision document (CATEX, FONSI, or ROD, and associated FONPA, if required) and the final EA
or EIS for as long as possible.
989.35(c)(9) (Added)(AETC) With the exception of classified documents, documents contained in the
administrative record are normally releasable to the public. Process written requests for copies of the
administrative record or portions thereof according to Department of Defense Regulation (DoDR)
5400.7/AF Supplement, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 24 June 2002; and DoDR
5400.7/AF Supplement/AETC Supplement 1, 26 February 2003.
989.39 (Added)(AETC) Forms Adopted.
AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF IMT 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
NOTE: The following are added to Appendix A:
References
40 CFR 93.153, Determining Conformity of Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans
(Applicability)
CEQ Guidance, Considering Cumulative Effects Under the National Environmental Policy Act, January
1997, available at the following Web site: http://ceq.eh.doe.gov/nepa/nepanet.htm
CEQ Guidance, Environmental Justice: Guidance Under the National Environmental Policy Act, 10
December 1997, available at the following Web site: http://ceq.eh.doe.gov/nepa/nepanet.htm
CEQ Guidance, Guidance on the Consideration of Past Actions in Cumulative Effects Analysis, 24 June
2005, available at the following Web site: http://ceq.eh.doe.gov/nepa/nepanet.htm
CEQ Memorandum, Emergency Actions and NEPA, 8 September 2005, available at the following Web
site: http://ceq.eh.doe.gov/nepa/nepanet.htm
DoDR 5400.7/AF Supplement, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 24 June 2002
DoDR 5400.7/AF Supplement/AETC Supplement 1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 26
February 2003
HQ USAF/A7C (formerly ILEV), Environmental Impact Analysis Process Desk Reference/Attachment
K,      May        1995,      available   at   the     following Web    site:   https://www-
r.aetc.af.mil/ce/cev/library/NEPA_files/EIAP Desk Ref Atch K.pdf
HQ USAF/A7C (formerly ILEV), Guide for Environmental Justice Analysis with the Environmental
Impact Analysis Process (EIAP), November 1997, available at the following Web site:
http://www.afceeprivweb.brooks.af.mil/ec/eiap/ejustice.pdf
10                                                   AFI32-7061_32CFR989_AETC            6 JUNE 2007

16 USC 470, et seq, National Historic Preservation Act
16 USC 1531-1544, Endangered Species Act
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004
AFI 32-7065, Cultural Resources Management, 1 June 2004
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
DoDR—Department of Defense Regulation
EBS—environmental baseline survey
ESOHC—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
IICEP—Interagency and intergovernmental coordination for environmental planning
IMT—Information Management Tool
NHPA—National Historic Preservation Act
OPR—office of primary responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
Terms
Cumulative action—Other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future actions, regardless of what
organization (federal, nonfederal, or private) or person undertakes such other actions. Cumulative
actions occur in the vicinity of the proposed action, on and off the installation, within the region of
influence.
NOTE: The following is added to Appendix C:
A3.2.3.9. (Added)(AETC) Privacy Advisory. See paragraph 989.24(e) (Added)(AETC) of this
supplement.
A3.7.1. The attendance roster should include the “privacy advisory” prescribed in paragraph
989.24(e)(1) (Added)(AETC) of this supplement.
A3.7.2. The introductory remarks should include an explanation of the “privacy advisory.” See
paragraph 989.24(e)(3) (Added)(AETC) of this supplement.




                                                          MARK A. ATKINSON, Colonel, USAF
                                                          Director of Logistics, Installations
                                                           and Mission Support
