BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-112
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          7 JANUARY 2011
                                                                        HURLBURTFIELD
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                              13 JULY 2012

                                                           Communications and Information

                                                        INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                                                     HARDWARE ASSET MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/A6NT                                                         Certified by: SAF/A6N
                                                                               (Col Kaufman)
Supersedes:AFI33-112, 7 April 2006                                                  Pages: 37
                                (HURLBURTFIELD)
OPR: 1 SOCS/SCOS                                                    Certified by: 1 SOCS/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col James M. Sahm)
                                                                                      Pages:3



This Air Force instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directives (AFPD) 33-1,
Information Resource Management; AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program; AFPD
20-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management; and AFPD 10-6, Capabilities Base
Planning & Requirements Development, by identifying responsibilities for supporting Air Force
information technology equipment (computer systems). One or more paragraphs of this AFI do
not apply to non-Air Force-managed joint service systems. These paragraphs are marked as
follows: (NOT APPLICABLE TO NON-AIR FORCE-MANAGED JOINT SERVICE SYSTEMS).
Refer technical questions about this AFI to Air Force Network Integration Center
(AFNIC/ESPL), 203 West Losey Street, Room 1200, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the     Air     Force     Records      Disposition   Schedule       (RDS)      located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Submit policy and procedural
recommendations for Information Technology (IT) asset management to AFNIC/ESPL. Send
recommended changes or comments to AFNIC/EASD, 203 West Losey Street, Room 1100,
 2                                     AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


Scott AFB IL 62225-5222, through appropriate channels, using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, with an information copy to the Office of the
Secretary of the Air Force for Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer, Director of
Information, Director, Network Services (SAF/A6N), 1250 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC
20330-1250. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. See
Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

(HURLBURTFIELD) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 Jan 2011.
This supplement establishes certain procedures and requirements that govern the Hurlburt
Field Information Technology (IT) Asset Management program. It applies to all units
assigned, attached, and partner units at Hurlburt Field. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserves (AFR) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this supplement to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this supplement are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition               Schedule                (RDS)                 located              at.
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfrn. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The main focus
is to clarify roles and responsibilities. Paragraph 3 added responsibilities of AF/A2. Paragraph 4
is changed to define new roles for AFNIC. Paragraph 6 is changed to replace HQ OSSG/LRE
with 754 Electronic Systems Group. Paragraph 7 removes responsibility from Communications
and Information Systems Officer (CSO) for labeling IT assets. Paragraph 8 changes clarify
Organization Commander responsibilities and replaces Air Force Systems Security Instruction
(AFSSI) 5020 reference with AFSSI 8580. Paragraph 9 clarifies that AFNIC will perform
MAJCOM Equipment Control Officer (MECO) duties as part of the MAJCOM A6 workload
consolidation effort. Paragraph 10 changed to allow for digital signatures in lieu of wet
signatures. Paragraph 10 clarified definition of annual for the purpose of conducting annual
inventories. Paragraph 10 also changed to allow for the development of local forms. Paragraph
11 changed the name Equipment Custodian to IT Equipment Custodian (ITEC) and clarified
ITEC responsibilities. Paragraph 13 changed to clarify Air Force Contractor responsibilities
associated with government furnished equipment. Paragraph 14 changed to remove items
covered in other instructions. Paragraph 17 changed to clarify IT shipping requirements.
Paragraph 18 was added to address receipt and acceptance of IT assets. Paragraph 19 added to
address establishing custodial responsibility. Paragraph 20 added to address physical inventory
and also addresses the use of automated network tools to assist with IT asset inventory.
Paragraph 21 changed to reflect change in publication from AFSSI 5020 to AFSSI 8580.
Paragraph 22 added to clarify capital asset reporting. Paragraph 23 changed to reflect a change
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                                                               3


in reference material. Paragraph 26 changed to clarify procedures for turning in excess
equipment. Paragraph 29 added to address exchange or sale of government automated resources.
Paragraph 30 changed to reflect an update to the records disposition rule. Attachment 2 changed
to reflect changes in the core document.

Section A—Responsibilities                                                                                                               4
       1.      Directorate of Network Services (SAF/A6N). .......................................................                        4
       2.      Director, Security, Counterintelligence and Special Program Oversight
               (SAF/AAZ). ...........................................................................................................    4
       3.      Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, (AF/A2).                                           5
       4.      Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC). ..................................................                          5
       5.      Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (HQ AETC/A3T). .............                                              6
       6.      Electronic Systems Command (ESC/HGGG). .......................................................                            6
       7.      Communications and Information Systems Officers (CSO): ................................                                   7
       8.      Organization Commanders or Equivalent. .............................................................                      8
       9.      Major Command Equipment Control Officers. .....................................................                           9
       10.     Equipment Control Officers (ECO). ......................................................................                 10
       11.     Information Technology Equipment Custodians (ITEC). ......................................                               12

Section B—General Guidance and Procedures                                                                                               14
       12.     Network and Computer Security. ..........................................................................                14
       13.     Air Force Contractor Employees. ..........................................................................               14
       14.     Acquisition of Information Technology (IT) Assets. .............................................                         15
       15.     Active Duty General Officers (GO) and Senior Executive Service (SES)
               Civilians Notebook Computers and Personal Digital Assistants (PDA). ..............                                       15
       16.     Environmental Considerations . .............................................................................             16

Section C—Inventory, Accountability, Transfer, and Reporting of Information Technology (IT)
              Systems (Note: Consult AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network Operations (NETOPS),
              for additional guidance in determining the types and quantities of equipment
              needed to support the network).                                                                                           16
       17.     Inventory Management and Accountability of IT Hardware Assets. ....................                                      16
       18.     Receipt and Acceptance of Information Technology Assets .................................                                17
       19.     Establishing Custodial Responsibility. ..................................................................                18
       20.     Physical Inventory of IT Hardware Assets. ...........................................................                    19
 4                                                      AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


        21.    Transferring Non-excess Information Technology (IT) Assets to another
               Department of Defense Component, Federal Agency, State, or Local Government.
               .................................................................................................................................   19
        22.    Managing Capital Assets .......................................................................................                     20

Section D—Information Technology (IT) Systems Maintenance (Not Applicable to Non-Air
              Force Managed Joint Service Systems)                                                                                                 21
        23.    Support Plans. ........................................................................................................             21
        24.    Information Technology (IT) Systems Maintenance Reporting. ...........................                                              22
        25.    Computation of Payments. .....................................................................................                      22

Section E—Disposition of Excess Information Technology (IT) Resources                                                                              23
        26.    Excess. ...................................................................................................................         23
        27.    Obtaining Excess Resources. .................................................................................                       23
        28.    Transferring Excess Information Technology (IT) Systems Assets to the DLA
               Disposition Services (formerly DRMO). ...............................................................                               24
        29.    Exchange or Sale of Government Automated Resources. .....................................                                           24
        30.    Information Collections, Records, and Forms. ......................................................                                 24

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                     26

Attachment 2—INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) SYSTEMS CHECKLIST                                                                                         33

Attachment 3—EQUIPMENT STATUS REPORTING                                                                                                            37


Section A—Responsibilities

1. Directorate of Network Services (SAF/A6N).
     1.1. Develops, publishes, and disseminates Air Force doctrine and policy for IT asset
     systems.
     1.2. Identifies formal IT management training requirements.
     1.3. Works in conjunction with Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services (formerly
     DRMO) on disposition of excess IT assets.
2. Director, Security, Counterintelligence and Special Program Oversight (SAF/AAZ).
     2.1. Is appointed as the Air Force Director of the Special Access Program (SAP) Central
     Office. The Director is responsible for establishing, developing, coordinating and
     implementing SAP policies and procedures for general oversight, execution, management,
     administration, security, information assurance and maintenance of records for all SAPs for
     which the Air Force has responsibility and will ensure compliance through guidelines,
     inspections, regulations and other measures.
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                       5


       2.1.1. SAP information technology assets under the cognizance of the Director,
       SAF/AAZ, will be tracked in the Assets Inventory Management (AIM) module of the AF
       Equipment Management System (AFEMS), and hereafter noted as AFEMS-AIM, on a
       case by case basis. The Director will evaluate all security issues and concerns before
       rendering a determination as to which assets will be tracked. The Director will provide
       this determination in writing. IT assets which cannot be tracked using the AFEMS-AIM
       will be separately tracked within the SAP enterprise.
3. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, (AF/A2).
   3.1. In accordance with DoDD 8520.1 and AFPD 33-2, AF/A2 is the AF Lead for systems in
   AF Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIFs), AF Sensitive Compartmented
   Information (SCI) systems, and national-level intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
   systems. In accordance with authorities granted by the Director of National Intelligence,
   relevant national Intelligence Community (IC) elements, and DoD, AF/A2 may delegate
   specific duties, roles, and responsibilities for providing policy and oversight for IT assets
   residing in SCIFs, are components of AF SCI systems, or make up national-level
   intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems.
   3.2. Air Force information technology assets under the cognizance of AF/A2 will be tracked
   in AFEMS-AIM or, when available, the Expeditionary Combat Support System (ECSS) if
   the cognizant security authority representative determines that there are no security concerns.
   AF/A2 or designated representative will provide guidance for meeting regulatory compliance
   for IT assets not tracked in AFEMS-AIM or ECSS.
4. Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC).
   4.1. Provides guidance and support to MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOA), and
   direct reporting units (DRU) in developing, integrating, implementing, and managing IT
   assets.
   4.2. Reviews, evaluates, and interprets issues/problems and makes recommendations to
   SAF/A6NT on policy changes.
   4.3. Reviews, interprets, and disseminates Air Force policy.
   4.4. Acts as office of primary responsibilities (OPR) for this instruction.
   4.5. Acts as functional manager for the IT component of AFEMS-AIM. Provide guidance
   on transferring IT component management from AFEMS-AIM to ECSS.
   4.6. Resolves management issues on IT hardware assets accounted for in the AFEMS-AIM
   module and resolves policy disagreements between MAJCOMs, functional managers, and
   non-Air Force agencies.
   4.7. Perform MECO responsibilities described in this AFI as required under the terms of
   memoranda of agreements executed with the MAJCOMs in the course of transfer of A6
   workload responsibilities.
   4.8. Establishes and chairs the Air Force Computer Systems Management (CSM) Working
   Group (CSMWG) to directly support CSM personnel at all levels including MAJCOM
   Equipment Control Officers (MECO), Communications and Information Systems Officers
   (CSO), Equipment Control Officers (ECO), organizational commanders and Information
 6                                       AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


     Technology Equipment Custodians (ITEC) in the execution of their responsibilities as
     delineated in this instruction. The CSMWG provides broad representation allowing for
     improved cross feed of information and feedback from the field necessary to make informed
     decisions about CSM policy and procedures. The CSMWG serves as the Air Force CSM
     management infrastructure to deal with all CSM-related issues in an efficient and effective
     manner.
        4.8.1. The CSMWG will:
              4.8.1.1. Develop proposed solutions on issues affecting IT system life-cycle
              management.
              4.8.1.2. Identify functional improvement opportunities for review, prioritizing,
              approval, and budgeting considerations.
              4.8.1.3. Advise Air Force leadership on IT management issues.
              4.8.1.4. Define new functional requirements and provide oversight to automated
              information systems (AIS) processes supporting Air Force IT management.
              4.8.1.5. Work with the IT Commodity Council on procurement initiatives.
              4.8.1.6. Work with AF/A2 appointed representative on SCIF issues.
5. Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (HQ AETC/A3T).
     5.1. Provide formal IT training to support responsibilities of AF Chief of Staff in training AF
     personnel. SAF/A6N will provide direction regarding AETC delivered IT training.
6. Electronic Systems Command (ESC/HGGG).
     6.1. Functions as Program Manager for the AFEMS-AIM module.
     6.2. Submits the special year-end chief financial officer report to the Defense Finance and
     Accounting Service (DFAS).
     6.3. Proposes technical solutions for defined requirements.
     6.4. Coordinates all requirements and associated cost data through the program agreement
     (PA) manager for review and approval.
     6.5. Notifies the PA manager of all unfunded requirements.
     6.6. Coordinates software releases through the PA manager prior to scheduled release. Refer
     to AFPD 33-2, para.5.7, requirement to secure AFNETOPS/CC (DAA) certification and
     approval prior to release.
     6.7. Provides input to program management reviews.
     6.8. Completes Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP) and Information Support
     Plan/certification documentation. (see AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
     Management).
     6.9. Develops and maintains the AFEMS-AIM User’s Manual on the AFEMS Community
     of Practice at https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenDMCop.asp?Filter=OO-LG-
     MC-46.
     6.10. Provides operations, programming, and software support.
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                          7


7. Communications and Information Systems Officers (CSO):
   7.1. Process all base-user computer systems orders except those excluded by host tenant
   support agreements and joint service programs managed outside the Air Force. Orders for
   equipment that will reside in SCIFs will be approved by the SCIF System Security Officer
   (SSO) or other designed SCIF cognizant security authority representative prior to purchase.
   7.2. Are the accountable officer for all IT hardware equipment listed in their assigned
   Defense Reporting Activity (DRA). Ensures the AFEMS-AIM inventory is used to provide
   accountability of all base IT hardware resources assigned to that DRA. Refer to paragraph
   17 to determine if a particular piece of IT hardware equipment should be accounted for using
   methods or systems other than AFEMS-AIM.
   7.3. Assist in planning and execution of all activities related to the deployment of systems.
   7.4. Assist the supporting contracting officers in developing an acquisition strategy for
   maintenance contracts.
      7.4.1. Follow budgeting arrangements established in host tenant support agreements.
   7.5. Analyze IT asset maintenance cost data to assist in developing cost-effective
   maintenance solutions. IT assets within SCIFs are excluded.
      7.5.1. Direct retention of serviceable excess IT assets, when allowed by the parent
      MAJCOM, for maintenance redundancy or operational spares, by ensuring use of sharing
      and redistribution programs to meet user requirements.
      7.5.2. Authorize removal/transfer of unserviceable IT assets for spare parts.
      7.5.3. Authorize cannibalization of IT assets to satisfy critical mission requirements.
      Maintenance actions to obtain assemblies, subassemblies, or parts from spare IT assets
      are considered transfers and will not be treated as cannibalization actions.
   7.6. Authorize cannibalization of unserviceable computer systems for spare parts. IT assets
   within SCIFs are excluded.
   7.7. Coordinate action to ensure secure, climate controlled, and easily accessible facilities
   with sufficient floor space are provided to the ECO for receiving, storing, and distributing IT
   assets. The establishment of a central receiving and distribution point is highly encouraged
   for ensuring accurate accountability throughout the lifecycle of IT assets.
   7.8. Coordinate on IT asset requirements with the appropriate office or unit.
   7.9. Appoint, in writing, a minimum of one primary and one alternate ECO and provides a
   copy of the appointment letter to the MECO. Digital signatures may be used in lieu of wet
   signatures. Although no grade restrictions apply for these positions, the primary and
   alternate ECOs should have the leadership skills and IT asset knowledge necessary to
   provide guidance and direction to the ITEC. The recommended minimum rank/grade
   requirement for the primary ECO is Technical Sergeant/GS-7. An airman (Senior Airman or
   below) may be appointed as an alternate ECO, if the CSO believes the airman is mature
   enough to handle the responsibility. See paragraph 13 for contractors. Note: The primary
   ECO will supervise the alternate ECO in performance of duties and responsibilities.
 8                                      AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


     7.10. Direct the use of Hand Receipts (i.e. AF Form 1297) as necessary to maintain span of
     control.
8. Organization Commanders or Equivalent. Commanders or their equivalent are responsible
for providing guidance and procedures to ensure adequate protection and oversight is afforded to
IT assets under their control. Examples of a ―commander equivalent‖ include a Director of Staff,
a civilian director of an organization, or a commandant of a school organization. See AFI 38-
101, Air Force Organization, for further guidance.
     8.1. Budget for maintenance of computer systems that are not the responsibility of the CSO.
     8.2. Review and coordinate on organization's requirement documents.
     8.3. Submit unit computer systems requirements to the applicable CSO for technical
     solutions according to AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing.
     8.4. Review assigned IT assets annually to determine if the IT is obsolete, still meets user
     requirements or needs modification and acts accordingly.
     8.5. Appoint, in writing, a minimum of one primary and one alternate ITEC, no later than 45
     calendar days prior to the projected departure of the current ITEC. ITECs may be military
     (see note) or civilians. Contractors may also be ITECs in support of the accountable officer
     according to AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air
     Force, under the specific terms of the contract and must be mutually agreeable to the
     organization commander and the CSO. This applies to active duty, guard, and reserve
     personnel. Foreign nationals or local wage rate employees (foreign nationals in host
     countries) may be appointed primary or alternate custodians only when they may be held
     pecuniary liable for losses of equipment under the law of the host country. Organization
     commanders must review the provisions and restrictions outlined in AFI 31-501, Personnel
     Security Program Management, AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, and
     AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, before
     appointing foreign nationals as primary or alternate equipment custodians. Note: An airman
     (Senior Airman or below) may be appointed primary or alternate custodian by the
     organization commander, if the commander believes the airman is mature enough to handle
     the responsibility.
        8.5.1. Forward the ITEC appointment letter and request for ITEC training to the ECO.
            8.5.1.1. The ITEC appointment letter must be dated and must contain the names and
            signatures of the primary and alternate ITECs. Digital signatures may be used in lieu
            of wet signatures.
            8.5.1.2. Ensure the primary or alternate ITEC is scheduled for training with the ECO
            within 30 calendar days of initial appointment and annually thereafter.
            8.5.1.3. Annually review ITEC appointment letters and training dates to ensure the
            primary and alternate ITEC names are current and they have completed annual ITEC
            training. If the primary or alternate ITEC has changed, forward a new ITEC
            appointment letter as described in paragraph 8.5.1.1 to the ECO. When possible, the
            review should be held in conjunction with the annual inventory.
        8.5.2. Require departing ITECs to process out through the ECO.
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                      9


      8.5.3. Ensure outgoing primary and incoming primary ITEC conduct and sign a loss-gain
      joint physical inventory. The departing ITEC must reconcile missing items under the
      guidance of the ECO, not later than 30 calendar days prior to the primary ITEC being
      relieved of duty. In deployed locations, the forward commander will determine timeline
      for transfer of duties based on rotation schedules.
          8.5.3.1. Refer to AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, to
          process a Report of Survey (ROS) when there are inventory discrepancies that cannot
          be resolved prior to the custodian’s departure. An ROS is mandatory to adjust
          accountable records.
      8.5.4. (Added-HURLBURTFIELD) Ensure an assigned primary or alternate
      Information Technology Equipment Custodian (ITEC) is in-garrison at all times to
      maintain program accountability and continuity.
   8.6. Ensure the ITEC perform a complete and accurate annual inventory. After the annual
   inventory is complete, the commander or equivalent signs the inventory listing. Digital
   signatures may be used in lieu of wet signatures. The commander’s signature certifies to the
   ECO that the annual physical inventory is complete. The annual inventory will be conducted
   not later than 365 calendar days from the date the commander signed the most current
   inventory listing.
   8.7. Ensure the ITEC notify the applicable ECO of any computer systems that are scheduled
   for deployment.
   8.8. Promote user awareness concerning unauthorized or illegal use of computer systems
   hardware and software.
   8.9. Ensure all AFEMS-AIM accountable IT assets are reported to the ECO for inclusion in
   the AFEMS-AIM inventory.
   8.10. Ensure that the applicable ECO coordinates on the ―Ship To‖ addressee on all purchase
   requests or transfers that involve computer systems.
   8.11. Ensure the disposition of Department of Defense (DoD) computer hard drives and/or
   hard drive sanitization is performed in accordance with the procedures outlined in Air Force
   Systems Security Instruction (AFSSI) 8580, Remanence Security. IT assets within SCIFs
   will follow the Joint DoDIIS /Cryptologic SCI Information Systems Security Standards or
   other policies issued by national IC elements.
   8.12. (Added-HURLBURTFIELD) Ensure ITECs properly dispose of excess or replaced
   IT assets and changes are reflected on the inventory listing within 90 days of notification to
   or from the base Equipment Control Officer (ECO).
9. Major Command Equipment Control Officers.
   9.1. The MAJCOM CSO or FOA/DRU equivalent appoints, in writing, the MECO unless
   MECO duties were assumed by AFNIC as part of the MAJCOM A6 workload consolidation
   effort. AFNIC/CC appoints the MECO for those that have transferred MECO duties.
   Although no grade restrictions apply for this position, the MECO should have the depth and
   experience necessary to provide guidance and direction to the ECO. Recommend minimum
   grade be a senior non-commissioned officer (SNCO)/GS-9 for this position. When the
   MECO changes, the MAJCOM CSO notifies AFNIC/ESPL (afnic.espl.it@us.af.mil) by
 10                                   AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


   electronic mail (e-mail), so their official listings can be updated with the new name, office
   symbol, phone number, and e-mail address. The MECO will:
      9.1.1. Provide guidance and procedural policy to the ECOs on management of IT
      hardware assets.
      9.1.2. Work with other MECOs to determine reporting procedures of tenant units and
      continue to work together to resolve any problems that might arise.
      9.1.3. Approve or reject transfer of IT assets between losing and gaining commands.
      9.1.4. Send applicable ECO concerns about the inclusion and/or exclusion of IT
      hardware assets in AFEMS-AIM to AFNIC/ESPL, 203 West Losey, Room 1200, Scott
      AFB, IL 62225-5222 , through e-mail to afnic.espl.it@us.af.mil, or via phone to DSN
      779-6280.
      9.1.5. Review finalized excess reports completed by applicable ECOs and ensure
      appropriate action is accomplished.
      9.1.6. Allow ECOs to create and maintain holding accounts for known near-term
      requirements.
      9.1.7. Provide assistance for the establishment of a new DRA and IT data system
      connectivity, as required.
          9.1.7.1. Maintain a copy of the ECO’s appointment letter. The MECO forwards the
          AFEMS-AIM Access Request to the program management office (PMO) for action
          and retention.
      9.1.8. Provide assistance to applicable ECOs in closing out a DRA (e.g., base closures).
      9.1.9. Disseminate information provided by HQ USAF, HQ AFNIC, and PMO to
      applicable ECOs.
      9.1.10. Establish accountability for IT assets acquired through joint services PMs, as
      required.
      9.1.11. Approve or reject requests to turn in or reutilize IT assets outside of their DRA.
10. Equipment Control Officers (ECO).
   10.1. The CSO appoints the primary and alternate ECO according to paragraph 7.9. See
   paragraph 13 for contractors. Due in part to guidelines in DoD Financial Management
   Regulation, Volume 1, Chapter 3 and AFPD 65-2, Managers’ Internal Control Program, the
   ECO cannot be the ITEC for any AFEMS-AIM account other than an account established
   for holding assets prior to distribution or disposal (i.e. holding or excess accounts). If
   holding accounts are used, normal account management requirements still apply (i.e.
   appointment letters, 365 calendar day inventory frequency, etc.).
      10.1.1. In deployed locations, the forward commander appoints the most qualified
      individual available to perform the duties of ECO.
   10.2. The ECO, or ECO designated receiving official, will receive all AFEMS-AIM
   accountable IT assets, complete necessary documentation according to paragraph 18 and
   determine the method used to account for IT according to paragraph 19.3.
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                  11


     10.2.1. If the IT hardware is accounted for in AFEMS-AIM, ensure the IT asset status
     code in AFEMS-AIM is updated using the codes identified in Attachment 3. Review the
     IT asset status codes during the annual inventory to ensure the codes reflect the current
     status.
     10.2.2. The ECO is responsible for equipment listed in his/her assigned DRA.
     10.2.3. Assist the ITEC in determining the ownership of all Found-On-Base (FOB) IT
     assets.
     10.2.4. Direct ITECs to conduct, at a minimum, a complete annual inventory of all IT
     assets assigned to the ITEC’s AFEMS-AIM account and ensure the inventory is
     completed. Review ITEC appointment letters annually to ensure the primary, alternate
     ITEC and appointing authority names are current and they have completed annual ITEC
     training. The review of ITEC appointment letters should be held in conjunction with the
     annual inventory. The annual inventory will be conducted not later than 365 calendar
     days from the date the commander signed the most current inventory listing. The date the
     commander signs the inventory will be used to update the AFEMS-AIM last inventory
     date.
        10.2.4.1. In deployed locations, the forward commander determines the timeline for
        inventory based on rotation schedules.
        10.2.4.2. ECOs have the authority to lock ITEC accounts for failure to comply. This
        option should only be utilized after providing the ITEC an opportunity to correct any
        deficiencies in a timely manner due to the potential for serious impact to an
        organization’s mission.
     10.2.5. Authorize the ITEC to retain serviceable excess IT asset items for maintenance
     redundancy or operational spares when allowed by the parent MAJCOM.
     10.2.6. Retain unserviceable excess IT asset hardware for cannibalization as directed by
     the CSO.
     10.2.7. Ensure correct MAJCOM code is entered into AFEMS-AIM for all IT assets in
     their DRA. The MAJCOM code must correctly identify the owning command which
     may differ from the host base’s command.
     10.2.8. Provide the ITEC with AFEMS-AIM generated or equivalent labels.
     10.2.9. Work with the ITEC to update the inventory as dictated by a ROS. Use of the
     Department of Defense (DD) Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property
     Loss, to adjust accountable records is mandatory.
     10.2.10. Complete out-processing for departing ITEC upon transfer of account and
     receipt of new appointment letters and signed joint loss-gain inventory.
     10.2.11. Provide guidance and annual training for the ITEC. Annual training must be
     documented in AFEMS-AIM. Upon request, the ECO provides their commanders with
     documentation verifying names of the ITECs trained, material covered, and training
     dates.
     10.2.12. Take guidance and direction from the MECO and CSO.
 12                                   AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


      10.2.13. Deploy AFEMS-AIM accountable, UTC tasked IT assets at the request of the
      ITEC or deployment authority. AFEMS-AIM will be used to accomplish the
      deployment.
      10.2.14. Establish accountability for IT hardware assets acquired through joint services,
      working with the parent MAJCOM.
      10.2.15. Attempt to reutilize excess organizational IT assets that meet minimum network
      configuration standards before offering equipment to organizations outside the DRA,
      when allowed by the parent MAJCOM.
      10.2.16. After receipt of a transportation fund site, direct the losing custodian to prepare
      the necessary shipping documents for items that are excess and required by other
      services.
      10.2.17. Coordinate with any tenant ECO to establish a host tenant agreement identifying
      any assistance required, such as AFEMS-AIM connectivity.
      10.2.18. Coordinate on all host-tenant support agreements (HTSA) concerning IT asset
      management. IT accountability support can be specified in the HTSA or a Memorandum
      of Agreement (MOA).
      10.2.19. May develop and mandate use of locally generated products and/or forms to
      ensure accurate documentation and data entry for the addition, transfer, deletion, or
      disposal of IT assets.
11. Information Technology Equipment Custodians (ITEC).
   11.1. Accountable for all assigned IT hardware assets in their account and will:
      11.1.1. Perform, at a minimum, an annual physical inventory of all items in the AFEMS-
      AIM account. Also, conduct additional inventories when directed by the ECO. Upon
      completion of the inventory, the ITEC and the organizational commander or equivalent
      must sign the inventory. The original will be retained by the ITEC and a copy will be
      retained in the ECO file. If digital signatures are used, the ITEC and ECO will each file a
      copy in their electronic records management system (file plan, electronic records
      management solution, electronic record keeping system or automated information
      system). The annual inventory will be conducted not later than 365 calendar days from
      the date the commander signed the most current inventory listing.
          11.1.1.1. During the inventory, ensure all assets can be traced back to an AFEMS-
          AIM inventory listing. If IT hardware equipment is found in the work area that is not
          on the AFEMS-AIM inventory listing, refer to paragraph 17 to determine if the IT
          equipment should be added to AFEMS-AIM to establish accountability IAW
          guidance from the ECO.
          11.1.1.2. During the annual physical inventory, an ITEC will contact the individual
          to whom the equipment is issued via hand receipt to verify the equipment’s status. At
          a minimum, the ITEC will annotate the following on the hand receipt; person
          contacted, date of contact, and ITEC initials.
      11.1.2. Only the most current inventory must be retained in the ITEC/ECO folder or
      Electronic Records Management system. Additional inventories may be retained as
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                  13


     deemed necessary for historical purposes. Review past inventory records before
     disposing of old inventory data and ensure source documents are retained to support
     current inventory records, e.g., Reports of Survey, hand receipts, etc. Recommend using
     6-part folders or electronic records management system.
  11.2. Ensure all accountable IT assets, excluding devices that are too small, have AFEMS-
  AIM generated or equivalent labels affixed. When the device is too small, user generated
  labels including CAGE, part number, and serial number may be used.
  11.3. Obtain approval and coordinate all potential transfers of IT assets between ITEC
  accounts with the applicable ECO where practical.
  11.4. Report all FOB IT assets to the applicable ECO and accept accountability or distribute
  equipment as directed by that ECO.
  11.5. Sign for new equipment received through the ECO.
  11.6. Take guidance from the ECO on all shipments (incoming and outgoing), transfers,
  donations, or turns-ins of excess IT assets.
  11.7. Provide appropriate documentation to the applicable ECO to clear the account of
  equipment that was shipped to another base/location, transferred to another account, donated
  to a school, or turned-in to the Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services (formerly
  DRMO).
     11.7.1. (Added-HURLBURTFIELD) Ensure disposition of excess or replaced IT
     assets is completed within 90 days of notification to or from ECO and that accurate
     records are maintained throughout. ITECs will follow-up with the base ECO to ensure
     inventories accurately reflect changes to account.
  11.8. Remain responsive to applicable ECO.
  11.9. Must out-process through the applicable ECO.
  11.10. Conduct a joint physical inventory (outgoing primary ITEC with incoming primary
  ITEC) and reconcile any missing items, via ROS or hand receipt, before permanent change of
  station, permanent change of assignment, separation, or retirement (minimum of 30 calendar
  days prior). Incoming ITEC will contact the individual to whom the equipment was issued to
  verify the equipment’s status.
  11.11. Initiate the ROS process according to AFMAN 23-220, concerning any lost,
  damaged, or destroyed IT assets.
  11.12. Notify the applicable ECO of excess IT assets.
  11.13. Provide the applicable ECO a serialized numbered list of any AFEMS-AIM
  accountable UTC tasked assets that will deploy.
  11.14. Receive and secure all IT assets, if not received by the ECO, until proper
  accountability is established.
  11.15. Coordinate with Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) to ensure the ISSO
  sanitizes hard drives according to the procedures outlined in AFSSI 8580.
 14                                     AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


   11.16. (Added-HURLBURTFIELD) Issues hand receipt to applicable end users for all IT
   assets in the user’s possession and/or outside the ITEC’s direct control, to include, but not
   limited to, in-garrison and deployed assets. All hand receipts will be maintained in ITEC
   folder or on the Electronic Records Management drive.

Section B—General Guidance and Procedures

12. Network and Computer Security. Refer to AFI 33-200 Information Assurance (IA)
Management.
13. Air Force Contractor Employees. Organizational commanders grant contractors access to,
or allow operation of, government-furnished or contractor-owned IT resources processing
government information. This access is governed by the terms of the contract with the
employee’s company and, as appropriately coordinated with the contracting officer.
   13.1. Contractors may function as ITECs (if so stipulated in the contract) for DoD-owned IT
   assets as the contract specifies.
   13.2. DoDI 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DoD-Owned Equipment and Other
   Accountable Property, requires DoD Components to establish records and maintain
   accountability for property (of any value) furnished to contractors as Government Furnished
   Property (GFP).
      13.2.1. All Air Force owned IT furnished to contractors as GFP will be accounted for
      according to paragraph 17 in this instruction.
   13.3. Establish the extent of contractor liability in the provisions of the applicable contract’s
   government property clause. (See AFI 23-111 Management of Government Property in
   Possession of the Air Force.)
   13.4. If contractor support employees are assigned to perform ECO duties under the terms of
   a contract, the Air Force retains responsibility for obligating funds and receiving assets as
   they are inherently governmental functions. (See FAR 7.5, Inherently Governmental
   Functions)
   13.5. The functions and responsibilities of the Accountable Officer are defined by DoD
   7000.14-R, Volume 12, Special Accounts, Funds and Programs, August 2009. Accountable
   Officers exercise substantive discretionary authority in determining the U.S. Government’s
   requirements and controlling government assets. The responsibilities of the Accountable
   Officer and the position of the Accountable Officer are not contractible.
   13.6. Contractors can perform functions in support of the Accountable Officer and functions
   where they are performing in accordance with criteria defined by the U.S. Government. For
   instance, contractors can process requisitions, maintain stock control records, perform
   storage and warehousing, and make local procurements of items specified as deliverables in
   the contract.
   13.7. The responsibility for administrative fund control is inherently governmental. The
   contractor can process all required paperwork up to funds obligation, which must be done by
   the government employee designated as responsible for funds control. The contractor can
   also process such documents as ROS and adjustments to stockage levels, but approval must
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                   15


   rest with the Accountable Officer. In all cases, the administrative control of funds must be
   retained by the government.
14. Acquisition of Information Technology (IT) Assets.
   14.1. Procurement through the AF Information Technology Commodity Council (ITCC)
   buying programs is mandatory for all IT product categories encompassed by those programs,
   such as the Quantum Enterprise Buy (QEB) for desktop and laptop computers unless waived
   by the MAJCOM CIO/A6 or as noted in 14.1.1 below. Products offered through the ITCC
   buying programs are available exclusively through AFWay (https://www.afway.af.mil).
      14.1.1. Defense Logistics Agency Document Services, formerly DAPS, is the preferred
      provider to meet requirements for high volume, large copy count and large page count,
      high speed copying services and production. Air Force units are not required to purchase
      or lease DPI equipment from DLA Document Services unless the DLA Document
      Services solution is clearly a better value. For complete information on DLA Document
      Services refer to http://www.daps.dla.mil/index.html
      14.1.2. Even if the ITCC buying strategy has been waived, the use of AFWay is still
      mandatory unless waived by the MAJCOM CIO/A6 for the purchase of all IT products
      under the purview of the ITCC as listed in 14.1 above. For products not listed in the
      AFWay catalogue, purchasers may use the request for quote (RFQ) feature to get pricing
      for their unique requirements.
   14.2. NETCENTS contracts, upon award, are the mandatory source for purchasing netcentric
   and information technology products and solutions that fall under the scope of those
   contracts but outside the scope of ITCC managed products as discussed in 16.1. Deviation
   from this mandate requires written approval from the appropriate governance body,
   depending on the dollar value and risk level of the acquisition. Detailed governance,
   processing, and purchasing information is available on the NETCENTS portal, which is also
   accessible through AFWay (https://www.afway.af.mil).
   14.3. Process all base user IT purchases as prescribed above except those excluded by host
   tenant support agreements and Joint Service programs managed outside the Air Force.
   14.4. Air Force organizations purchasing common use IT assets (i.e. non-mission system
   assets) for NIPR or SIPR in AF SCIFs are directed to use AFWAY and NETCENTS unless
   AF/A2, a designated AF/A2 representative, or a SCIF cognizant security authority
   representative determines there is a security or information assurance concern. When
   purchasing SCIF NIPR or SIPR IT assets is through alternate procurement vehicle(s) (outside
   of AFWAY or NETCENTS), the asset will comply with, or exceed, the established asset
   capability and interoperability standards set by the Air Force Information Technology
   Commodity Council, Air Force Network Integration Center, or 24th Air Force.
   Organizations should not purchase IT components that violate SCIF operating standards (i.e.,
   components that emit or record emissions) even when the components are SIPR or NIPR
   baseline capabilities. When purchasing information technology assets for use on TS
   networks, the use of AFWAY and NETCENTS is encouraged when the procurement vehicle
   satisfies cost, information assurance, and operational security concerns.
15. Active Duty General Officers (GO) and Senior Executive Service (SES) Civilians
Notebook Computers and Personal Digital Assistants (PDA).
 16                                    AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


   15.1. Active Duty GO and SES personnel, including brigadier general selects and SES
   Civilian appointees, are required to maintain e-mail contact with the Chief of Staff of the Air
   Force. The GO’s or SES’ current unit of assignment will purchase a GO and SES notebook
   computer/PDA through the local communications unit and follow the standard requirement
   process. If desired by the GO or SES, the notebook computer/PDA may accompany the GO
   or SES from assignment to assignment. If GOs or SES’ decide to take their notebook
   computer/PDA, they will work with the losing and gaining communications unit to ensure
   proper inventory accountability. The local ITEC retains accountability for the notebook
   computer/PDA until transferred to the new location.
       15.1.1. When a GO or SES retires or leaves Air Force service; he or she must turn in the
       notebook computer/PDA to the supporting ECO.
16. Environmental Considerations . Use hardware and software within the environmental
parameters defined by the vendor (e.g., power, temperature, humidity, etc.).
   16.1. Equipment damage outside these parameters may void the warranty or incur an added
   cost liability according to the contract constraints.
   16.2. Commanders may authorize use outside the environmental parameters if mission
   requirements dictate (e.g., deployed operations).

Section C—Inventory, Accountability, Transfer, and Reporting of Information Technology
(IT) Systems (Note: Consult AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network Operations (NETOPS), for
additional guidance in determining the types and quantities of equipment needed to support
the network).

17. Inventory Management and Accountability of IT Hardware Assets.
   17.1. Guidance for determining the accountability of IT assets is governed by multiple and
   complex congressional, federal, DoD, and Air Force policies. In order to simplify the
   determination of Air Force accountable IT assets, a comprehensive and current list of
   accountable assets is posted and maintained on the Air Force Portal (https://www.my.af.mil)
   under the Air Force tab and the Enterprise IT Initiatives heading.
       17.1.1. Management and oversight of the official Air Force accountability list is the
       responsibility of the CSMWG.
   17.2. Ensure complete information on shipping labels.             Obtain confirmation that
   procurement officials specify, as a contractual requirement, that ―Ship To‖ and ―Mark For‖
   information is detailed on the shipping labels. This will alleviate problems with the receipt
   and acceptance processing of new IT equipment.
       17.2.1. ―Mark For‖ information will contain; Contract Number, Purchase Order Number,
       Address, Phone Number, e-mail Address, Resource Manager Name, and ITEC Name
       (when applicable).
       17.2.2. ―Ship To‖ information will contain the complete delivery address. This includes
       the Equipment Control Officer name. This will correspond to the DoD Activity
       Addressing Codes (DoDAAC) and the system of record for real property (ACES-RP).
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                     17


   17.3. Software purchased with original equipment manufacturer IT is considered an integral
   part of the system. Therefore, the software must be maintained with the system. If the
   system is transferred, software and system documentation must accompany the system.
   Transfer all documentation with the system.
   17.4. Software license management is explained in AFI 33-114, Software Management.
   17.5. IT assets that are components of weapons systems or other major systems and are
   already tracked in AFEMS or another property management system will not be tracked in
   AFEMS-AIM.
   17.6. Equipment that is deployed and remains in possession/use of home station personnel
   who are deployed should be tracked and managed within the home station inventory.
   Equipment that is transferred to other units or left forward must be properly transferred from
   the home station (losing unit) account to an appropriate gaining unit to maintain full
   accountability.
18. Receipt and Acceptance of Information Technology Assets
   18.1. The Prompt Payment Act (PPA) of 21 May 1982 (Public Law 97- 177), amended on
   17 October 1988 (Public Law 100-496), 31 U.S.C. §3900, requires Federal agencies to pay
   commercial vendor bills on time and pay interest when payments are late. Consequently, the
   Air Force is subject to interest penalties if the proper invoice and receiving reports for IT
   assets are not processed in a timely manner. To ensure prompt payment to vendors and
   prevent interest penalties, SAF/FMP mandates the use of Wide Area Workflow (WAWF) to
   electronically submit all receiving reports to the DFAS.
   18.2. All personnel receiving or accepting IT assets on behalf of the Air Force, usually the
   ECO, will ensure receiving reports for IT assets are processed using WAWF.
      18.2.1. Receiving reports will be processed through WAWF within 3 working days of
      receipt and acceptance.
      18.2.2. In those instances where the ECO or the person who received the IT does not
      have visibility of the order in WAWF, contact the unit Resource Advisor to ensure
      payment through appropriate channels.
   18.3. If your organization cannot use WAWF, manually complete the receiving report by
   filling in the appropriate blocks of the DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving
   Report, and forward a copy to your local FM Accounting Liaison Office (ALO) for
   processing to WAWF within 3 working days of IT asset receipt and acceptance.
   18.4. Training on the use of WAWF is available using the Department of Defense Receipts
   & Acceptance online training system at http://www.wawftraining.com or you can contact
   your local or host Comptroller office to schedule additional WAWF training.
   18.5. Recommend those submitting purchase requests ensure existence of a WAWF
   Business Partner Network (BPN) number at http://www.bpn.gov/. BPNs are the equivalent
   to DoDAACs and are the critical data link in identifying the responsible organization to
   accomplish a WAWF receiving report.
   18.6. Following IT asset receipt and acceptance, accountability must be established for the
   IT asset. According to DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5000.64, Accountability and Management of
 18                                    AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


   DoD Owned Equipment and Other Accountable Property, dated 2 Nov 2006, accountability
   is established by formal receipt and acceptance in an accountable property system of record.
   For IT hardware assets, the Air Force's official accountable property system of record is the
   AFEMS-AIM module.
   18.7. To ensure the ECO enters IT assets into the AFEMS-AIM system in a timely manner
   and establishes accountability in accordance with DoDI 5000.64, the following applies:
       18.7.1. The ECO, or supporting personnel, will enter newly received IT assets into the
       AFEMS-AIM system within 10 working days of receipt and acceptance.
       18.7.2. For equipment not immediately installed, the ECO will use the appropriate IT
       asset status code in accordance with AFI 33-112, Attachment 3 (i.e., Status Code 03 -
       Received on-site, but not installed.)
       18.7.3. If the receiver/acceptor of the IT asset is not the ECO, the receiver/acceptor will
       notify the ECO upon receipt and acceptance of the IT asset so accountability is
       established in the AFEMS-AIM system within 10 working days of receipt and
       acceptance.
19. Establishing Custodial Responsibility.
   19.1. In order to effectively control Air Force IT assets, custodial responsibility must be
   established at all levels. Custodial responsibility is established when an individual takes
   physical custody of the property and signs a custody receipt document such as an AFEMS-
   AIM inventory list or a hand receipt. Digital signatures may be used in lieu of wet
   signatures.
   19.2. Personnel having custodial responsibility may incur pecuniary liability for the loss,
   destruction, or damage to property caused by willful misconduct, deliberate unauthorized
   use, or negligence in the use, care, custody, or safeguard of the property from causes other
   than normal wear and tear.
   19.3. There are two methods to establish custodial responsibility.
       19.3.1. Establish an organizational IT asset equipment account in AFEMS-AIM.
          19.3.1.1. The organizational commander or equivalent appoints an ITEC for the
          account according to paragraph 8.5 of this instruction.
          19.3.1.2. The ITEC accepts custodial responsibility on behalf of the organization by
          signing an AFEMS-AIM inventory list provided by the ECO. Digital signatures may
          be used in lieu of wet signatures.
          19.3.1.3. The ITEC conducts the annual physical inventory according to this AFI.
              19.3.1.3.1. (Added-HURLBURTFIELD) ITEC will conduct inventories at the
              discretion of the ECO and/or when warranted due to status/location of assets (e.g.,
              tagged for deployment, currently deployed, stored in common areas/storage,
              outside of ITEC’s immediate work area, etc.).
              19.3.1.3.2. (Added-HURLBURTFIELD) Appointed custodians will conduct a
              joint physical inventory (outgoing ITEC with alternate or incoming ITEC) and
              reconcile any missing items via Report of Survey (ROS) or hand receipt, before
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                      19


              deploying (minimum of 30 calendar days prior).
          19.3.1.4. It is highly recommended that ITECs have end users sign a hand receipt for
          the IT in the user’s possession or IT they use on a regular basis. At a minimum, hand
          receipts must be accomplished for easily transported devices such as laptops and
          PDAs. Digital signatures may be used in lieu of wet signatures.
              19.3.1.4.1. Hand receipts may be as simple as AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue
              Receipt, or as elaborate as a digitally signed electronic hand receipt. The hand
              receipt must state, ―I acknowledge receipt of and responsibility IAW AFI 23-111
              for the items listed herein.‖
              19.3.1.4.2. (Added-HURLBURTFIELD) Hurlburt Field requires a hand receipt
              be issued to applicable end users for all IT in the user’s possession or outside the
              ITEC’s direct control, to include, but not limited to, in-garrison and deployed
              assets.
       19.3.2. Upon MAJCOM A6 approval, CSOs may allow the ECO to create equipment
       accounts in AFEMS-AIM without assigning traditional equipment custodians. This
       method can only be used for smaller organizations where it is not feasible to appoint
       traditional ITECs. Use of hand receipts for this method is mandatory.
          19.3.2.1. The user will sign the hand receipt acknowledging custodial responsibility
          and will in effect become the equipment custodian for the property listed on the hand
          receipt. Digital signatures may be used in lieu of wet signatures.
          19.3.2.2. The Commander of the organization will certify the annual inventory. This
          date will be used as the official inventory date in AFEMS-AIM.
20. Physical Inventory of IT Hardware Assets.
   20.1. A physical inventory is a process in which the actual existence, location, and quantity
   of IT assets are validated against the inventory records in AFEMS-AIM.
   20.2. During the inventory, record deficiencies, such as incorrect locations or unrecorded
   property items are identified and these records are corrected as part of the process. Finally,
   physical inventory serves as a deterrent to loss, theft, damage, and misuse.
   20.3. Official Air Force validation techniques include: hands-on verification, barcode
   scanning, radio frequency identification (RFID), and network log-on or use records using
   network auto-discovery tools.
   20.4. Regardless of the validation technique used during the inventory, results of the
   validation will be reconciled with the records contained in the AFEMS-AIM database.
21. Transferring Non-excess Information Technology (IT) Assets to another Department of
Defense Component, Federal Agency, State, or Local Government. The transfer of non-
excess IT assets occurs when a function (i.e. BRAC), and the IT assets acquired to support that
function, is transferred to another DoD component or Federal agency.
   21.1. The losing ITEC provides the losing ECO with a letter of transfer, signed by the losing
   commander documenting the transfer of the function and equipment.
 20                                    AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


   21.2. Ensure a DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document, is signed and
   dated by a designated official from the shipping activity (Traffic Management Office or
   commercial carrier) and the ITEC. For local transfers where no shipping activity is involved,
   the gaining and losing ITEC signs the DD Form 1149.
   21.3. The ECO for the losing activity should account for the transferred IT. The ECO
   should also identify excess IT created as a result of the transfer of a function.
      21.3.1. The losing ECO and the gaining ECO or other accountable officer will:
          21.3.1.1. Review contracts to terminate maintenance for excess equipment.
          21.3.1.2. Assist contracting officials in the transfer of responsibilities to the gaining
          activity.
   21.4. The losing ECO will:
      21.4.1. Update the asset status field in AFEMS-AIM using the codes in Attachment 3.
      21.4.2. Provide information for accountable records to the gaining activity if the gaining
      activity is not using the same database as the losing activity.
      21.4.3. Review all contract obligations with the gaining and losing activity. Pay close
      attention to any contract termination clauses (applies when extra maintenance has been
      paid for by the losing organization). Use currently established AFEMS-AIM guidance
      for the removal of items from an account.
      21.4.4. Review IT assets release dates. Give adequate notice to the vendor to preclude
      payment of extra costs.
      21.4.5. Coordinate IT assets release dates with other base functions, if necessary.
      21.4.6. Coordinate with ISSO for hard drive sanitization according to the procedures
      outlined in AFSSI 8580.
      21.4.7. Provide the IT system database records or custodian report for the ITEC to attach
      to the equipment being transferred as appropriate.
          21.4.7.1. The ITEC will place all applicable hard copy records regarding the transfer
          in their applicable ITEC folder.
      21.4.8. Properly inventory, package, warehouse, and secure equipment when storing IT
      assets before transfer.
      21.4.9. Ensure the IT system database inventory records reflect this transfer of
      equipment accountability to the receiving organization.
      21.4.10. Ensure the AFEMS Help Desk is notified to delete or archive the IT records of
      the equipment being transferred to a Department of Defense Component, Federal
      Agency, State, or Local Government.
22. Managing Capital Assets
   22.1. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Act of 1990, 31 U.S.C. §§901-903, specifies
   capitalization and depreciation of equipment with an acquisition/leased cost equal to or
   greater than $100K. Special attention needs to be taken when loading the acquisition/lease
   cost and the fund code. AFEMS-AIM internally computes the depreciation of these assets
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                        21


   and reports the cost data by fund code to DFAS. The cost data for IT assets is part of the Air
   Force Financial statement that is submitted to Congress.
       22.1.1. Acquisition cost, which is what depreciation is based on, includes all costs
       incurred to bring the asset to a form and location suitable for its intended use (e.g.,
       amounts paid to vendors, transportation to point of initial use, handling and storage costs,
       interest costs paid, and direct and indirect production costs). The acquisition cost is
       typically found on an accompanying invoice.

Section D—Information Technology (IT) Systems Maintenance (Not Applicable to Non-Air
Force Managed Joint Service Systems)

23. Support Plans. The CSO develops a Life Cycle Management Plan for IT assets according
to AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management to ensure logistics support
throughout the expected lifecycle. A support plan includes planning and developing a spare and
repair parts support plan, determining initial requirements, acquisition planning, distribution, and
replenishment of inventory spares.
   23.1. Although there is no one size fits all method to determine the quantity of spare
   equipment or repair parts to keep on hand, consider technical data such as mean time
   between failure rates, reliability data obtained from the manufacturer, and order and ship
   time from the source of supply when analyzing supply support. Personnel should also
   consider mission impact factors such as single point of failure and/or mission critical items.
   Ultimately it is the commander’s or maintenance superintendent’s decision based on past
   experience for low density/commercial off-the-shelf systems that determine the number of
   on-hand spares necessary to ensure mission accomplishment.
       23.1.1. Regardless of the method used to determine the quantity of spare equipment or
       repair parts to keep on hand, the rationale/methodology used to determine the quantity
       will be documented in the Life Cycle Management Plan.
Note: Consult AFI 33-115, Volume 1, for additional guidance in determining types and
quantities of equipment needed.
   23.2. Maintenance Management. Maintenance management requirements are necessary to
   avoid risks to personnel, prevent damage to IT equipment, and ensure IT equipment
   availability to meet mission requirements (Refer to AFI 63-101, AFI 33-115, Volume 1, and
   AFI 33-series guidance).
   23.3. Personnel performing maintenance tasks on IT hardware follow the maintenance
   management requirements for mission critical and non-mission critical items according to
   TO 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice
   Requirements.
   23.4. The headquarters or field-level unit determines if the IT hardware is considered
   mission critical or non-mission critical for maintenance management purposes.
   23.5. Cannibalization may be used to satisfy an existing requirement or to meet priority
   mission requirements. Technical Order 00-20-3, Maintenance Processing of Reparable
   Property and Repair Cycle Asset Control System, outlines the cannibalization process and
   documentation requirements.
 22                                    AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


   23.6. When cannibalization is the only option available, identify the end item to be
   cannibalized, and request approval from the chief of maintenance/chief of mission systems
   flight, CSO, or designated representative according to TO 00-20-2, Maintenance Data
   Documentation.
   23.7. The CSO or designated representative can approve cannibalization of non-mission
   critical IT equipment; however, the CSO ensures procedures are developed to ensure non-
   mission critical cannibalized IT assets are restored to full operational capability if
   economically feasible.
   23.8. Maintenance actions to obtain assemblies, sub-assemblies, or parts are considered
   transfers and are not treated as cannibalization actions. The CSO may retain assemblies, sub-
   assemblies, or parts from spare IT assets for maintenance redundancy and operational spares
   when the communications unit has a maintenance or operational support mission.
   23.9. The CSO may also approve the use of unserviceable IT hardware assets as a source for
   spare parts to maintain other IT equipment. This authority should only be used when allowed
   by the parent MAJCOM and a cost analysis clearly determines it is economically feasible to
   use excess assets instead of procuring new items.
   23.10. Assemblies, sub-assemblies, and parts obtained for maintenance redundancy or
   operational spares are accounted for in the AFEMS-AIM. Ensure the IT asset status in the
   AFEMS-AIM is updated to identify these items as operational spares. Asset status codes are
   listed in Attachment 3.
24. Information Technology (IT) Systems Maintenance Reporting. Users with maintenance
contracts document all IT asset maintenance on AF Form 597, or vendor maintenance forms as
specified in the appropriate contract. If AF Form 597 is used, provide a copy to the vendor. Each
MAJCOM CIO/A6 will specify procedures for logging, documenting, collecting, processing, and
filing copies of maintenance records in accordance with AFI 33-300 series publications.
25. Computation of Payments. Contracts applying to managed IT assets.
   25.1. Effective Start Date for Rental or Lease. The effective date for rented/leased IT assets
   shall be clearly stated in the lease document – this may be a predetermined specific date or a
   date dependent upon the completion of specific testing and acceptance. A government-caused
   acceptance test delay may require payment for the delayed period. Consult the individual
   contract for specific guidance.
   25.2. Computing Charges. ECOs compute charges for rented/leased IT assets, using the
   reverse side of AF Form 597 or locally produced vendor form.
   25.3. Validating Services. For Air Force-managed systems, the verifying activity refers to
   the equipment utilization reports and the input to the reports (IT assets/equipment orders, AF
   Form 597, and other appropriate records), to validate the services. Submit claims for credit
   within 60 calendar days (or as stated in the contract). The IT assets contract manager
   designates the verifying activity for non-Air Force managed systems (e.g., joint service
   systems).
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                       23


Section E—Disposition of Excess Information Technology (IT) Resources

26. Excess. An item is considered excess when it is no longer required due to mission change,
equipment upgrades, technology changes, obsolescence, etc. The item is also considered excess
when the total quantity on hand exceeds the required quantity, as identified in the technical
solution/requirements document, plus the number of authorized spares as identified in the Life
Cycle Management Plan. According to AFI 23-111, accountable individuals are responsible for
properly identifying, reporting, and determining correct disposition of unserviceable, reparable,
or excess property.
   26.1. Base or MAJCOM CSOs may develop their own policies for the retention of excess IT
   assets, to include potential reutilization (see AFSSI 8580). However, the rationale for the
   retention policy must be documented; preferably in the Life Cycle Management Plan.
   26.2. The ITEC notifies the ECO when IT assets become excess. If possible, ITECs should
   provide notification 30 calendar days before the equipment goes off line to allow completion
   of the screening cycle while the equipment is still in use, eliminating the need to store excess
   assets. Until receipt of final disposition instructions, the ITEC stores the equipment to
   prevent damage, deterioration, or unauthorized cannibalization.
   26.3. Excess Air Force assets can be located using DLA Disposition Services (formerly
   DRMO) at http://www.drms.dla.mil/.
   26.4. Disposition of excess classified media. The ISSO or designated representative signs
   and affixes the appropriate disposition certification label and marks classified media as
   required according to the guidance in AFI 31-401, Information Security Program
   Management. Also, all personnel handling classified materials bear a responsibility to ensure
   their media is appropriately marked. Note: For your use, DLA has developed a label, based
   on the information required in Assistant Secretary of Defense (ASD) Memorandum,
   Disposition of Unclassified DoD Computer Hard Drives, June 4, 2001. This is an optional
   form. Please note that it also contains a block to check if you are turning in housings where
   the hard drive has been removed. This form can be printed on adhesive labels, i.e., Avery
   5164 or Pres-a-ply 30604 (reference AFSSI 8580 and AFI 31-401).
27. Obtaining Excess Resources. If the parent MAJCOM allows the use of excess IT to satisfy
new requirements, the ECOs review excess redistribution programs and reports to determine if
suitable excess resources are available.
   27.1. The ECO may direct reutilization of IT assets to replace equipment that does not meet
   minimum standards when allowed by the parent MAJCOM.
   27.2. To acquire equipment from DLA Disposition Services (formerly DRMO), the ITEC
   submits documentation (DD Form 1348A-1, Issue Release/Receipt Document) for
   coordination to the ECO. Assets can either be viewed at the DLA Disposition Services
   (formerly DRMO) location or researched at http://www.drms.dla.mil/.
   27.3. ECOs establish accountability in the AFEMS-AIM for IT hardware equipment
   acquired through any source that meets the criteria for accountability in paragraph 17.
 24                                   AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


28. Transferring Excess Information Technology (IT) Systems Assets to the DLA
Disposition Services (formerly DRMO).
   28.1. DLA Disposition Services (formerly DRMO) is the primary source for disposal of all
   military property and equipment. All Air Force IT will be disposed of through the DLA
   Disposition Services (formerly DRMO).
   28.2. DLA Disposition Services (formerly DRMO) guidelines for excess and the disposal of
   IT assets can be found at http://www.drms.dla.mil/
   28.3. All media being disposed of or transferred to DLA Disposition Services (formerly
   DRMO) or another entity outside of the DoD will be sanitized and/or destroyed as
   applicable according to AFSSI 8580.
   28.4. ECOs must establish an MOA with their servicing DLA Disposition Services
   (formerly DRMO) office in order to transfer IT equipment directly to local schools under the
   Computers for Learning Program. Donations of IT equipment to schools can only take place
   AFTER completion of the mandatory DoD reutilization screening and then the IT equipment
   may be donated only to registered and qualified institutions identified by the DLA
   Disposition Services (formerly DRMO).
      28.4.1. The Air Force cannot donate IT assets directly to a school or other government
      entity without the approval of the DLA Disposition Services (formerly DRMO).
29. Exchange or Sale of Government Automated Resources.
   29.1. Contract partners have programs designed to recover (give credit for equipment that
   still has market value) and recycle (dispose of IT assets in an environmentally safe manner
   and replace due to obsolescence or un-serviceability) IT assets. The proceeds or credit is
   applied toward the purchase of replacement government automation resources. See DoD
   4140.1-R, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, May 23, 2003; and Defense
   Federal Acquisition Regulation (DFAR) Supplement, Part 217.70, Exchange of Personal
   Property, for more specific guidance. Adherence to remanence security requirements is vital
   to all transactions relating to excess IT including warranty exchanges.
30. Information Collections, Records, and Forms.
   30.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   30.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in
   accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
   https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
      30.2.1. IT Asset Management documents: use Table 33-7, Rule 7 is delete when no
      longer needed. Recommend keeping inventories and supporting documentation for two
      years, when possible.
   30.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed):
      30.3.1. Adopted Forms: DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property
      Loss; DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document; DD Form 1348A-1,
      Issue Release/Receipt Document; AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
      Publications; AF IMT 2519, All Purpose Checklist.
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                        25


     30.3.2. Prescribed Forms: AF IMT 597, ADPE Maintenance Record; AF Form 1297,
     Temporary Issue Receipt.




                                    WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen., USAF
                                    Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief
                                    Information Officer

                                    (HURLBURTFIELD)

                                    JAMES C. SLIFE, Colonel, USAFCommander
 26                                  AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
PL 104-52, Telephone Installation and Charges, STAT 468, Section 620 [31 U.S.C. 1348]
ASD Memorandum, Disposition of Unclassified DoD Computer Hard Drives, June 4, 2001:
http:// www.drms.dla.mil/
DoDD 8000.1, Management of DoD Information Enterprise, February 10, 2009
DoDI 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DoD-owned Equipment and Other
Accountable Property, November 2, 2006
DoDI 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation, February 6, 2003
DoD 4140.1-R, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, May 23, 2003
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 12, Special Accounts, Funds and Programs, June 2009
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities Base Planning& Requirements Development, May 31, 2006
AFPD 20-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, April 3, 2009
AFPD 33-1, Information Resource Management, June 27, 2006
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, April 19, 2007
AFPD 65-2, Managers’ Internal Control Program, April 28, 2006
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, December 1,
2004
AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force, July 25, 2005
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, November 11, 2005
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, January 27, 2005
AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing, March 18, 1999
AFI 33-114, Software Management, May 13, 2004
AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network Operations (NETOPS), May 24, 2006
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management , December 23, 2008
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, April 17, 2009
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, July 1, 1996
AFSSI 8580, Remanence Security, November 17, 2008
AFWay Users Guide, May 2007
FAR 7.5, Inherently Governmental Functions, June 15, 2009
FAR 45.505, Records and Reports of Government Property, June 15, 2009
FPM Letter 368-1, 26 March 1991, Federal Flexible Workplace Project, March 26, 1991
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                27


Technical Order 00-20-2, Maintenance Data Documentation, June 15, 2003
Technical Order 00-20-3, Maintenance Processing of Reparable Property and Repair Cycle
Asset Control System, January 1, 2009
Technical Order 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management Procedures
and Practice Requirements, July 17, 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force (used on forms only)
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNIC—--Air Force Network Integration Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSSI—Air Force Systems Security Instruction
AFWay—Air Force Way
AIM—Asset Inventory Management
AIS—Automated Information System
ANG—Air National Guard
ASD—Assistant Secretary of Defense
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure
CAGE—Commercial and Government Entity code
CPU—Central Processing Unit
CSM—Computer Systems Management
CSMWG—Computer Systems Management Working Group
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
DD—Department of Defense (used on forms only)
DFAR—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDAAC—DoD Activity Addressing Codes
DRA—Defense Reporting Activity
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
 28                                  AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ECSS—Expeditionary Combat Support System
e- mail—Electronic Mail
EA—Economic Analysis
ECO—Equipment Control Officer
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOB—Found-On-Base
GO—General Officer
HTSA—Host Tenant Support Agreement
HQ AETC—Headquarters Air Education and Training Command
HQ OSSG—Headquarters Operations and Sustainment Systems Group
HQ SSG—Headquarters Standard Systems Group
IA—Information Assurance
ISSO—Information Systems Security Officer
IT—Information Technology
ITEC— Information Technology Equipment Custodian
LCMP— Life Cycle Management Plan
MAJCOM—Major Command
MECO—Major Command Equipment Control Officer
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Program Agreement
PDA—Personal Digital Assistant
PL—Public Law
PMO—Program Management Office
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROS—Report of Survey
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAP/SAR—Special Access Program/Special Access Required
SES—Senior Executive Service
USAF—United States Air Force
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                       29


WAWF— Wide Area Workflow

Terms
Accountable Officer—An individual appointed by proper authority who maintains items and/or
financial records in connection with government property, irrespective of whether the property is
in his or her possession for use or storage, or is in the possession of others to whom it has been
officially entrusted for use or care and safekeeping. In all cases, the accountable officer is
responsible for establishing and maintaining financial property control records, controlling the
processing of supporting documentation, and maintaining supporting document files. The
primary accountable officers under the Air Force ROS System include: chief of supply, medical
supply officer, munitions officer, fuels officer, communications and information systems officer,
civil engineer, etc.
Cannibalization—Authorized removal of a specific assembly, subassembly or part from one
system for installation on another end item to satisfy an existing supply requisition and to meet
priority mission requirements with an obligation to replace the removed item. Canning is the act
of removing serviceable parts from one IT system for installation in another IT system when
removal of parts will cause the first system to not perform as designed.
Central Processing Unit (CPU)—The portion of a computer that executes programmed
instructions, performs arithmetic and logic functions, and controls input and output functions.
One CPU may have more than one processor housed in the unit.
Client Support Administrator (CSA)—The primary point of contact for computer related
problems. The person appointed and certified under AFI 33-115, Volume 1 to support
information systems/technology related tasks. Formerly Workgroup Manager (WM).
Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) System—An integrated system of
doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment, facilities, and
communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control through
all phases of the operational continuum. This system includes visual information support
systems. Within the Air Force referred to as communications and information systems.
Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—The term CSO identifies the
supporting systems officer at all levels. At base-level, this is the commander of the
communications unit responsible for carrying out base communications and information systems
responsibilities. At MAJCOM and other activities responsible for large quantities of
communications and information systems, it is the person designated by the commander as
responsible for overall management of systems budgeted and funded by the MAJCOM or
activity. The CSO function uses the office symbol SC that is expanded to three and four digits to
identify specific functional areas. CSOs are accountable officers for all automated data
processing equipment in their inventory.
Communications Equipment—All communications systems and equipment including but not
limited to ground-based radio and wireless systems including infrared; radar, meteorological and
navigational radiation aids used for aircraft control and landing; radiating aids for fire control;
imagery, video processing equipment and intrusion detection systems, satellite, microwave and
telemetry equipment; mission critical computer hardware, telecommunications switching
 30                                    AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


equipment, cable and antenna systems; cryptographic equipment and communications consoles;
and electronic counter-measures and related radiation, re-radiation, and electronic devices.
Computer System—A functional unit, consisting of one or more computers and associated
software, that
(1) uses common storage for all or part of a program and also for all or part of the data
necessary for the execution of the program; (2) executes user—written or user-designated
programs; and (3) performs user-designated data manipulation, including arithmetic and logic
operations. NOTE: A computer system is a stand-alone system or may consist of several
interconnected systems. Personal computers, microcomputers, minicomputers, multi-user
systems, all standard multi-user small computer requirements contract systems, text processors,
word processors, intelligent typewriters, and workstations are examples of computer systems.
Department of Defense (DoD) Redistribution Program—Worldwide program, initiated by
DoD for reporting, screening, redistributing, and disposing of automation resources that have
become excess under an original application.
Designated Approving Authority (DAA)—Official with the authority to formally assume
responsibility for operating an information system or network within a specified environment.
(AFI 33-200).
Documentation—The formal standardized recording of detailed objectives, policies, and
procedures governing conception, authorization, design, testing, implementation, operation,
maintenance, modification, and disposition of data administration techniques and applications.
Economic Analysis (EA)—An EA helps us make rational choices among competing
alternatives. A good EA systematically examines and tells us about costs, benefits, and risks of
various alternatives.
Equipment Control Officer (ECO)—An individual appointed by the applicable CSO to
manage and control IT assets resources for a base. (NOTE: A tenant unit may have its own ECO.
This should be coordinated among the main base Communications unit, the tenant unit, and the
MAJCOM of the tenant unit.)
Hardware—(1) The generic term dealing with physical items as distinguished from its
capability or function such as equipment, tools, implements, instruments, devices, sets, fittings,
trimmings, assemblies, subassemblies, components, and parts. The term is often used in regard to
the stage of development, as in the passage of a device or component from the design stage into
the hardware stage as the finished object.
(2) In data automation, the physical equipment or devices forming an IT system and peripheral
components. See also software.
Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO)—Official who manages the computer security
program for an information system assigned to him or her by the Information Systems Security
Manager; including monitoring information system activities, and ensuring that the information
system is operated, maintained, and disposed of according to security policies and practices.
(NOTE: See DODI 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation, February 6, 2003.) An
individual responsible to the IAM for ensuring that the appropriate operational IA posture is
maintained for a DoD information system or organization. While the term IAO is favored within
the DoD, it may be used interchangeably with other IA titles (e.g., Information Systems Security
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                         31


Officer, Information Systems Security Custodian, Network Security Officer, or Terminal Area
Security Officer). (AFI33-200).
Information Technology (IT)—Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of
equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or
information by the DoD component. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, equipment is
used by a DoD component if the equipment is used directly or is used by a contractor under a
contract with the DoD component that (1) requires the use of such equipment; or (2), requires the
use to a significant extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of
a product. The term Information Technology includes computers, ancillary equipment, software,
firmware, and similar procedures, services (including support services) and related resources.
Notwithstanding the above, the term information technology does not include any equipment that
is acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract. (See DoD Directive 8000.1,
Management of DoD Information Resources and Information Technology, February 27, 2002,
with Change 1, March 20, 2002.) NOTE: The focus of this instruction is IT hardware
management. AFI 33-114 is the governing Air Force instruction for software.
Information Technology Equipment Custodian (ITEC)—An individual who acts as a
subordinate to the applicable ECO and performs inventory, utilization, and maintenance
recording and reporting and other custodial duties as the ECO requires.
Joint Service System—A standard system implemented at one or more services sites (U.S.
Army, U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, and U.S. Marine Corps). Systems acquisition, development,
maintenance, and life-cycle support are assigned to a program manager assigned to one of the
services.
Life—Cycle Management—(1) The management of a system or item, starting with the planning
process and continuing through successive management processes and associated life-cycle
management phases and associated milestones, until a system is terminated. (2) A management
process, applied throughout the life of an AIS that bases all programmatic decisions on the
anticipated mission-related and economic benefits derived over the life of the AIS.
Maintenance—(1) All action taken to retain materiel in or to restore it to a specified condition.
It includes: inspection, testing, servicing, classification as to serviceability, repair, rebuilding,
and reclamation. (2) All supply and repair action taken to keep a force in condition to carry out
its mission. (3) The routine recurring work required to keep a facility (plant, building, structure,
ground facility, utility system, or other real property) in such condition that it is continuously
utilized, at its original or designed capacity and efficiency, for its intended purpose. (4) The
function of keeping C4 items of equipment in, or restoring them to, serviceable condition.
Maintenance is not intended to increase the value, capabilities, or expected life of a system.
Equipment maintenance includes servicing, repair, modification, modernization, overhaul,
inspection, condition determination, corrosion control, and initial provisioning of support items.
Maintenance includes both preventive and corrective actions. Software maintenance includes
anticipating, detecting, and eliminating errors.
Major Command Equipment Control Officer (MECO)—The individual appointed by the
CSO that oversees the management and control of IT assets for the MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU.
 32                                     AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


Peripheral—Any equipment that provides the IT system with additional capabilities distinct
from the central processing unit (e.g., a printer, mouse, disk drive, digitizer, etc.).
Pilferable—Items having a ready resale value, civilian utility or application, and therefore are
especially subject to theft. Consideration must be given to the cost to provide controlled storage
and handling compared to the potential losses when selecting items to be treated as pilferable
items. Generally an item should not be coded for worldwide treatment as pilferable, unless the
unit cost exceeds $100 and repetitive losses indicate the item is subject to theft; however, the unit
cost criteria may be waived when management determines that losses on an item warrant the cost
of additional controls.
Resources—Any IT system, component hardware and software, contractual services, personnel,
supplies, and funds.
Shareware—Privately or commercially developed software that is normally distributed free of
charge but a fee is generally expected for continued or extended use. Normally, implied or
promised support by the author is minimal or nonexistent.
Software—(1) A set of IT assets programs, procedures, and associated documentation concerned
with the operation of an IT system (i.e., compilers, library routines, manuals, circuit diagrams).
(2) The programs, procedures, rules, and any associated documentation pertaining to the
operation of data processing systems.
System—A set of IT components and their external peripherals and software interconnected with
another set. Typical systems include notebook computers, desktop PCs, networked and
distributed systems (e.g., servers, workstations, data management processors, etc.), mainframe
and midsize computers and associated peripherals.
Systems Administrator—The organization focal point for multi-user systems.
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                              33


                                           Attachment 2
             INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) SYSTEMS CHECKLIST

A2.1. Information Technology (IT) Systems Checklist.

Table A2.1. Information Technology (IT) Systems Checklist.
#                   ITEM                               REFERENCE               Y   N   NA
      MAJCOM Equipment Control
      Officer (MECO)
1     Has the MECO been appointed in         AFI 33-112, paragraph 9.1.
      writing? Has the letter been
      forwarded to the proper authority?
2     Does the MECO provide policy           AFI 33-112, paragraph 9.1.1 and
      and procedural guidance to ECOs        9.1.9.
      and disseminate higher level
      guidance to the field?
3     Does the MECO approve or               AFI 33-112, paragraph 9.1.3.
      disapprove transfers of IT assets
      between commands?
4     Does the MECO review finalized         AFI 33-112, paragraph 9.1.5.
      excess reports to ensure
      appropriate actions are
      accomplished?
5     Does the MECO maintain ECO             AFI 33-112, paragraph 9.1.7.1.
      appointment letters for each DRA
      under their command?
6     Does the MECO approve system           AFI 33-112, paragraph 9.1.7.1.
      access requests for assigned
      ECOs?
7     Does the MECO assist in the            AFI 33-112, paragraph 9.1.7.
      creation of new DRAs in their
      commands?
      Equipment Control Officer
      (ECO)
8     Is a copy of AFI 33-112 available?
9     Has the CSO appointed a primary        AFI 33-112, paragraph 7.9.
      and alternate ECO in writing?
      Does the selected individual meet
      the criteria as noted in AFI 33-
      112?
 34                                    AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


10    Does the ECO or ECO designated AFI 33-112, paragraphs 10.2 and
      receiving official receive all     18.2.
      AFEMS-AIM accountable IT
      equipment, ensuring accountability
      and completion of all necessary
      documentation?
11    Does the ECO use AFEMS-AIM           AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.1.
      for accountable IT, according to
      AFI 33-112?
12    Is the ECO responsible for           AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.2.
      equipment listed in their assigned
      DRA?
13    Does the ECO assist the ITEC in      AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.3.
      determining ownership of all FOB
      IT assets and takes appropriate
      action to ensure accountability?
14    Does the ECO direct all ITECs to     AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.4.
      conduct an annual physical
      inventory of assigned computer
      systems?
15    Does the ECO ensure completion       AFI 33-112, paragraphs 10.2.4.
      of the annual physical inventory
      and that ITEC appointment letters
      are reviewed annually?
16    Does the ECO prepare AFEMS-          AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.8.
      AIM generated or equivalent
      labels and provide them to the
      ITEC as needed?
17    Does the ECO work with the ITEC AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.9.
      to update the inventory as dictated
      by a ROS?
18    Does the ECO complete out-           AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.10.
      processing for departing ITECs
      upon transfer of account and
      receipt of new appointment
      letters?
19    Does the ECO provide guidance as AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.11.
      well as initial and annual refresher
      training for the ITECs?
20    Does the ECO receive guidance        AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.12.
      and direction from the MECO and
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                    35


     CSO?
21   Does the ECO correctly code           AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.13.
     deployed computer systems in
     AFEMS-AIM as directed by HQ
     USAF or MAJCOM and
     authorized by the applicable CSO?
22   Does the ECO attempt to reutilize AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.15.
     excess organizational IT assets
     that meet minimum architecture
     standards before offering
     equipment to organizations outside
     the DRA, when allowed by the
     parent MAJCOM?
23   Does the ECO work with tenant         AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.17.
     ECOs to establish a host tenant
     agreement identifying any
     assistance required, such as
     AFEMS-AIM connectivity?
24   Does the ECO coordinate on all        AFI 33-112, paragraph 10.2.18.
     host tenant agreements?
         IT Equipment Custodian
                 (ITEC)
25   Are ITECs and alternates              AFI 33-112, paragraphs 8.5. and
     appointed in writing by the           8.5.1.1
     organizational commander with
     signatures of appointees on letter?
26   Are ITECs responsible for all         AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.1.
     assigned IT hardware assets?
27   Do the ITECs perform an annual        AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.1.1.
     inventory of all items in the
     account not to exceed 365
     calendar days? Upon completion,
     does the ITEC and the
     organizational commander or
     equivalent sign the inventory with
     the original copy retained by the
     ITEC and a copy for the ECO file?
28   Does the ITEC ensure all AFEMS- AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.2.
     AIM accountable IT hardware
     equipment has an AFEMS-AIM
     generated or equivalent label
     attached when practical?
 36                                    AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012


29    Does the ITEC obtain approval          AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.3.
      and coordinate all potential
      transfers of computer systems
      between accounts with the
      applicable ECO? Note: ITECs
      have no authority to transfer
      computer systems outside their
      account.
30    Does the ITEC sign for new             AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.5.
      equipment received through the
      ECO?
31    Does the ITEC provide                AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.7.
      appropriate documentation to the
      applicable ECO to clear the
      account of equipment that was
      shipped to another base/location,
      transferred to another account,
      donated to a school, or turned-in to
      DLA Disposition Services
      (formerly DRMO)?
32    Has a joint physical inventory         AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.10.
      been accomplished prior to
      equipment account transfer?
33    Does the ITEC out-process              AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.9.
      through the applicable ECO?
34    Does the ITEC initiate the ROS         AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.11.
      process according to AFMAN 23-
      220, concerning any lost,
      damaged, or destroyed IT assets?
35    Does the ITEC provide the              AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.13.
      applicable ECO a serialized
      numbered list of UTC tasked
      assets that will deploy?
36    Does the ITEC receive and secure AFI 33-112, paragraph 11.14.
      all IT assets, if not received by the
      ECO, until proper accountability is
      established?
37    Are easily transported devices (i.e.   AFI 33-112, paragraph 19.3.1.4
      laptops, PDAs) signed out on hand
      receipts?
AFI33-112_HURLBURTFIELDSUP_I 13 JULY 2012                                                37


                                         Attachment 3
                           EQUIPMENT STATUS REPORTING

A3.1. The status codes in Table A3.1. describe the operational status of a component or DRA.
Valid values are:

Table A3.1. IT asset status codes for equipment status reporting.
Status Code     Status Description
01              Programmed, planned, or unapproved order.
02              Approved acquisition, or on order.
03              Received on-site, but not installed.
04              Undergoing acceptance testing, during installation.
11              Installed, accepted, and in use.
12              Available excess.
41              Discontinued use.
52              Transferred in from another DRA.
