BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE
                             •                                             •
                                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-332

                                                                                              OFFUTTAFB
                                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                        19 OCTOBER 2007

                                                                         Communications and Information

                                                                               PRIVACY ACT PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: . The official version of this publication is available electronically on the Air Force
                 Portal at:
                 https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/afp40/USAF/ep/globaITab.do?command=
                 base&channeIPageId=l 073755344&pageld=681742; contact the Base
                 Publishing Office for an electronic copy if you lack access.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 55 CS/SCSF                                                                    Certified by: 55 CG/CC
                                                                             (Colonel Boykin B. Jordan Jr.)
Supersedes AFI 33-332_0AFB SUP 1,                                                                Pages: 14
           26 August 2005

AFI 33-332 dated 29 Jan 2004, is supplemented as follows: This supplement establishes policies and
procedures for compliance and management of the Air Force Privacy Act program. This instruction
applies to contractors by contract or other legally binding action, whenever an Air Force contract provides
for the operation of a system of records or portion of a system of records to accomplish an Air Force func-
tion. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication is maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and are
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.miU. Contact supporting records managers as required. This publication requires collec-
tion and maintenance of information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and
maintain this information is 5 U.S.c. 552a, Privacy Act of 1974 and, AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program,
10 U.S.c. 8013 and E.O. 9397 (SSN). System of records notice F033 AF B applies. The use of the name
or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publica-
tion to the Offutt AFB Freedom ofInformation Act Office (55 CS/SCSF), 201 Lincoln Highway, Suite
206, Offutt AFB NE 68113 -2040.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates policy
and procedures for reporting of Personally Identifying information, Privacy Act training, use of last four
digits for social security numbers, and personal responsibilities at all levels. This revision also updates
web site sources for digital training products and information.
2
                              •                                            •
                                                  AFI33-332 OFFUTTAFBSUP 19 OCTOBER 2007


1.6.9.1. The 55th Communications Squadron Freedom oflnformation Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act
Office is designated as the base Privacy Act program single point of service for host organizations and
units supported by an approved Host-Tenant Support Agreement (HTSA).
1.6.10.3. All Offutt AFB publications, forms, web pages, and unclassified contingency and operations
plans will be reviewed and coordinated on by the Privacy Act Officer. The Privacy Act Officer will also
conduct random reviews of web pages to ensure information posted meets the requirements ofthe Privacy
Act. The Base Privacy Act Officer will review all new and renewed HTS agreements to determine spe-
cific Privacy Act support and services to be provided.
1.6.10.5. Individuals submitting a Privacy Act complaint or request for investigation must do so in writ-
ing and provide any evidential documents that support the complaint or request for investigation. The Pri-
vacy Act Officer will review and investigate the circumstances for which the complaint/investigation is
based and will prepare a written report of validated violations or summary of policy adherence. Com-
plaints or investigations warranting further action will be referred to the Wing Staff Judge Advocate,
Civilian Personnel or other applicable office for action. Reporting loss, theft or compromise of personally
identifying information (PH) will be accomplished within 48 hours of receiving notification of the occur-
rence to the Headquarters Air Combat Command (HQ ACC) Privacy Act Office.
1.6.10.6. Privacy Act program compliance reviews will be accomplished on a 24- month cycle and docu-
mented by the organization Privacy Act monitor using HQ ACC-developed (and base Privacy Act Officer
supplemented) review criteria, to include local Privacy Act compliance criterion. Privacy Act compliance
as it relates to official and vital records is also incorporated into the Records Management (RM) staff
assistance visit program checklist. The Privacy Act Officer will conduct random program reviews to
ensure organizations are adhering to Privacy Act program requirements and following proper procedures
when accessing, modifying or extracting PH from approved systems of records as listed at http://
www.dod.millprivacy/notices.Thechecklistcanbeaccessedathttps:llafkm.wpatb.af.mil/ASPs/doc-
man/DOCMain.asp'?Tab= 0& Folderl D=OO-SC-AC-40-12&Filter=OO-SC-AC-40. Follow Privacy
Act program review report format found at Attachment 6 (Added).
1.6.11.2. System Managers (SM), Client System Administrators (CSA) or designated Privacy Act moni-
tors are responsible for providing training to assigned organization personnel. The Privacy Act Officer
offers a variety of Privacy Act training presentation tools via the 55th Wing FOIA/PA Community of
Practice Page at https:llafkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docmall/ nOCMain.asp,?Tab=O&Folde-
rlD=OO-SC-AC-40-12&Filter=OO-SC-AC-40. The RM Office also incorporates applicable Privacy
Act elements into its RM training courses.
1.6.11.3. Each SM and CSA should implement measures of protection for Privacy Act information. Some
of these measures are, but are not limited to:
1.6.11.3.1. (Added) Control access to privacy act information based on an "official need to know."
1.6.11.3.2. (Added) Provide storage media that prevents unauthorized access to information.
1.6.11.3.3. (Added) Label external storage media (CD-ROM, diskettes, binders) to clearly identify infor-
mation contents are subject to the Privacy Act.
1.6.11.3.4. (Added) Provide internal written procedures consistent with Privacy Act policy and approved
systems of records notices when processes require use of PII.
1.6.11.3.5. (Added) Conduct periodic risk analysis to identify strengths and weaknesses of system and
human resources to which the Privacy Act applies.
