BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-322
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       7 OCTOBER 2003

                                                  WRIGHT PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                         Supplement
                                                                           7 OCTOBER 2009
                                                           Certified Current 26 February 2014
                                                    Incorporting Change 1, 18 AUGUST 2011

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                     RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILCXE                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/ILCX
                                                                          (Col Hollace D. Lyon)
Supersedes:   AFI 33-322,                                                             Pages: 15
              1 December 1998
                             (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP)
OPR: 88CS/SCOKI                                                       Certified by: 88CS/SCOK
                                                                                  (Sheree Coon)
Supersedes: AFI33-322_WRIGHT-                                                           Pages:2
            PATTERSONAFBSUP, 7 October
            2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 37-1, Air Force Information
Management (will become AFPD 33-3). It establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for life-
cycle management (i.e., creation, maintenance and use, and disposition) of information as
records in all media through the Air Force Records Management Program. The instruction also
implements Title 44, United States Code (U.S.C.), Public Printing and Documents, Chapters 29,
Records Management by the Archivist of the United States and by the Administrator of General
Services; Chapter 31, Records Management by Federal Agencies; Chapter 33, Disposal of
Records; and Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy; Title 36, Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR), Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and
Records Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management; Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources; Title 18 U.S.C.,
Crime and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 101, Records and Reports, Section 2071,
Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation Generally; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD)
 2                   AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009


5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000; DoD Standard 5015.2 (DoD
5015.2-STD), Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software
Applications, June 2002; DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and
Subordinate Joint Commands, November 15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000. This instruction
applies to all Air Force military, civilians, and contractor personnel under contract by the DoD
who maintain records in their area of responsibility. Failure to observe the prohibitions and
mandatory provisions of this instruction in paragraph 3.2.1 by military personnel is a
violation of Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation, Uniform Code of Military
Justice. Similarly, failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this
instruction in paragraph 3.2.1 by civilian employees may result in administrative
disciplinary action under applicable civilian personnel instructions without regard to
otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Additional
records management publications are listed on the Air Force website at Uniform Resources
Locator: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil, under Electronic Publications. Air Force Directory
(AFDIR) 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology, explains
other terms. Direct questions or conflicts on the contents of this instruction, through appropriate
command channels, to Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF/ILCXE), 1030 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1030. Refer recommended changes or comments to
Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency (HQ AFCA/ITXD), 203 West Losey Street,
Room 1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222, through appropriate channels, using Air Force (AF)
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Provide an information copy to HQ
USAF/ILCXE. Refer to Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
Maintain and dispose of records according to Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-139, Records
Disposition Schedule. Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program, affect this publication.

(WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) AFI 33-322, 7 October 2003, is supplemented as
follows:

(WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Send comments and suggestions about this publication for
improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This supplement does not apply to
the Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units and members.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This is a total rewrite of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322. It redefines roles and
responsibilities at all levels; deletes the requirement for joint commands to appoint a records
manager (RM), requires all field operating agencies (FOA) to appoint a RM (paragraph 3.4);
revises support provided to joint commands; and updates electronic record-keeping
responsibilities throughout. The bar (|) preceding the publication title indicates a major revision
from the previous publication.
AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009                                              3


(WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) This supplement changes RIMS to AFRIMS.

(WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) This interim change incorporates the clarification of Chief of
Record (COR) statement.
1. General. Records play a vital role in managing and operating Air Force activities. In simple
terms, records document official business, serve as the memory of the organization, a record of
past events, and are the basis for future actions. Every Air Force activity must manage its records
to comply with legal accountability requirements. The key to an effective records management
program is the integrity of the filing system--a system that ensures a standard methodology for
filing, storing, retrieving, and ultimately disposing of records according to published retention
and disposition schedules. Criteria for establishing a filing system can be found in AFMAN 37-
123, Management of Records.
   1.1. Commanders and staff agency chiefs must implement records management programs in
   order to comply with this instruction and protect the rights of the U.S. Government and
   persons directly affected by Air Force actions.
   1.2. This instruction applies to contractors performing records management support and
   where contractors perform duties/services/functions in place of U. S. Government
   employees. Performance work statements must include record keeping requirements (see
   paragraph 10).
   1.3. Air Force units at all levels must manage records systematically to make sure they are
   complete, accurate, trustworthy, and easily accessible. Air Force units at all levels must
   document their organization, function, and activities and preserve their records by
   implementing effective life-cycle management procedures within their areas of
   responsibility.
2. Definition of Records. “…all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable
materials, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or
received by an agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with
the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or
its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions,
procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational
value of data in them. Library and museum material made or acquired and preserved solely for
reference or exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents preserved only for convenience of
reference, and stocks of publications and of processed documents are not included.” (Title 44
U.S.C., Public Printing and Documents, Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section 3301,
Definition of records).
3. The Air Force Program Guidance.
   3.1. The Air Force Director, Communications Operations (HQ USAF/ILC) oversees the Air
   Force records management program and appoints the Air Force Records Officer to
   administer the program, represent the Secretary of the Air Force on records management
   issues, and oversee the legal requirements of records disposal.
   3.2. Air Force Personnel, Civilian Employees, and Contractors:
       3.2.1. Must not conceal, remove, mutilate, obliterate or destroy records without proper
       authority. Unauthorized concealment, removal, mutilation, obliteration or destruction of
 4                   AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009


        records, or any attempt to do so, is a violation of Title 18, U.S.C., Section 2071 and may
        be punished by up to three years confinement and a fine. Failure to obey the
        prohibitions in this paragraph is also a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of
        Military Justice. Failure of civilian employees to follow the prohibitions in this
        paragraph may also result in administrative disciplinary action under applicable
        civilian personnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or
        civil sanctions.
        3.2.2. Must inform officials of any actual or potential unlawful removal, change, or
        destruction of Air Force records.
        3.2.3. Must distinguish Federal records from non-record materials and maintain personal
        papers separately.
     3.3. The Air Force requires an organized network of Record Managers (RM) at major
     commands (MAJCOM), direct reporting units (DRU), field operating agencies (FOA), and
     bases for managing the program and ensuring compliance at all levels.
        3.3.1. Each MAJCOM (commander or senior communications and information official)
        must appoint a command records manager (CRM). Upon appointment or subsequent
        change of RM, notify HQ USAF/ILCX of the name, grade or rank, telephone number,
        office symbol, and organizational electronic mail address of the appointee.
        3.3.2. Each DRU (commander or senior communications and information official) must
        appoint a RM. CRM responsibility applies to Air Force DRUs and Air National Guard
        for the purposes of executing the Air Force Records Management Program. The 11th
        Wing supports offices of record in the Secretariat, HQ USAF, and at Bolling AFB DC
        and should develop a headquarters operating instruction outlining National Capital
        Region procedures.
        3.3.3. Each FOA (commander or senior communications and information official) must
        appoint an agency records manager (ARM).
        3.3.4. Each Air Force base (commander or senior communications and information
        official) must appoint a base RM and notify the CRM, providing the same information as
        in paragraph 3.3.1. At levels below MAJCOM, where there is a communications
        squadron, the RM is the chief of the office of records (COR) function.
4. The Air Force Records Officer.
     4.1. Works with the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and General
     Services Administration (GSA) using the guidelines from Titles 36 CFR and 41 CFR, Public
     Contracts and Property Management.
     4.2. Develops and issues policies governing life-cycle management of Air Force records
     according to AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and AFI 37-138, Records
     Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities.
     4.3. Works with the Archivist of the United States in applying standards, rules, and
     techniques to improve managing automated and manual records, to improve how the Air
     Force identifies, maintains, and protects permanently valuable records, and separates and
     disposes of records of temporary value under guidelines in Titles 36 and 41 CFR.
AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009                                             5


   4.4. Certifies to the Archivist of the United States that records no longer of value to the Air
   Force are disposable.
   4.5. Reports to the Archivist of the United States potential unlawful removal, change, or
   destruction of Air Force records.
   4.6. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure the Air Force properly creates and
   preserves records that document all aspects of its business to protect the rights of the United
   States Government and of persons directly affected by Air Force actions.
   4.7. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure all records, including databases and those
   in automated information systems, generated by processes and prescribed in Air Force
   publications are scheduled.
   4.8. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure system developers include records
   management requirements in automated information systems development and redesign.
   4.9. Applies DoD records management functional and system requirements to all electronic
   record-keeping systems.
   4.10. Obtains written approval or concurrence from the Comptroller General of the United
   States to dispose of records of claims and demands by or against the United States
   Government or accounts affecting the United States Government.
   4.11. Negotiates agreements to transfer Air Force records to NARA, Federal records centers
   (FRC), other Federal agencies, or private organizations.
   4.12. Implements agreements to store, service, dispose of, access, or use records.
   4.13. Publishes a records disposition schedule authorizing disposal of agency records and
   directing prompt and proper disposition of temporary records and retirement of permanent
   records.
   4.14. Directs evaluations of the Air Force’s Records Management Program, during staff
   assistance visits (SAV) or Inspector General (IG) team visits, ensuring compliance with
   Federal, DoD, and Air Force requirements.
   4.15. Issues guidance on authenticating records according to AFI 33-321, Authentication of
   Air Force Records.
   4.16. Maintains awareness of developments in the field of records technology and systems,
   and potential application to the Air Force’s record systems.
      4.16.1. Provides, upon request, a copy of any report submitted to NARA, GSA, OMB, or
      the Congress, to the Director of Administration and Management (DA&M), Office of the
      Secretary of Defense (OSD).
      4.16.2. Advises the DA&M, OSD of any matters pertaining to records management that
      may have DoD-wide implications.
      4.16.3. Provides combatant commands with requested administrative and logistical
      support for records management as specified in DoDD 5100.3.
      4.16.4. Advises personnel on recovery or reconstruction of records.
5. Command Records Managers and Agency Records Managers.
 6                   AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009


     5.1. Manage the records program within their command or agency as specified in Federal
     laws, NARA guidelines and applicable Air Force 33- (and 37-) series publications.
     MAJCOM/FOA/DRU internal record-keeping programs will comply with host base
     guidelines for storage, staging, retrieval, and training.
     5.2. Establish and manage a training program for newly appointed base RMs and for
     continuing training and education.
     5.3. Provide guidance on document imaging and electronic record-keeping requirements. If
     records are to be maintained electronically, establish and implement command-wide process
     for electronically storing records having a retention of 10 years or less, with manual
     application of disposition, where a DoD 5015.2-STD compliant system is not implemented.
     Records with a retention of more than 10 years are not authorized for electronic storage
     without a compliant system or approval of HQ USAF/ ILCX.
     5.4. Ensure records generated by command or agency directives and information collections
     (forms) are scheduled. When a command or FOA is designated as the office of primary
     responsibility (OPR) for an Air Force publication, the CRM or ARM ensures records
     generated by the prescribed processes are scheduled. Send documentation to support this
     action to HQ USAF/ILCX.
        5.4.1. Provide instruction to the OPR on submitting records disposition recommendation
        (AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation).
        5.4.2. Agency record managers must ensure functional series records dispositions are
        current. At a minimum, during the month of September review applicable tables and rules
        in AFMAN 37-139 and submit changes or a negative reply, as applicable, through their
        functional Air Force OPR to HQ USAF/ILCX. When processes change, are deleted, or
        new ones implemented, submit records scheduling information as previously stated.
     5.5. Coordinate contract record-keeping requirements with MAJCOM contracting office (see
     paragraph 10).
     5.6. Review each base RM program at least once every 24 months.
     5.7. Work with the IG to:
        5.7.1. Identify areas requiring special review by command IG teams.
        5.7.2. Provide compliance evaluation criteria and standards for functional area
        inspectors.
        5.7.3. Establish crossfeed procedures to ensure command units are aware of records
        management evaluation contained in IG reports. Send a copy of procedures to HQ
        USAF/ILCX.
     5.8. Establish a local support agreement with the host base RM, when deemed necessary, for
     program assistance, training, electronic records storage (where applicable), staging, or
     records shipping services.
6. Base Records Manager (RM). The RM administers the installation program. Their duties
fall into three major areas: providing assistance, managing staging areas, and training.
     6.1. Providing Assistance.
AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009                                            7


     6.1.1. Implements the Air Force Records Management Program across the base and
     provides assistance in the Air Force 33- and 37-series publications and guidance
     published by NARA.
     6.1.2. Makes recommendations on records storage issues. Provides guidance on using
     document imaging systems for records storage and authorized disposition of paper-based
     records following imaging.
     6.1.3. Provides guidance on electronic record-keeping requirements and implements
     MAJCOM/ local procedures for creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing
     of electronic records.
     6.1.4. Reviews OPR proposals for electronic storage and document imaging of records,
     makes recommendation to improve processes, and sends the proposal to the CRM before
     implementation.
     6.1.5. Implements the Records Information Management System according to AFMAN
     37-123.
     6.1.6. Establishes and implements procedures for processing and approving file plans not
     specified by the CRM.
     6.1.7. Investigates incidences of lost records and unauthorized destruction of records.
        6.1.7.1. Provides guidance and assistance to reconstruct lost/destroyed records.
        6.1.7.2. Makes recommendations to management on preventing future records loss.
        6.1.7.3. Provides report as prescribed by AFI 37-138.
     6.1.8. Reviews base directives and forms/Information Management Tool (IMT) before
     publication to ensure compliance with records management directives.
     6.1.9. Provides instruction to the OPR on submitting AF Form 525, Records Disposition
     Recommendation, for new or revised records schedule.
     6.1.10. Provides records management administrative and logistical support for combatant
     commands where a support agreement exists.
     6.1.11. Ensures offices of record receive a SAV at least every 24 months.
  6.2. Managing Staging Areas.
     6.2.1. Manages a staging area for temporary storage of records pending destruction or
     transfer to a FRC including centralized storage of electronically stored inactive records.
     6.2.2. Provides records staging service for tenant activities, if provided for in a support
     agreement.
     6.2.3. Maintains custody of and accountability for staged records, and accountability for
     records transferred to other agencies or FRCs by maintaining copies of the Standard
     Forms (SF) 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, as prescribed in AFI 37-138.
     6.2.4. Makes the determination as to whether records have met criteria for disposition.
     Where required, the base RM negotiates contracts for the disposal of paper-based records
     stored in the staging area.
 8                    AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009


     6.3. Training.
        6.3.1. Train all personnel within 3 months of assignment, including tenant activities’
        personnel. ANG personnel will be trained within 6 months of assignment.
        6.3.1. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Recommend                         and   provide refresher
        Computer Based Training (CBT) or Classroom Training as need for all personnel, whose
        duties include filing, maintaining, and disposing of official records.
            6.3.1.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Provide FARM orientation
            packages to newly assigned FARMs advising them of their duties and responsibilities.
        6.3.2. Training must cover command-unique or local operating procedures or
        requirements, particularly where electronic storage processes are implemented.
        6.3.3. Include instruction on requirement to identify personal papers, how to identify
        personal papers, and requirement to maintain them separately from official records.
        6.3.4. Notify supervisors of the training completion and requirement to record training
        on their Supervisor’s Employee Brief for civilian employees and on AF Form 623A, On-
        The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet for military personnel.
        6.3.4. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Ensures FARMs enter stats for training
        completion for both the record custodians and CORs within the AFRIMS site to ensure
        reports are accurate.
7. Functional Area Records Managers (FARM). Each base-level unit, principal staff office
within an Air Force organization, or contractor appoints a FARM. One or more FARMs may be
required based on the span of control, the complexities of the mission, and the size of the
organization’s functional areas. Where a MAJCOM-approved electronic records management
process or application has been implemented, a designated workgroup manager may perform a
combination of FARM and records custodian duties. The FARM:
     7.1. Serves as the point of contact for and monitors the records management program of their
     unit or functional area and serves as liaison with the base RM.
     7.2. Guides and assists assigned personnel in maintaining and disposing of records.
     7.3. Assists in preparing files maintenance and disposition plans.
     7.4. Ensures each office of record receives a SAV at least once every 24 months. Follows up
     with the COR on corrective actions for discrepancies noted during visits.
     7.4. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Enters the SAV date within the AFRIMS site.
     7.5. Ensures offices of record promptly retire eligible records and maintain accountability of
     such records.
     7.6. Schedules training for all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records.
     7.6. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Ensures newly assigned personnel are trained via
     CBT or Classroom Training within 3 months of assignment.
        7.6.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Make                         sure   all   personnel   are
        scheduled for refresher training as needed.
AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009                                              9


       7.6.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Provides                        AFRIMS      Guidance
       training for all personnel within their organization who utilize the AFRIMS Site software.
       7.6.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Enters the training date within the
       AFRIMS site to ensure reports are accurate.
   7.7. Assists the RM in providing guidance on using document imaging systems and
   electronic storage media for records. Evaluates the effect of document imaging and electronic
   storage on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of office records. Reports
   problems to the COR and RM.
8. Chief of the Office of Record (COR).
   8.1. COR is the Chief of the Office where the records are created and reside. COR duties
   may not be delegated to any other person except in the case of offices where high ranking
   officers or SES members choose to delegate to their deputies. No other waivers or
   exceptions will be approved.
   8.2. Ensures the office creates only essential records, permanently preserves valuable
   records, and disposes of temporary records according to AFMAN 37-139.
   8.3. Ensures each office of record under their purview develops a file plan.
   8.4. Appoints a records custodian (RC).
   8.5. Ensures RCs attend records management training. The COR briefs the RC on office
   functions to include the reason why the office keeps records.
   8.5. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Ensures Record Custodian training is provided to
   the FARM for inclusion into the AFRIMS site.
   8.6. Submits proposals for establishing electronic records storage and document imaging
   systems to the RM.
   8.7. Assists the FARM or RM in reviewing and evaluating automated information systems
   for their effect on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of records.
   8.8. Ensures all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records attend records
   management training.
   8.8. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) Ensures all personnel within the office of records
   have completed the annually required Total Force Awareness training through the AF Portal.
9. Records Custodian (RC). The RC maintains, services, and disposes of the office records.
RCs must learn the functional mission of the office of record that the records support and know
the purposes the records serve. The RC:
   9.1. Maintains the office file plan and accountability for active and inactive records.
   9.2. Ensures eligible records are promptly and properly prepared to retire or transfer.
   9.3. Must be proficient on the equipment used for storing and retrieving the records from the
   files.
   9.4. Knows and implements the records maintenance, use, and disposition policies and
   procedures for records maintained.
 10                 AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009


   9.5. Adjusts office records maintenance practices to provide accurate and effective reference
   service to the users of the records.
   9.6. Consults with the COR, and when necessary with the FARM, on problems that affect
   creating, maintaining, using, and disposing of records.
10. Contractor Records. Records management oversight of a contractor’s records is necessary
to ensure all Air Force record-keeping requirements are met. Agencies or organizations initiating
contracts must coordinate them with the applicable command or base RM.
   10.1. Contractors performing Congressionally mandated program functions must create and
   maintain records to document these programs. The contract must include requirements for
   the delivery of all pertinent documentation of contractor program execution.
   10.2. Many other types of contracts involve creating background data that may have value to
   the United States Government. Whenever appropriate, agency officials should require the
   delivery of such background data in addition to a final product. The contractor assigns the
   appropriate file identification and disposition instructions to all records delivered to the
   United States Government.
       10.2.1. Contracts to produce statistical analyses specify the delivery of background data
       that may have value to the contracting agency or to other agencies.
       10.2.2. Contracts to produce reports that represent Air Force policy specify the delivery
       of background data needed to verify assertions or justify conclusions.
       10.2.3. Research contracts specify the delivery of background data that have value to the
       contracting agency.
   10.3. Background electronic data and records specified for delivery to the contracting
   agency must be accompanied by sufficient technical documentation to permit the Air Force
   to use the data.
   10.4. A deferred ordering and delivery data clause should be included in the contract to
   acquire any data and records that may have value to the Air Force but were not identified in
   advance.
   10.5. Contracts must list records management instructions and directives for contractor
   compliance.
11. Support Agreements. Base RMs will provide support to any and all organizations
authorized to receive administrative or logistical support. To validate and defend availability of
resources, a support agreement is an essential tool. Local support agreements for records
management services can be between the host and Air Force tenants of other MAJCOMs, other
services, or DoD components and non-DoD agencies. Normally it is the responsibility of the
receiving activity to assess and generate requests for support. If a support agreement is
necessary, the RM must work with the base communications unit plans flight to modify an
existing agreement or create a new one. Follow the procedures in AFI 25-201, Support
Agreements Procedures.
12. Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools (IMT).
   12.1. Information Collections: No information collections are created by this publication.
AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009                                    11


   12.2. Records: Records pertaining to disposition recommendations, on-the-job training,
   support agreements, transmittal and receipt are created by this publication. Retain and
   dispose of records created by this publication according to AFMAN 37-139, Table 37-19,
   Rules 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8.01, 12, 17 and Table 37-15, Rules 7, 8, 9, and 10.

12.3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms or IMTs:

12.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs.

AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation;
AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Records Continuation Sheet;
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; and
SF 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt.

12.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs.

No forms are prescribed by this publication.




                                               MICHAEL E. ZETTLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               VDCS/Installations and Logistics

                                               (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP)

                                               RICK T. JOHNS, Lt Col, USAF
                                               Commander, 88 Communications Squadron
 12                 AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
Title 18, U.S.C., Crime and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 101, Records and
Reports, Section 2071, Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation Generally
Title 44, U.S.C., Public Printing and Documents, Chapter 29, Records Management by the
Archivist of the United States and by the Administrator of General Services
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 31, Records Management by Federal Agencies
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section 3301, Definition of Records
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Part 1234, Electronic Record Management
Uniform Code of Military Justice, Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources
DoD 5015.2-STD, Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software
Applications, June 2002
DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000
DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands,
November 15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management (will become AFPD 33-3)
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures
AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records
AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities
AFDIR 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDIR—Air Force Directory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009                                           13


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ARM—Agency Records Manager
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
COR—Chief of an Office of Record
CRM—Command Records Manager
DA&M—Director of Administration and Management
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FRC—Federal Records Centers
GSA—General Services Administration
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAJCOM—Major Command
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
RC—Records Custodian
RM—Records Managers
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Chief of Office of Record (COR)—Person designated as head of an office where records are
created, received, or maintained; has responsibility for physical and legal custody of records.
This can be at staff level (division chief, branch chief, director) wing, squadron, or flight.
Command Records Manager (CRM)—Records managers at MAJCOM, specific FOAs,
DRUs, and Combatant Commands for which the Air Force is the executive agent.
Disposable—Temporary and approved by NARA for disposal, either immediately or after a
specified retention period.
Disposition—(1) A comprehensive term that includes destruction, salvage, or donation; transfer
to a staging area or records center; transfer from one organization to another; (2) Actions taken
 14                  AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009


with inactive records. These actions may include erasure of data, transfer to a records center, or
transfer to the National Archives (Title 36, CFR, Chapter XII, Part 1234).
Disposition Instructions—Precise instructions in AFMAN 37-139, specifying the date or event
for cutoff, transfer, retirement, or destruction of records.
File—An organized collection of related data, usually arranged into logical records that are
stored together and treated as a unit.
Information Management Tool (IMT)—Information Management Tool, formerly referred to
as a form. The new nomenclature reflects the expanded capability brought on by the new
technology.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Personal papers—Documentary materials belonging to an individual that are not used to
conduct agency business. Related solely to an individual’s own affairs or used exclusively for
that individual’s convenience. Must be clearly designated as such and kept separate from the
records.
Records—(See paragraph 2).
Records Custodian (RC)—Person designated within an office of record to manage the internal
record keeping program, having guardianship and control of records.
Retire—The transfer of inactive records to a base records storage area or a Federal records
center.
Scheduled—Having final disposition approved by NARA. Scheduling provides mandatory
instructions for what to do with records (and non record materials) no longer needed for current
Government business.
AFI33-322_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUPSUP_I 7 OCTOBER 2009                    15


                Attachment 1 (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP)
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP) AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
