BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2903
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                           AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                         Supplement

                                                                                      5 APRIL 2007
                                                           Incorporating Through Change 3, 1 JUNE 09
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                        DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF
                                                                     AIR FORCE PERSONNEL

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                          www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/A1ZMS                                                             Certified by: HQ AMC/A1Z
                                                                                   (Lt Col Anita L. Leach)
                                                                                                Pages: 15


AFI 36-2903, 2 August 2006, is supplemented as follows. This publication applies to AMC, AMC-
gained Air National Guard (ANG) units upon mobilization, and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units and tenant units located on AMC host installations. Failure to observe the prohibitions and
mandatory provisions of this instruction by active duty Air Force members; USAFR members on active
duty or inactive training; ANG members in Federal service, is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ). Violations of these provisions can be prosecuted under Article 92 of the
UCMJ, as well as any other applicable articles of the UCMJ, when appropriate. The OPR for this
supplement is HQ AMC/A1ZMS. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air
Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
Prescribes wear of “Personal Hydration System,” Table 1.1., wear of the Weapons School Patch,
guidance on authorized patches. Deletes basic wear guidance of the FDU/DFDU and In-flight
Passenger Service Steward (IPSS) (Flight Attendant’s) Uniform as guidance has been incorporated in
AFI 36-2903.
 2                                                        AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds wear guidance for combat boots (black/jungle boot) and shoulder board
insignia. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.

Table 1.1. Commanders’ Responsibilities.
 Installation Commanders                       May authorize the wear of organizational and
                                               functional clothing as prescribed in accordance with
                                               (IAW) Attachment 4 (Added) of this supplement
                                               and Allowance Standard (AS) 016, Special Purpose
                                               Clothing and Personal Equipment. Authorized
                                               clothing and wear requirements will be listed in the
                                               base supplement.
                                               Installation commanders may prescribe wear of
                                               Personal Hydration Systems with the BDU and FDU
                                               while on the home station. (e.g, location, time of
                                               year, etc). Authorized colors are black and
                                               woodland camouflage.
                                               Military personnel assigned full-time duties in
                                               officer and NCO club facilities, recreation centers,
                                               youth centers, bowling centers, golf courses, and
                                               recreation workshops are authorized the optional
                                               wear of civilian clothing while performing military
                                               duties. The services officer will define, in writing,
                                               the type (blazers, trousers, shirts, coveralls, etc.),
                                               style limitations, etc., of authorized civilian clothing
                                               approved by the installation commander. In all
                                               cases, a name tag with grade is worn to identify the
                                               individual and/or position. On-duty military
                                               personnel will wear the specified civilian dress or
                                               they will be in appropriate military uniform.
                                               Members must still adhere to grooming standards
                                               IAW AFI 36-2903. The name tag and clothing will
                                               be standardized by facility.
AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007                                                                          3


                                                   Military personnel assigned full-time duties in
                                                   Health and Wellness Centers (HAWC) are
                                                   authorized the optional wear of civilian clothing
                                                   while performing military duties within the HAWC.
                                                   The HAWC director/health promotion manager will
                                                   define, in writing, the type (polo shirts, shorts,
                                                   jackets, warm-up suits, hats, etc.), style limitations,
                                                   etc., of authorized civilian clothing approved by the
                                                   installation commander. In all cases, a name tag
                                                   with grade is worn to identify the individual and/or
                                                   position. On-duty military personnel will wear the
                                                   specified civilian dress or they will be in appropriate
                                                   military uniform. Members must still adhere to
                                                   grooming standards IAW AFI 36-2903. The name
                                                   tag and clothing will be standardized by facility.
                                                   Security Forces motorcycle and bicycle patrol
                                                   uniforms. Security Forces organizations requiring
                                                   wear of motorcycle or bicycle patrol uniforms for
                                                   installation operations should submit a request to
                                                   authorize specific items for wear while performing
                                                   duties through installation channels to HQ AMC/
                                                   A7S for approval.


Figure 2.6. Men's and Women’s Physical Fitness Gear (PT).




NOTE: 3. Jacket will not be worn tied around the waist during organized PT.
 4                                                     AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007


Figure 2.7. Men’s and Women’s Battle Dress Uniform (BDU).




Figure 2.8. Women’s Maternity Battle Dress Uniform (BDU).
AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007                                                                             5



NOTES:

   4. All AMC personnel will wear a subdued sewn-on AMC command patch. The patch will be
   attached to the right breast pocket, centered between left and right edges, between bottom of flap
   and bottom of pocket. Installation commanders may approve wear of one subdued sewn-on
   organizational patch (wing or squadron). Organizational patches will be between 3 and 3 1/2 inches.
   The organizational patch will be attached to the left breast pocket, centered between left and right
   edges, between bottom of flap and bottom of pocket. If the member has an awarded badge that
   would be worn on the left breast pocket (e.g., missile badge), then member has the option to wear the
   organizational patch or the awarded badge.

Figure 2.12. Men's and Women’s Headgear.

 NOTES:
 3. Officers may wear bright non-subdued metal grade insignia on BDU caps while in garrison.

Table 2.2. (AMC) Men’s Battle Dress Uniform.
  14   Hot-weather, Tropical Boots           X     The wear of green or black cloth or canvas and black
                                                   leather with plain toe with zipper, or elastic inserts is
                                                   authorized.


Table 2.4. Women's Battle Dress Uniforms.
 12 Undergarments X X           The wear of black crewneck undershirts, long-sleeved black or brown
    (Undershirt)                turtlenecks, dickies or thermal undershirts without pockets is authorized.


3.2.Aircrew Flight Dress Uniforms.
3.2.3.2.1. (Added-AMC) Ground duties consist of performing ground operations on the flightline
around aircraft. Gortex Parka will not be worn off the flightline.
3.2.5.2. Nametags. Officers and Enlisted. Color will be taken from the squadron patch and standardized
throughout the squadron. The patch will be attached with hook/pile tape shaped to the patch. (See
Figure 3.3.) Unit logo or state emblem (ANG) may be displayed on the patch. For officers, the first line
will show: appropriate unit logo/state emblem (Optional), Air Force Aeronautical and Space badge
(Mandatory), one additional badge (Commanders, Functional or Miscellaneous Badge) (Optional);
second line: first name, initials or legitimate nickname, and last name. For enlisted, the first line will
show: appropriate unit logo/state emblem (Optional), Air Force Aeronautical and Space badge
(Mandatory), one additional badge (Functional or Miscellaneous Badge) (Optional); second line:
abbreviated rank, first name, initials or legitimate nickname, and last name. Enlisted personnel have the
option to have a third line to accommodate placement of abbreviated rank.
 6                                                               AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007


Figure 3.3. (Added) Aircrew Style Name Tag.




3.2.5.4. Left Sleeve. The US Air Force Weapons School Patch (graduate or instructor) may be placed
on the left sleeve shoulder in place of the US flag upon completion of the appropriate school. (See
Figure 3.4.)

Figure 3.4. (Added) Weapons School Patch.




3.2.5.5. Right Sleeve. Approved unit emblems. Size will not exceed 3 inches in diameter. Worn on the
right sleeve shoulder and positioned no lower than 1 inch from the shoulder seam, attached with
hook/pile tape (shaped to the patch is optional). All hook/pile tape will be one color, either all black or
green. (See Figure 3.5.)

Figure 3.5. (Added) Example of Approved Unit Emblem Patch.




3.2.5.6. Add-On Patches (Optional). Only one may be worn at the top of AMC emblem by members
who have been awarded the individual flying hour milestone award or currently are performing
instructor duties.
3.2.5.6.1. (Added) Accident-Free Patch (e.g, 1,500; 2,500; 3,500; 5,000; 7,500; 10,000; 15,000; 20,000
hours) (Optional). Patch is 1 3/4 by 3/4 inches with embroidered gold numerals on a blue background
and with a gold embroidered border. Colors match the AMC emblem.
3.2.5.6.2. (Added) Instructor Patch. Description same as the accident-free patch (3.2.5.6.1.).
3.2.5.8. Neckwear. Installation commanders may authorize wear of distinctive scarves by individual
units. All scarves must be in good taste and standardized throughout the installation. Scarves will not be
worn in the aircraft or in situations where wear is impractical or inappropriate. When issued and
authorized for wear, scarves must be worn to off-base establishments.
AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007                                                                            7


3.2.5.6.3. Evaluator Patch. Description same as the accident-free patch.

Table 3.4. Distinctive Uniforms--Security Forces (SF).

 NOTES:
 6. Gate guards wear basic uniform; however, base entry controllers and MAJCOM elite guards
 are authorized to wear the following uniforms:
 a. Service Dress Uniform: Beret with SF flash, bloused boots with white laces or low quarters,
 black leather belt without MAJCOM crest.
 b. Light blue shirt: Beret with SF flash, bloused boots with white laces or low quarters, plain
 white scarf, black leather belt without MAJCOM crest.
 c. Battle Dress Uniform:         Beret with SF flash, camouflage scarf, black nylon-web belt
 without MAJCOM crest.

Table 3.6. Distinctive Uniforms--Miscellaneous.
 Authorized Individuals        Leather A-2 Flying Jacket. The AMC patch is a 3 1/2-inch standardized
                               shield configuration embroidered on black simulated leather with the
                               AMC emblem, “Air Mobility Command” blue lettering and gold border.
                               AMC-gained AFRC members will wear the AMC patch upon
                               mobilization. ANG members will wear the AMC patch.
 Chaplains                     Chaplains are authorized wear of clergy garments or appropriate civilian
                               attire while conducting chapel worship services and performing specific
                               religious ministries and may authorize appropriate alternative wear for
                               chaplain assistants while supporting chapel worship services or specific
                               religious ministries.
 AMC Passenger Service         Transportation commanders may authorize AMC passenger service
 Badges (Added)                badges (blue with white lettering) for wear by 2T2X1 personnel while
                               performing passenger service duties. Supervisory and management
                               personnel will wear a red badge with white lettering. The badge will be a
                               standard 3 1/2 by 2 1/2 inches.


Table 3.8. Distinctive Uniform - Air Force Food Service Uniform.
 4    Apron (Optional) Authorized for wear with Air Force Food Service Uniform. The bib type apron
                       will contain the embroidered official red, white and blue Air Force Services
                       Food Service logo centered and 3" above the top seam.
 12 Undergarments         Long-sleeved thermal undershirt without pockets is authorized. Members may
    (Undershirts)         also wear white thermal undershirts even if exposed at neck. Will be tucked in
                          trousers.


7.2.2. Upon the installation commanders’ approval, all AMC base supplements will be processed IAW
the guidelines contained in the basic instruction. All AMC base supplements will be sent to HQ AMC/
A1ZMS for final approval.
 8                                                          AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007


                                          Attachment 1
                         PHASEOUT DATES FOR UNIFORM ITEMS

UNIFORM ITEMS ALREADY PHASED OUT


(AMC) The wear of shoulder boards will be worn by SNCOs on the blue cardigan and pullover sweater.
AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007                                                                           9


                                        Attachment 2 (Added)
                        COMBAT CONTROL PERSONNEL UNIFORMS

A2.1. (Added) Beret. Authorized for wear with all uniform combinations, except dress uniforms,
by qualified personnel performing combat control duties.
A2.1.1. (Added) Scarlet Red Beret. Knitted wool outer shell, leather binding, scarlet red, with
distinctive USAF combat control badge. Item described in AS 016. Authorization to wear the
scarlet red beret requires satisfying the prerequisites for and performing duty as an officer or
enlisted combat controller. The scarlet red beret and distinctive USAF Combat Control badge are
awarded by the Combat Control School upon successful completion of the specialist course (1C231).
The scarlet red beret is authorized for wear by combat control personnel IAW the basic instruction
for this supplement. Officers will wear miniature rank insignia centered below the badge.
A2.2. (Added) Desert Camouflage Ensemble. Includes daytime hat, daytime coat, night parka
and liner, and daytime trousers. Item described in AS 016. May be worn during contingencies,
exercises, deployments, and tactical training requiring desert camouflage. Trousers are bloused and
sleeves may be rolled up (Notes 1 and 2).
A2.3. (Added) Snow Camouflage Ensemble. Includes helmet cover, parka, trousers, and pack
cover. Items described in AS 016. May be worn over other ensembles, when required, for maximum
cover and concealment in hostile snow environments or during tactical training (Note 2).
A2.4. (Added) Extreme Cold Weather (ECW) Ensemble. Includes down/polyester insulated
hood, mittens, jacket (parka), jacket liner, trousers, trouser liner, undershirt, and undershorts. Items
described in AS 016. May be worn when required, for maximum protection in adverse environments or
during tactical training. Not for garrison wear (Note 2).
A2.5. (Added) Jump Suit. Coveralls, cotton duck, color black or silver designed for free-fall
parachutists. Item described in AS 016. May be worn while performing military free-fall parachute
jumps. Not for garrison wear (Notes 1 and 2).
A2.6. (Added) Swimmer/Scuba Ensemble. May include swimsuit, hood, gloves/mittens, booties,
coral boots, wet suit (trousers/jacket/shorty), or dry suit (in place of wet suit) as described in AS 016.
Worn in conjunction with appropriate swimmer/scuba accessories for maximum protection in the
water environment. Not for garrison wear (Note 2).
A2.7. (Added) Wool Shirt. Shirt, cold weather, wool nylon flannel, OG 108. May be worn as an
outer or middle layer garment with other work ensembles or wool trousers consistent with
requirements for environmental protection and proper cover and concealment. May only be worn as
an outer garment in garrison with work ensembles. As outer garment, name patch is required (Note
1).
A2.8. (Added) Undershirt/T-shirt. Worn IAW the basic instruction for this supplement.
A2.9. (Added) Wool Trousers. Trousers, cold weather, wool serge, olive green. Item described in
AS 016. May be worn as an outer garment or middle layer garment with other work ensembles or
wool shirt consistent with requirements for environmental protection and proper cover and
concealment. Not for garrison wear.
A2.10. (Added) Trunks, Swimmer's/Underwater Demolition Team (UDT). Boxer shorts, trunk,
tan color, 50 percent cotton/50 percent polyester. Item described in AS 016. Worn in combination
10                                                             AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007


with brown or black T-shirt, running shoes with solid white socks or boots with black socks while
performing physical training, parachuting, boat/swimming/scuba, and while in transit to and from, or
in preparing for these activities. Speedo swim suit, navy blue or black, or athletic supporter (optional)
will be worn under swimmer's trunks. Authorized headgear is organizational baseball cap. Wear will
be consistent with environmental requirements. Not for garrison wear outside duty section (Note 3).
A2.11. (Added) Physical Training (PT) Ensemble. Items described in AS 041, EAID-Special
Allowance. May be worn while participating in PT, scuba, or parachuting and during transit to/from
these activities. Running shoes are authorized only for PT. Not for garrison wear outside duty section.
A2.12. (Added) Jungle Boots. Boots, hot weather tropical, black leather and nylon. Items described
in AS 016. Worn, as appropriate, for climatic and geographic conditions with ensembles, flight
clothing, and UDT shorts. Authorized for garrison wear (Note 2).
A2.13. (Added) Mountain Boots. Safety boots designed for mountain operations, subdued color,
LP item. Worn, as appropriate, for climatic/geographic conditions with ensembles suited for same
conditions. Not for garrison wear.
A2.14. (Added) Field Boots. Safety boots designed for field operations, i.e., Herman Survivors,
Chippewas, or Danners, subdued color, LP item. Worn, as appropriate, for climatic/geographic
conditions with ensembles suited for same conditions. Authorized for garrison wear.
A2.15. (Added) Parachutist's Boots. Boots, parachutist, men's 9 inch, (soft) rubber heel and
sole, leather upper, elastic front lacing, hinged, foam-cushioned, sole air pockets, color black. Item
described in AS 016. May be worn while performing land parachute jumps. Not for garrison wear.
A2.16. (Added) Jump Boots. Boots, men's 10 inch, hard rubber heel and sole, leather upper, front
lacing, plain or cap toe, color black. LP item. May be worn, as appropriate, for climatic and geographic
conditions with ensembles suited for same conditions. Authorized for garrison wear.
A2.17. (Added) Specialized Clothing. Safety clothing designed for specific training and
operations. Table A2.1. (Added), items "a" through "c" are LP items. Items "d" through "h" are
described in AS 016. May be worn, as appropriate, for type training/operations and
climatic/geographic conditions.

Table A2.1. (Added) Specialized Clothing.
a. Climbing knickers.
b. Gaiters.
c. Storm gear.
d. Gloves.
e. Mittens.
f. Watch cap.
g. Pile cap.
h. Helmet and liner.
AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007                                                                      11



NOTES:
  1. The Aircrew-Style Name Patch (ASNP) will be worn with the wool shirt and may be worn
     with the jump suit.
   2. Personnel are authorized to wear ensembles during mission preparation, alert duties, and
      when performing pararescue airborne and surface tasks. During flight, sleeves will be rolled
      down. When employment is probable during operational flights or planned during
      operational/training flights, pararescue personnel are authorized to wear the BDU, snow
      camouflage, ECW, tree suit, jump suit, or swimmer/scuba ensembles. NOMEX flight
      clothing will be worn when flying cross-country flights as an aircrew member, when
      employment is not probable, or whenever practical to afford maximum survivability should an
      accident occur. Jungle boots are authorized for wear during flying activities.
   3. A standard subdued name tape (last name) will be worn centered on the right leg of the
      swimmer's trunks, 1/2 inch from the bottom edge. The desert camouflage hat may be worn
      when maximum sun protection is required. Airmen will not wear grade insignia on headgear.
      Officer grade insignia will be regular size subdued metal, centered vertically above the bill of
      the cap.
12                                                                   AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007


                                           Attachment 3 (Added)
                       COMBAT CONTROLSELECTION TEAM UNIFORMS

A3.1. (Added) Baseball Cap. Cap, polyester and mesh, adjustable-one size fits all, medium crown,
large visor, color black. LP item. Worn with all athletic combinations listed in this attachment.
Authorized for wear as part of a work uniform (Note 2).
A3.2. (Added) The following items may be worn as part of a work uniform for garrison duties (Notes
1 and 2).
A3.2.1. (Added) Coach's Shirt. Men's combination cotton polyester poplin, quarter length sleeves,
white or black. LP item.
A3.2.2. (Added) Coach's Pants. Men's athletic warm-up type, elastic waist with button closure and
zipper fly, material optional, color black. LP item.
A3.2.3. (Added) Coach's Shorts. Men's athletic warm-up type, elastic waist with button closure and
zipper fly, material optional, color black. LP item.
A3.2.4. (Added) Coach's Jacket. Men's athletic warm-up type, single-breasted; type of neck,
material and method of closure optional, color silver. LP item.
A3.2.5. (Added) Athletic Shoes. Men's athletic type, standard lacing; soles style and color optional.
LP item.
A3.2.6. (Added) Socks. Socks, athletic type, material optional, color white. LP item.
A3.3. (Added) T-shirt. T-shirt, cotton/polyester gray, with combat control team logo on left side of
chest and with the word "instructor" printed across the back over the shoulder blades. LP item (Note
2). May be worn in combination with running shorts while conducting and/or performing physical
fitness evaluations or physical training and while transiting to and from these activities. Not for
garrison wear.
A3.4. (Added) Running Shorts. Shorts, running, nylon, with small or combat control logo on left
leg, color black--logo white. LP item (Note 2). May be worn in combination with T-shirt while
conducting and/or performing physical fitness evaluations or physical training and while transiting to
and from these activities. Not for garrison wear.
A3.5. (Added) Sweat Suit Ensemble. Includes sweat suit and pants, cotton/polyester, color black,
with rank and name stenciled on front and "instructor" stenciled on back. Stenciling in white (Note 2).
May be worn while conducting and/or performing physical fitness evaluations or physical training and
while transiting to and from these activities.

NOTES:
     1. Uniforms in this attachment are authorized for wear by combat control instructors. Combination of wear
         will be as directed by the OL commander, consistent with requirements for season/climatic
         conditions.
     2. Markings for the baseball cap, coach's shirt, and jacket will be accomplished as outlined in the note.
        The coach's shirt will be marked with instructor's name over right breast and "Combat Control
        Instructor," on the left breast in script stitching. The coach's jacket will have "Combat Control" on the
        back. The baseball cap will have a combat control logo in white centered on the front. All lettering will
        be 1 inch in size except for the jacket and T-shirt, which will be 4 inches. Embroidery and stencils
        will be white on black or black on white.
AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007                                                                       13


                                       Attachment 4 (Added)
        FUNCTIONAL CLOTHING, COMMONLYUSED, AND SPECIALTY ITEMS

A4.1. (Added) Belt, Blue with Silver Tip Buckle. General officer's belt buckle (general officers
only). Worn with functional clothing only.
A4.2. (Added) Boots, Cold Weather (Mukluk, Bunny, and Industrial Cold Weather Safety
Boots). Worn as authorized by AS 016 and prescribed by the installation commander. May be worn
with all uniform combinations when an appropriate outer garment is worn, as authorized by the
installation commander. Worn with battle dress, service, and functional uniforms.
A4.3. (Added) Boots, 10-inch Safety. Worn as authorized by AS 016 and prescribed by the
installation commander. Worn with battle dress and functional uniforms.
A4.4. (Added) Brassards (Arm Bands). Positioned on the left arm, halfway between the elbow
and shoulder, as authorized by the installation commander when performing a duty requiring
identification. Worn with battle dress, service, and functional uniforms.
A4.5. (Added) Cap, Maintenance (Bump Hat). Worn in work area only when required in the
performance of duty. In no instance will it be worn in public areas on base unless duty is being
performed in that area. Worn with battle dress, service, and functional uniforms.
A4.6. (Added) Cap, Stocking (US Navy Watch Cap). Worn when authorized by the installation
commander. Worn with battle dress, functional, and aircrew flight uniforms.
A4.7. (Added) Cap, Winter, Olive Green. Worn as authorized by AS 016 and prescribed by the
installation commander. Officer grade insignia is not required if other grade insignia is visible.
When worn, officers will wear regular size metal grade insignia centered on the front. Worn with battle
dress and functional uniforms.
A4.8. (Added) Coveralls (White, Olive Green, and Tan). Worn as authorized by AS 016 and
prescribed by the installation commander. Wear of name/USAF tapes, badges, grade insignia,
and unit emblems will be prescribed by installation commander IAW this supplement and the basic
instruction. Worn in the work area only. Worn with battle dress and functional uniforms.
A4.9. (Added) Desert BDUs. Worn as functional clothing only, IAW with Chapter 3 of the basic
instruction for this supplement. Accouterments will be placed on the uniform in the same manner as
the BDU as prescribed in this supplement and the basic instruction.
A4.10. (Added) Ear Protectors. Authorized with all functional
uniforms.
A4.11. (Added) Flight Suit and Jacket (Blue, General Officer). Accouterments may be
positioned according to personal preferences. Jacket may be worn with all service uniforms except
service dress.
A4.12. (Added) Gloves, Safety and Occupational. Worn as authorized by AS 016 and prescribed
by the installation commander. Worn with battle dress and functional uniforms.
A4.13. (Added) Mittens, Cold Weather. Worn when authorized by AS 016 and prescribed by the
installation commander. Worn with battle dress and functional uniforms.
A4.14. (Added) Occupational Protective Clothing or Equipment. Worn when authorized by
installation commander. Worn with battle dress, service, and functional uniforms.
14                                                          AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007



A4.15. (Added) Overshoes (Female), Ankle-High, Gray or Black. Worn with BDU and
functional clothing when authorized by installation commander. Gray overshoes may be worn with
service uniform only when required by inclement weather conditions.
A4.16. (Added) Overshoes (Men), High Black Rubber. Authorized with all functional
uniforms (except the aircrew flight uniform) unless prohibited by safety directive.
A4.17. (Added) Overshoes (Male/Female), Synthetic, Black, Clear, or Smoke Plastic. Worn with
appropriate outer garment. Trousers may be tucked in when weather conditions warrant. Worn with
battle dress, service, and functional uniforms.
A4.18. (Added) Parkas (Extremely cold weather garments, except the Gortex Parka). May be
worn if issued through local organizational channels and authorized by installation commander.
These items will be worn IAW Chapter 3, paragraphs 3.1 and 3.1.2 of the basic instruction and AS
016. Grade insignia, USAF and name tapes, ASNP, badges, and emblems will not be worn. May be
issued upon request and with physician's confirmation to pregnant women during inclement weather.
Worn with battle dress, service, and functional uniforms. Not authorized for wear with the aircrew
flight uniform during flight.
A4.19. (Added) Patch, Emergency Medical Technician. Certified by the National Registry of
Emergency Medical Technicians. May be worn 1/2 inch above the name tag with hospital whites
only.
A4.20. (Added) Reflective Vests, Jackets, Belts, and Arm Bands. Must be worn when prescribed
by safety directives or installation commander. Worn during periods of reduced visibility at the
discretion of the individual, unless otherwise prohibited. Worn with battle dress, service, and
functional uniforms.
A4.21. (Added) Scarf, Bib-Type, Camouflaged. Worn with the BDU when issued through local
organizational channels.
A4.22. (Added) Shoe, Electric Hazard, Low-Quarter, Black. Worn as authorized by AS 016
and required in the performance of duty. Worn with battle dress, service, and functional uniforms.
A4.23. (Added) Shoes, Low-Quarter, Combat, or Oxfords. Authorized unless safety or
occupational footwear is prescribed. Same specification as prescribed for service uniform. Worn
with functional uniforms only. Not authorized for wear with the aircrew flight suit uniform during
flight.
A4.24. (Added) Sweatband. Elastic cotton stretch material, solid gray, black, or olive green
without design. May be worn by flightline members when wear of authorized headgear is deemed
inappropriate and is approved by installation commander. Worn with BDUs and on the flightline only.
A4.25. (Added) Sweater, Olive Green. Worn in individual's duty section only. Will not be worn as
an outer garment in public areas on base unless duty is being performed in that area. May be worn
under an outer garment if not visible. Worn with battle dress and functional uniforms.
A4.26. (Added) Tape, Reflectorized. Worn on functional clothing only as required by safety
directives and prescribed by the installation commander.
A4.27. (Added) Trousers, Cold Weather. Worn as an outer garment as authorized by AS 016 and
prescribed by the installation commander. Must be worn with parka. Worn with battle dress and
functional uniforms.
AFI36-2903_AMCSUP 5 APRIL 2007                                                                          15


A4.28. (Added) Turtleneck, Long Sleeves. NomexTM, brown or black, may be worn with aircrew
flight uniforms and other functional uniforms.

A4.29. (Added) Underwear, NomexTM. Worn with aircrew flight uniform and functional
clothing only.
A4.30. (Added) Underwear, Thermal, Natural Colored (Undershorts and Undershirt). Worn a s
weather conditions warrant. Worn with battle dress, service, functional, and aircrew flight uniforms.


                                                   GREGG A. CLARK, YC03
                                                   Deputy Director, Manpower, Personnel,
                                                   and Services Air Mobility Command
