BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-129
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          3 FEBRUARY 2005
                                                           Incorporating Through Change 3, 12
                                                                           SEPTEMBER 2009
                                                      919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                             28 AUGUST 2013

                                                             Communications and Information

                                               WEB MANAGEMENT AND INTERNET USE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/XCIOT                                                         Certified by: SAF/XCIO
                                                                        (Col Robert Kaufman)
                                                                                      Pages: 49
Supersedes:AFI33-129, 12 August 2004
                                    (919SOW)
OPR: 919 CS/SCOK                                        Certified by: 919 MSG/CC (Col Sewell)
                                                                                      Pages:3




This Air Force instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1,
Information Resource Management; AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program; and AFI
35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures. This instruction provides policy and procedural
guidance with respect to establishing, operating, and maintaining Web sites in the Air Force. It
covers using public Internet Service Providers (ISP) and Web technology such as Web servers,
Web browsers, and file transfer protocol (FTP) software purchased and licensed by the United
States Air Force (USAF), or privately licensed software used with proper approval on USAF-
owned systems. This includes servers maintained by base communications personnel as well as
servers maintained on small computers distributed throughout the Air Force. It defines the roles
and responsibilities of all personnel who access, employ, and administer Web services. It
outlines responsibilities and procedures for accessing information and properly establishing,
reviewing, posting, and maintaining government information, pages, and sites on the Web. This
 2                                                                   AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


instruction applies to all Air Force military, civilian, and contractor personnel, including Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), and other users of the Air
Force enterprise network. Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of
this instruction as stated in paragraph 2.2 by military personnel is a violation of the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or
Regulation. Violations by ANG military personnel may subject members to prosecution
under their respective State Military Code or result in administrative disciplinary action
without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
laws. Violations by civilian employees may result in administrative disciplinary action
without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
laws. Violations by contactor personnel will be handled according to local laws and the terms of
the contract. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this instruction
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Send all recommendations for changes or comments to
SAF/XCIOT, 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1800, through appropriate
channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, with a courtesy copy
to the Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC/EASD), 203 W. Losey St, Room 1100,
Scott AFB IL 62225-5222. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change incorporates interim change (IC) 3. This IC adds roles and responsibilities for the
Air Force Portal to chapter 3 and adds portal terms to the glossary. This IC also defines the Air
Force standard for collaboration tools.


       1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    3
       2.      Use of 1nternet Resources by Government Employees. ........................................                                    3
       3.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               4
       4.      Access to the 1nternet. ...........................................................................................           14
       5.      Web Page/Site Architecture. ..................................................................................                15
Table 1.       Security for Information Placed on Web Sites. ......................................................                          17
Table 2.       Vulnerability of Information Placed on the Internet/WWW. ................................                                     18
       6.      Page Layout and Maintenance. ..............................................................................                   18
       7.      Warning Notices and Banners. ..............................................................................                   22
Table 3.       1nformation Collected from (Defense Link) for Statistical Purposes. ...................                                       24
       8.      Clearing and Releasing 1nformation Placed on Public/Private Web Sites or Other
               Bulletin Boards. .....................................................................................................        25
       9.      Data Collection and Privacy Policies. ....................................................................                    28
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                                                         3


       10.     Single Source Information. ....................................................................................               29
       11.     Approval to Operate a Server on the Internet. .......................................................                         29
       12.     Systems Security Considerations. ..........................................................................                   29
       13.     Information Collections, Records, Forms and Information Management Tools
               (IMT). ....................................................................................................................   32

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               33

Attachment 2—SAMPLE FORMAT FOR INTERNET RELEASE PACKAGE (IRP) AND
             SAMPLE FORMAT FOR PRIVATE WEB PAGE
             COORDINATION/APPROVAL CHECKLIST                                                                                                 43

Attachment 3—SAMPLE FORMAT FOR PUBLIC WEB PAGE
             COORDINATION/APPROVAL CHECKLIST                                                                                                 45

Attachment 4—SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER UNIT/ORGANIZATIONAL
             LETTERHEAD                                                                                                                      47

Attachment 5—INTERNET RELEASE PROCESS FLOW CHART                                                                                             48

Attachment 6—PUBLIC/PRIVATE PAGE REVIEW PROCESS FLOWCHART                                                                                    49


1. Purpose. Use of the World Wide Web (WWW) or Web technologies continues to increase as
a technique for obtaining and disseminating information worldwide. The Web/Internet provide
the capability to quickly and efficiently disseminate information to and access information from
a variety of governmental and nongovernmental sources. The Air Force maintains/supports two
types of Web pages/sites. The first is Air Force Public Web Pages/Sites that are intended for
viewing by the general public via the Internet, and the information on these pages must be of
interest to the general public. The second is Air Force Private Web Pages/Sites, they are intended
for a limited audience, specifically .mil and .gov users. Information on private Web pages/sites
must consider the access and security controls.
2. Use of 1nternet Resources by Government Employees. The Internet provides an
indispensable source for information from a variety of governmental and nongovernmental
sources. The Air Force goal, within acceptable risk levels, is to provide personnel requiring
access for official business maximum accessibility to Internet resources.
   2.1. Appropriate Use. Government-provided hardware and software are for official use and
   authorized purposes only. Appropriate officials may authorize personal uses consistent with
   the requirements of DOD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), after consulting with
   their ethics counselor. Such policies should be explicit, as unofficial uses that exceed the
   authorized purposes may result in adverse administrative or disciplinary action.
   2.2. Inappropriate Use. Using the Internet for other than official or authorized purposes may
   result in adverse administrative or disciplinary action. The activities listed in paragraphs
   2.2.1 through 2.2.14 involving the use of government-provided computer hardware or
   software are specifically prohibited.
 4                                               AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


        2.2.1. Use of Federal government communications systems for unauthorized personal
        use.
        2.2.2. Uses that would adversely reflect on the Department of Defense (DOD) or the Air
        Force such as chain letters, unofficial soliciting, or selling except on authorized bulletin
        boards established for such use.
        2.2.3. Unauthorized storing, processing, displaying, sending, or otherwise transmitting
        offensive or obscene language or material. Offensive material includes, but is not limited
        to, “hate literature” such as racist literature, materials or symbols; sexually harassing
        materials, pornography and other sexually explicit materials.
        2.2.4. Storing or processing classified information on any system not approved for
        classified processing.
        2.2.5. Using copyrighted material in violation of the rights of the owner of the
        copyrights. Consult with the servicing Staff Judge Advocate for “fair use” advice.
        2.2.6. Participating in non-DOD or nongovernment “chat lines,” “chat groups,” or open
        forum discussion to or through a public site, unless it is for official purposes and
        approved through the Global Information Grid (GIG) Waiver Board.
        2.2.7. Unauthorized use of the account or identity of another person or organization.
        2.2.8. Viewing, changing, damaging, deleting, or blocking access to another user’s files
        or communications without appropriate authorization or permission.
        2.2.9. Attempting to circumvent or defeat security or modifying security systems without
        prior authorization or permission (such as for legitimate system testing or security
        research).
        2.2.10. Obtaining, installing, copying, storing, or using software in violation of the
        appropriate vendor’s license agreement.
        2.2.11. Permitting an unauthorized individual access to a government-owned or
        government-operated system.
        2.2.12. Modifying or altering the network operating system or system configuration
        without first obtaining written permission from the administrator of that system.
        2.2.13. Copying and posting official information to unauthorized Web sites.
        2.2.14. Downloading and installing freeware/shareware or any other software product
        without Designated Approving Authority (DAA) approval.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). Deputy Assistant
     Secretary of the Air Force (Contracting) (SAF/AQC) develops, in coordination with
     Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA), policy and guidance governing
     the review and release of contracting-related information made available on public Web sites
     in the conduct of electronic commerce (e.g., Requests for Proposals, Federal Business
     Opportunities notices, etc.).
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                          5


  3.2. The Chief, Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/XC), through
  his Infrastructure Delivery Directorate (SAF/XCI), and in conjunction with the Air Force
  Network Integration Center (AFNIC) as the lead command for the Global Combat Support
  System-Air Force (GCSS-AF) and the Air Force Public Affairs Agency (AFPAA) as the lead
  for public web content, will:
     3.2.1. Develop information management policy and guidance governing the Web and the
     Air Force Portal.
     3.2.2. Develop and promulgate policy relating to the management and use of Web and
     Internet resources and the Air Force Portal.
     3.2.3. Develop and ensure the establishment of a common infrastructure upon which all
     Air Force Web and Air Force Portal sites, pages, content, etc., is installed and
     maintained.
     3.2.4. Develop and promulgate policy to ensure that developed Web resources and the
     Air Force Portal maximize the use of common enterprise tools and promote sharing of
     data, information, and knowledge throughout the Air Force corporate structure.
     3.2.5. Ensure that an annual multidisciplinary review is conducted of all public Web sites
     to comply with current guidance.
     3.2.6. Develop implementation guidance on the operation, maintenance, and security of
     the systems that facilitate use of the Air Force Portal, including guidance on persons with
     disabilities with regard to use and access to the portal.
     3.2.7. Develop and maintain training standards relevant to portal page development and
     content management for 3A0XX personnel.
  3.3. Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA). SAF/PA will:
     3.3.1. Develop policy and guidance governing the public communication program and
     the security and policy review program.
     3.3.2. Develop policy and guidance for the integration of public Web sites into Air Force
     public communication plans and programs.
     3.3.3. Develop a public Web site review process for posting information on public Web
     sites.
     3.3.4. Ensure all Air Force public Web sites are registered on Air Force Link.
     3.3.5. Serve as public Web site point of contact (POC) for routine reports submitted by
     Web Risk Assessment Cells, which are responsible for vulnerability analysis and threat
     assessments of Air Force Web site content.
     3.3.6. Chair the Annual Multidisciplinary Review Board. lnitiate annual
     multidisciplinary reviews of all public Web sites, and send results to AF-ClO. Complete
     these reviews during lnformation Assurance Awareness Month. Site reviews identify
     information considered sensitive from the operational, public affairs, acquisition,
     technology, privacy, legal, and security perspectives; ensure compliance with DOD Web
     Privacy policies; and assure Air Force Link and Government Information Locator Service
     (GILS) registrations are consistent. Coordinate these reviews across organizational
6                                                AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


       boundaries as necessary (both vertically and horizontally), to ensure critical information
       is consistently controlled and up-to-date. Where ANG units are involved, coordination
       must include the respective State Adjutant General.
       3.3.7. Develop policy and guidance for the integration of the Air Force Portal into the
       Air Force strategic communications plan and program.
    3.4. Headquarters United States Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for Air & Space
    Operations (HQ USAF/XO). The Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance,
    Deputy for Information Warfare (HQ USAF/XOIW) will:
       3.4.1. Develop policy and guidance on the review of operationally sensitive information
       on Air Force Web sites, including the Air Force portal.
       3.4.2. Serve as POC for routine reports submitted by Web Risk Assessment Cells, which
       are responsible for vulnerability analysis and threat assessments of Air Force public and
       private Web site content.
    3.5. Secretary of the Air Force, Warfighter System Integration and Deployment Directorate
    (SAF/XCD) will:
       3.5.1. Develop implementation guidance on the operation, maintenance, and security of
       the systems that facilitate the use of the Web, including guidance on persons with
       disabilities with regard to use and access to the Web.
       3.5.2. Initiate an annual review for the configuration/architecture of hardware and
       software used in the operation and security of Air Force Web sites.
       3.5.3. Develop and maintain training standards for personnel involved in Web page
       development.
       3.5.4. Participate in the annual multidisciplinary reviews of all Air Force public Web
       sites (see paragraph 3.3.6).
       3.5.5. Initiate the first review and approve all Air Force Non-Secure Internet Protocol
       Router Network (NIPRNET) waiver requests for submittal to the Defense Information
       Systems Network (DISN) Security Accreditation Working Group (DSAWG) and the GIG
       Waiver Board.
    3.6. Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (HQ AETC) and the United States
    Air Force Academy (USAFA). As Air Force educational institutions, HQ AETC and USAFA
    will comply with Department of Defense Directive (DODD) 5230.9, Clearance of DOD
    Information for Public Release, April 9, 1996; and AFI 35-101. While ensuring students and
    faculty are provided the necessary latitude to conduct research or scientific collaborations, it
    is prohibited to connect .edu domain Web servers or related educational network traffic to the
    .mil (NIPRNET) architecture (i.e., dual home to the .edu domain to the .mil domain) unless
    physical or logical mitigations are approved and put in place.
    3.7. Major Commands (MAJCOM)/Field Operating Agencies (FOA)/Direct Reporting Units
    (DRU). MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs will ensure their respective headquarters organization and
    subordinate units comply with this instruction. They will:
       3.7.1. Establish policy and procedures for content and appearance of public Web sites
       according to AFI 35-101.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                          7


     3.7.2. Establish procedures for creation, maintenance, and review of command-wide
     private Web sites, including the Air Force Portal.
     3.7.3. Ensure Operations Security (OPSEC) programs are effectively adhered to in
     accordance with AFI 10-1101, Operations Security.
     3.7.4. Establish and maintain public Web sites outside the firewall and private Web sites
     inside the firewall. A waiver may be submitted for special consideration of unique
     circumstances impacting an organization’s ability to meet this requirement. Please
     contact SAF/XCDIG, 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1800, for further
     details.
        3.7.4.1. To maintain the security, integrity, and accountability of Air Force
        information on the Web, all public web sites will migrate to AFNEWS and all private
        Air Force Web sites will migrate to the Air Force portal. Any Air Force Web site
        hosted on a commercial server (outside the .mil community) requires SAF/XC,
        approval.
        3.7.4.2. Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corp detachments and Air National
        Guard units may post their Web sites on their host institution/state-operated Web
        servers. Web sites must comply with the content related provisions of this instruction.
     3.7.5. Control content on public sites through the Public Affairs (PA) office.
     3.7.6. Ensure the PA offices register their respective public Web sites on Air Force Link.
     3.7.7. Provide an index of their subordinate organizations’ public home pages through
     Air Force Link.
     3.7.8. Ensure wing/base PA offices review all public Web sites prior to their launch.
     ANG units will coordinate with their unit Public Affairs Officer (PAO) prior to their
     launch. ANG geographically separated units use their host wing for PAO support.
     3.7.9. Collect and review Annual Multidisciplinary Review Board results for all public
     Web sites and forward to SAF/PA or their designated representative. [Report control
     symbol (RCS) SAF-PAS(A) 0203]
        3.7.9.1. Establish a follow-up system to ensure corrective actions are implemented.
     3.7.10. Accept responsibility for and perform applicable duties from paragraphs 3.8 and
     3.9 when wing-level commanders or PA offices do not fulfill those duties.
     3.7.11. Establish procedures for creating, maintaining, and reviewing the command’s Air
     Force Portal pages, including appointing a MAJCOM/FOA/DRU lead Content Manager.
     The lead Content Manager should be a knowledge operations manager (AFSC 3A0XX or
     civilian equivalent) to the maximum extent possible.
        3.7.11.1. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU lead Content Managers are responsible for
        Command content management policy and oversight. Lead content managers will
        establish a content review process for their organization that ensures OPSEC, Privacy
        Act/FOIA, Contracting, Legal, and Foreign Disclosure requirements are met before
        portal content is posted. They are responsible for developing and providing training
        to subordinate-level Content Managers within their organization. They grant
        permissions to subordinate-level Content Managers to publish content on the Air
8                                              AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


          Force Portal. The lead Content Manager interfaces with lead Content Managers from
          other organizations as well as SAF/XC and AFNIC on Air Force Portal content
          management policy, training, and migration issues. The lead Content Manager will
          maintain a roster of their subordinate-level Content Managers.
    3.8. 13 Appoint a wing or base-level or equivalent Content Manager to oversee all
    organizational pages on the Air Force Portal. The wing or base-level Content Manager
    should be a knowledge operations manager (AFSC 3A0XX or civilian equivalent) to the
    maximum extent possible.
       3.8.1. Maintain responsibility for the content and security of the information posted on
       their public and private Web pages/sites, including the Air Force Portal.
       3.8.1. (919SOW) All users of the portal are to immediately report to the Content
       Manager (CM) for that particular Portal page any seen or known information that violates
       AF Security policies, AF Operation Security (OPSEC), For Official Use Only (FOUO)
       and AF Privacy Act (PA) policies posted on the Portal Page.
       3.8.2. Publish local policy and guidance defining authorized personal use of the Internet.
       3.8.2. (919SOW) All Portal and Information System Users are required to review and
       comply with the guidance of AF Manual (AFM) 33-152, User Responsibilities and
       Guidance for Information Systems.
       3.8.3. Ensure review and approval of information (in accordance with SAF/PAAQ
       guidance) made available on their respective public Web sites for the conduct of
       electronic commerce. Ensure local clearance and approval procedures for posting
       information to the Internet/public Web sites comply with AFI 35-101.
       3.8.3. (919SOW) The Wing Public Affairs (PA) office is the point of contact for
       “Public” Portal sites and for paragraphs, 3.8.4, 3.8.5, and 3.8.6.
       3.8.4. Ensure Wing PA office reviews all their respective public Web pages/sites prior to
       their launch.
       3.8.5. Ensure a process (consistent with this instruction) is in place to establish and
       maintain Internet Release Packages (IRP) for their organization’s private Web sites.
       3.8.6. Ensure that installation PA offices annually conduct multidisciplinary reviews of
       all public Web sites.
       3.8.7. Ensure For Official Use Only (FOUO) information is properly protected and not
       posted on public Web sites.
       3.8.8. Ensure public Web sites comply with privacy policies regarding restrictions on
       persistent and third party cookies, and add appropriate privacy and security notices at
       major Web site entry points and Privacy Act statements or Privacy Advisories when
       collecting information. (See paragraph 9. for additional guidance on cookies.)
       3.8.9. Ensure installation public Web sites have the required Freedom of Information Act
       (FOIA) page according to DOD 5400.7-R/Air Force Supplement 1 (AFSUP1), DOD
       Freedom of Information Act Program.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                             9


     3.8.10. Ensure the Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO) or Defense
     Media Activity (DMA) liaison inactivates Web Sites, including the Air Force Portal, with
     inappropriate or sensitive postings until the issue is resolved.
         3.8.10.1. Inappropriate Information—the inclusion of FOUO information on an
         official Web site that is accessible to the general public. Examples include, but are not
         limited to, unit recall rosters, detailed budget reports, scheduled military operations,
         etc.
         3.8.10.2. Sensitive Information—the disclosure of information that would cause
         foreseeable harm to an interest protected by one or more of the exemptions to the
         FOIA, or the release of which would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal
         privacy. Examples include unclassified information about classified programs, dates
         of birth, Social Security Numbers (SSN), etc.
     3.8.11. Ensure corrective actions are implemented for posting inappropriate information
     to public Web sites or the Air Force Portal, failure to comply with privacy policy, and
     other Web site and server violations.
     3.8.12. Ensure the Notice and Consent banner is placed on each Web page. Providing a
     statement such as “Please read this privacy and security notice” linked to the actual notice
     is satisfactory.
     3.8.13. Appoint a wing or base-level or equivalent Content Manager to oversee all
     organizational pages on the Air Force Portal. The wing or base-level Content Manager
     should be a knowledge operations manager (AFSC 3A0XX or civilian equivalent) to the
     maximum extent possible.
     3.8.13. (919SOW) The Wing Content               Managers     are   located   in   the   919th
     Communications Squadron (919 CS).
     3.8.14. Publish local policy guidance for Air Force Portal content management and
     publishing.
  3.9. Wing-level or equivalent PA offices will:
     3.9.1. Establish and chair Annual Multidisciplinary Review Boards which will consist of
     representatives from communications and information, Privacy Act, legal, contracting,
     operations security (OPSEC), and other representatives necessary to address questions
     concerning the sensitivity of information on installation public Web sites. The boards
     will:
         3.9.1.1. Perform reviews that check public Web sites to ensure sensitive information
         from the operational, public affairs, acquisition, technology, privacy, legal, or security
         perspective is not present.
         3.9.1.2. Ensure public Web sites comply with privacy policies regarding restrictions
         on persistent and third party cookies, and add appropriate privacy and security notices
         at major Website entry points and Privacy Act statements or Privacy Advisories when
         collecting personal information.
         3.9.1.3. Ensure that all public Web sites/pages comply with current laws and policies.
         (See paragraph 9. for additional guidance on cookies).
10                                           AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


        3.9.1.4. Use AF IMT 2519, All Purpose Checklist, and criteria listed at Attachment
        3 to complete public Web site evaluations. You may download AF IMT 2519 from
        the Air Force Publishing Web site at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
        3.9.1.5. Register public Web sites with Air Force Link.
  3.10. Unit Commanders. Commanders are responsible for the content of the information
  posted on their public and private Web pages/sites. They will:
     3.10.1. Ensure assigned personnel use government equipment for official or authorized
     use only.
     3.10.2. Submit Web services requirements (via AF IMT 3215, 1T/NSS Requirements
     Document) to the CSO for approval and processing according to AFI 33-103,
     Requirements Development and Processing.
     3.10.3. Obtain all Internet connectivity through the supporting base/installation CSO.
     3.10.4. Ensure their Web Server Administrators, Web Masters, Web Page Maintainers
     and Information Providers receive training on topics that include, but are not limited to,
     OPSEC, Privacy Act, FOUO, and computer-based training on Web Administration at
     https://usaf.smartforce.com/.
     3.10.4. (919SOW) This training is applicable to Portal CMs.
     3.10.5. Initiate and sign/approve appointment letters for their Web                Server
     Administrators, Web Masters, and Web Page Maintainers (see Attachment 4).
        3.10.5.1. Web Server Administrators will maintain appointment letters for their
        respective Web Masters and Web Page Maintainers.
        3.10.5.2. Web Server Administrators’ appointment letters will be maintained by the
        CSO.
     3.10.6. Ensure their Air Force Portal Content Managers and Content Publishers receive
     training on portal publishing and ensure this training is documented.
     3.10.6. (919SOW) Portal CMs may receive hands on training at Eglin, Hurlburt,
     Temporary Duty (TDY) locations or make an appointment with a locally trained and
     knowledgeable CM. Content Managers must understand the Portal policy, the use of
     permissions and the Publishing Environment prior to being granted CM Permissions.
     3.10.7. Appoint their Air Force Portal Content Managers and Content Publishers in
     writing; a signed email from the unit commander to an individual constitutes an
     appointment letter. Unit Content Managers and Content Publishers should be a
     knowledge operations manager (AFSC3A0XX or civilian equivalent) to the maximum
     extent possible. The wing or base-level Content Manager will maintain the appointment
     letters for their organization.
     3.10.7. (919SOW) Each Group and Unit Commander (CC) must appoint in writing a
     CM for their respective and restricted https: Portal Page under the 919 SOW
     Organizational Structure. The CM Appointment Template Letter (in lieu of attachment
     4) is available on the 919 CS Portal page under the Knowledge Operations Management
     (KOM)        Proficiency    Training:        Link         https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                          11


     af/USAF/ep/browse.do?programId=tA4057E1F3267DBAF01326D53A5070160.
     Forward an electronic copy of the signed appointment letter to the 919 CS/SC Work Flow
     organization email folder. Include an electronic copy of the appointees’ transcript of
     completed training items listed in paragraph 3.10.4. from the Advanced Distributed
     Learning Service (ADLS) and AF e-Learning. Use the following naming conventions
     for    the    subject   matter.                 (unit)_ContentPortal_AptLtr_MonthYY,
     (LastName)PortalADLS_Trng_MonthYY. Each Appointed CM is responsible for
     reading AFI 33-129 and AFMAN 33-152.
  3.11. Base/Installation CSO. The CSO will:
     3.11.1. Efficiently manage base/installation Internet facilities to ensure procuring, using,
     and maintaining only authorized equipment and software necessary to perform official
     government business.
     3.11.2. Ensure that all Web servers have a current and approved Certification and
     Accreditation before they are connected to the network (AFI 33-202, Network and
     Computer Security).
     3.11.3. Coordinate with the Base Network Control Center (NCC) or MAJCOM Network
     Operations Security Center (NOSC) to perform security scans for all Web servers.
     Security scan will include the operating system and the Web applications running or
     installed on the Web servers. Report vulnerabilities to the associated Web Server
     Administrator for resolution.
     3.11.4. Coordinate with the Base NCC or MAJCOM NOSC to deny access to any Web
     site/page/server that is or has the potential of being an operational or computer security
     risk or contains inappropriate or sensitive material. Web site/page access will be
     reinstated when issue is resolved. Coordinate with the appropriate Content Manager to
     remove any Air Force Portal content that is, or has the potential of being, an operational
     or computer security risk or contains inappropriate or sensitive material. The content
     may be restored when the issue is resolved.
  3.12. Web Server Administrator is the POC for all matters relating to a Web server’s
  physical access/login/accounts, maintenance, administration and is responsible for:
     3.12.1. Maintaining security and access control features.
     3.12.2. Maintaining configuration management of the Web server.
     3.12.3. Granting and monitoring Web Master and Web Page Maintainer access
     privileges.
     3.12.4. Configuring, maintaining, and evaluating audit control logs (AFI 33- 202).
     3.12.5. Gathering and analyzing performance data on servers under their control. Use
     this data to monitor utilization, response times, and server efficiency.
     3.12.6. Ensuring certification and accreditation of their Web server before connecting to
     the network, as well as developing, coordinating, publishing, maintaining, and testing
     support plans for contingency and service restoration.
     3.12.7. Ensuring user identifications (userid) and passwords comply with AFMAN 33-
     223, Identification and Authentication.
12                                            AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


     3.12.8. Coordinating with Web Masters and Web Page Maintainers to ensure compliance
     with all laws and policies such as in Title 42, U.S.C., Section 508, Rehabilitation Act of
     1998; and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) policy on the use of cookies (see
     paragraph 9. for additional guidance on cookies).
     3.12.9. Operating, maintaining, and administering the server, to include system back-ups
     and disaster recovery.
  3.13. Web Master. This individual is charged with posting information to the Web server.
  Specifically, Web Master responsibilities include:
     3.13.1. Establishing a process for Web Page Maintainers to submit Web pages and
     ensuring compliance with established style, content, and security guidelines.
     3.13.2. Preventing user access to Web sites under construction. Invalid attempts to
     access restricted Web pages will not include language like “Access Denied” or
     “Forbidden.”
     3.13.3. Web Masters may support activities such as the Top 3, Chiefs’ Group, local
     Union, etc., if approved by the DAA, Staff Judge Advocate (if available), or the legal
     office provided the resources are available. Submit a written request for these nonmission
     related activities justifying their requirement to the base/installation communications unit
     and ensure compliance with all policies and regulations regarding Web use and content.
     Pages listing personal information (i.e., hobbies, family photos, resumes, etc.) beyond the
     official duties and position of the individual are inappropriate and prohibited. They must
     follow the same guidance, policies, and laws imposed on private and public pages.
  3.14. Web Page Maintainer. Each unit supplying Web page information for posting on the
  Web server appoints and trains a Web Page Maintainer responsible for information on their
  respective pages. The Web Page Maintainer is also responsible for:
     3.14.1. Overseeing unit Web page development and maintenance. Ensure compliance
     with all laws and policies such as in Title 42, U.S.C., Section 508, Rehabilitation Act of
     1998; and OMB policy on the use of cookies (see paragraph 9. for additional guidance on
     cookies).
     3.14.2. Establishing security and access control requirements before posting information
     on the Web.
     3.14.3. Validating all links on Web pages within their span of control.
     3.14.4. Ensuring the Information Provider performed the proper reviews and documented
     the process in accordance with paragraph 8., and AFI 35-101.
     3.14.5. Identifying and updating incorrect or superseded information.
     3.14.6. Maintaining the original completed IRP (Attachment 2) until the corresponding
     information is removed from the Web server. The Information Provider is accountable in
     the event of unauthorized disclosure of information.
     3.14.7. Working with the Web Master to remove or correct instances of sensitive or
     inappropriate information on Web pages.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                          13


     3.14.8. Ensuring Public and Private Web pages comply with Title 42, U.S.C., Section
     508,     Rehabilitation   Act     of   1998     (refer   to     http://www.access-
     board.gov/sec508/guide/1194.22.htm).
  3.15. Information Providers, the persons or organizations who provide information for
  posting on public or private Web pages and are responsible for the content, coordination, and
  classification of that information, will:
     3.15.1. Ensure proper review and approval of material by the appropriate offices (see
     paragraph 8. and AFI 35-101) and document via IRP (see Attachment 2 or Attachment
     3).
         3.15.1.1. Account for the classification, currency, sensitivity, and release of the
         information.
     3.15.2. Validate the accuracy of all material provided to the Web Page Maintainer.
     3.15.3. Comply with Privacy Act requirements (i.e., safeguard personal information, post
     Privacy Act statement and Privacy Advisories) when collecting information from
     individuals. See paragraph 9. for specific guidance on persistent cookies. (See AFI 33-
     332, Air Force Privacy Act Program).
  3.16. Wing/Group/Unit Air Force Portal Content Manager. Each group/unit supplying Air
  Force Portal page information for posting on the Air Force Portal appoints and trains an Air
  Force Portal Content Manager responsible for information on their respective pages.
  Group/Unit Content Managers will:
  3.16. (919SOW) Appointed CMs are required to conduct periodic reviews on their pages.
  Group and Unit Portal Appointment Letters and Training will be made available on the 919
  SOW KOM Share Point Portal Document Library.
     3.16.1. Ensure a process is in place for posting information to their respective Air Force
     Portal page(s).
     3.16.2. Approve content posted to the Air Force Portal.
         3.16.2.1. Establish security and role restriction requirements before posting
         information on the Air Force Portal.
         3.16.2.2. Validate all links on Air Force Portal pages within their span of control on a
         quarterly basis.
         3.16.2.3. Identify and update or remove incorrect or superseded information.
     3.16.3. Oversee unit Air Force Portal page development and maintenance. Ensure
     compliance with all laws and policies such as in 29 U.S.C. § 794d, Rehabilitation Act of
     1998, Section 508, as amended by Public Law (PL) 105-220, Workforce Investment Act
     of 1998.
     3.16.4. Approve personnel for Content Publisher access and provide training on policy,
     processes and guidelines for posting information to the Air Force Portal.
     3.16.5. Request organizational structure changes and modify existing structure according
     to publishing guidelines available on the Air Force Portal publishing training page.
 14                                            AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


       3.16.6. Complete minor structural changes. These changes may be accomplished
       through tiered publishing permissions and a work flow process.
       3.16.7. Maintain delegation letters/spreadsheet and proof of training for Content
       Managers under their purview.
       3.16.8. Work with the Content Publisher to remove or correct instances of sensitive or
       inappropriate information on Air Force Portal pages in accordance with Privacy Act
       procedures.
   3.17. Content Providers will:
       3.17.1. Ensure proper review and approval of material by the appropriate offices.
       3.17.2. Account for the classification, currency, sensitivity, and release of the
       information.
       3.17.3. Validate the accuracy of all material provided to the Air Force Portal Content
       Publisher.
       3.17.4. Comply with Privacy Act requirements (i.e., safeguard personal information, post
       Privacy Act statement and Privacy Advisories) see AFI 33-332, when collecting Privacy
       Act information from individuals.)
       3.17.5. Be accountable in the event of unauthorized disclosure of information on the Air
       Force Portal.
4. Access to the 1nternet.
   4.1. Commercial Internet Service Providers (ISP). Do not connect or subscribe to
   commercial ISPs for official E-mail or network services. Only obtain commercial ISP
   service via waiver requests approval from the DOD GIG Waiver Board. All Air Force
   waiver request must be validated through SAF/XCDI prior to DOD GIG Waiver Panel
   review. Waiver requests shall explain how the other than NIPRNET internet connections
   meet the minimum security standards established by the DSAWG and be accompanied by a
   plan to transition the connection to the NIPRNET.
       4.1.1. In order to comply with DoD Information Assurance (IA) policies, some portion
       of the Air Force Services’ mission must be conducted outside of the NIPRNET.
       Although some patron-based activities are traditionally supported by the Quality-of-Life
       (QoL) network, the vast majority of services customer base, systems support
       organizations, and management activities are not permitted to operate on the NIPRNET,
       but still require identity authentication. Because of its unique mission requirement, Air
       Force Services’ field activities and Air Force Services Agency (AFSVA) are authorized
       to connect to commercial ISP nodes to support and manage the Services Non-
       Appropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFI) that are not allowed on the NIPRNET.
       Through AFSVA Services will migrate to complete commercial services and an
       Enterprise Information Service Provider to provide connectivity between base and agency
       computers as part of the Non-Appropriated Funds Transformation (NAF-T) program.
       Authentication and certification policies and procedures consistent with current
       NIPRNET policies must be implemented for Air Force Services’ field activities and/or
       AFSVA to protect personnel, financial, and Privacy Act data. The AFSVA DAA
       ensures IA standards and policies are followed.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                          15


   4.2. Quality-of-Life (QoL) Internet Services. The NCC may establish access for “patron”
   QoL activities such as the Family Support Center, library, and other Services/Morale,
   Welfare and Recreation (MWR) Category A, B, and C activities (defined in AFI 65-106,
   Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) and
   Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIS)). These systems shall not be connected to
   the base network with the privileges of “.af.mil” registered users. However, official business
   activities in these QoL locations may require and are authorized NIPRNET connectivity
   through the base network.
   4.3. DOD Dependent Schools and Base Education Offices. Only government personnel
   and/or government contractors are authorized Web access through NIPRNET. Web access
   for classroom education or civilian education institutions must be through a commercial ISP;
   the commercial ISP connection cannot be connected to a NIPRNET circuit without a waiver.
   Please see CJCSM 6510.01, Defense-in Depth: Information Assurance (IA) and Computer
   Network Defense (CND), for guidance on mobile code use.
5. Web Page/Site Architecture.
   5.1. Public Web Pages/Sites. Public pages/sites are intended for viewing by the general
   public, and the information on these pages must be of interest to the general public. Uniform
   resource locator (URL) addresses will follow the standard protocol used throughout the Web
   (e.g., a site representing all of Dover Air Force Base to the public would most logically be
   located at http://www.dover.af.mil). Each installation and MAJCOM will only have one
   official public Web site. Please refer to the guidance listed in Table 1 and Table 2 to apply
   the appropriate security measures to the Web sites.
      5.1.1. Private Web Pages/Sites. Private Web pages/sites are intended for a limited
      audience, specifically .mil and .gov users. Information on private Web pages/sites must
      consider the access and security controls. Please refer to the guidance listed in Table 1
      and Table 2 to apply the appropriate security measures to the Web sites.
      5.1.2. All unclassified, private DOD Web sites will be enabled to use Class 3 and/or
      Class 4 certificates, as applicable, for server authentication and client/server
      authentication.
   5.2. External Links.
      5.2.1. Links to non-.gov/-.mil Web resources should support the organization’s mission.
      Review external links quarterly to ensure their continued suitability.
      5.2.2. Product endorsements or preferential treatment on official DOD Web sites is
      prohibited according to DOD 5500.7-R.
          5.2.2.1. Payment or compensation of any kind in exchange for a link placed on an
          organization’s official DOD public or private Web site is prohibited. This does not
          preclude links provided to commercial sponsors or paid advertisers on NAF-
          commercial Web sites.
          5.2.2.2. Public DOD Web sites will not require or encourage users to choose any
          specific browser software (DOD 5500.7-R). Additionally, official DOD public Web
          sites will not use graphics or logos depicting companies or products and should only
 16                                             AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


           use text or hyperlinks to the software site when absolutely needed to support the
           organization or its mission.
           5.2.2.3. When using “frames” technologies, Web site owners will ensure “frames”
           are discontinued when links external to the site are activated.
           5.2.2.4. Organizations may link to nonmission-related government activities, such as
           the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, the Navy Exchange Service Command,
           and the Marine Corps Exchange, with the approval of the DAA and legal office.
       5.2.3. Use the following disclaimer when displaying commercial advertisements,
       sponsorships, or linking to nongovernment sites:
   “The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the U.S. Air Force or the
information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as
military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the U.S. Air Force does not exercise
any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links
provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.”

   This disclaimer may appear on the page or pages listing external links or through an
intermediate “exit notice” page generated by the server machine whenever a request is made for
any site other than an official DOD Web site (usually the .mil domain). This does not preclude
links provided to commercial sponsors or paid advertisers on NAF-commercial Web sites.
       5.2.4. Web Pages Funded With Nonappropriated Funds (NAF). To communicate
       Services’ MWR activities and the availability of goods and services they offer to
       authorized patrons, NAF commercial “.com” Web sites may be established according to
       paragraph 3.7.4.1 If resources are available, official DOD public Web sites may host
       NAF Web pages. Official DOD Web sites may provide hyperlinks to these NAF
       commercial Web sites; however, the NAF commercial Web sites may not provide
       hyperlinks to official DOD Web sites. Since MWR programs may have commercial
       sponsors, sponsor recognition may be provided on NAF-funded commercial Web sites,
       and this recognition may include hyperlinks to sponsor commercial Web sites subject to
       inclusion of appropriate disclaimers.
   5.3. Collaboration Capabilities.
       5.3.1. All Air Force personnel should use the approved Net-Centric Enterprise Services
       (NCES) collaboration services toolset on NIPRNet and SIPRNet. Synchronous
       collaboration capabilities include but are not limited too: screen and application sharing,
       voice and video conferencing, chat, instant messaging, presence, live polling and
       whiteboarding. All personnel should establish an NCES collaboration services tool
       account on NIPRNet and SIPRNet and should review the Training materials to
       understand how to effectively participate in collaboration session and use the
       synchronous collaborative capabilities. These collaboration tools are among the first of
       many services to be offered to the joint community.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                         17


Table 1. Security for Information Placed on Web Sites.
 Types of Pages         Governing Publications Review Process Includes:      Minimum
                                                                             Access/Security
                                                                             Controls
 Public (see Note 2)    AFI 35-101               PA                          Unlimited/Unencrypted
                        AFI 10-1101              OPSEC Office FOIA/Privacy
                        AFI 33-332               Act Office Foreign Disclosure
                                                 Office (see Note 1)
                        AFI 33-202               Contracting (see Note 3)
                        DOD 5400.7-R/AF Sup      Legal (see Note 3)
                                                 Information Security
                                                 Manager
                                                 Unit Commander or
                                                 Equivalent




 Private (see Notes 1, 2, AFI 10-1101            OPSEC Office Privacy Act        Public Key Infrastructure
 5 and 6)                 AFI 33-332             Office Foreign Disclosure       (PKI) User Certificates
                                                 Office (see Note 3)             and/ or User ID/Password
                        AFI 33-202               Legal (see Note 3)              through Proxy Server
                        AFI 33-219               Contracting (see Note 3)
                                                 Information Security
                        DOD 5400.7-R/AF Sup      Manager
                                                 Unit Commander or
                                                 Equivalent




 Classified (see notes 4 DOD 5200.1-R,           Information Security            SIPRNET and User
 and 7)                  Information Security    Manager                         ID/Password
                         Program, January 1997
                         AFI 31-401, Information
                         Security Program
                         Management AFI 33-219
 18                                             AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


Table 2. Vulnerability of Information Placed on the Internet/WWW.
 Types of If Access         and Security the Vulnerability
                                                and the Webis: Documents will be those that are:
 Pages    Control is:       Control is:

 Public     Unlimited       Unencrypted    EXTREMELY           Publicly accessible, including some
                                           HIGH--open to       STINFO marked “Distribution Statement
                                           everyone on the     A.”
                                           Internet worldwide.
 Public     Internet       Unencrypted     HIGH--Can spoof       Nonsensitive. Normally publicly
            Domain (e.g.,                  access controls;      accessible; OPR prefers material remain
            .mil, .gov) or                 affords the lowest    outside of public view.
            Internet                       level of access
            Protocol (IP)                  control; and no
            Address                        encryption.
 Public     User ID and     Unencrypted    MODERATE--Can Nonsensitive. Private to small groups;
            Password                       spoof access          OPR prefers protection of material with
                                           controls; affords the higher confidence of security.
                                           highest level of
                                           access control;
                                           however, can
                                           compromise user
                                           IDs and passwords
                                           since encryption is
                                           not used.
 Private    Internet       Encrypted       LOW--Provides         Sensitive. Lists of names and e-mail
            Domain (e.g.,                  encryption and the    addresses (directories, org charts, rosters,
            .mil, .gov) or                 lowest level of       etc.). OPR prefers material protected with
            Internet                       access control.       high confidence of security.
            Protocol (IP)
            Address
 Private    User ID and     Encrypted      EXTREMELY             Sensitive. Privacy Act, FOUO; DOD
            Password                       LOW--Encryption       Contractor Proprietary, and STINFO with
                                           with the highest      Distribution B-F.
                                           level of access
                                           control.

6. Page Layout and Maintenance. Organizations must ensure Web pages are professionally
presented, current, accurate, factual, related to the organizational mission, and follow the
guidance and policy as described in paragraph 5.1 Use images appropriate to the content; do not
use images indiscriminately. Do not display hyperlinks to incomplete paths or use the phrase
“under construction”; additionally, do not introduce information or services until they are ready.
Announce new or substantially changed information on the home page. Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard 2001, IEEE Recommended Practice for Internet - Web
Site Engineering, Web Site Management, and Web Site Life Cycle, 2002, define recommended
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                             19


practices for (WWW) page engineering for Intranet and Extranet environments, based on World
Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and related industry guidelines. Web Page Maintainers will
ensure the data in their area of responsibility is date/time stamped to reflect the most current
information. At a minimum, base and organization (e.g., wing, group, squadron, special staff
agencies, etc.) Web pages must comply with Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) 4.0
specifications and contain information described below:
   6.1. Private Web Pages.
       6.1.1. The following information is only required at the top-level page.
           6.1.1.1. Web Page Maintainer’s organization, office symbol, commercial phone
           number, and Defense Switched Network (DSN) phone number.
           6.1.1.2. Organizational e-mail address.
           6.1.1.3. Date last reviewed (pages/links must be reviewed at least every 180 days).
       6.1.2. The following information is required on every page:
           6.1.2.1. Any disclaimers or restrictions that apply to the contents of the page.
           6.1.2.2. Warning banners (or links to) as indicated in paragraph 7.2
           6.1.2.3. Link to organization home page.
           6.1.2.4. Notice and Consent banner as required in AFI 33-219.
   6.2. Public Web Pages:
       6.2.1. The following information is only required on each unit or organizational top level
       page:
           6.2.1.1. Organizational name and shield.
           6.2.1.2. Organization, office symbol, and commercial phone number.
           6.2.1.3. Organizational e-mail address.
           6.2.1.4. Date Last Reviewed (pages/links must be reviewed at least every 180 days).
           6.2.1.5. Link to Air Force Link.
           6.2.1.6. Notice and Consent banner is placed on each Web page.
       6.2.2. The following information is required on every page:
           6.2.2.1. Any disclaimers or restrictions that apply to the contents of the page.
           6.2.2.2. Link to organization home page.
           6.2.2.3. Privacy and Security Notice and Warning banners (or links to) as indicated
           in paragraph 7.1
   6.3. SIPRNET Web pages:
       6.3.1. The following information is only required at the top-level page.
           6.3.1.1. Web Page Maintainer’s contact link.
           6.3.1.2. Organizational name. Shields may be included if bandwidth allows.
20                                             AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


         6.3.1.3. Web Page Maintainer’s organization, office symbol, commercial phone
         number, and DSN phone number.
         6.3.1.4. Organizational e-mail address.
         6.3.1.5. Date last reviewed (pages/links must be reviewed at least every 180 days).
         6.3.1.6. Notice and Consent banner as required in AFI 33-219.
     6.3.2. The following information is required on every page:
         6.3.2.1. Any disclaimers or restrictions that apply to the contents of the page.
         6.3.2.2. Warning banners (or links to) as indicated in paragraph 7.2
         6.3.2.3. Link to organization home page.
         6.3.2.4. Applicable security markings for each document, link, and item (including
         unclassified information).
     6.3.3. There will be no links to pages/sites outside the SIPRNET.
  6.4. Meta-Indexes, Indexes, or Lists of Other Air Force and DOD Pages. Indexes and lists
  will only reside on MAJCOM sites or on the Air Force Link, the Air Force’s service-level
  site. Base level home pages will refer to these centralized lists. Send additions, deletions, and
  changes to the Air Force index via e-mail to the address listed on Air Force Link. MAJCOMs
  will extract their portion of the list from the Air Force Link index. Indexes and lists are
  limited to those sites that provide relevant information to the intended audience.
  6.5. Personally Identifying Information.
     6.5.1. Public Web Site Information. Do not place personally identifying information for
     DOD personnel on public Web sites. This applies to unclassified public Web sites
     regardless of domain (e.g., .com, .edu, .org, .mil, .gov) or sponsoring organization (e.g.,
     Non-Appropriated Fund/Morale, Welfare and Recreation sites; DOD educational
     institutions). Personally identifying information includes name, rank, e-mail address, and
     other identifying information regarding DOD personnel, including civilians, active duty
     military, military family members, contractors, members of the National Guard and
     Reserves, and Coast Guard personnel when the Coast Guard is operating as a service in
     the Navy. Rosters, directories (including telephone directories) and detailed
     organizational charts showing lists of names (or e-mail addresses) are considered
     personally identifying information and are FOUO. Multiple names of individuals from
     different organizations/locations listed on the same document or Web page constitutes a
     list. Aggregation of names across pages must specifically be considered. In particular, the
     fact that data can be compiled easily using simple Web searches means caution must be
     applied to decisions to post individual names. If aggregation of lists of names is possible
     across a single organization’s Web site/ pages, that list should be evaluated on its merits
     and the individual aggregated elements treated accordingly. Charts and directories
     without names or email addresses may be posted on public Web sites with position or
     office titles and duty phone numbers.
         6.5.1.1. Individual names contained in documents posted on public Web sites may be
         removed or left at the discretion of the activity.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                        21


         6.5.1.2. It is permissible to post names and duty information of personnel who, by the
         nature of their position and duties, frequently interact with the public, such as
         flag/general officers, PA officers, FOIA managers, or other personnel designated as
         official command spokespersons. Coordinate posting of such information with the
         FOIA or PA Office. Limit posting of biographies and photos to DOD personnel who
         would fit in the above category. This would include wing commanders, vice
         commanders, command chief master sergeants, and organizational commanders.
         6.5.1.3. Use     organizational/generic      position e-mail addresses (e.g.,
         office@organization.mil; helpdesk@organization.mil; commander@base.mil) for
         posting contact information on public sites.
         6.5.1.4. Public affairs-generated products, such as press releases, are excluded from
         this policy.
         6.5.1.5. Post directories that contain military or government advertisements or
         sponsorships with an appropriate disclaimer (see paragraph 5.2.2).
         6.5.1.6. Publishing general numbers of services such as PA and other commonly
         requested resources on public pages is encouraged.
     6.5.2. Private Web Site Information.
         6.5.2.1. Names and e-mail addresses may be posted to private Web sites (restricted to
         .mil or .gov users) at the discretion of the local commander, when necessary to
         conduct official business, and after conducting the appropriate risk assessment. The
         risk assessment should balance the operational benefit of posting the personal
         information against the risk of unauthorized disclosure or alteration. The following
         areas should be considered in your assessment: official purpose for posting the
         information; possible vulnerabilities and threats to the information; the potential
         impact of unauthorized disclosure or modification of the information; the security of
         your network and existing safeguards (hardware, software, local administrative Web
         guidance/policy).
  6.6. Advertising. Commercial advertising and product endorsement on Air Force Web sites
  are prohibited (this would include advertisements contained in base/installation newspapers
  generated by local PA offices). However, the base may link to a publisher’s Web site
  containing the full newspaper. Web pages that are funded with NAF resources will comply
  with guidance outlined in paragraph 5.2.4
  6.7. Using Graphics and Artwork. Take great care when adapting existing artwork for use on
  Internet projects. Most licenses for software designed to prepare documents or briefings do
  not permit using the graphics for other purposes. In addition, most graphics and artwork is
  either copyrighted or proprietary and cannot be used without written permission from the
  originator or owner. Consult local legal office. Unnecessary graphics and artwork also
  consumes bandwidth.
  6.8. Communications Bandwidth. To effectively utilize limited bandwidth, Internet users
  must be disciplined in the quantity and content of nonmission essential information provided
  via Air Force networks. Specific directions from the Deputy Secretary of Defense include:
 22                                             AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


       6.8.1. Limit graphics, animation, and splash pages, etc., as much as possible, in order to
       reduce bandwidth usage, and to aid in response time.
       6.8.2. Post large documents on the Web server instead of sending them as e-mail
       attachments.
       6.8.3. Only download large files from Web sites when absolutely necessary.
       6.8.4. Limit official subscriptions to newsgroups to the absolute minimum required to
       support the organization’s missions and functions. Individual’s personal subscriptions to
       newsgroups that are not mission related are prohibited unless specifically authorized by
       the DAA. Additionally, personal Web services such as “pointcast,” or other similar
       “push/pull” technology may pose bandwidth and security problems, therefore, the DAA
       must approve access to commercial “push-pull” Web sites.
       6.8.5. Imposing Web browsing restrictions may further conserve bandwidth. Accomplish
       this by identifying and applying good knowledge management practices such as using
       Intranets to post or download common use documents.
   6.9. Registering a Public Site/Page. Once your organization has determined the contents of
   the page, following the SAF/PA format and all guidance in Title 42, U.S.C., Section 508,
   Rehabilitation Act of 1998, the process of getting the page on the Web server for your
   base/installation can begin. Submit a written request to your base/installation
   communications group or organization through the respective Web Page Maintainer.
       6.9.1. Hyperlink Restrictions. You can use hyperlinks from a public Web site to other
       .mil/.gov public Web sites. Do not use hyperlinks from public Web sites to private Web
       sites, even if password-protected, for any reason.
7. Warning Notices and Banners. Ensure appropriate warning notices and banners (see
paragraph 7.1 or 7.2) are present on each root-level organization/function/activity home/front
page, by either display, pop-up screen, or a link to the actual notice. Subordinate pages may also
display or link the banner and restrictions. Add Privacy Act, RCS, and OMB statements where
required.
   7.1. Public Web Pages. Ensure the Notice and Consent banner is placed on each Web page.
   Providing a statement such as “Please read this privacy and security notice” linked to the
   actual notice is satisfactory. Public pages will have a Privacy and Security Notice
   prominently announced on the first page of all major sections of each public Web site, by
   either display, pop-up screen, or a link to the actual notice. All information collected must be
   described in this notice. Tailor public Web site banners to the audience and type of
   information presented. The notice further describes how, in general, security is maintained on
   the site, and what specific information is collected, why it is collected, and how it is used.
   Providing a statement such as “Please read this privacy and security notice” linked to the
   actual notice is satisfactory. Organizations will avoid flashy graphics or other indicators that
   create a misperception of danger, such as skull-and-crossbones logos or “warning” signs.
   Intelligence agencies must comply with the provisions of DODD 5240.1, DOD Intelligence
   Activities, April 25, 1988.
       7.1.1. Comply with AFI 33-332, AFI 33-360, Volume 2, and AFI 33-324, The
       Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal,
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                           23


       Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, if applicable, when collecting
       information from the public. AFI 33-324 requires OMB approval when collecting
       identical information from ten or more members of the public. Such requests include
       surveys using check box, radio button or text form fields. Coordinate with local Forms
       Manager to determine if your information collecting program meets criteria of an official
       form.
       7.1.2. AFI 33-332 directs that a Privacy Act Statement is provided when collecting
       personal information directly from an individual that is retrieved by name or personal
       identifier (i.e., SSN). Maintain this information in an approved Privacy Act system of
       records that is published in the Federal Register. Inform the visitor when the information
       is maintained and retrieved by name or personal identifier in a system of records; that the
       Privacy Act gives them certain rights with respect to the government’s maintenance and
       use of information collected about them, and provide a link to the Air Force’s Privacy
       Act policy and system notices at http://www.foia.af.mil.
       7.1.3. Anytime a public Web site solicits personally-identifying information, even when
       not maintained in a Privacy Act system of records, it requires a Privacy Advisory. The
       Privacy Advisory informs the individual why the information is solicited and how it will
       be used. Post the Privacy Advisory to the Web page where the information is being
       solicited, or through a well-marked hyperlink “Privacy Advisory - refer to the Privacy
       and Security Notice that describes why this information is collected and how it will be
       used.”
       7.1.4. Guidance on required text of the privacy and security notice for public pages
       follows:
           7.1.4.1. The following privacy and security notice may be tailored in the indicated
           areas by each organization sponsoring a publicly accessible Web site. The appropriate
           local legal office official will approve this notice before use:
Link from Index.html pages — “Please read this privacy and security notice.” ( ) - indicates
sections to be tailored at the base/installation level
[ ] - indicates hyperlinks
* - indicates information located at the hyperlink destination indicated
           7.1.4.2. (Web site name) is provided as a public service by the ([unit or
           installation]).
           7.1.4.3. Information presented on (Web site name) is considered public information
           and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate byline/photo/image credits is
           requested.
               7.1.4.3.1. For site management, [information is collected]* for statistical
               purposes. This government computer system uses software programs to create
               summary statistics which are used for such purposes as assessing what
               information is of most and least interest, determining technical design
               specifications, and identifying system performance or problem areas.
               7.1.4.3.2. Table 3. , shown below, depicts an example of the information
               collected based on a standard request for a WWW document: The information
 24                                                AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


               below should be tailored, if necessary, to show an accurate example of the
               specific information being collected. * Link from above - “information is
               collected“ to the following text:

Table 3. 1nformation Collected from (Defense Link) for Statistical Purposes.
 xxx.yyy.com - - [28/Jan/1997:00:00:01 -0500] “GET /Defense Link/news/nr012797.html
 HTTP/1.0“ 200 16704 Mozilla 3.0/http://www.altavista.digital.com
 xxx.yyy.com (or 123.123.23.12)-- this is the host name (or IP address) associated with the
 requester (you as the visitor). In this case, (.com) the requester is coming from a commercial
 address. Depending on the requester’s method of network connection, the host name (or IP
 address) may or may not identify a specific computer. Connections via many Internet Service
 Providers assign different IP addresses for each session, so the host name identifies only the
 ISP. The host name (or IP address) will identify a specific computer if that computer has a
 fixed IP address.
 128/Jan/1997:00:00:01 -05001 -- this is the date and time of the request
 “GET /Defense Link/news/nr012797.html HTTP/1.0“ -- this is the location of the requested
 file on (Defense Link)
 200 -- this is the status code - 200 is OK - the request was filled
 16704 -- this is the size of the requested file in bytes
 Mozilla 3.0 -- this identifies the type of browser software used to access the page, which
 indicates what design parameters to use in constructing the pages
 http://www.altavista.digital.com - this indicates the last site the person visited, which
 indicates how people find (Defense Link)
 Requests for other types of documents use similar information. No personally-identifying
 information is collected.

           7.1.4.4. For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains available to
           all users, this government computer system employs software programs to monitor
           network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or
           otherwise cause damage.
           7.1.4.5. Use raw data logs only to identify individual users for authorized law
           enforcement investigations or national security purposes. These logs are scheduled
           for regular destruction in accordance with the Air Force Web-RIMS RDS located at
           https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm.
           7.1.4.6. Unauthorized attempts to deny service, upload information, alter
           information, or attempt to access a non-public site from this service are strictly
           prohibited and may result in criminal prosecution under Title 18, U.S.C., Section
           1030, The National Information Infrastructure Protection Act, or other applicable
           criminal laws.
           7.1.4.7. If you have any questions or comments about the information presented here,
           please send them to the Web Page Maintainer.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                            25


          7.1.4.8. Depending upon the requestor’s method of network connection, the host
          name (or IP address) may or may not identify a specific computer. Connections via
          the many ISPs assign different IP addresses for each session, so the host name
          identifies only the ISP. The host name (or IP address) identifies a specific computer if
          the computer uses a fixed IP address.
          7.1.4.9. Cookie Disclaimer (use one of the following as applicable).
              7.1.4.9.1. (Web Site Name) does not use persistent cookies, i.e., tokens that pass
              information back and forth from your machine to the server and remain after you
              close your browser.
              7.1.4.9.2. (Web Site name) does use session cookies, i.e., tokens that remain
              active only until you close your browser, in order to (make the site easier for you
              to use). No database of information obtained from these cookies is kept, and when
              you close your browser, the cookie is deleted from your computer. (Web Site
              name) uses cookies in the following ways: (describe use, e.g., “to save you time in
              filling out IMTs,” “to maintain a relationship between the image and the correct
              link, the program that displays the banners on the bottom of some of our pages
              uses a session cookie”). You can choose not to accept these cookies and still use
              the site, but you may need to enter the same information repeatedly and clicking
              on the banners will not take you to the correct page. The help information in your
              browser software should provide you with instruction on how to disable cookies.
              (See paragraph 9. for additional guidance on cookies)
   7.2. Private Web Pages. Ensure the Notice and Consent banner is placed on the first page of
   unit’s home page in accordance with AFI 33-219. Each organization/function/activity home
   page will display the exact banner wording found in AFI 33-219 by display, pop-up screen,
   or a link to the actual notice. Subordinate pages may display or link the banners. Pop-up
   screens are also permissible.
       7.2.1. Private Web site restriction. “This site is intended for the use of the Air Force [or
       military, DOD, government audiences] only. Do not reproduce or distribute the content
       of this site to a wider audience without coordination with the information owner, your
       unit legal and public affairs offices.”
   7.3. Educational Research, Studies, and Analysis. Research, studies, and analysis done for
   educational purposes will post the same warning banner as the paper products. The banner
   should read: “The views expressed are those of the author and do not reflect the official
   policy or position of the U.S. Air Force, Department of Defense, or the U.S. Government.”
8. Clearing and Releasing 1nformation Placed on Public/Private Web Sites or Other
Bulletin Boards. Directors/deputies, chiefs of special staff agencies, commanders, or their
designated representatives must review and approve for release all information destined for
public Web sites. The organization’s PA office must approve information destined for the public
page. Once approved, updates to the Web page do not require the review process. Changes to the
Web page require the Information Provider to reaccomplish the review process (Attachment 5
and Attachment 6).
   8.1. Public Web Sites. Public Web sites exist as part of the Air Force’s public
   communication program and contribute to the overall image of the Air Force, increased
26                                            AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


  public awareness, trust and support, airmen morale and readiness, and global influence and
  deterrence. “Public information” refers to information approved for “unlimited” worldwide
  access and distribution on the Internet. Public information has no access or security controls
  to limit access to the information. Because Public Web sites have global distribution, you
  must clear the information in accordance with AFI 35-101. Public Web sites will not contain
  any classification markings.
     8.1.1. Approval to Establish a Public Web Site. Approval authority for establishing
     Public Web sites will correspond to existing authority to make public release of
     information (normally the wing commander or equivalent). Organizations seeking to
     establish a Public Web site must coordinate with local PA (and in the case of ANG units,
     the State PAO) and MAJCOM DAAs prior to receiving release authority (generally unit
     commander) approval. Only information intended for unrestricted distribution is
     appropriate for Public Web sites. The decision to establish such a site must weigh the
     value added by the site to the Air Force public image and public communication program
     against the maintenance costs and potential security risks.
     8.1.2. Procedures for Clearing Information for Public Release.
         8.1.2.1. Since the intended audience for public information is the general public, no
         access or security controls are necessary. However, servers must provide sufficient
         protection to guard against contamination or defacement of Air Force pages or
         unauthorized access to other parts of the Air Force system. Clearing information for
         public release must follow established procedures as set forth in AFI 35-101 and
         Internet release package (Attachment 3).
         8.1.2.2. When reviewing information for public release, remember that the
         information should be of value to the general public. Do not place information of
         value to only military or other government agencies on Public Web pages. Coordinate
         with your PA offices on all information destined for public release (see paragraph
         3.9).
     8.1.3. DODD 5400.7-RIAFSUP1 requires records that an agency determines likely to be
     the subject of subsequent or frequent FOIA requests to be placed in a FOIA Reading
     Room on the public Web server. The local FOIA Office manages these reading rooms
     and links the site to the Air Force FOIA Web site at http://www.foia.af.mil. FOIA
     officers will coordinate with PA, legal office, and records owners to determine which
     frequently requested records are releasable to the public through public reading rooms.
     8.1.4. Information Not Appropriate for Public Release. Under no circumstances are the
     following types of information allowed on Public Web sites:
         8.1.4.1. Classified information (see AFI 31-401).
         8.1.4.2. For Official Use Only (FOUO) information, and information that qualifies
         for withholding under exemptions 2 through 9 of the FOIA (see DOD 5400.7-RIAF
         Sup).
             8.1.4.2.1. Privacy Act protected information (see AFI 33-332).
             8.1.4.2.2. DOD contractor proprietary information (see AFI 61-204).
             8.1.4.2.3. Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO) (see AFI 61-204).
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                         27


             8.1.4.2.4. Attorney-client privileged information (see AFI 51-105, Automated
             Legal Information Services and Library System).
         8.1.4.3. Unclassified information requiring special handling (see AFI 33-113,
         Managing Air Force Messaging Centers).
         8.1.4.4. Critical information as outlined in AFI 10-1101. Sensitive mission data that
         by itself is unclassified, but when combined with other available data, may reveal
         classified information.
  8.2. Private Web Sites. Each OPR should recognize that “private information” refers to that
  information released on the Web with file or database access restrictions appropriate for the
  content. Adding safeguards will limit access to specific individuals or groups and protect the
  site’s content. The Information Provider must determine the appropriate security and access
  controls required to safeguard the information (see Table 2).
     8.2.1. Procedures for Clearing Information for Private Web Sites. Since the Web
     provides access across a number of interconnected networks, information without access
     controls on a server directly connected to the Internet is potentially available to anyone
     on the Internet. When information is cleared for release on private Web sites, access
     controls and/or encryption is necessary to protect the information. Remember, the
     intended audience will vary depending upon the information and its potential intelligence
     value. Also, remember that unclassified information, when combined with other available
     information, may become sensitive or even classified. Where appropriate, refer to DOD
     O-5200.1-I or contact the OPSEC office for assistance.
         8.2.1.1. To place information on private Web sites, the Web Master and Web Page
         Maintainer must stay aware of the types of security and access controls available and
         the vulnerabilities of each. Table 2 outlines generic security and access controls for
         the Internet with the recommended employment of each. Also, use Table 2 as a guide
         to determine the acceptable risk for releasing information.
  8.3. SIPRNET Web sites. Information must be appropriate for the classification level
  intended (see AFI 31-401). The following types of classified information may not be
  displayed on the SIPRNET: Top Secret, classified information carrying a Special Access
  Required caveat, classified information carrying a SCI caveat, classified information
  containing a NATO classification, classified information containing a CNWDI caveat, and
  information containing a Department of Energy Sigma caveat.
  8.4. Document the Release Process. Before release, the Information Provider coordinates
  and documents the process used to review information proposed for public Web site release.
  Review processes may vary depending on the type and value of the information considered
  for release. Information Providers will maintain completed IRP until the corresponding
  information is removed from the Internet. The Information Provider is accountable in the
  event of unauthorized disclosure of private information. See Attachment 2 for a sample IRP
  (Attachment 3 for a public page sample).
     8.4.1. Prepare an IRP for each unit (e.g., Squadron, Detachment, and staff equivalent).
     This will include all unit public Web pages.
 28                                                   AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


        8.4.2. Routinely updated information does not require release authority’s review after
        initial approval unless additions or changes significantly alter the information. When the
        unit Web pages are significantly revised, the Web Page Maintainer updates the original
        IRP and regains approval. Minor changes do not require another approval.
    8.5. Republishing of Base Newspapers on the Web. Base newspapers are established
    according to DOD Instruction (DODI) 5120.4, DOD Newspapers, Magazines, and Civilian
    Enterprise Publications, June 16, 1997, and AFI 35-101. Though generally public domain,
    base newspapers exist as part of the Air Force’s internal information program. While the
    publishing of base newspapers constitutes public release of information, the distribution is
    limited. Public Web sites constitute global release; therefore, some information appropriate
    for base newspapers is not appropriate for public Web sites.
        8.5.1. Reproducing the contents of base newspapers for the Web is permitted if that
        content meets the restrictions provided. Air Force personnel may not directly or indirectly
        reproduce commercial advertisements or endorsements within the newspaper when
        displayed on public Web sites. However, the base may link to a commercial publisher’s
        Web site containing the full newspaper.
        8.5.2. The posting of sensitive overseas and routinely deployable assignments, names,
        locations, and specific identifying information about family members of DOD employees
        and military personnel is strictly prohibited.
        8.5.3. Review all stories against the DOD Web Site Administration Policies and
        Procedures, before posting to public access Web sites.
h t t p : / / w w w. d e f e n s e l i n k .m i l / w e b ma s te r s / p o l i cy /
dod_web_policy_12071998_with_amendments_and_corrections.html
http://www.defenselink.mil/nii/org/cio/doc/webpolicy-26april2001.html
9. Data Collection and Privacy Policies. DOD Web Site Administration Policies &
Procedures policy prohibits the use of Web technology that collects personally-identifying
information such as extensive lists of previously visited sites, e-mail addresses, or other
information to identify or build profiles on individual visitors (i.e., “persistent cookies”) to DOD
public Web sites.
    9.1. Persistent Cookie. Persistent cookies are authorized only when the Assistant Secretary
    of Defense (Network and Information Integration (ASD(NII)) has personally approved use of
    the cookie, clear and conspicuous notice is given, there is a compelling need to gather the
    data on the site, and appropriate technical procedures have been established to safeguard the
    data. Send requests for approval to use persistent cookies at least 60 days prior to operational
    need date through the MAJCOM IA office to SAF/XCD. The request will describe the need
    and safeguards to be used to protect the data, provide an explanation of why other technical
    approaches are inadequate, and include a copy of the privacy notice(s) proposed for use.
    SAF/XCD coordinates all waiver requests before forwarding to the Assistant Secretary of
    Defense (Network and Information Integration (ASD[NII]) for Secretary of Defense
    approval.
    9.2. DOD Web Site Administration Policies & Procedures policy, however, does permit the
    use of “session cookies” or other Web technology to collect or store information, but only if
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                           29


   users are advised of what information is collected or stored. Lawfully authorized
   investigative, protective, or intelligence activity of a law enforcement agency or intelligence
   agency of the Air Force are exempt from this policy.
10. Single Source Information. Information should remain as closely controlled by the source
as possible to ensure its currency and accuracy. Do not copy files from other sources on the
Internet and place them on a home page. Reference this information (for mission-related
purposes only) rather than repeat it. This does not prevent information providers from mirroring
or replicating information for performance or security reasons. However, when this is done, the
Information Provider or Web Page Maintainer of the replicating file server will contact the
counterpart of the information to obtain written permission to replicate the information and
verify that the information can be released. The information replicated is kept up-to-date by the
replicating site’s Web Page Maintainer or Information Provider.
11. Approval to Operate a Server on the Internet.
   11.1. DAA Approval. All systems must receive accreditation and authorization to operate by
   the appropriate DAA prior to actual use (see AFI 33-202, Network and Computer Security).
   This applies to all servers directly connected to the network.
   11.2. Auditing of User Activity. Configure systems so that the system administrator can
   audit both incoming and outgoing user activities. Auditing of incoming user activities helps
   identify possible security threats and provides OPRs feedback on the usefulness of their
   information as well. Auditing of outgoing user activity helps ensure government systems are
   not misused. Organizations can keep misuse of computer systems to a minimum by training
   and educating personnel on proper uses of the Internet and monitoring their activity.
   11.3. DOD PKI Server Certificate. In accordance with Assistant Secretary of Defense,
   Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (now ASD(NII) Memorandum,
   subject: “Department of Defense (DOD) Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) Update, May 21,
   2002; all private Air Force Web servers must be issued a DOD X.509 PKI Server Certificate
   and have 128-bit encryption Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) using this certificate enabled at all
   times.
12. Systems Security Considerations.
   12.1. Internet Vulnerabilities. Without the appropriate security measures and controls,
   information placed on the Internet can become available to unauthorized personnel. Using
   access controls effectively reduces the risk of unauthorized release of information via the
   Internet.
       12.1.1. Internet Controls. Restricting access to information is only part of the security
       equation. The Internet is an inherently unsecured network. Information packets traveling
       across the Internet jump from node to node to travel from origin to destination.
       Interception of the information can occur at any point along the way. Implement security
       controls to prevent unauthorized disclosure of information. Any security controls
       implemented in the Internet must meet Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS)
       140-2, Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules. To fully protect information
       resources, both access and security controls are required.
30                                            AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


     12.1.2. Internet Threats--Structured and Unstructured Attacks. Internet proliferation,
     combined with the growth of information stored, processed, or transmitted on Air Force
     computer systems, increases the threat and vulnerability of Air Force information
     resources. Network attacks come in two forms--structured and unstructured. Another
     threat to Air Force networks is the insider threat. For detailed threat information and
     preventive measures, personnel should contact their supporting Information Assurance
     (IA) office, the Air Force Network Operations Security Center (AFNOSC), or the Office
     of Special Investigations.
         12.1.2.1. Structured attacks are sophisticated and organized, and are the most severe
         threat to Air Force systems and information resources. Structured attacks come from
         groups of individuals who have common goals. These groups target specific systems
         or groups of systems for industrial and military espionage, malicious intentions,
         financial gains, and/or military operational advantage.
         12.1.2.2. Unstructured attacks are less organized and may involve only a single
         attacker. Usually they employ the same techniques as structured attacks. For example,
         the common computer “hacker” is an unstructured attacker. These attackers pick their
         targets at random by probing different domains in search of system vulnerabilities to
         exploit. Hackers may infiltrate systems out of curiosity, to boost their status, or
         simply be destructive. Some destructive ones have malicious intentions (e.g.,
         implanting logic bombs, Trojan horses, denial of service attacks, or altering data) just
         to cause damage to the system and its legitimate users.
         12.1.2.3. There are two types of internal threats: deliberate and unintentional. The
         IA offices can provide information on the kinds of threats to look for--hints on these
         kinds of threats. These threats are excellent justification for frequent backups of the
         base/installation Web site and its related pages.
  12.2. Countering the Threat. The Air Force has implemented a robust Defense in Depth
  program to thwart most of these threats through a program called “Information Assurance.”
  System administrators are the first line of defense in protecting Air Force automated
  information systems. They work with MAJCOM NOSCs, and the AFNOSC to implement
  this layered approach to network defense. The AFNOSC works closely with network
  defenders at all levels to identify new threats and vulnerabilities and implement
  countermeasures. The local information assurance office provides expertise in educating
  systems administrators, workgroup managers, Web Masters, Web Page Maintainers, and
  Information Providers on current threats, vulnerabilities, and protection techniques. In a Web
  environment, the information providers are also essential because they identify the value of
  the information and the type of access controls and techniques necessary to protect
  information from unauthorized disclosure. Systems administrators, workgroup managers,
  Web Masters, Web Page Maintainers, and Information Providers must maintain a close
  working relationship with the IA office to remain aware of the ever-changing threat to
  information and systems, and to report any unusual activity on a system. Listed below are
  some of the common techniques used to attack a system or its information:
     12.2.1. IP Spoofing. Potential intruders attempt to gain access to a system or its
     information by creating packets with spoofed (faked) source IP addresses. This exploits
     applications that use authentication-based IP addresses and leads to unauthorized user
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                        31


     access, and possibly “root access” (the ability to control an entire computer system, even
     to the exclusion of the system owner). An experienced systems administrator can thwart
     these techniques with information and software from the IA office.
     12.2.2. Packet Sniffers. Information traverses the Internet in packets through a series of
     computers. A packet sniffer is a program and/or device used to monitor information
     traveling in a packet over a network. Sniffers can be used both for legitimate network
     management functions and for stealing information off a network. Unauthorized sniffers
     can be extremely dangerous to a network’s security because they are virtually impossible
     to detect and can be inserted almost anywhere. Once intruders have gained access, they
     can activate a program (such as a Trojan horse) to collect information traversing the
     computer (e.g., Internet domain, account names, identifications (ID), and passwords).
     Generally, good password administration and encryption techniques can thwart this
     threat.
     12.2.3. Trojan Horse. Hidden computer viruses or viruses in disguise. Trojan horses are
     often computer programs embedded in other programs or software. The intruder does this
     so the user is unaware of the Trojan horse’s presence or existence. This virus, when
     executed by the user, is able to spread to other programs. Some Trojan horses hide within
     a system and when executed, capture information (e.g., IDs and passwords of legitimate
     users); some damage, destroy, or steal data, while others destroy the operating system’s
     software. In the event of a compromised ID/password, an intruder is equipped to enter the
     network as a legitimate user.
  12.3. Downloading Files from the Internet. To protect against downloading viruses, users
  must virus-check all downloaded files. This applies to sound and video files as well as files
  attached to e-mail messages. Where possible, download files to a floppy disk and virus-check
  them before placing them on the computer’s hard drive. If files are compressed, perform a
  second check on the decompressed files. To prevent the possibility of rapidly spreading a
  virus, do not download files to a network or shared drive.
  12.4. User IDs and Passwords. AFMAN 33-223 governs the use of passwords on Air Force
  systems.
  12.5. IDs and Password Protection. The Internet is an unsecured network where compromise
  of a user ID and password can occur during open transmission. Do not transmit user IDs and
  passwords without encryption. Secure sockets layer protocol provides a transmission level of
  encryption between the client and server machines. In addition to encryption protections for
  passwords, use one-time password systems to ensure password integrity.
  12.6. Access and Security Controls on Information. Table 2 provides guidance on access
  and security controls, and the vulnerability of various combinations of each. Use Table 2 in
  conjunction with Table 1 to help determine an acceptable level of risk for information
  release. Do not regard these tables as the sole source for this determination.
  12.7. Operations Security (OPSEC). The Internet access available to personnel at home is an
  additional security factor. OPSEC training and education apply to computer use just as it
  does in face-to-face and phone conversations and correspondence. Policies restricting
  communications with unauthorized personnel also apply to Internet communications.
  Newsgroups (Network News Transfer Protocol [NNTP], Usenet News, Chats, etc.) give
 32                                            AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


   personnel the opportunity to converse electronically to a worldwide audience. Military and
   government employees will not discuss work-related issues in such open forums. Such
   discussions could result in unauthorized disclosure of military information to foreign
   individuals, governments, or intelligence agencies or the disclosure of potential acquisition
   sensitive information. For example, news media monitoring the Internet may construe an
   individual’s “chat” as an official statement or news release. Limiting details is an easily
   applied countermeasure that can decrease vulnerabilities while still conveying essential
   information. Follow these additional steps to eliminate improper postings: verify official
   need for posting, apply the OPSEC process (identify critical information, analyze threats and
   vulnerabilities, assess risks, and apply countermeasures), use the required clearance process,
   protect information according to its sensitivity, and provide training.
13. Information Collections, Records, Forms and Information Management Tools (IMT).
   13.1. Information Collections. Annual Multi-disciplinary Review Board RCS SAF-PAS(A)
   0203.)
   13.2. Records. Records pertaining to IRPs, board minutes and audit control logs are created
   by this publication (paragraph 8.4). Retain and dispose of these records according to Air
   Force     Web-RIMS         RDS,      Table     37-18,     Rule      17,      located      at
   https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm.
   13.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
      13.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
      Publications, AF IMT 2519, All Purpose Checklist; and AF IMT 3215, IT/NSS
      Requirements Document, are adopted in this publication.
      13.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No IMTs are prescribed by this publication.




                                            WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief
                                            Information Officer

                                            (919SOW)

                                            ANTHONY J. COMTOIS
                                            Commander
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                      33


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-919SOW) AF Manual 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information
Systems, 1 Jun 2012.
(Added-919SOW) Air Force Instruction 33-129, Web Management and Internet, 3 Feb 2005
(Added-919SOW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Public Law 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
Title 18, U.S.C., Section 1030, National Information Infrastructure Protection Act
Title 42, U.S.C., Section 508, Rehabilitation Act of 1998
CJCSM 6510.01, Defense-in Depth: Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense
(CND), 25 March 2003
DODI 5120.4, Department of Defense Newspapers, Magazines and Civilian Enterprise
Publications, June 16, 1997
DOD O-5200.1-I, Index of Security Classification Guides, September 1996, with Change 1,
November 26, 1997
DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January 1997
DODD 5230.9, Clearance of DOD Information for Public Release, April 9, 1996; with Change
1, July 15, 1999
DODD 5240.1, DOD Intelligence Activities, April 25, 1988
DOD 5400.7-RIAFSUP 1, DOD Freedom of Information Act Program
DOD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), August 1993, with Change 4, August 6, 1998
DODD 8500.1, Information Assurance, October 24, 2002
DOD Policy, Web Site Administration Policies and Procedures, November 25, 1998, with
amendments and corrections, updated January 11, 2002
DOD Web Site Administration Policy, July 19, 2002
DOD-CIO Policy Letter, Interim DOD Guidance Regarding Processing of Restricted Data and
Critical Nuclear Weapons Design Information on the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network,
23 January 2003
FIPS 140-2, Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules
Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation
Director, Administration and Management, Washington Headquarters Services, Memorandum,
Withholding of Personally Identifying Information Under the Freedom of Information Act
(FOIA), November 9, 2001
 34                                          AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems AFPD 33-2,
Information Protection (will become Information Assurance) AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information
Management (will become AFPD 33-3) AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technical
Information
AFI 10-1101, Operations Security
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management AFI 33-103, Requirements
Development and Processing AFI 33-113, Managing Air Force Messaging Centers
AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals
AFI 33-202, Network and Computer Security
AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP)
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program, Controlling
Internal Public and Interagency Air Force Information Collections
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Content Management Program-Information Management Tool (CMP-
IMT)
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures
AFI 51-105, Automated Legal Information Services and Library System
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, And Recreation (MWR) and
Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIS)
AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
IEEE Standard 2001, IEEE Recommended Practice for Internet - Web Site Engineering, Web
Site Management, and Web Site Life Cycle, 2002
AF-CIO Policy Memorandum 03-01, Web Site Policy, 28 January 2003
(Added-919SOW) Adopted Forms
(Added-919SOW) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-919SOW) 919 SOW—919th Special Operations Wing
(Added-919SOW) ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
(Added-919SOW) AF- e-Learning—AF-e-Learning
(Added-919SOW) AFDPO—Air Force Distribution Publication Office
(Added-919SOW) AFIMPT—Air Force Information Management Publishing Tool
AFNOSC—Air Force Network Operations Security Center
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                              35


AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
(919SOW) AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
(919SOW) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(Added-919SOW) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ASD (NII)—Assistant Secretary of Defense (Networks and Information Integration)
(Added-919SOW) CC—Commander
(Added-919SOW) CM—Content Manager
CNWDI—Critical Nuclear Weapons Design Information
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
DAA—Designated Approving Authority
DISN—Defense Information Systems Network
DOD—Department of Defense
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
(Added-919SOW) DS—Digitally Sign
DSAWG—DISN Security Accreditation Working Group
DSN—Defense Switched Network
FIPS—Federal Information Processing Standards
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
FOUO—For Official Use Only
(919SOW) FOUO—For Official Use Only
FTP—File Transfer Protocol
GIG—Global Information Grid
GILS—Government Information Locator Service
HTML—Hypertext Markup Language
HTTP—Hypertext Transfer Protocol
 36                                          AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


IA—Information Assurance
(Added-919SOW) IAW—In accordance with
ID—Identification
IEEE—Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
IMT—Information Management Tool
IP—Internet Protocol
IRP—Internet Release Package
ISP—Internet Service Provider
(Added-919SOW) KOM—Knowledge Operations Management
MAJCOM—Major Command
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NCC—Network Control Center
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NNTP—Network News Transfer Protocol
NOSC—Network Operations Security Center
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(919SOW) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
(919SOW) OPSEC—Operation Security
PA—Public Affairs
(919SOW) PA—Privacy Act
PAO—Public Affairs Officer
PAS—Privacy Act Statement
(Added-919SOW) PM—Publication Manager
POC—Point of Contact
(919SOW) POC—Point of Contact
PKI—Public Key Infrastructure
QoL—Quality-of-Life
RCS—Report Control Symbol
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                            37


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
(919SOW) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SSN—Social Security Number
SSL—Secure Sockets Layer
STINFO—Scientific and Technical Information
TCP/IP—Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol
(Added-919SOW) TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
URL—Uniform Resource Locator
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USERID—User Identification
WWW—World Wide Web

Terms
Air Force Link—The official Web information service for the Air Force (http://www.af.mil/).
Air Force Portal Content Manager—plans, designs, coordinates and manages migration
activities and content area. Coordinates publishing activities, approves personnel for content
publisher and content provider access, and ensures a process is in place for posting information
to their respective portal site(s). As a tiered administrator, can create, modify and delete access
groups and can deploy channels, programs and categories. Coordinates web site approvals,
manages organizational application migration to the Air Force Portal. Content management
training lead for their organization. advocate for GCSS-AF portal issues, including content
policy issues, as appropriate for their organizational level. Content managers should be in the
knowledge operations management career field (AFSC 3A0XX or civilian equivalent) whenever
possible.
Air Force Portal Content Provider—authoritative voice for organizational content (e.g. first
hand information, no duplication). Lead on discovery and preparation of Air Force Portal
content; creates and collects content.
Air Force Portal Content Publisher—Organizational focal point for deploying content as
delegated by the content manager. Content Publishers may only have publishing rights to a
specific area on a page. Requests changes to display/content type/new information architecture.
Responsible for revisions, updates and maintenance of portal content. Consults with records
management action officer, but is not responsible for archiving records.
Base Home Page—A public page that is the official base home page for an installation.
 38                                             AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


Client—In networking, a software application that allows the user to access a service from a
server computer (e.g., a server computer on the Internet).
Collaboration—Working together with others to include interaction between individuals with
shared interests or similar goals as well as communication and coordination within and among
commands and organizations essential to planning and conducting military operations.” Military
planning is a classic example of collaborative activity, “…where actors with different functional
and geographic areas of responsibility focus their attention on achieving assigned missions.
Their goals are to create a common (shared) understanding of the situation; take advantage of
their differential knowledge, expertise, information, and capabilities; and organize the activities
they control in time and space such that they will (a) avoid mutual interference and (b) have a
synergistic effect. In other words, they want to plan so their actions will be synchronized.”
Alberts, David S., Garstka, John J., et al., Understanding Information Age Warfare, DoD, CCRP,
August 2001, page 186.
Cookie—In Web browsing, a small text file, called cookie.txt, that is generated by the Web site
and stored on the user’s computer hard disk, ready for future access. On subsequent visits to the
Web site, the Web site reads the cookie from the user’s hard disk. Cookies can be used for a
variety of purposes, such as to recording log-on information, revealing the user’s shopping
preferences, Web sites visited, etc. Cookies can also provide Web sites with personal information
about the user from information stored on the user’s hard drive. Also called first-party cookie.
Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—The officer responsible for
communications and information systems and functions at any Air Force organizational level. At
base level, the “base CSO” is the commander of the communications unit responsible for
carrying out base systems duties, including management of the basewide C4 infrastructure. At
the MAJCOM level, the “MAJCOM CSO” is designated by the MAJCOM commander and is
responsible for the overall management of the MAJCOMs communications and information
assets.
Designated Approving Authority (DAA)—Official with the formal authority to assume
responsibility for operating an automated information system (AIS) or network at some
acceptable level of risk.
Extranet—The private access page aimed towards audiences outside the unit/organization.
File Transfer Protocol (FTP)—A protocol for file transfer between computers; transferring
files efficiently and reliably among computers and allowing the convenient use of remote file
storage capabilities. A transfer protocol used to transfer files from one computer to another.
Firewall—A protection scheme that assists in securing internal systems from external systems.
Government Information Locator Service (GILS)—An effort to identify, locate, and describe
publicly available Federal information resources, including electronic information resources.
GILS records identify public information resources within the Federal Government, describe the
information available in these resources, and assist in obtaining the information. GILS is a
decentralized collection of agency-based information locators using network technology and
international standards to direct users to relevant information resources within the Federal
Government.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                           39


Home Page—A starting point or center of an infostructure on the WWW. A typical home page
will consist of hypertext links (hyperlinks) to other Web documents.
Hyperlink—A way to link access to information of various sources together within a Web
document. A way to connect two Internet resources via a simple word or phrase on which a user
can click to start the connection. Also referred to as a “link.”
Hypertext—A method for storing, retrieving, and presenting information based on the
processing power of computers. Allows computerized linking and almost instantaneous retrieval
of information based on a dynamic index.
Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)—The language used to create WWW pages, with
hyperlinks and markup for text formatting (different heading styles, bold, italic, numbered lists,
insertion of images, etc.).
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)—The protocol most often used to transfer information
from WWW servers to browsers.
Information Provider—The person or organization that provides information for posting on a
Web Page and is responsible for the content, coordination, and classification of that information.
Infostructure—A group of Web documents linked together on one or more servers, usually
providing information concerning a certain subject or idea.
Internet—An informal global collection of government, military, commercial, and educational
computer networks. The global collection of interconnected local, mid-level, and wide area
networks that use IP as the network layer protocol.
Internet Service Provider—A commercial entity providing data connectivity into the Internet.
Intranet—A private network that works like the Web, but is not on it. Usually owned and
managed by an organization, an Intranet enables an activity to share its resources with its
employees without sensitive information available to everyone with Internet access. Intranets
may allow connection outside the Intranet to the Internet through firewall servers and other
security devices that have the ability to screen messages in both directions to maintain the
organization’s security.
Internet Protocol (IP) Spoofing—The use of software to change the address of a data packet to
make it appear to come from another machine. Many network routers use the IP addresses to
identify which machines have valid access rights to the network. Spoofing allows a hacker to
“change his identity” and appear as a valid machine within the network. Foil spoofing by using a
filtering router that drops “outside” packets with an “inside” source address.
Link—Used interchangeably with hyperlink.
Military Controlled Access Paths—Unclassified networks or “links” that are leased,
configured, managed, and secured by a government agency. This includes the NIPRNET-Air
Force as well as dedicated links that have a node on the base network.
Mobile Code—Software modules obtained from remote systems, transferred across a network,
and then downloaded and executed on local systems without explicit installation or execution by
the recipient.
 40                                               AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP)—Also known as Usenet, specifies a protocol for the
distribution, inquiry, retrieval, and posting of news articles using a reliable stream-based
transmission of news among the Internet community. NNTP is designed so that news articles are
stored in a central database, allowing a subscriber to select only those items he wishes to read.
Indexing, cross-referencing, and expiration of aged messages are also provided.
Personally—Identifying Information—Information that includes, but is not limited to: name,
e-mail. IP address, postal address, and/or telephone number, that can be used to identify an
individual.
PKI Certificate—A digital representation of information that binds the user’s identification with
the user’s public key in a trusted manner. At a minimum, this information (1) identifies the
certification authority issuing it, (2) names or identifies its user, (3) contains the user’s public
key, (4) identifies its operational period, and (5) is digitally signed by the certification authority
issuing it.
Private Information—Applies to information approved for a limited audience. This information
has added safeguards that restrict access to a specific group or groups. The Information Provider
must determine the appropriate security and access controls required to safeguard the
information.
Private Pages—Web pages intended for viewing by a limited audience.
Private Web Server—A Web server designed for and/or provides information resources limited
to a particular audience (i.e., DOD) or a subset thereof. (This includes Web servers that provide
interfaces to e-mail systems.) A private Web server restricts or attempts to restrict general public
access to it. The means of restriction are userid and/or password authentication, encryption (i.e.,
PKI certificates), and physical isolation. Consider any DOD operated Web server that provides
any information resources not intended for the general public a private Web server and subject to
this policy.
Proxy Server—A server that acts as a bridge to the Internet through which all incoming and
outgoing requests go through. Used to enhance security, access control and increase
performance/efficiency. A server that provides access to files from other servers by retrieving
them either from its local cache or from the remote server.
Public Information—Information approved for unlimited public release. Public information has
no access or security controls to limit access to the information. This review determines degree
of releasability only; actual release of the material is the decision of the Information Provider.
Public Pages—Web pages intended for viewing by the general public.
Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO)—Includes all technical publications and
documents generated by all Air Force-funded research development, test, and evaluation
programs, including working papers, memoranda, and preliminary reports, that DOD could
decide to disseminate to the public domain. It also encompasses engineering drawings, standards,
specifications, technical manuals, blueprints, plans, instructions, computer software and
documentation, photographs, technical orders, databases, and any other information that is of
usable or adaptable design to, engineer, produce, manufacture, operate, repair, overhaul, or
reproduce any military or space equipment or technology concerning that equipment. It applies
to recordings. It does not apply to cryptographic and communications security documents,
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                            41


communications and electronic intelligence, and other categories that the Director, National
Security Agency, or the Chief, Central Intelligence Agency designates.
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)—A protocol from Netscape Communications Corporation, which
is designed to provide secure communications on the Internet.
Server—A hardware platform (computer) that houses software providing service to other
computers or programs to satisfy client requests and needs.
Third—Party Cookies—In Web browsing, a cookie generated by a Web site other than the one
the user is viewing, such as an advertiser that is present at the Web site being viewed.
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP)—The most accurate name for the
set of protocols known as the “Internet Protocol Suite.” TCP and IP are the two protocols in this
suite. Because TCP and IP are the best known of the protocols, it has become common to use the
term TCP/IP. TCP (the “transmission control protocol”) is responsible for breaking up the
message into datagrams, reassembling them at the other end, resending anything that is lost, and
putting things back in the right order. IP (the “Internet Protocol”) is responsible for routing
individual datagrams.
Trojan Horse—A malicious program designed to break security or damage a system that is
disguised as something else benign, such as a directory list, archive, a game, or a program to find
and destroy viruses.
Unauthorized Web Site—An Internet We b site to which access through the use of US
government-owned computers and/or networks is prohibited by US law or by DOD and Air
Force directives.
Uniform Resource Locators (URL)—(formerly Universal Resource Locator)—An Internet
address which tells a browser where to find an Internet resource. For example, the URL for
Computer User is http://www.computeruser.com/.
Web Browser—Software that acts as an interface between the client and the Internet, allowing a
person to retrieve information from various sources on the WWW.
Web Document—A physical or logical piece of information on the WWW.
Web Master—The person(s) or team responsible for developing the overall corporate structure,
business rules, operation, and maintenance of Web pages contained within their site structure,
according to all applicable laws and instructions.
Web Page—One page of a document on the World Wide Web. A Web page is usually a file
written in HTML, stored on a server. A Web page usually has links to other Web pages. Each
Web page has its own address called a Uniform Resource Locator (URL), in the form
http://www.computeruser.com.
Web Page Maintainer—The creator and/or focal point for the organization’s Web pages.
Web Server—A software/hardware combination that provides information resources to the
WWW.
Web Server Administrator—The person(s) or team who provides the syst em administration,
maintenance, configuration management, security, and backup and recovery for Web servers.
 42                                             AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


Web Site—A server computer that makes documents available on the World Wide Web. Each
Web site is identified by a hostname.
Workgroup Manager (WM)—The persons certified and appointed under AFI 33-115, Volume
2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals, that are the unit focal points
for communications and information activities and provide technical and information
management support to their respective units/offices.
World Wide Web (WWW) or Web—The subset of the Internet capable of providing the public
with user-friendly graphics-based multimedia access to information on the Internet. It is the most
popular means for storing and linking Internet-based information in all multi-media formats.
Navigation is accomplished through a set of linked documents that may reside on the same
computer or on computers located almost anywhere else in the world. It uses the Internet as its
transport media and is a collection of protocols and standards that allow the user to find
information available on the Internet by using hypertext and/or hypermedia documents.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                 43


                                            Attachment 2
  SAMPLE FORMAT FOR INTERNET RELEASE PACKAGE (IRP) AND SAMPLE
 FORMAT FOR PRIVATE WEB PAGE COORDINATION/APPROVAL CHECKLIST

Page Title:
Date:

Section I: Web page must meet the following requirements for posting information on private
Web pages: (If No, explain on reverse)
1. Comply with copyright restrictions. (2.2.5.) (6.7.)
2. Contain accurate/current information. (3.14.5.) (3.15.2.) (6.)
3. Links are recently validated. (3.14.3.) (5.2.1.) (6.1.1.3.) (6.3.1.5.-SIPRNET)
4. Proper access and security controls are in place and operational. (3.12.1.) (5.1.2.) (7.2.) (12.1.1.)
(12.6.)
5. Pages are not used to promote personal/commercial gain, or endorse commercial products or
service. (5.2.2.) (5.2.3.) (6.6.) (8.5.1.)
6. Pages do not contain, link to, or promote obscene/offensive material. (2.2.3.)
7. Pages do not store/process classified material or critical indicator on nonapproved systems.
(2.2.4.)
8. Pages do not violate vendors’ license agreements. (2.2.10.) (6.7.)
9. Pages are not copies of other sources on the Internet. (10.)
10. Pages do not display incomplete paths or “Under Construction” pages. (3.13.2.) (6.)
11. Each page displays required warning notices and banners. (6.1.2.2.) (7.2.)
12. The top-level page contains Web Page Maintainer’s organization, office symbol, commercial
telephone number, DSN phone number, organizational e-mail address, and meets the minimum
requirements. (6.1.)
13. Privacy Act and For Official Use Only information password and ID protected. (Table 2.). If
names and/or e-mail addresses are posted, has the local commander authorized posting and risk
assessment been accomplished?
14. If applicable, is DOD contractor proprietary information password and ID protected? (Table
1.)
15. Critical information (sensitive mission data that by itself is unclassified, but when combined
with other available data, may reveal classified information) is not displayed or linked on this
page. The information has been reviewed for OPSEC releasability. (8.1.4.4.)
16. Complies with Privacy Act requirements. Do not post personal information on Private Web
pages unless it is mission essential, falls under one of the Privacy Act exceptions for disclosing
to third parties without consent of the subject, and appropriate safeguards are established. Add
appropriate Privacy Act Statements or Privacy Advisories to pages that collect personally-
identifying information and personal information from the subject (individual) that is filed in a
Privacy Act system of record. (3.15.3.)
17. Does the Web site/page comply with Title 42, U.S.C., Section 508, Rehabilitation Act of
1998? The standards may be obtained from the official Section 508 Web site at
http://www.section508.gov. (3.12.8.) (3.14.8.)

Section II: This certifies that this Web page complies with AFI 33-129.
 44                                   AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013



Signature:                          Date:


Web Page Maintainer:
Information Provider:                                                        Unit OP
Base Contracting (if applicable):                                            Foreign
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                45


                                            Attachment 3
     SAMPLE FORMAT FOR PUBLIC WEB PAGE COORDINATION/APPROVAL
                            CHECKLIST

Page Title: Date:
Section I: Take extreme care when considering information for release onto publicly accessible
sites. Owners and/or releasers of information proposed for such release must ensure that it is not
susceptible to compilation with other information to render sensitive or even classified data in the
aggregate. Assess the search and data mining capabilities of Web technology from a risk
management perspective. If there are any doubts, do not release the information! Web pages must
meet the following requirements for posting information on public access pages: (If No, explain
on reverse)
1. Comply with copyright restrictions. (2.2.5.) (6.7.)
2. Contain accurate/current information. (3.14.5.) (3.15.2.) (6.)
3. Links are recently validated. (3.14.3.) (5.2.1.) (6.2.1.4.)
4. Proper access and security controls are in place and operational. (3.12.1.) (7.1.) (8.1.) (12.1.1.)
(12.6.)
5. Pages are not used to promote personal/commercial gain, or endorse commercial products or
service. (5.2.2.) (5.2.3.) (6.6.) (8.5.1.)
6. Pages do not contain, link to, or promote obscene/offensive material. (2.2.3.)
7. Pages do not store/process classified material or critical indicator on nonapproved systems.
(2.2.4.)
8. Pages do not violate vendors’ license agreements. (2.2.10.) (6.7.)
9. Pages are not copies of other sources on the Internet. (10.)
10. Pages do not display incomplete paths or “Under Construction” pages. (3.13.2.) (6.)
11. Each home page displays required warning notices and banners. (6.2.2.3.) (7.1.)
12. Each unit or organizational top-level page contains organization name and shield,
organization office symbol, commercial telephone number, organizational e-mail address, and
meets the minimum requirements. (6.2.)
13. Pages do not provide a list of names and/or individual e-mail addresses that are exempt from
release under the FOIA. (NOTE: One e-mail address required for legitimate inquiries or page
maintenance is acceptable; however organizational/generic e-mail addresses for this use are
encouraged). (6.5.)
14. Pages do not contain information that has value to only military and government agencies.
(8.1.2.2.)
15. Pages do not contain hyperlinks to information outside functional area Web Page
Maintainer’s mission. (5.2.1.) (5.2.2.4.)
16. Pages do not contain links to or reference private access Web pages. (6.9.1.)
 46                                              AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013



17. Pages comply with the Privacy Act and include Privacy Act statements and Privacy
advisories when soliciting information from individuals? Public pages do not contain personal
information unless clearly authorized by law and AFI 33-332. (3.8.8.) (3.9.1.2.) (3.15.3.) (7.1.1.)
(7.1.2.) (7.1.3.) (8.1.4.2.1.)
18. Does the Privacy and Security notice include cookie disclaimer? No persistent or third party
cookies used? (3.8.8.8) (7.1.4.9.) (9.)
19. Pages do not contain FOUO information (information exempt from release under the FOIA
according to DOD 5400.7RIAF Supplement 1? (3.8.7.) (8.1.4.2.)
20. Pages do not contain DOD contractor proprietary information. (8.1.4.2.2.)
21. Pages do not contain Unclassified Scientific and Technical Information private by AFI 61-
204. (8.1.4.2.3.)
22. Pages do not contain unclassified information requiring special handling according to AFI
33-113. (8.1.4.3.)
23. Ensure pages do not contain AFI 10-1101 critical information (sensitive mission data that by
itself is unclassified, but when combined with other available data, may reveal classified
information). (8.1.4.4.)
24. Ensure pages do not contain any classification or markings. (8.1.)
25. Does the Website/page comply with Title 42, U.S.C., Section 508, Rehabilitation Act of
1998? The standards may be obtained from the official Section 508 Web site at
http://www.section508.gov. (3.12.8.) (3.14.8.) (6.9.)
26. Ensure the Notice and Consent banner is placed on each Web page.

Section II: This certifies that this Web page complies with AFI 33-129.
Signature:                                Date


Web Page Maintainer:                                                                                  Informat
                                                                                                       Base C
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                                                            47


                                          Attachment 4
   SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER UNIT/ORGANIZATIONAL LETTERHEAD

                                                                                               Date


FROM: Unit/Organizational Commander (Web Master)
2 or 3 letter directorate/division chief (Web Page Maintainer)


TO: Base/Installation


SUBJ: Appointment Letter


1. The following named personnel are appointed (Web Master or Web Page Maintainer) to
perform the duties of this position.

NAME               RANK             OFFICE SYM                   DUTY PHONE

Primary
Alternate


2. The above named personnel have received the technical training required for the position.
(Ref: AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use)




                                         Signature block
        Unit/organization Attachments: training certificates (subject matter, security)
 48                                        AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013


                                     Attachment 5
                   INTERNET RELEASE PROCESS FLOW CHART

A5.1. Baloney.

Figure A5.1. Internet Release Process Flow Chart.
AFI33-129_919SOWSUP_I 28 AUGUST 2013                         49


                                     Attachment 6
            PUBLIC/PRIVATE PAGE REVIEW PROCESS FLOWCHART

Figure A6.1. Public/Private Page Review Process Flowchart.
