BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-1203
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     1 MAY 1996
                                                                    VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                            3 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE GRIEVANCE SYSTEM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFPOA/DPW                                            Certified by: AFPOA/DP (Mr Steve N.
                                                                                       Smith)
Supersedes:    AFR 40-771, 17 June 1985.                                            Pages: 10
                                         (VANCEAFB)
OPR: 71 FSS/FSMC                                               Certified by: 71 FSS/CL (Diane L.
                                                                                      McCurdy)
                                                                                         Pages:4


This instruction implements AFPD 36-12, Dispute Resolution, and Department of Defense
Civilian Personnel Manual Subchapter 771, The Administrative Grievance System. This
instruction contains the Air Force system for considering employee grievances. It reflects the
policies of the Secretary of the Air Force concerning matters that are discretionary with the Air
Force. It applies to US citizen employees of the Air Force who are paid from appropriated funds
and who are either nonbargaining unit employees or bargaining unit employees in a unit where
no collective bargaining agreement has been negotiated or where the negotiated procedure
excludes the matters at issue. It also applies to supervisors, civilian personnel officers, career
Senior Executive Service (SES) and Senior Intelligence Executive Service (SIES) members,
Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System (CIPMS) employees, and other
management officials of the Air Force. It applies to civilian employees of the Air National
Guard and Air Force Reserve, except it does not apply to Air National Guard Technicians
administered by the National Guard Bureau under Title 32, U.S.C. Section 709. It does not
apply to employees of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service. It does not apply to applicants
for employment. It also does not apply to matters which employees may appeal to the Merit
Systems Protection Board or matters that are covered by AFI 36-1201, Discrimination
Complaints.
 2                                          AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012


(VANCEAFB) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 36-12, Dispute Resolution, 27 September 1993, and Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 36-1203, Administrative Grievance System, 1 May 1996. It prescribes the local policies
and procedures for administering the civilian administrative grievance process on Vance Air
Force Base (AFB). It applies to all appropriated fund civilian employees serviced by the Civilian
Personnel Section, Vance AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.            Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the        AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847
from the field through the Vance AFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is
prescribed in     AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication
for guidance on filling out the form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised throughout.

Section A—Authorities and Responsibilities

1. HQ USAF. The Air Force Personnel Operations Agency, Work Force Appeals and Relations
Division (AFPOA/DPW) provides overall Air Force guidance on the administrative grievance
system.
2. Major Command (MAJCOM). The MAJCOM director of civilian personnel will designate
a principal point of contact for administrative grievances for subordinate installations and with
AFPOA/DPW.
3. Commanders. Installation commanders or their designee(s), except as provided below, will
make final written decisions on grievances. This includes decisions on the rejection and
cancellation of grievances.
          The deciding official must be at a higher organizational level than any person involved
           in the grievance or having a direct interest in the matter being grieved. If to meet this
           requirement, it is necessary to elevate the grievance above base level, the deciding
           official will be an individual in the next higher management level in the grieving
           employee’s chain of command.
          Grievances filed by employees of a tenant organization will be decided by an official
           in the grievant’s chain of command, except where the grievance concerns matters
           outside the authority of that chain of command.
          Grievances filed concerning career program issues will be processed in accordance
           with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-606, Volume 1, Air Force Civilian Career
           Program Management, Section H, Grievances and Complaints, paragraph 1.45.
           Settlement agreements involving career program policies or positions must be in
           compliance with AFMAN 36-606, Volume 1, Section H, paragraph 1.46.
AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012                                                        3


   3.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) The deciding official for formal grievances filed by
   appropriated fund employees located on Vance AFB has been designated as the squadron
   commander of the individual filing the grievance. If the grievance involves the squadron
   commander, the grievance will be referred to the next higher organization level in the
   employee’s chain of command at which point it will not be referred higher. In tenant
   organizations, the deciding official is the organizational commander.
4. Civilian Personnel Flights. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPFs), in conjunction with
management, shall develop their own procedures in accordance with the system outlined in this
AFI. CPFs provide policy direction and technical advice to management; serve as principal
advisors to deciding officials and supervisors; assist them in processing and resolving
grievances; publicize the grievance process to employees; and advise employees regarding
grievance procedures.

Section B—Administrative Grievance System (AGS) General Provisions

5. Matters Covered and Those Excluded. The Air Force AGS establishes a process under
which an employee or a group of employees acting as individuals, may request personal relief in
any matter of concern or dissatisfaction relating to the employment of the employee(s) which is
subject to the control of Air Force management. Grievances do not include any matters that are
subject to review outside the Air Force or for which other authorized complaint or appeal
systems, such as the Merit Systems Protection Board or the Inspector General (IG), are
prescribed. See Section E for subject matter coverage which lists other excluded matters.
6. Representation Rights. Air Force employees are entitled to present grievances,
communicate with management officials and their servicing CPF; and represent themselves, or
be represented by someone of their choosing. The representative may accompany the employee
or may act for the employee without the employee’s presence. If the employee elects
representation, he or she must designate the representation in writing and must notify
management in writing of any change in that designation of representation. The choice of
representative may be denied if it would result in a conflict of interest, conflict with mission
priorities, or result in unreasonable costs. Employees must be notified in writing, as soon as
possible, after the decision of any disallowance of representation and provided rationale for the
disallowance.
7. Use of Official Time. Employees and their representatives will be allowed, upon request, a
reasonable amount of duty time, if otherwise in a duty status, to prepare and present a grievance.
Determinations of what constitutes a reasonable amount of duty time will be based on the facts
and circumstances of each case. Additional time may be granted to the employee, upon request,
when it is practical and reasonable.
   7.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) Each employee is entitled to a reasonable amount of official
   time for grievance preparation. The standard is up to 4 hours per grievance. A request for
   use of official time must be submitted in advance to the employee’s immediate supervisor for
   approval. If more time is required, the employee must coordinate with the employee’s
   immediate supervisor.
8. Local Procedures. Installation commanders and management officials with delegated
appointing authority, with the assistance of the CPF, may tailor the AGS to meet local needs,
 4                                          AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012


such as specification of deciding officials, time frames for holding grievances in abeyance, and
organization or individual designated for review of grievance decisions. Matters excluded from
grievance coverage by DoD and this AFI may not be changed unless approved by DoD. Neither
may the types of employees covered by the AGS be changed. Processing time limits, as stated in
this AFI, must also be observed.
9. Grievance Files. Activities must establish a grievance file whenever a formal grievance is
filed. Upon request, the grievance file shall be made available to the grievant and/or the
grievant’s representative for review. The file shall contain all official documents or copies of
documents related to the grievance. Grievance files will be retained for four years in accordance
with applicable laws, regulations, and records retention schedules.

Section C—Administrative Grievance Procedure

10. Informal Dispute Resolution Process. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) techniques,
such as mediation, peer review panels, facilitation, and settlement conferences, should be utilized
to the maximum extent possible with the consent of the parties to the dispute. ADR reduces the
time and costs of settling disputes and empowers deciding officials to resolve issues in
controversy more creatively and expeditiously. ADR may be invoked at any stage of the
grievance process; however, it is most successful when initiated early or when the dispute is
raised. Information about ADR should be made available to the parties.
     10.1. An employee may seek informal resolution of a matter before filing a formal
     grievance, unless the matter involves an action that was effected through a notice of proposed
     action, a right to answer, and a notice of final decision.
        10.1.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) Supervisors must attempt to resolve grievances
        informally and participate in Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedures. If the
        employee has elected to utilize ADR, the Employee Management Relations Specialist
        will contact the ADR representative (within 5 calendar days) to request a mediation on
        the parties' behalf. The ADR representative will then facilitate the remainder of the
        actions required.
     10.2. The employee initially shall present the matter either orally or in writing, to the
     immediate supervisor. If the matter involves an action taken by, or a relationship with, that
     supervisor, the matter may be presented to the next level supervisor. The employee must
     clearly advise the supervisor of the basis of the matter and the personal relief or remedy
     sought.
     10.3. The supervisor must consider the employee’s problem and should not reject the
     grievance for any reason. However, if the supervisor believes the matter is not covered by
     the AGS or is untimely, the supervisor should inform the employee. The employee must be
     allowed to subsequently submit a formal grievance on the matter if so desired.
     10.4. The supervisor to whom the grievance has been submitted must attempt to resolve it
     and provide a written decision within 15 calendar days (but no later than 30 calendar days)
     from the date the matter is raised. If the initial 15 day time limit cannot be met, the
     supervisor shall inform the employee (and the employee’s representative) in writing of the
     date by which a decision will be received.
AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012                                                         5


   10.5. If the matter is not resolved in the informal stage, the supervisor should inform the
   employee of the procedures for filing a formal grievance when conveying the decision to the
   employee. The employee should also be given the name of the CPF representative or union
   official, as appropriate, who can advise the employee regarding procedures for requesting
   further grievance consideration.
11. Formal Grievance Resolution Process.
   11.1. An employee may file a formal written grievance if the matter is not resolved in the
   informal process (e.g., the requested relief is not granted or management’s time limit expired
   with no decision) or where the employee chooses to bypass the informal process and initially
   file a grievance.
   11.2. The employee shall file the grievance in writing with the locally designated deciding
   official. The grievance must be signed, dated, and contain a sufficiently detailed statement of
   the specific issue(s) and the personal relief sought; a statement that the employee has not
   filed an appeal or complaint (such as an IG or an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
   complaint) on the same issue; copies of any documents in the employee’s possession related
   to the grievance; and the name, address, and telephone number of the employee’s
   representative, when applicable. Identical issues raised by the employee in any other
   grievance, appeal, or complaint are not grievable under this procedure.
      11.2.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) All formal grievances will be filed with the 71st Force
      Support Squadron Civilian Personnel Section, 71 FSS/FSMC, Attention: Employee
      Management Relations, 246 Brown Parkway, Suite 124, Vance AFB, OK 73705-5011.
      After initial review, the Employee Management Relations Specialist will create the case
      file consisting of the written grievance and background materials and forward the formal
      grievance to the appropriate deciding official in the employee’s chain of command
   11.3. Identical or similar grievances may be joined and processed together provided this
   does not adversely affect the rights of any employee and joint processing is more effective
   and efficient. Grievances are identical and similar when the concerns expressed and the relief
   requested are identical or similar.
   11.4. The deciding official shall issue a final written decision which shall respond to all
   issues and shall provide the reasons for the decision. If the grievance is canceled or rejected,
   the deciding official should also give the reasons in writing for the decision. Deciding
   officials must be assigned to an organizational level higher than any employee involved in
   the grievance or having a direct interest in the matter being grieved unless the deciding
   official is the Secretary of the Air Force. The decision is final and not subject to review.
   However, an employee may request review of the following: a decision to reject, cancel, or
   otherwise terminate a grievance without a decision on its merits; a decision that did not grant
   the relief sought when the grievance involved a suspension without pay; or any other
   decisions as established by local procedures.
   11.5. Deciding officials shall determine:
      11.5.1. The disposition of issue(s) which may arise in the processing of a grievance, such
      as whether to cancel or suspend processing of all or a portion of a grievance.
      11.5.2. Whether the parties are willing to attempt an ADR procedure.
6                                             AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012


        11.5.3. Whether to require an impartial investigation. Note: This is recommended when
        the grievance concerns the separation or removal of a CIPMS employee or a
        suspension without pay.
        11.5.4. Whether to allow the grievant’s choice of representative.
        11.5.5. Which issue(s) shall be investigated if the grievance is accepted.
        11.5.6. How much duty time shall be granted to the employee and the employee’s
        representative.
    11.6. The deciding official may investigate the grievance. The official may also designate a
    fact-finder or select an investigator from the DoD Office of Complaint Investigations (OCI).
    The fact-finder or investigator must not have been involved in the grievance or have a direct
    interest in the matter being grieved. The official shall also decide the scope of the
    investigation, i.e., whether to require a report of fact, a report of facts with analysis, or report
    of fact with analysis and recommendations.
    11.7. Requests for review by the grievant (as allowed in paragraph 11.4) are sent directly to
    the reviewer for a decision. Local procedures may specify that this review may be done by
    the Air Force Civilian Appellate Review Office (AFCARO) or by a deciding official at a
    higher organization level than the official who made the initial decision. Note: Review by
    AFCARO is recommended in cases involving suspensions without pay or for removal,
    reduction in grade or pay, or furlough for 30 days or less of a CIPMS employee.
    Employees should be notified of their review options, if any, by the deciding official.
        11.7.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) The deciding official’s decision is final. EXCEPTION:
        Actions involving suspensions for more than 14 days, removals, and reduction in grade or
        pay will be forwarded to the Air Force Civilian Appellate Review Office (AFCARO) for
        a decision.
    11.8. A grievance or a portion of the grievance may be canceled or temporarily suspended:
        11.8.1. At the grievant’s request (cancel or suspend processing the grievance as
        requested).
        11.8.2. If the subject matter of the grievance is excluded (cancel the grievance or that
        portion of the grievance containing excluded matters and advise the employee of any
        other appropriate forum for resolving the excluded issues).
        11.8.3. Because the grievant failed to provide sufficient detail to clearly identify the
        matter being grieved or specify the personal relief requested (cancel the grievance or
        suspend processing the grievance until the deficiency is corrected).
        11.8.4. Where the grievance requests disciplinary or other detrimental action be taken
        against another employee (cancel that portion of the grievance).
        11.8.5. If the grievant fails to comply with established time frames (cited in paragraphs
        12.1 and 12.2) or procedures (cancel the grievance if time frames are not met or - if
        otherwise procedurally deficient, cancel the grievance or suspend processing the
        grievance until the deficiency is corrected).
AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012                                                        7


      11.8.6. Where the grievant files a formal appeal, complaint or other challenge on the
      same matter under the AGS or under another formal dispute resolution process identified
      above (cancel that portion of the grievance pending or resolved in another process).
   11.9. When an employee alleges discrimination based upon race, color, religion, sex,
   national origin, physical or mental disability, or age, in connection with a grievance, the
   deciding official will hold the grievance in abeyance and refer the allegation of
   discrimination to the activity’s Chief Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Counselor. The
   official will notify the employee, the employee’s representative, and the CPF in writing of
   the referral. If the grievant withdraws the allegations of discrimination and requests further
   processing under the AGS, the deciding official will resume processing the grievance and
   notify all parties in writing. If the grievant files a formal discrimination complaint, or does
   not withdraw the allegations of discrimination in the grievance and requests further
   processing under the AGS, the grievance will be canceled by the deciding official.
12. Time Frames.
   12.1. If the employee uses the informal dispute resolution process, he/she must raise the
   matter no later than 15 calendar days following the date of the act or event creating the
   problem or the date the employee became aware of (or reasonably should have become aware
   of) the act or event. An employee may present a matter of concern regarding a continuing
   practice or condition at anytime. If the informal dispute resolution process is not successful
   in resolving the employee’s concerns, the employee must file a formal grievance no later that
   15 calendar days after the mediation or other ADR process concluded or a decision was
   rendered on the informal grievance.
   12.2. If the employee does not use the informal dispute resolution process, the employee
   must raise a matter within 15 calendar days following the date of the act or event creating the
   problem, or the date the employee became aware of (or reasonably should have become
   aware of) the act or event. An employee may present a matter of concern regarding a
   continuing practice or condition at anytime.
   12.3. The deciding official shall thoroughly and fairly consider the formal grievance and
   issue a written decision as soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days from the filing
   of the grievance. The deciding official may extend time frames when warranted by special
   circumstances (i.e. when those involved are geographically dispersed or when a third party
   fact-finder is used in the process). If extensions are used, a grievance decision must be
   issued no later than 90 calendar days from the filing or 120 calendar days from the filing if a
   third party fact-finder is utilized, i.e. an examiner from OCI. The 120 calendar days time
   limit may be extended only when OCI is unable to schedule and complete the grievance
   examination during this period. In that case, a decision will be rendered no later than 30
   calendar days after receipt of the OCI report.
   12.4. When calculating time limits under the AGS, the day of an action or receipt of a
   document is not counted. The latest day of the time limit is counted unless it is a Saturday, a
   Sunday, a legal holiday, or day on which the employee is not regularly scheduled to work. In
   those cases, the last day of the time limit shall be moved to the next regularly scheduled
   workday.

Section D—Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System (CIPMS) Employees
 8                                          AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012


13. CIPMS (Title 10, U.S. Code, Section 1590) Employees. Non-preference eligible CIPMS
employees who have completed one year of continuous service in the same or similar positions
within DoD under other than a temporary appointment limited to two years or less, may grieve
their removal, suspension, reduction in grade or pay, or furlough for 30 days or less. This
provision does not apply to terminations for national security reasons under Section 1590(e)(1)
of Title 10, United States Code. Activities should normally conduct an impartial hearing in
removal cases. Such hearings may be conducted by OCI or another independent fact-finding
party.

Section E—Subject Matter Coverage

14. Matters Excluded. Any employment matter may be grieved under this procedure except
for the following:
     14.1. The content of established agency regulations (Air Force Instructions) and policy.
     14.2. Any matter covered by a negotiated grievance procedure or subject to formal review
     and adjudication by the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Office of Personnel
     Management, the Federal Labor Relations Authority, or the Equal Employment Opportunity
     Commission or any matter that the employee files under another review process or
     reconsideration procedure, or dispute resolution process (e.g. classification appeals) within
     the DoD.
     14.3. Non-selection for promotion from a group of properly ranked and certified candidates
     or failure to receive a non-competitive promotion.
     14.4. Preliminary notice of an action that, if effected, would be covered under the Air Force
     appeal or grievance systems or adjudication by the agencies cited in paragraph 14.2.
     14.5. The substance of performance standards, elements and or work objectives.
     14.6. The granting of, or failure to grant a performance award or the adoption of, or failure
     to adopt a suggestion or invention under 5 CFR Part 451. The receipt of or failure to receive
     a performance award under 5 U.S.C. 5384, performance awards in the SES/SIES. The
     receipt of or failure to receive a quality step increase under 5 U.S.C. 5336.
     14.7. The payment of, failure to pay, or the amount of a recruitment bonus, a relocation
     bonus, a retention allowance, or a supervisory differential under 5 CFR Part 575 or 10 U.S.C.
     1590. The payment of, or failure to pay, or the amount of critical position pay under 5
     U.S.C. 5377; or the failure to request or grant an exception to the dual compensation
     restrictions under 5 CFR 575 or 10 U.S.C. 1590.
     14.8. Any action taken under a voluntary formal agreement entered into by an employee
     involving geographic relocation or return from an overseas assignment.
     14.9. The termination of a probationer.
     14.10. The return of an employee serving a probationary period as a supervisor or manager
     to a nonsupervisory or nonmanagerial position for failure to satisfactorily complete the
     probationary period.
     14.11. The separation or termination of an employee during a trial period.
AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012                                                   9


  14.12. Reassignment of a SES/SIES member following receipt of an unsatisfactory rating.
  Also return of a SES/SIES member to another pay system during the one-year period of
  probation or for less than fully successful executive performance, and failure to be
  recertified, conditional recertification, or termination during probation for unacceptable
  performance.
  14.13. The termination or expiration of a term or temporary appointment or promotion,
  whether in the competitive or excepted service, in accordance with conditions of the
  appointment or promotion provided the employee was informed in advance of the temporary
  nature of the appointment or promotion and is returned to his or her former or equivalent
  position if temporarily promoted.
  14.14. SES/SIES performance evaluations and awards (including meritorious               or
  distinguished executive rank awards) and SES/SIES or Senior Level pay rate changes.
  14.15. A separation or termination action from a permanent position, except as provided for
  in paragraph 13.




                                          MICHAEL D. McGINTY, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Personnel

                                          (VANCEAFB)

                                          MICHAEL B. McDANIEL, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 71st Mission Support Group
 10                                  AFI36-1203_VANCEAFBSUP_I 3 December 2012


                         Attachment 1 (Added-VANCEAFB)
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
(VANCEAFB) AFPD 36-12, Dispute Resolution, 27 September 1993
(VANCEAFB) AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008
(VANCEAFB) AFI 36-1203, Administrative Grievance System, 1 May 1996
(VANCEAFB) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
(VANCEAFB) Adopted Forms:
(VANCEAFB) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(VANCEAFB)ADR—Alternative Dispute Resolution
(VANCEAFB)AF—Air Force
(VANCEAFB)AFB—Air Force Base
(VANCEAFB)AFCARO—Air Force Civilian Appellate Review Office
(VANCEAFB)AFI—Air Force Instruction
(VANCEAFB)AFMAN—Air Force Manual
(VANCEAFB)AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(VANCEAFB)AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
(VANCEAFB)FMP—Flight Manuals Program
(VANCEAFB)OK—Oklahoma
(VANCEAFB)OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(VANCEAFB)RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
