                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                             HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                         WASHINGTON, DC




                                                                      AFI 36-2909_AFGM2014-01
                                                                                  19 JUNE 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM HQ USAF JAG
     1040 Air Force Pentagon
     Washington DC 20330-1040

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional
         Relationships

        By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Air Force Guidance Memorandum
immediately changes AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships. Compliance
with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air
Force publications, the information herein prevails in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management.

        This Air Force Guidance Memorandum establishes command, supervisory and personal
responsibilities in prohibiting retaliation against an alleged victim or other member of the Armed
Forces (hereafter, military members) for reporting a criminal offense. Retaliation against
individuals who report criminal offenses is unlawful and erodes good order, discipline, respect for
authority, unit cohesion and ultimately mission accomplishment. It is the responsibility of
commanders and supervisors at all levels to ensure compliance with this instruction. The policy set
out in this instruction applies to all active duty members and to members of the United States Air
Force Reserve (USAFR) and Air National Guard (ANG), except as provided in paragraph 3.8.
Military members, including Reserve members on active duty or inactive duty for training and ANG
members in Federal service, who violate the specific prohibitions contained in paragraph 11 of this
instruction can be prosecuted under either Article 92 or Article 134 of the Uniform code of Military
Justice (UCMJ), or both, as well as any other applicable Article of the UCMJ, as appropriate.

(ADD New) Preamble. Military members, including Reserve members on active duty or inactive
duty for training and ANG members in Federal service, who violate the specific prohibitions
contained in paragraph 11 of this instruction can be prosecuted under either Article 92 or Article
134 of the Uniform code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or both, as well as any other applicable Article
of the UCMJ, as appropriate.

(ADD New) 11. Prohibition on Retaliation. Military members shall not retaliate against an
alleged victim or other military member who reports a criminal offense.
(ADD New) 11.1. Retaliation. Retaliation is taking or threatening to take an adverse personnel
action, or withholding or threatening to withhold a favorable personnel action, with respect to a
military member because the member reported a criminal offense.

(ADD New) 11.2. Ostracism. Ostracism, which is a form of retaliation under this instruction, is
the exclusion, from social acceptance, privilege or friendship with the intent to discourage reporting
of a criminal offense or otherwise discourage the due administration of justice.

(ADD New) 11.3. Maltreatment. Maltreatment, which is a form of retaliation under this
instruction, is treatment by peers or by other persons, that, when viewed objectively under all the
circumstances, is abusive or otherwise unnecessary for any lawful purpose, that is done with the
intent to discourage reporting of a criminal offense or otherwise discourage the due administration
of justice, and that results in physical or mental harm or suffering, or reasonably could have caused,
physical or mental harm or suffering. Maltreatment under this instruction is prohibited by the
National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2014, Section 1709(b), and does not require a
senior-subordinate relationship as is required for maltreatment under Article 93, UCMJ.

(ADD New) 11.4. Personnel Action. Any action taken on a military member that affects or has
the potential to affect that military member’s current position or career. Such actions include a
promotion; a disciplinary or other corrective action; a transfer or reassignment; a performance
evaluation; a decision on pay, benefits, awards or training; and any other significant change in
duties or responsibilities inconsistent with the military member’s grade.

(ADD New) 11.5. Member of the Armed Forces (Military Member). Included in this definition
are active-duty military personnel, and ARC personnel when performing active duty, full-time
National Guard duty, or inactive duty training.

(ADD New) 11.6. Criminal Offense. An act or omission punishable under the UCMJ, or other
federal, state or local criminal law.

(ADD New) 12. Individual Responsibility to Refrain from Engaging in Retaliation. All
military members share the responsibility to refrain from retaliating against an alleged victim or
other military member who reports a criminal offense.

(ADD New) 13. Commander and Supervisory Responsibilities to Prevent Retaliation.
Commanders and supervisors at all levels have the authority and responsibility to ensure
subordinates do not retaliate against an alleged victim or other military member who reports a
criminal offense. Commanders and supervisors have a duty to prevent retaliation and may be held
accountable for failing to act in appropriate cases.

(ADD New) 14. Actions in Response to Retaliation. A commander or supervisor must take
appropriate action if it is reasonable to believe retaliation has occurred. At a minimum, the member
or members suspected of engaging in retaliation will be ordered to cease from engaging in any
further retaliation. As soon as practicable, the alleged victim, or other military member who is
believed to have been retaliated against will be informed that command is aware of the suspected
act or acts of retaliation, and that the alleged offenders have been ordered to cease from engaging in
any further retaliation. The individual retaliated against will be advised to report any further acts of
retaliation.
(ADD New) 15. Relationship of Retaliation to Other Provisions of the UCMJ. All military
members are subject to lawful orders. When a military member has been lawfully ordered to cease
from engaging in retaliation, the military member is subject to prosecution under the UCMJ for
violation of that order.

(ADD New) 16. Relationship of Retaliation to Inspector General Complaints Resolution
Program. Cases involving retaliation or allegations of retaliation, should be evaluated to determine
if they involve 1) reprisal for making protected communications, 2) restriction from making lawful
communications, or 3) improper referral for a mental health evaluation, in violation of AFI 90-301,
Inspector General Complaints Resolution, para. 1.13.6. If so, refer the matter to the Inspector
General Complaints Resolution Program.

(ADD New) 17. Questions Regarding Retaliation. Military members who have questions as to
the application or interpretation of the policy should consult their commander. Commanders are
highly encouraged to consult their staff judge advocates or servicing legal offices for assistance in
interpretation.

(ADD New) References.

   National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2014, Section 1709.

   AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 August 2011, Incorporating Change
   1, 6 June 2012.

   DODD 7050.06, Military Whistlelower Protection, 23 June 2007.

This memorandum becomes void after 1 year has elapsed from the date of this memorandum, or
upon incorporation by interim change to or a rewrite of AFI 36-2909, whichever is earlier.




                                              ROBERT G. KENNY
                                              Major General, USAFR
                                              Performing the Duties of The Judge
                                               Advocate General
BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2909
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     1 MAY 1999

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                  PROFESSIONAL AND UNPROFESSIONAL
                                                                    RELATIONSHIPS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/JAG                                                     Certified by: HQ USAF/JA
                                                             (Maj General William A. Moorman)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2909, 1 May 1996                                                Pages: 10


This instruction establishes command, supervisory and personal responsibilities for maintaining
professional relationships between Air Force members, between Air Force members and
members of other uniformed services, between Air Force members and civilian employees of the
Department of Defense, to include Air Force civilian employees, and between Air Force
members and government contractor employees. Unprofessional relationships are those
interpersonal relationships that erode good order, discipline, respect for authority, unit cohesion
and, ultimately, mission accomplishment. It is the responsibility of commanders and supervisors
at all levels to ensure compliance with this instruction. The policy set out in this instruction
applies to all active duty members and to members of the United States Air Force Reserve
(USAFR) and Air National Guard (ANG), except as provided in paragraph 3.8., below. Officers,
including Reserve officers on active duty or inactive duty for training and ANG officers in
Federal service, who violate the custom of the service against fraternization or the specific
prohibitions contained in paragraph 5.1 of this instruction can be prosecuted under either Article
92 or Article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or both, as well as any other
applicable article of the UCMJ, as appropriate. This instruction implements Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 36-29, Military Standards.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This instruction has been revised to include specific prohibitions on the formation of personal
relationships in the recruiting and training environments (paragraph 3.5); to stress the use of a
stepped approach to enforcement of the policy, taking into consideration all the surrounding facts
 2                                                                      AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999


and circumstances (paragraph 8.); and, to stress the prevention of unprofessional relationships
through training and leadership by example (paragraph 9.).
1. General. Professional relationships are essential to the effective operation of all
organizations, both military and civilian, but the nature of the military mission requires absolute
confidence in command and an unhesitating adherence to orders that may result in
inconvenience, hardships or, at times, injury or death. This distinction makes the maintenance of
professional relationships in the military more critical than in civilian organizations. While
personal relationships between Air Force members are normally matters of individual choice and
judgment, they become matters of official concern when they adversely affect or have the
reasonable potential to adversely affect the Air Force by eroding morale, good order, discipline,
respect for authority, unit cohesion or mission accomplishment. Professional relationships are
those interpersonal relationships consistent with Air Force core values: integrity first, service
before self, and excellence in all we do. Military members understand that the needs of the
institution will sometimes outweigh personal desires. This guidance focuses on the impact of
personal relationships on the interests of the Air Force as an institution. The guidance set forth in
this instruction is based, in part, on the custom against fraternization that has been a part of and
enforced within the American military for over 200 years.
2. Policy.
     2.1. Professional Relationships. Professional relationships are those that contribute to the
     effective operation of the Air Force. The Air Force encourages personnel to communicate
     freely with their superiors regarding their careers, performance, duties and missions. This
     type of communication enhances morale and discipline and improves the operational
     environment while, at the same time, preserving proper respect for authority and focus on the
     mission. Participation by members of all grades in organizational activities, unit-sponsored
     events, intramural sports, chapel activities, community welfare projects, youth programs and
     the like can enhance morale and contribute to unit cohesion.
     2.2. Unprofessional Relationships. Relationships are unprofessional, whether pursued on
     or off-duty, when they detract from the authority of superiors or result in, or reasonably
     create the appearance of, favoritism, misuse of office or position, or the abandonment of
     organizational goals for personal interests. Unprofessional relationships can exist between
     officers, between enlisted members, between officers and enlisted members, and between
     military personnel and civilian employees or contractor personnel. Fraternization is one form
     of unprofessional relationship and is a recognized offense under Article 134 of the Uniform
     Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
        2.2.1. Fraternization. Fraternization, as defined by the Manual for Courts-Martial, is a
        personal relationship between an officer and an enlisted member that violates the
        customary bounds of acceptable behavior in the Air Force and prejudices good order and
        discipline, discredits the armed services, or operates to the personal disgrace or dishonor
        of the officer involved. The custom recognizes that officers will not form personal
        relationships with enlisted members on terms of military equality, whether on or off-duty.
        Although the custom originated in an all male military, it is gender neutral. Fraternization
        can occur between males, between females and between males and females. Because of
        the potential damage fraternization can do to morale, good order, discipline, and unit
        cohesion, the President specifically provided for the offense of fraternization in the
AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999                                                                              3


       Manual for Courts-Martial. (See Manual for Courts-Martial, 1998 Edition, Part IV, para-
       graphs 59 and 83 for a discussion of fraternization and the related offense of conduct
       unbecoming an officer.)
3. General Guidelines for All Military Personnel for Avoiding Unprofessional
Relationships, Including Fraternization. Military experience has shown that certain kinds of
personal relationships present a high risk of becoming unprofessional. Personal relationships
that are not initially unprofessional may become unprofessional when facts or circumstances
change. For example, a close personal relationship between officers or between enlisted
members can easily become unprofessional if one member becomes the commander, supervisor
or rater of the other. Air Force members, both officer and enlisted, must be sensitive to the
formation of these personal relationships, as well as the possibility that relationships that are not
initially unprofessional may become so due to changed circumstances. The rules regarding
personal relationships must be somewhat elastic to accommodate differing conditions and
operational necessities; however, the underlying standard is that Air Force members are expected
to avoid those relationships that negatively affect morale, discipline, respect for authority and
unit cohesion. When economic constraints or operational requirements place senior and junior
members in close proximity with one another (such as combined ranks or joint use clubs, joint
recreational facilities or mixed officer/enlisted housing areas) military members are,
nevertheless, expected to maintain professional relationships. The mere fact that maintaining
professional relationships may be more difficult under certain circumstances does not relieve a
member from the responsibility to maintain Air Force standards.
   3.1. Relationships Within an Organization. Familiar relationships between members in
   which one member exercises supervisory or command authority over the other can easily be
   or become unprofessional. Similarly, differences in grade increase the risk that a relationship
   will be, or will be perceived to be unprofessional, because senior members in military
   organizations normally exercise authority or some direct or indirect organizational influence
   over the duties and careers of more junior members. The danger for abuse of authority is
   always present. The ability of the senior member to influence, directly or indirectly,
   assignments, promotion recommendations, duties, awards, and other privileges and benefits,
   places both the senior member and the junior member in vulnerable positions. Once
   established, such relationships do not go unnoticed by other members of a unit.
   Unprofessional relationships, including fraternization, between members of different
   services, particularly in joint service operations, can have the same impact on morale,
   discipline, respect for authority and unit cohesion, as if the members were assigned to the
   same service, and must be avoided.
   3.2. Relationships with Civilian Employees and Government Contractor
   Personnel. Civilian employees and contractor personnel are an integral part of the Air
   Force. They contribute directly to readiness and mission accomplishment. Consequently,
   military members of all grades must maintain professional relationships with civilian
   employees and government contractor personnel, particularly those whom they supervise or
   direct, and must avoid relationships that adversely affect or reasonably can adversely affect
   morale, discipline and respect for authority or that violate law or regulation.
   3.3. Dating and Close Friendships. Dating, courtship, and close friendships between men
   and women are subject to the same policy considerations as are other relationships. Like any
   personal relationship, they become matters of official concern when they adversely affect
4                                                                        AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999


    morale, discipline, unit cohesion, respect for authority, or mission accomplishment. Members
    must recognize that these relationships can adversely affect morale and discipline, even when
    the members are not in the same chain of command or unit. The formation of such
    relationships between superiors and subordinates within the same chain of command or
    supervision is prohibited because such relationships invariably raise the perception of
    favoritism or misuse of position and erode morale, discipline and unit cohesion.
    3.4. Shared Activities. Sharing living accommodations, vacations, transportation, and off-
    duty interests on a frequent or recurring basis can be, or can reasonably be perceived to be,
    unprofessional. These types of arrangements often lead to claims of abuse of position or
    favoritism. It is often the frequency of these activities or the absence of any official purpose
    or organizational benefit which causes them to become, or to be perceived to be,
    unprofessional. While an occasional round of golf, game of racquetball or similar activity
    between a supervisor and a subordinate could remain professional, daily or weekly activities
    could result at a minimum in the perception of an unprofessional relationship. Similarly,
    while it might be appropriate for a first sergeant to play golf with a different group of officers
    from his or her organization each weekend, in order to get to know them better, playing with
    the same officers every weekend might be, or reasonably be perceived to be, unprofessional.
    3.5. Recruiting, Training, Schools and Professional Military Education. Personal
    relationships between recruiters and potential recruits during the recruiting process or
    between students and faculty or staff in training schools or professional military education
    (PME) settings are generally prohibited. These interpersonal relationships are especially
    susceptible to abuse of position, partiality or favoritism, or can easily create the appearance
    of such. This is particularly true during the recruiting process and in basic military training,
    because the potential recruit or junior military member is often unfamiliar with Air Force
    standards and dependent on the senior member, and the senior member is in a position to
    directly affect, positively or negatively, the career of the junior member. Consequently,
    additional, specially tailored rules are needed in the recruiting and training environments.
       3.5.1. Recruiting. The first impression of the Air Force that most military men and
       women form is through their contacts with a recruiter. This experience is a critical step in
       the development of Air Force members; it establishes expectations and begins the
       formation of Air Force core values. The relationship between recruiter and applicant must
       be completely professional. Consequently, recruiters will not form unprofessional
       personal relationships with applicants. At a minimum, recruiters will not date or carry on
       a social relationship with an applicant, or seek or engage in sexual activity with, or make
       sexual advances to, or accept sexual overtures from an applicant. In addition, recruiters
       will not use grade, position, threats, pressure or promises to attain or attempt to attain any
       personal benefit of any kind from an applicant. Recruiters will not gamble with, lend
       money to, borrow money from or become indebted to an applicant, or use personal
       resources to provide an applicant with lodging or transportation or any other benefit. The
       same limitations govern relationships between recruiters and an applicant’s immediate
       family members.
       3.5.2. Basic Military Training and Initial Technical Training. The integrity and
       leadership of the faculty and staff in basic military training and the initial technical
       training environment must not be permitted to be compromised by personal relationships
       with trainees. At a minimum, faculty and staff will not date or carry on a social
AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999                                                                           5


     relationship with a trainee, or seek or engage in sexual activity with, make sexual
     advances to, or accept sexual overtures from a trainee. In addition, faculty and staff will
     not use grade, position, threats, pressure or promises to attain or attempt to attain any
     personal benefit of any kind from a trainee, or share living quarters with, gamble with,
     lend money to, borrow money from or become indebted to, or solicit donations (other
     than for Air Force approved campaigns) from a trainee. The same limitations govern
     personal relationships between faculty and staff and a trainee’s immediate family
     members. Trainees have an independent obligation not to engage in these activities with
     members of the faculty and staff.
     3.5.3. Other Training and Education Settings . The integrity and leadership of faculty
     and staff in all formal training and PME settings must not be compromised by personal
     relationships with trainees or students. At a minimum, faculty and staff will not date or
     carry on a social relationship with a trainee or student, or seek or engage in sexual
     activity with, make sexual advances to, or accept sexual overtures from a trainee or
     student. In addition, faculty and staff will not use grade, position, threats, pressure or
     promises to attain or attempt to attain any personal benefit of any kind from a trainee or
     student or members of a trainee or student’s immediate family.
     3.5.4. Supplementation of this Instruction in the Recruiting, Training and
     Education Environments. Commands providing recruiting, training and education
     functions may, consistent with this instruction, publish supplemental directives, to
     include punitive provisions, to regulate personal relationships in the recruiting, education,
     training, school and similar environments.
  3.6. Treatment, Care and Counseling. Persons undergoing medical or psychological
  treatment or care, or receiving medical, psychological, pastoral, legal or other professional
  counseling may be dependent on, and therefore vulnerable to, those providing such services.
  Personnel providing treatment, care and counseling have a duty to refrain from using their
  position to gain any personal benefit from persons who are receiving their services. In
  particular, personnel providing such services will not seek or engage in sexual activity with,
  make sexual advances to, or accept sexual overtures from persons who are receiving their
  services or the immediate family members of those receiving their services.
  3.7. Other Relationships. Other relationships, not specifically addressed above, can,
  depending on the circumstances, lead to actual or perceived favoritism or preferential
  treatment and, if so, must be avoided. Examples of activities that may result in an adverse
  impact on morale, discipline and respect for authority are gambling or partying with
  subordinates, soliciting or making solicited sales to subordinates and entering into business
  ventures with members who are junior in rank, grade or position. (See DoD Directive 5500-
  7.R [the Joint Ethics Regulation], subsections 2-205 and 5-409 for guidance on solicitation
  and commercial activities), (set out in Attachment 1 to this instruction).
  3.8. Air Reserve Component (ARC) Personnel. In applying the principles set out in this
  instruction to ARC personnel, when not performing active duty, full-time National Guard
  duty, or inactive duty training, commanders and supervisors should tailor the application and
  enforcement of the principles to appropriately address unique situations that may arise from
  part-time service.
 6                                                                     AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999


4. Relationship of Unprofessional Conduct to Other Provisions of the UCMJ. All military
members are subject to lawful orders. When a military member has been lawfully ordered to
cease an unprofessional relationship or refrain from certain conduct, the military member is
subject to prosecution under the UCMJ for violation of the order. Similarly, all military members
are subject to prosecution for criminal offenses committed incidental to an unprofessional
relationship (e.g., gambling, adultery, assault). In addition, officers may be prosecuted for
violation of the specific prohibitions listed in paragraph 5.1, and its subparagraphs (below);
violation of the custom against fraternization; and conduct unbecoming an officer.
5. Specific Prohibitions Relating to Officers (Fraternization). Unprofessional relationships
between officers and enlisted members have a high potential for damaging morale and discipline
and for compromising the standing of officers. Consequently, officers have an ethical and a legal
obligation to avoid certain relationships and activities. Officers must not engage in any activity
with an enlisted member that reasonably may prejudice good order and discipline, discredit the
armed forces or compromise an officer’s standing. The custom against fraternization in the Air
Force extends beyond organizational and chain of command lines. In short, it extends to all
officer/enlisted relationships.
     5.1. Specific Prohibitions. Conduct that violates the custom of the Air Force against
     fraternization can be prosecuted under Article 134 of the UCMJ. In addition, with reasonable
     accommodation for married members and members related by blood or marriage, the
     following conduct is prohibited and can be prosecuted under either Article 92 of the UCMJ,
     Article 134, or both, and any other applicable article of the UCMJ when appropriate:
     5.1.1. Officers Will Not Gamble With Enlisted Members.
        5.1.2. Officers Will Not Lend Money to, Borrow Money From or Otherwise Become
        Indebted to Enlisted Members. exception: Infrequent, non-interest-bearing loans of
        small amounts to meet exigent circumstances.
        5.1.3. Officers Will Not Engage in Sexual Relations with or Date Enlisted
        Members. Dating as set out here includes not only traditional, prearranged, social
        engagements between two members, but also includes more contemporary social
        activities that would reasonably be perceived to be a substitute for traditional dating.
            5.1.3.1. Officer/Enlisted Marriages. When evidence of fraternization exists, the
            fact that an officer and enlisted member subsequently marry does not preclude
            appropriate command action based on the prior fraternization. The fact that an officer
            is married to an enlisted member is not, by itself, evidence of misconduct. For
            example, some officer-enlisted marriages are created by the commissioning of
            civilians married to enlisted members, or by the commissioning of enlisted members
            married to other enlisted members. Other officer-enlisted marriages may result from
            force reductions and nonselection for promotion of some officers who then reverted
            to enlisted status. Regardless of how the officer-enlisted marriage came to be, married
            members are expected to respect all customs and courtesies observed by members of
            different grades when they are on duty, in uniform in public, or at official social
            functions.
        5.1.4. Officers Will Not Share Living Accommodations with Enlisted Members Except
        When Reasonably Required by Military Operations.
AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999                                                                             7


       5.1.5. Officers Will Not Engage, on a Personal Basis, in Business Enterprises with
       Enlisted Members, or Solicit or Make Solicited Sales to Enlisted Members, Except as
       Permitted by the Joint Ethics Regulation. For the application of this rule, members should
       consult DoD Directive 5500.7-R, the Joint Ethics Regulation, subsections 2-205 and 5-
       409, (set out in Attachment 1 to this instruction)
6. Individual Responsibility To Maintain Professional Relationships. All military members
share the responsibility for maintaining professional relationships. However, the senior member
(officer or enlisted) in a personal relationship bears primary responsibility for maintaining the
professionalism of that relationship. Leadership requires the maturity and judgment to avoid
relationships that undermine respect for authority or impact negatively on morale, discipline,
respect for authority, or the mission of the Air Force. This is especially true of officers and
noncommissioned officers who are expected to exhibit the highest standards of professional
conduct and to lead by example. The senior member in a relationship is in the best position to
appreciate the effect of that particular relationship on an organization and in the best position to
terminate or limit the extent of the relationship. However, all members should expect to be and
must be held accountable for the impact of their conduct on the Air Force as an institution.
7. Command and Supervisory Responsibilities. Commanders and supervisors at all levels
have the authority and the responsibility to maintain good order, discipline and morale within
their units. They may be held accountable for failing to act in appropriate cases.
8. Actions in Response to Unprofessional Relationships. If a relationship is prohibited by this
instruction or is causing (or if good professional judgment and common sense indicate that a
relationship may reasonably result in) a degradation of morale, good order, discipline or unit
cohesion, a commander or supervisor should take corrective action. Action should normally be
the least severe necessary to terminate the unprofessional aspects of the relationship. The full
spectrum of administrative actions is available and should be considered. Administrative actions
include, but are not limited to, counseling, reprimand, creation of an unfavorable information file
(UIF), removal from position, reassignment, demotion, delay of or removal from a promotion
list, adverse or referral comments in performance reports and administrative separation. One or
more complementary actions can be taken. Experience has shown that counseling is often an
effective first step in curtailing unprofessional relationships. More serious cases may warrant
administrative action or nonjudicial punishment. Referral of charges to a court-martial is not
appropriate except in aggravated cases. An order to terminate a relationship, or the offensive
portion of a relationship, can and should be given whenever it is apparent that lesser
administrative action may not be effective. Officers or enlisted members who violate such orders
are subject to action under the UCMJ for violation of the order. Instances of actual favoritism,
partiality, or misuse of grade or position may constitute independent violations of the UCMJ or
the punitive provisions of the Joint Ethics Regulation.
   8.1. Responses To Cases Involving Dating or Sexual Relationships. When
   unprofessional conduct includes evidence of a sexual relationship, the sexual relationship is
   but one factor to be considered in determining the adverse impact, if any, on the organization
   and, hence, an appropriate response. It is the impact or reasonably foreseeable consequences
   of the conduct on morale, discipline, good order, unit cohesion and mission accomplishment
   that determines its seriousness, not its characterization, even if the conduct could be
   characterized as adultery or some other potential offense. No fact, standing alone, necessarily
   warrants referral of charges to a court-martial. When a relationship has had an adverse
 8                                                                     AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999


     impact on the Air Force, unprofessional conduct should not be excused simply because the
     parties to the unprofessional relationship subsequently marry or one of the parties leaves the
     service.
9. Training. Instruction on the concepts of unprofessional relationships and fraternization shall
be made a part of the curricula for basic training, commissioning programs, and professional
military education for all military personnel. Commanders, judge advocates and supervisors will
familiarize themselves with this instruction (in particular paragraph 8.) and commanders will
make certain all personnel are briefed on this policy on an annual basis or more frequently.
10. Questions Regarding This Instruction. Military members who have questions as to the
application or interpretation of the policy should consult their commander. Commanders are
encouraged to consult their staff judge advocates or servicing legal offices for assistance in
interpretation.




                                              WILLIAM A. MOORMAN, Maj General, USAF
                                              The Judge Advocate General
AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999                                                                                9


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5500.7-R subsection 2-205, Limitation on Solicited Sales. Excerpts from the Joint Ethics
Regulation. A DoD employee shall not knowingly solicit or make solicited sales to DoD
personnel who are junior in rank, grade or position, or to the family members of such personnel,
on or off duty. In the absence of coercion or intimidation, this does not prohibit the sale or lease
of a DoD employee’s non-commercial personal or real property or commercial sales solicited
and made in a retail establishment during off-duty employment. The posting of an advertisement
in accordance with Federal Government building management policies does not constitute
solicitation for purposes of this section.
DoD 5500.7-R subsection 5-409, Commercial Dealings Involving DoD Employees. Excerpts
from the Joint Ethics Regulation. A DoD employee shall not knowingly solicit or make solicited
sales to DoD personnel who are junior in rank, grade or position, or to the family members of
such personnel, on or off duty. In the absence of coercion or intimidation, this does not prohibit
the sale or lease of a DoD employee’s non-commercial personal or real property or commercial
sales solicited and made in a retail establishment during off-duty employment. The posting of an
advertisement in accordance with Federal Government building management policies does not
constitute solicitation for purposes of this subsection.
a. This prohibition includes the solicited sale of insurance, stocks, mutual funds, real estate,
cosmetics, household supplies, vitamins, and other goods or services.
b. Both the act of soliciting and the act of selling as a result of soliciting are prohibited. In both
cases, however, a solicitation is necessary for a violation to occur. While the standard prohibits a
senior from making a solicited sale to a junior or to the junior’s family, sales made because a
junior approaches the senior and requests the sale to be made are not prohibited, absent coercion
or intimidation by the senior.
c. Personal commercial solicitations by the spouse or other household member of a DoD
employee to those who are junior in rank, grade, or position to the DoD employee, may give rise
to the appearance that the DoD employee himself is using his public office for personal gain.
When a spouse or household member of a DoD employee engages in such activity, the
supervisor of the DoD employee must consult an Ethics Counselor, and counsel the DoD
employee that such activity should be avoided where it may
(1) Cause actual or perceived partiality or unfairness;
(2) Involve the actual or apparent use of rank or position for personal gain; or
(3) Otherwise undermine discipline, morale, or authority.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
 10                                      AFI36-2909 1 MAY 1999


DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
