BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 48-144
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               21 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                               Aerospace Medicine

                                                         DRINKING WATER SURVEILLANCE
                                                                            PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFMSA/SG3PB                                                              Certified by: AF/SG3
                                                                          (Brig Gen Charles Potter)
                                                                                          Pages: 20
Supersedes:    AFI48-144, 28 September 2010


Drinking Water Surveillance Program. This publication implements Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) regulations promulgated under the authority of the Safe Drinking Water Act
(SDWA) and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise. AFPD
48-1 directly supports AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health. Requests for
waivers must be submitted through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier
(“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See Air Force Instruction 33-
360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with
the Tier numbers. This instruction applies to AF, Air National Guard and AF Reserve
installations and all responsibilities herein are conferred to the host, and responsibility shall not
be delegated or otherwise assigned to tenant organizations. Major Commands (MAJCOM) may
issue supplementary criteria that are more protective of human health than that specified in this
instruction provided they clearly identify variances. However, MAJCOMs may not issue more
protective criteria for overseas installations without prior coordination from the relevant DoD
Lead Environmental Components (LECs). For privatized drinking water systems, AF drinking
water surveillance responsibilities may be greatly reduced. Installation Bioenvironmental
Engineers shall work closely with Civil Engineering and the privatization agreement Contracting
Officer’s Representative to ensure AF requirements are met and both AF and system owner’s
responsibilities are clearly delineated and understood. Where the Request for Proposal (RFP),
Utilities Privatization (UP) contract, Right of Way, or Right of Access conflicts with this
guidance, the RFP, UP contract, Right of Way, or Right of Access takes precedence. Ensure that
 2                                                             AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)”, or
any updated statement provided by the AF Records Management office (SAF/CIO A6P). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The publication has been revised to assign Tiers to requirements per AFI 33-360, clarify DW
surveillance responsibilities of BE at installations with privatized DW systems, and to transfer
procedural information to the Drinking Water Surveillance Technical Guide (DWSTG).
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                                                         3



                                            Chapter 1

                                   PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. Overview. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) provides guidance for managing and
implementation of the Air Force (AF) drinking water (DW) surveillance program. It applies at
enduring locations worldwide, in order to implement and/or supplement Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas
Installations, the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), applicable state and local regulations, the
Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD), and applicable Department of
Defense Final Governing Standards (FGS).
1.2. Applicability. At installations outside the United States and its territories, i.e. overseas,
AF-unique criteria listed in this instruction and not included in the OEBGD or applicable FGS
will be followed. Installations in the United States and its territories are required to comply with
the most stringent applicable standards (AF, Federal, State or Local).
 4                                                               AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                               ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Energy, Environment, Safety and
Occupational Health (SAF/IEE):
     2.1.1. Develops overarching DW program policy for Secretary of the Air Force approval.
     2.1.2. Acts as liaison for AF DW issues to Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Congress
     and other Federal organizations.
     2.1.3. Provides strategic direction, oversight and guidance for the AF DW Program.
2.2. The Air Force Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG):
     2.2.1. AF/SG is the Office of Primary Responsibility for providing health oversight, hereby
     referred to as DW surveillance, of AF DW systems. Ensures AF DW systems are properly
     surveyed, sampled, analyzed and monitored to provide adequate supplies of safe DW to AF
     personnel at garrison and deployed locations.
     2.2.2. Establishes resources and implementation instructions for DW Surveillance Program.
     Ensures compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and standards associated with
     the protection of public health. Coordinates with AF/A7C on these matters.
2.3. The Air Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA):
     2.3.1. Develops AF policies for DW surveillance and establishes AF DW requirements to
     protect the health of AF personnel.
     2.3.2. Serves as the Chair of the DoD SDWA Services Steering Committee (SSC) on behalf
     of SAF/IEE.
     2.3.3. Provides SDWA oversight for DW surveillance to include analysis of present and
     proposed federal legislation associated with SDWA surveillance. In coordination with
     AF/A7C and AFMOA, notifies AF ESOH Council, SAF/IEE, AFLOA/JACE, MAJCOM
     Bioenvironmental Engineers (BEEs) and installation Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE)
     offices with results of these analyses. For overseas installations, provides DW surveillance to
     include analysis of proposed changes to OEBGD and FGS regarding DW.
     2.3.4. Approves DW related readiness skills verification training plans.
     2.3.5. Provides research, acquisition support and services, in collaboration with other
     services to address Joint DW issues.
2.4. The Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA):
     2.4.1. Establishes a planning, programming and budgeting mechanism to advocate for and
     distribute Defense Health Program (DHP) funds to conduct DW surveillance. Validates
     Major Command (MAJCOM) SG budget submittals for conducting the DW surveillance
     program and oversees budgeting, programming and execution of DW surveillance programs
     throughout the AF.
     2.4.2. Serves as an AFMOA representative member of the DoD SDWA Services Steering
     Committee (SSC).
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                                                      5


   2.4.3. Analyzes open enforcement actions associated with SDWA surveillance for negative
   trends. In coordination with AFCEC, notifies AFMSA with results of these analyses.
   2.4.4. Provides recommendations to AFMSA/SG3PB and MAJCOM BEEs on UEI focus
   areas, based on installation-specific performance, historic enforcement actions, inspection
   results and execution of new DW requirements.
2.5. The United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM/OE and
Detachment 3, USAFSAM):
   2.5.1. Provides technical consultations and assistance regarding drinking water quality
   surveys and monitoring requirements. (T-1)
   2.5.2. Annually reviews and updates, as necessary, technical guidance documents to assist
   installations in interpreting and executing DW surveillance programs. These technical
   guidance documents include, but are not limited to, the DW Surveillance Technical Guide
   (DWSTG) and the Water Vulnerability Assessment Technical Guide. The DWSTG directly
   complements this instruction. (T-2)
   2.5.3. Provides specialized field surveys and studies and/or technical assistance to
   installations with DW quality issues. (T-2)
   2.5.4. Offers contract laboratory analytical services to installations. Ensures analyses are
   performed by a laboratory that is certified by the appropriate authority for the installation
   submitting the sample, and reports results IAW appropriate requirements. (T-1)
   2.5.5. Develops readiness skills verification training material for any DW related task
   included in the readiness skills verification plan. (T-1)
   2.5.6. Upon request by an installation, reviews commercial (US, overseas, and
   deployed/contingency location) laboratory quality assurance and quality control programs.
   (T-2)
   2.5.7. Develops and teaches curriculum on technical aspects of DW systems, DW science,
   requirements of the SDWA and this instruction to Bioenvironmental Engineers (BEE) and
   Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) technicians. (T-1)
2.6. The Air Force Civil Engineer (AF/A7C):
   2.6.1. Ensures AF DW systems are properly designed, constructed, operated and maintained
   to provide adequate supplies of potable DW to AF personnel and ensures compliance with
   applicable regulatory requirements or standards associated with infrastructure and operations.
   2.6.2. Directs a sustainable asset management approach for investment planning in support
   of DW requirements. Establishes an Activity Management Plan process and associated
   common level standards ensuring desired outcomes in support of mission achievement.
   Operations and infrastructure requirements shall be planned, programmed and budgeted
   consistent with the most efficient lifecycle cost.
2.7. The Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC):
   2.7.1. Issues DW system design and operations & maintenance guidance; provides technical
   assistance to MAJCOMs and installations.
6                                                                AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


    2.7.2. Provides a contracting mechanism for engineering studies, water distribution and
    treatment system design, and Operations, Maintenance, and Training Assistance Programs
    (OMTAP).
    2.7.3. Manages housing and installation utilities privatization contracts.
    2.7.4. Assists MAJCOMs and installations in resolving regulatory issues. When necessary,
    coordinates with the Gatekeepers and MAJCOM prior to base visits, as well as provides the
    summary of activities to parent MAJCOM following visits.
    2.7.5. Provides AF representation to Federal, state and local regulators. Where appropriate
    and in consultation with the installation and MAJCOM, the Regional Environmental Office
    (AFCEC/RO) may represent an installation to Federal, state and local regulators.
    2.7.6. Working through the SDWA Services Steering Committee, provides AF comments on
    proposed federal regulations. AFCEC/ROs comment on state and local drinking water
    regulations impacting AF operations.
    2.7.7. Maintains AF database of all environmental regulatory Open Enforcement Actions
    (OEAs) and their status. Confirms OEA closure with appropriate regulators upon completion
    of required corrective actions and training.
    2.7.8. Provides water system privatization technical guidance to AF installations,
    MAJCOMs and HQ AF, upon request.
2.8. Major Commands (MAJCOMs):
    2.8.1. MAJCOM Commander or equivalent.
       2.8.1.1. For MAJCOM’s that have oversight of overseas facilities, designates a medical
       support professional (usually the MAJCOM BEE) to fulfill the role of “appropriate DoD
       medical authority” as specified in DoD 4715.05-G, Overseas Environmental Baseline
       Guidance Document (OEBGD), and country-specific final governing standards (FGS).
    2.8.2. MAJCOM BEE.
       2.8.2.1. Supports installations to ensure the DW surveillance program conforms to this
       instruction.
       2.8.2.2. Reviews and validates installation programming and budget needs for
       conducting the DW surveillance program.
       2.8.2.3. When designated by MAJCOM Commander or equivalent, serves as
       "appropriate DoD medical authority" (as specified in the OEBGD and country-specific
       FGS) for Air Force installations in overseas locations.
       2.8.2.4. Serves as the OPR for MAJCOM coordination on country-specific
       environmental governing standards for DW in overseas locations.
    2.8.3. MAJCOM Civil Engineer.
       2.8.3.1. Implements a sustainable asset management approach and activity management
       plans for installations to ensure DW systems are properly designed, constructed,
       operated, and maintained in order to provide adequate supplies of safe DW to base
       personnel while ensuring compliance with applicable regulatory requirements or
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       7


       standards associated with infrastructure and operations. Assists installations in resolving
       regulatory issues with technical expertise from AFCEC and respective AFCEC/RO.
       2.8.3.2. Ensures installations use the established planning, programming and budgeting
       mechanism to secure funds to execute DW projects to support system design, operations
       and infrastructure, sustainment, restoration and modernization.
       2.8.3.3. Validates installation Civil Engineering (CE) programming and budget
       submittals and transmits to HQ USAF/A7C.
2.9. Installations.
   2.9.1. The Installation Commander.
       2.9.1.1. Oversees implementation of the installation DW program. The DW program is
       implemented by installation agencies (BE, CE, Environmental Management, Judge
       Advocate, and Public Affairs) in coordination with MAJCOMs, Combatant Commands,
       Joint Service, federal, state, and local agencies, public and private purveyors of water,
       and the surrounding community, as appropriate. (T-1)
       2.9.1.2. Establishes an Installation DW Working Group which meets to address all local
       DW issues involving compliance, risk reduction and continuous improvement. The DW
       Working Group will establish procedures for interfacing with regulators on matters such
       as enforcement actions, reporting of compliance/non-compliance, and any other local
       DW concerns that may arise. (Note: For privatized water systems, the system owner is
       the liaison to regulatory agencies, so these procedures are not necessary.) This workgroup
       will operate under the auspices of the Installation ESOH Council per guidance in AFI 90-
       801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Councils. (T-2)
   2.9.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering.
       2.9.2.1. Privatized Drinking Water Systems. At installations with privatized water
       systems, the system owner is generally responsible for operating and maintaining the
       drinking water system as well as compliance with the Safe Drinking Water Act.
       However, there may be some installations where the AF still retains some public water
       system responsibilities. Therefore, BE must coordinate with the local Contracting
       Officer’s Representative to ensure responsibilities are understood by all parties.
       Generally, the following functions shall be performed by BE at installations with
       privatized water systems:
           2.9.2.1.1. Ensures water vulnerability assessments are completed IAW AFMAN 10-
           246, Food and Water Protection Program, and USAFSAM WVA Technical Guide.
           (T-1)
           2.9.2.1.2. Conducts Air Force-unique surveillance as described in paragraph 2.2. (T-
           1)
           2.9.2.1.3. Completes annual and long range budget plans to support AF-unique
           surveillance as described in paragraph 2.2. (T-2)
           2.9.2.1.4. Maintains analytical data records in DOEHRS for those samples taken by
           BE (i.e., Air Force unique surveillance). (T-2)
8                                                          AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


       2.9.2.1.5. Maintains copies of the system owner’s annual consumer confidence
       reports in DOEHRS. (T-3)
       2.9.2.1.6. Participates in the installation water working group IAW paragraph
       2.9.1.2. (T-2)
       2.9.2.1.7. Works through the local privatization Contracting Officer’s Representative
       to request access to the system or assistance from the system owner, or to address
       concerns with the drinking water. (T-2)
    2.9.2.2. For Non-privatized Drinking Water Systems, BE:
       2.9.2.2.1. Performs DW surveillance associated with the protection of public health.
       (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
       2.9.2.2.2. Develops a DW SAM plan that includes the contents described in
       paragraph 4.1, and applicable primacy agency guidance. (T-1)
       2.9.2.2.3. Ensures laboratories perform analyses using required analytical methods
       for which they are certified. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
       2.9.2.2.4. Interprets results of water analyses and provides results to the appropriate
       CE, SG and regulatory authorities according to applicable regulations. (T-0; 40 CFR
       141)
       2.9.2.2.5. Interacts with regulator on DW compliance issues pertaining to sampling.
       Note: Substantive interactions with federal, state or local compliance offices must be
       coordinated with the Installation DW Working Group. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
       2.9.2.2.6. Ensures sanitary surveys are performed to satisfy the requirements of
       applicable regulations and standards and recommends mitigation actions by
       appropriate CE or SG organizations to maintain the sanitary quality of the base DW
       system. Ensures special surveys of the DW system address potability and sanitary
       conditions affecting the installation DW system. For detailed sanitary survey
       guidance, refer to the DWSTG. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
       2.9.2.2.7. Ensures water vulnerability assessments are completed IAW AFMAN 10-
       246, and USAFSAM WVA Technical Guide. (T-1)
       2.9.2.2.8. Monitors, approves and samples aircraft watering points as described in the
       DWSTG. (T-1)
       2.9.2.2.9. Immediately implements the public notification procedures described by
       the primacy agency when DW analysis results indicate a potential public health threat
       or result in non-compliance with applicable regulations and standards. Assists the
       Public Affairs Office in the preparation of Public Notifications. BE will be
       responsible for associated costs (e.g., newspaper bulletins and other administrative
       costs) for drinking water notifications involving public health or compliance issues.
       BE will also notify CE, PH and MAJCOM BEE. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
       2.9.2.2.10. If appropriate, initiates requests for waivers, exemptions and reduced
       monitoring rates. Note: Substantive interactions with federal, state or local
       compliance offices must be coordinated with the Installation DW Working Group.
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     9


        For overseas installations, follow the waiver and exemption processes specified in the
        OEBGD and country-specific FGS. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
        2.9.2.2.11. Prepares, coordinates and distributes Consumer Confidence Reports
        (CCR) as necessary to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and this
        instruction. (See Chapter 5) (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
        2.9.2.2.12. Supports CE by conducting technical reviews of planned repairs,
        renovations and modifications to DW systems to assess and avert potential health
        hazards. (T-1)
        2.9.2.2.13. Supports the cross-connection control and backflow prevention program
        by providing technical assistance and assigning the correct hazard classification to
        each cross-connection using the most recent Uniform Plumbing Code criteria and AFI
        32-1066, Backflow Prevention Program.          Forwards recommendations to the
        Backflow Prevention Manager (BPM). (T-1)
        2.9.2.2.14. Advises commanders on source water protection opportunities, physical
        modifications to enhance water treatment and distribution systems, and alternative
        management practices to meet compliance requirements and enhance water quality.
        (T-1)
        2.9.2.2.15. Determines the population served in accordance with primacy agency
        regulations and the Drinking Water Surveillance Technical Guide (DWSTG);
        provides this population information to CE. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
        2.9.2.2.16. Annually reviews the CE flushing and maintenance program.
        Coordinates as needed with CE for program updates. Reviews the CE distribution
        system flushing and maintenance program to ensure appropriate sampling locations
        and timing with CE distribution system maintenance activities, including hydrant
        maintenance and testing. Coordinates as needed with CE for program updates. (T-1)
        2.9.2.2.17. Completes annual and long-range budget plans to support routine DW
        monitoring and analytical requirements associated with the health of the population
        served, National Primary Drinking Water Regulations (NPDWR) and state
        equivalents if applicable; including equipment, supplies, training and analytical costs.
        This budget shall include resources for the sampling, analysis, and monitoring (SAM)
        plan requirements in Chapter 3 of this instruction. Annual budget increases for a
        given fiscal year should be communicated to both the medical treatment facility
        (MTF) resource advisor and AFMOA/SGPB well before the fiscal year begins. Any
        additional sampling required to comply with DW regulations due to design
        deficiency, inadequate system maintenance, or aged infrastructure will be performed
        and funded by the system operator. (T-2)
        2.9.2.2.18. Maintains DW survey and analytical data records in the Defense
        Occupational and Environmental Health Readiness System (DOEHRS) IAW the
        DWSTG. Provides data and technical support to physicians and public health
        personnel investigating potential DW-related illnesses. Shares data with principal
        stakeholders (e.g. CE, JA, PA) as necessary to support full operational compliance of
        the drinking water system and regulatory compliance tracking/reporting. (T-3)
10                                                           AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


         2.9.2.2.19. Advises CE on potential health hazard impacts of any water system
         deficiencies or unusual events that could result in changes to water quality and
         potability including line breaks, distribution system maintenance (e.g., cleaning of
         reservoirs, storage tanks, hydrant flushing, etc.), new connections, water treatment
         plant repairs, cross-connections and disinfectant and fluoride application problems.
         Coordinates with CE until the system deficiencies are corrected. BE actions for the
         activities listed above can be found in the DWSTG. (T-1)
  2.9.3. Base Civil Engineer (BCE) shall:
     2.9.3.1. Overview. AFI 32-1067, Water Systems, designates the BCE as responsible for
     the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of drinking water systems,
     developing and maintaining an adequate supply of safe drinking water, conducting all
     activities associated with drinking water treatment processes (including monitoring and
     recordkeeping of water parameters as required by regulations), and ensuring the water
     system has required regulatory permits and sufficient resources to operate in compliance.
     The BCE is also responsible for developing and implementing the wellhead protection
     plan, water master plan, source water assessment program, and Contingency Response
     Plan (CRP) associated with operating and maintaining safe drinking water system. CE
     and BE work closely together to bring the distribution system back on-line after any
     unusual event occurs that may affect water quality or potability. The BCE is also
     responsible for conducting a cross-connection control and backflow prevention program
     in accordance with AFI 32-1066, Backflow Prevention Program, and correcting any
     distribution system deficiencies. (T-1)
     2.9.3.2. Notifies BE of any unusual events affecting the water distribution system that
     could result in changes to water quality and potability including line breaks, new
     connections, distribution system maintenance (e.g., cleaning of reservoirs, storage tanks,
     hydrant flushing, etc.), cross-connections, water treatment plant repairs, and chlorine and
     fluoride application problems. Systems experiencing any of the aforementioned events
     will not be placed back into service until approved by BE. Organizational facility
     maintenance, Operations and Maintenance (O&M) and Utilities Privatization contractors
     must also comply with this requirement. (T-1)
     2.9.3.3. Pays for all DW system permit fees and service fees IAW primacy requirements.
     (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
     2.9.3.4. Supports BE in developing and maintaining a SAM plan. (T-1)
  2.9.4. Public Affairs.
     2.9.4.1. Develops (with the assistance of the BEE and the BCE) and disseminates public
     notices required by the NPDWRs (or equivalent overseas). (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
     2.9.4.2. Assists in the dissemination of the CCR (or equivalent). BE can provide
     information from the DWSTG for general guidance on complying with public
     notification requirements. Installation personnel must notify their MAJCOM counterparts
     about public release of the information. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
  2.9.5. Staff Judge Advocate.
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                                               11


     2.9.5.1. Provides legal consultation on SDWA regulatory requirements applicable to the
     AF. For overseas installations, provides legal advice and support regarding DW
     requirements and issues. (T-1)
 12                                                             AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


                                           Chapter 3

                              GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES

3.1. Surveillance.
   3.1.1. Overview. BE conducts surveillance IAW all DoD, MAJCOM, Combatant
   Command, Joint Service, AF, federal, and local primacy agency guidance, and DoD
   OEBGD/FGS regulations as applicable. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
   3.1.2. Disinfectant Surveillance. Water production personnel will ensure that adequate
   disinfectant residual monitoring is performed, both at the point of production, and at various
   points in the distribution system. Treated water shall be tested by CE prior to entry into the
   distribution system at least daily; however, if the character and variability of the water supply
   so dictates, test more often and at several locations. BE must test at various points in the
   distribution system during routine DW surveillance (i.e. disinfectant residuals and
   disinfectant byproducts) or during other investigations as appropriate. For instructions on
   testing for specific analytes and water quality measures, refer to the DWSTG and applicable
   state/local requirements. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
   3.1.3. Emergency Disinfection. CE and BE personnel will follow applicable regulations for
   emergency disinfection of water lines, water storage tanks and water treatment facilities. If
   no primacy agency regulations exist, CE and BE will follow industry standards for
   disinfection (e.g., American Water Works Association). CE will consult and coordinate
   disinfection procedures with BE. For additional emergency disinfection guidance, refer to the
   DWSTG and applicable state/local requirements. (T-1)
   3.1.4. Overseas installations will coordinate all requests for reduced monitoring under the
   FGS with the MAJCOM Surgeon prior to submission to the DoD LEC. (T-1)
   3.1.5. Fluoridation. Installations that own or operate a potable water treatment facility
   serving 3,300 persons or more must provide optimally fluoridated water beginning in Fiscal
   Year 2016. The DWSTG shows recommended fluoride levels; however, primacy agency
   requirements may take precedence over these recommendations. Overseas installations will
   fluoridate if applicable, but must comply with OEBGD/FGS policy on DW fluoridation. For
   specific instructions on fluoridation of AF water systems and associated surveillance, refer to
   the DWSTG. When fluoride is added to DW, water treatment personnel must monitor
   product water at frequencies and locations as determined by the agency with primacy. (T-0;
   DUSD (IE) Policy 18 Mar 2013, UFC 3-230-03 Water Treatment, Nov 2012)
3.2. Air Force-Unique Surveillance.
   3.2.1. Aircraft Watering Points. As a minimum, BE will sample aircraft watering points
   monthly for bacteriological analysis. In addition, BE will perform a sanitary survey of
   aircraft watering points at least annually. Conduct surveillance and surveys IAW the
   DWSTG. (T-1)
   3.2.2. Child Development Centers (CDC), School Age Programs (SAP), Youth Programs
   (YP), Department of Defense Dependent Schools (DODDS), and Domestic Dependent
   Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS). (T-1)
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       13


     3.2.2.1. BE will collect or arrange for collection of a monthly DW sample for
     bacteriological analysis from each CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS and DDESS it supports. BE
     shall coordinate with the primacy agency to determine if these samples must be included
     in compliance sampling requirements. Refer to the DWSTG for more information on. (T-
     1)
     3.2.2.2. Lead. Prior to opening a new CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS, or DDESS facility, and
     when plumbing lines or fixtures are modified, added, or replaced, BE will ensure initial
     sampling is performed using the protocols specified in the DWSTG. BE will provide a
     copy of the results to the facility. (T-1)
         3.2.2.2.1. The director of the CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS, DDESS will coordinate with
         BE prior to opening a new facility and when plumbing lines or fixtures are modified,
         added or replaced; and will send a memo to the BEE annually, documenting any
         plumbing changes (or lack thereof) within the past year. (T-1)
         3.2.2.2.2. CDC, SAP, and YP directors, DODDS and DDESS officials will ensure
         that analytical results for DW lead concentrations from sampling performed IAW
         paragraph 2.2.3.2 are on file in the CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS, and DDESS
         administrative offices, respectively. Any corrective actions identified to mitigate
         sources of lead contamination must be accomplished or the facility closed or bottled
         water provided until corrective actions are accomplished. (T-1)
         3.2.2.2.3. BE will conduct an annual review to ensure (1) lead sampling results are
         on file for each facility; (2) any identified follow-up actions are closed or in progress;
         and (3) the most recent annual memo prepared IAW paragraph 2.2.3.2.1 is on file. If
         BE cannot locate lead sampling results for a particular CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS, or
         DDESS facility, the sampling must be re-accomplished and documented. (T-1)
  3.2.3. BE will record sampling results specific to the CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS or DDESS in
  DOEHRS and provide copies to the CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS or DDESS for their records.
  Program directors or DODDS/DDESS officials will also maintain a copy of the most current
  CCR in the respective CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS and DDESS administrative office. BE will
  refer to the DWSTG for detailed information on lead issues. (T-1)
  3.2.4. Lead and Copper Rule (LCR) sampling will be done IAW 40 CFR 141.86. (T-0; 40
  CFR 141) For overseas installations, obey OEBGD, FGS, or applicable operation plan or
  directive environmental annex requirements, whichever apply. (T-0)
     3.2.4.1. Even though the LCR does not specifically apply to CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS,
     and DDESS, when changes are made to water sources, treatment, or distribution system
     that may increase lead concentrations, BE will sample for lead at all high-priority taps
     located in CDC, SAP, YP, DODDS, DDESS. When Lead and Copper Rule (LCR)
     sample results exceed the LCR action level, BE will use risk assessment principles to
     determine what, if any, additional sampling should be conducted at the CDC, SAP, YP,
     DODDS, DDESS. (T-1)
     3.2.4.2. Overseas Installations.
         3.2.4.2.1. Monitor for or ensure monitoring is performed for lead and copper
         compliance in housing and other facilities leased or owned by the US Government
 14                                                           AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


          regardless of water system ownership. (T-0; DoD Overseas Environmental Baseline
          Guidance Document)
          3.2.4.2.2. Ensure initial sampling for lead and copper compliance is performed when
          changes in the water source or water treatment can potentially result in increased lead
          or copper concentrations. (T-0; DoD Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance
          Document)
3.3. Cross-Connection and Backflow Prevention Program.
   3.3.1. A program to identify, isolate, record, and correct cross-connections and other
   potential sources of distribution system contamination will be conducted IAW AFI 32-1066,
   Backflow Prevention Program. CE will maintain the inventory of cross-connections and
   backflow prevention devices. Every five years, BE will assist the BPM and BCE personnel
   to survey all facilities and water-using equipment and systems. Alternatively, an annual
   survey of 20 percent of the facilities and devices may be performed. “The BEE will review
   the inventory and update or assign health hazard classifications for cross-connections using
   guidance established in the latest edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code. Health hazard
   classification updates will be made when new surveys are completed or updated IAW AFI
   32-1066 Section 7.1 or when the UPC is updated (every 3 years).” The BEE will review the
   inventory and update or assign health hazard classifications for cross-connections using
   guidance established in the latest edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
   3.3.2. During construction design reviews, the BEE will assist the base backflow prevention
   program manager in recommending appropriate backflow prevention devices where
   equipment plumbed to potable water supplies is being installed. Refer to the DWSTG and
   applicable state/local requirements for specific cross-connection and backflow prevention
   information. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
3.4. Flushing. (T-1)
   3.4.1. CE develops and executes the installation flushing program IAW Unified Facilities
   Criteria (UFC) 3-230-02, Operation and Maintenance: Water Supply Systems to remove
   biofilm and deposited material, maintain water quality, meet disinfectant and disinfectant
   byproduct requirements and to maintain hydraulic conductivity. Unidirectional flushing
   should be conducted at least once every 5 years (more frequently for cast iron pipe). CE will
   coordinate with BE on the installation distribution system flushing program to ensure health
   concerns and antiterrorism considerations are addressed. (T-1)
   3.4.2. BE recommendations shall be supported with sample analysis results and findings
   from the BE surveys and the water vulnerability assessment. (T-1)
3.5. BE DW Survey.
   3.5.1. For all garrison water systems, BE will perform or update the Water Vulnerability
   Assessment annually IAW AFMAN 10-246, Food and Water Protection Program, and
   USAFSAM WVA Technical Guide. (T-2) Note: Do not enter WVA observations into
   DOEHRS. Do not upload WVA reports to DOEHRS.
      3.5.1.1. For CONUS garrison water systems, BE will survey or update sanitary aspects
      of the drinking water system and drinking water programs not covered in WVA protocols
      IAW the USAFSAM DWSTG. Sanitary deficiencies not documented in WVA reports
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                                                15


     will be identified to the responsible organization and the Drinking Water Working Group
     for correction. (T-2)
     3.5.1.2. For OCONUS garrison water systems, BE will perform a sanitary survey at least
     every 3 years for systems using surface water or groundwater under the direct influence
     of surface water, and every 5 years for systems using groundwater as required by the
     applicable FGS or the OEBGD. The sanitary survey may be performed in conjunction
     with WVAs. (T-2)
  3.5.2. At deployed sites BE will perform or update the WVA IAW AFMAN 10-246 and the
  USAFSAM WVA Technical Guide within 60 days of arrival or on a schedule specified by
  the MAJCOM BEE. In conjunction with the WVA, BE will evaluate compliance with
  sanitary requirements of AFMAN 48-138 and, as appropriate, any country specific FGS.
  Any sanitary deficiencies not included in WVA reports will be documented and reported to
  the responsible organization for correction. (T-2)
  3.5.3. For garrison water systems, the BE Flight Commander shall review the WVA report,
  sanitary deficiencies and the BE drinking water program within 60 days of assignment. The
  BE Flight Commander will complete the WVA review and documentation of sanitary
  deficiencies and certify as adequate, or schedule a new assessment. (T-3)
 16                                                           AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


                                         Chapter 4

              SAMPLING, ANALYSIS, AND MONITORING (SAM) PLAN

4.1. SAM Plan.
   4.1.1. BE, with support from CE, shall create and annually review a SAM Plan to include the
   following elements:
      4.1.1.1. Identification of all DW sampling sites used to protect the health of the
      population served and ensure compliance with the appropriate guidance and regulations.
      (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
      4.1.1.2. Annual and long-range sampling schedule. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
      4.1.1.3. Identification of support laboratory for each contaminant and a confirmation
      annually that the laboratory holds the appropriate certification for the analyte(s) in
      question. Include procedures to verify the laboratory is using the appropriate QA/QC,
      achieving the prescribed detection limits, and reporting results IAW applicable regulatory
      requirements. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
      4.1.1.4. Locally developed procedures for conducting the DW surveillance program.
      These procedures must include a schedule for routine monitoring, monitoring of aircraft
      watering points, increased monitoring during contingencies or heightened Force
      Protection Condition, repeat and investigative sampling when installation violates a
      SDWA standard, and monitoring performed before placing new connections and repaired
      water mains or storage tanks into use. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
      4.1.1.5. A current map of each water distribution system showing locations of
      bacteriological, chemical, lead and copper, disinfection byproducts and radiological
      monitoring points. BE shall request CE include this information as part of a Geographical
      Information System and track locations of water system maintenance and complaint
      reports. (T-0; 40 CFR 141)
   4.1.2. The primacy agency will approve the description and classification (e.g.,
   community/non-community, transient/non-transient) of each Public Water System (PWS).
   Typically, BE responsibilities for PWS shall include geographically separated units
   supported by the parent Wing or Medical Group. These responsibilities will be agreed upon
   at the local level via memorandum of agreement (MOA) or memorandum of understanding
   (MOU) or Host-Tenant Support Agreements (HTSA) (T-3).
4.2. Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Program.
   4.2.1. Each BE unit shall implement a program for ensuring quality DW data. This includes
   but is not limited to recording periodic equipment calibration data, ensuring personnel
   training is relevant and current, incorporating proper sample collection techniques, and
   controlling chain-of-custody discipline to preserve samples as necessary. For detailed
   instructions on building an effective QA/QC program, refer to the DWSTG. (T-1)
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     17


                                          Chapter 5

                         RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING

5.1. Consumer Confidence Reports. (CCR)
   5.1.1. AF owned or operated PWS that are regulated as Community Water Systems (CWSs)
   are required to annually issue a CCR no later than 1 July. BE will develop the CCR IAW
   guidance from the primacy agency or the DWSTG if no primacy agency guidance exists. AF
   installations, including those with privatized DW systems that receive a CCR from a local
   water supplier will provide either the original or modified CCR to the base population, if not
   already providing their own CCR. If the original CCR is modified for distribution, ensure
   that modifications do not eliminate regulatory required content. (T-0, 40 CFR 141)
5.2. Overseas Installations.
   5.2.1. Unless otherwise required by the OEBGD or relevant country-specific FGS,
   whichever applies, AND after prior coordination with the appropriate DoD LEC, overseas
   enduring installations with PWSs that serve at least 15 service connections used by year-
   round residents, or regularly serve at least 25 year-round residents, will provide a water
   quality report through appropriate means to inform base customers by 1 July annually. These
   water quality reports may be modeled after the CCR, and will follow a MAJCOM BEE
   approved format. (T-2)




                                            THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS, Surgeon
                                            General
 18                                                          AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 141 - 143, National Primary Drinking Water
Regulations, current edition
Public Law 93-523, 88 Stat. 1660 (1974), As Amended, Safe Drinking Water Act
AFMAN 10-246, Food and Water Protection Program, 4 December 2004; Certified Current 23
Dec 2010
AFI 32-1066, Backflow Prevention Program, 8 October 2007; Certified Current 20 Dec 2010
AFI 32-1067, Water Systems, 3 April 2013
AFI 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance, 10 December 2003; Certified Current 28 Jan 2010
AFI 90-801, ESOH Councils, 25 Mar 2005, Certified Current 29 Dec 2009
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, 2
February 2012
DoDI 4715.05, Environmental Compliance at Installations Outside the United States, 1
November 2013
DoDI 4715.5-G, Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document, 1 May 2007
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, American Public Health
Association, current edition
Uniform Plumbing Code, current edition
UFC 3-230-01, Water Storage, Distribution, and Transmission, 1 November 2012, With Change
1, 1 February 2014
UFC 3-230-02, Operations & Maintenance of Water Supply Systems, 10 July 2001
UFC 3-230-03, Water Treatment, 1 November 2012
USAFSAM DW Surveillance Technical Guide, current edition
USAFSAM WVA Technical Guide, October 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847 - Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014                                               19


AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
AWWA—American Water Works Association
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
BPM—Backflow Program Manager
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear
CCR—Consumer Confidence Report
CDC—Child Development Center
CDS—Chief of Dental Services
CE—Civil Engineering
CEO—Civil Engineering Operations
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CWS—Community Water System
DDESS—Domestic Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DODDS—Department of Defense Dependent Schools
DOEHRS—Defense Occupational and Environmental Health Readiness System
DWSTG—Drinking Water Surveillance Technical Guide
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
FDA—Food and Drug Administration
FGS—Final Governing Standard
FMP—Family Member Programs
HTSA—Host-Tenant Support Agreement
IAW—In Accordance With
LEC—Lead Environmental Component
LCCA—Lead Contamination Control Act
LCR—Lead and Copper Rule
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCL—Maximum Contaminant Level
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
 20                                                   AFI48-144 21 OCTOBER 2014


MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NPDWR—National Primary Drinking Water Regulations
NTNCWS—Non-Transient Non-Community Water System
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
OEHSA—Occupational and Environmental Health Site Assessment
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
PWS—Public Water System
QA/QC—Quality Assurance/Quality Control
REO—Regional Environmental Office
SAM—Sampling, Analysis and Monitoring
SAP—School Age Program
SDWA—Safe Drinking Water Act
TB MED—Technical Bulletin Medical
TNCWS—Transient Non-Community Water System
USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
WVA—Water Vulnerability Assessment
