BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                   DOVER AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               Supplement

                                                                          22 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                             Medical Command

                                                                         FAMILY ADVOCACY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 436 MDOS/SGOW                                              Certified by: 436 MDOS/SGOW
Supersedes:   AFI40-301_DOVER AFBSUP,                                      (Maj Jovanna Wilson)
              8 January 2009                                                           Pages: 6


AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009 is supplemented as follows: The
supplement supersedes AFI40-301_DOVER AFBSUP, 8 January 2009 and establishes the Dover
AFB Family Advocacy Program. AFI 40-301 implements Department of Defense Directive
(DODD) 6400.1, Family Advocacy Program, Department of Defense Directive (DODD) 6400.6,
Domestic Abuse Involving DoD Military and Certain Affiliated Personnel, and Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 40-3, Family Advocacy Program. It assigns responsibilities and explains
procedures for the management of the FAP. This supplement describes 436 AW procedures in
conjunction with the basic AFI and mandates reporting of all incidents of child, spouse, and
intimate partner maltreatment by all base organizational units and active duty members. This
publication applies to all active duty members and organizational units assigned to or associated
with Dover AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, 8 March 2008, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                       AFI40-301_DOVERAFBSUP 22 NOVEMBER 2011


1.3.14.1. (Added) FAP will coordinate with the AW/CCP and AW/CCCE for a monthly roster
that accurately reflects incoming commanders and first sergeants and to assist FAP in providing
initial 90-day FAP training required for commanders and first sergeants.
1.4.8.13. (Added) Mission Support Group Commander (or designee).
1.5.2.4.1. (Added) Ensures SFS entries from the daily blotter regarding domestic incidents are
provided to the Family Advocacy Officer (FAO).
1.5.3.1. MGI 44-106, Identification and Reporting Victims of Domestic Violence, 15 November
2010 establishes protocol for the identification, evaluation, reporting and management of
suspected victims of child, spouse, elderly and intimate partner abuse and neglect.
1.6.1.8. Notifies the Dover MDG/CC immediately or as soon as reasonably possible of all
family maltreatment associated deaths that occur on or off the installation.
1.6.1.9. Ensures the Division of Family Services (DFS) is notified of all suspected child abuse
incidents at Dover AFB.
1.7.5. (Added) Will coordinate with the FAO, 436 MDG personnel, or 436th Security Forces to
provide a safe environment for the victim(s).
1.7.6. (Added) Will exercise command authority over the member to provide a “cooling off”
period, when appropriate and consult with FAP prior to lifting a Military No Contact Order to
ensure patient safety.
1.7.7. (Added) Will respond in person to the scene of any suspected incident of child, spouse, or
intimate partner abuse. If necessary, designate a representative when requested by medical or
security forces authority to assist with case management. The commander and/or first sergeant
will also encourage service member spouses to participate in FAP services. Members who fail to
comply with treatment recommendations or continue to abuse family members are subject to
disciplinary action at the discretion of the commander.
1.8.4. (Added) Will encourage individuals who, within the context of the pastoral relationship,
identify potentially abusive situations to self-refer to FAP.
1.10.4.1. (Added) During duty hours the SFS will notify the Family Advocacy Officer (FAO) at
677-2711 of all incidents concerning maltreatment.
1.10.4.1.1. (Added) After hours, SFS will contact the Mental Health on call provider for
notification and or consultation.
1.14.1. (Added) Reporting Procedures for Dover AFB.
1.14.1.1. (Added) During duty hours, contact the Family Advocacy Office at 302-677-2711.
1.14.1.2. (Added) After duty hours, contact Security Forces at 677-6666, Option 1 or the
Ambulance Response Team at 911 who will contact the on-call Mental Health Provider.
Excluded from this requirement are allegations of sexual assault of Active Duty victims, which
are reported to the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) at 363-7272.
1.14.1.2.1. (Added) Mental Health On-Call Provider will provide consultation and make
recommendations relative to safety and refer the incident to Family Advocacy staff on the next
duty day.
AFI40-301_DOVERAFBSUP 22 NOVEMBER 2011                                                           3


1.14.1.2.2. (Added) After hours, the on call Mental Health Provider, when appropriate, will
notify the Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate (DAVA) of all referrals of adult maltreatment.
1.17. (Added) Any time there is suspected abuse or maltreatment notification must be made to
the FAO or on-call Mental Health Provider and 436th Security Forces. Notification must be
made to the Delaware Department of Child and Families, 1-800-292-9582, when the victim is a
child.
1.17.1. (Added) Ensures that patients whose injuries reasonably suggest they may have been the
result of domestic violence are medically evaluated. If the injuries exceed the capabilities of the
436 MDG, immediate referral, coordination, and/or transfer to an appropriate military or local
civilian hospital will occur.
1.17.2. (Added) Victims of abuse will be encouraged to seek immediate medical attention as
appropriate.
1.17.3. (Added) Medical and law enforcement personnel will ensure the timely collection of
medical evidence that may be useful in a criminal investigation. Color photographs will be
ordered through the Security Forces Law Control Center when appropriate or the on-call alert
photographer.
1.17.4. (Added) Procedures will be carried out in a timely and sensitive manner. It is vital to
ensure that the rights of victims, offenders, and witnesses to suspected acts of abuse or neglect
are protected. Information regarding individuals or circumstances involved in a suspected abuse
incident will only be shared on a need-to-know basis.
1.17.5. (Added) Be sensitive to the idea of possible spouse abuse or victim roles especially
when trauma is unexplained or inconsistent with the explanation of the injury.
1.17.6. (Added) Provide for the necessary medical treatment and documentation of the injury
with extra attention paid to details and clarity of findings.
1.17.7. (Added) When there are suspicions involving child maltreatment and the parent refuses
medical care for the child or fails to comply with the medical recommendations, medical group
personnel will contact the Medical Group Commander, FAO, Mission Support Group
Commander, or Staff Judge Advocate for assistance in resolving the situation.
1.17.8. (Added) The Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Program (ADAPT)
must be notified for any patient injury in which alcohol or drugs is suspected to be a contributing
factor.
2.1.2. (Added) Dover FAP Mission Statement. The mission of the Family Advocacy Program
is to promote readiness and build healthy Air Force communities by developing, implementing
and evaluating policies and programs designed to prevent, intervene and treat child, intimate
partner and spousal maltreatment. Family Advocacy will support therapeutic services to
maximize individual and family functioning while creating an atmosphere that preserves the
dignity and respect of individual and family needs. FAP Services are available to all DoD-
eligible healthcare beneficiaries.
3.2.7. (Added) The FAOM will establish a working relationship with the Dover AFB IDS,
CAIB and other community agencies that provide services for military families focusing on
collaboration, coordination and sharing of information on the available community education and
training resources.
 4                                        AFI40-301_DOVERAFBSUP 22 NOVEMBER 2011


3.2.8. (Added) The FAOM will track all initial and annual leadership trainings in the OPAL and
report quarterly to the FAC and CAIB on the status of initial and annual leader training to
include new training dates. The FAOM will coordinate with the AW/CCP for a monthly roster
that accurately reflects incoming first sergeants and commanders to assist FAP in providing
initial 90-day commander/1st shirt training.
3.4.1.1. (Added) The MDG Women’s Health Clinic is the POC for OB Orientation and ensures
that women with positive pregnancy tests are enrolled in the next session of OB Orientation. OB
Orientation is the main mechanism for receipt of completed Family Needs Screeners. Other
mechanisms include self-referral, referral by their health care provider, the command, base
agencies and community outreach.
4.3.2. (Added) The CSMRT will be notified immediately when allegations of child sexual
maltreatment occur. The Family Advocacy Officer (FAO) will be the lead coordinator to ensure
the CSMRT is activated upon receipt of a child sexual maltreatment referral. In the absence of
the FAO, the Family Advocacy Treatment Manager (FATM) will take the lead in coordinating
the efforts of the CSMRT. Due to the nature of child abuse and neglect interventions, the most
experienced FATM should act as CSMRT team leader and coordinator. The alternate FAO will
be included to monitor the process, fulfill supervisory responsibilities, and ensure those in the
military chain of commands are informed in compliance with the appropriate standards and
guidelines.
4.3.2.1. (Added) During non-duty hours, the on-call Mental Health Provider and AFOSI are
notified of the incident. The on-call Mental Health Provider will assess the situation for victim’s
risk and safety, but will not conduct a thorough evaluation or interview. The next duty day the
on-call mental health provider will notify the Family Advocacy staff for coordination of the
referral. Notification through the medical group chain will occur immediately or as soon as
reasonably possible following a referral of child sexual maltreatment.
4.3.2.2. (Added) A CSMRT would be activated and FAP involvement would take place if
sexual maltreatment was alleged within the realm of a DOD sanctioned activity. FAP
involvement would occur whether the alleged victim was or was not eligible for FAP services.
4.3.2.3. (Added) When allegations of extra-familial sexual maltreatment occur in DOD
sanctioned youth or childcare activities, the CSMRT will need to interface with the Family
Advocacy Command Assistance Team (FACAT).
4.4.4. (Added) The Dover AFB Family Advocacy Officer (FAO) will be the lead coordinator to
ensure the HRVRT is activated upon receipt of a potentially dangerous situation or upon
notification of suspicion of potential threat of harm to a family member(s) by another family
member(s). In the absence of the FAO, the Family Advocacy Treatment Manager (FATM) will
take the lead in coordinating the efforts of the HRVRT. Due to the nature of family violence
interventions, the most experienced FAP clinician should act as HRVRT team leader and
coordinator. The alternate FAO will be included to monitor the process, fulfill supervisory
responsibilities, and ensure those in the military chain of command are informed in compliance
with the appropriate standards and guidelines. When in doubt regarding the situation, activation
and consultation of the HRVRT is strongly advised. The FAO will report any findings to the
FAC Chairperson/Medical Group Commander when there is a threat of immediate harm to a
person in the FAP system. Notification thru the medical group chain will occur immediately or
AFI40-301_DOVERAFBSUP 22 NOVEMBER 2011                                                        5


as soon as reasonably possible. HRVRT members will maintain all case information in
accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974.
4.4.4.1. (Added) When a high risk for violence situation involves a member of the family unit
from another Uniformed Service, FAP staff will provide input to the Service FAP and other
units, as appropriate, to affect Joint Service Community Safety Planning. A Uniform Service
representative will be invited to participate on the HRVRT.
4.4.4.2. (Added) A HRVRT would be activated if further potential for harm existed, and FAP
involvement would take place if the death of a child occurred within the realm of a DOD
sanctioned activity. FAP involvement would occur whether the alleged victim was or was not
eligible for FAP services.
4.5.1.1. (Added) The FAO or FATM at Dover AFB will interview couples involved in domestic
violence allegations to assess the frequency and severity of violence. If domestic violence has
occurred or if the couple gives a history of domestic violence, the unit commander will be
notified and given relevant information to assist with safety planning and risk management.
4.5.1.2. (Added) FAP will initiate the notification protocols for child maltreatment incidents
occurring in DoD-sanctioned activities such as the Child Development /Youth Center when
reasonable suspicion of maltreatment is established. If reasonable suspicion is not established,
the FAO will serve as a consultant to the Child Development Center/Youth Center Director.
4.5.1.3. (Added) When a maltreatment incident results in death the FAO will immediately
inform the installation and MTF commanders, contact AFOSI and obtain the AFOSI case
number, and notify DFS.
4.6.1.1. (Added) DAVA services are available to victims of domestic abuse at Dover AFB 24
hrs a day, 7 days a week and may be accessed by contacting FAP or on call Mental Health
Provider.




                                            MARK D. CAMERER, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                        AFI40-301_DOVERAFBSUP 22 NOVEMBER 2011


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI44-103, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009
MGI44-106, Identification and Reporting Victims of Domestic Violence,15 November 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCE— Chief Executive
CCP— Air Wing Protocol
DFS— Dept of Family Services
MDG— Medical Group
OB—Obstetrical

Terms
Domestic Abuse—Domestic violence or a pattern of behavior resulting in
emotional/psychological abuse, economic control, and/or interference with personal liberty that
is directed toward a person of the opposite sex who is: (a) A current or former spouse; (b) A
person with whom the abuser shares a child in common; or (c) A current or former intimate
partner with whom the abuser shares or has shared a common domicile.
Domestic Violence—An offense under the United States Code, the Uniform Code of Military
Justice, or State law, that involves the use, attempted use, or threatened use of force or violence
against a person of the opposite sex, or a violation of a lawful order issued for the protection of a
person of the opposite sex, who is: (a) A current or former spouse; (b) A person with whom the
abuser shares a child in common; or (c) A current or former intimate partner with whom the
abuser shares or has shared a common domicile..
