BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 48-105
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   15 JULY 2014

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                     SURVEILLANCE, PREVENTION, AND
                                                 CONTROL OF DISEASE AND CONDITIONS
                                                      OF PUBLIC HEALTH OR MILITARY
                                                                      SIGNIFICANCE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/SG3P                                                                Certified by: AF/SG3
                                                                     (Brig Gen Charles E. Potter)
Supersedes:    AFI48-105, 1 March 2005                                                  Pages: 26


This instruction implements provisions contained in Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI)
6200.03, Public Health Emergency Management, Department of Defense Directive (DODD)
6490.02E, Comprehensive Health Surveillance, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1,
Aerospace Medical Program, and explains the procedures for surveillance, prevention, and
control of diseases and conditions of public health or military significance. This instruction
augments Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-2604, Disease Containment Planning. Unless
otherwise directed, Air Force medical personnel follow the methods for controlling and
preventing disease as described in the American Public Health Association publication, Control
of Communicable Diseases Manual, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
publication, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), Recommendations and Reports
(RR), and its supplements. Where applicable, the most recent guidelines from these publications
are utilized as the standard. This instruction applies to all active duty (AD) Airmen, Air National
Guard (ANG) members, and AF Reserve (AFR) (Note: ANG and AFR will be collectively
referred to as Air Reserve Component (ARC)) within an Air Force (AF) military treatment
facility (MTF) or similar unit responsible for public health activities. This publication requires
the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974 (Title 5
United States Code Section 552a), Title 10 United States Code Sections 8013 and 8067(d), and
Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons,
as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397, Relating to
Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers, authorize the collection and maintenance of
records prescribed in this publication. Systems Record Notices F044 AF SG R, Medical Records
System, and Reporting of Medical Conditions of Public Health and Military Significance, apply.
Forms affected by the PA must have an appropriate PA statement. System of records notice
 2                                                                                AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


F044 AF SG E Medical Record System (December 9, 2003, 68 FR 68609) applies. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS). All records should also be maintained IAW AFI 41-210, Patient Administration
Functions. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be
routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier
(“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items.

The following surveillance activities can be found elsewhere and are not included in this AFI:
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Program is found in AFI 44-178; occupational illness
reporting, follow Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1960, Occupational Illness and

Injury Reporting Guidelines for Federal Agencies; AF Occupational and Environmental health
Program is found in AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program; AF injury
prevention and surveillance are managed through the AF Safety Center IAW AFI 91-204, Safety
Investigations and Reports; instructions for suicide event reporting and surveillance are found in
AFI 90-505, Suicide Prevention Program; alcohol and drug abuse reporting and substance use
assessment tools are found in AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Program.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the removal of Air Force Reportable Events Surveillance System (AFRESS) and have
been replaced with a different disease reporting system for medical event reporting and
surveillance – Air Force Disease Reporting System internet (AFDRSi). Program updates have
been incorporated into the Tuberculosis Detection and Control Program (Attachment 3)
reflecting a targeted program based on environmental and operational mission requirements. A
section has been added as an attachment on the Animal Bite – Rabies Prevention Program
(Attachment 4) in order to clarify the procedures necessary for completion of DD Form 2341,
Report of Animal Bite–Potential Rabies Exposure. The publication has been revised to include
instructions for identifying Tier waiver authorities as approved by the Inspector General
Advisory Board (IGAB). Administrative changes have also been incorporated.

Chapter 1—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                          4
       1.1.    United States Air Force Surgeon General (USAF/SG). .........................................   4
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                                                          3


     1.2.   Air Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA). .....................................................                      4
     1.3.   Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA). ...............................................                         4
     1.4.   Air Reserve Component (ARC) Surgeons. ............................................................                   4
     1.5.   MAJCOM and Air Forces Forward (AFFOR) Surgeons .......................................                               4
     1.6.   USAFSAM/PH. .....................................................................................................    5
     1.7.   Air Education and Training Command (AETC) and AF Training Centers. ..........                                        6
     1.8.   Installation Responsibilities. ..................................................................................    6

Chapter 2—SPECIFIC PROGRAM ATTACHMENTS                                                                                          12
     2.1.   Childhood Blood Lead Screening. .........................................................................           12
     2.2.   Tuberculosis (TB) Prevention and Control Program. ............................................                      12
     2.3.   Animal Bite – Rabies Prevention Program. ...........................................................                12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                  13

Attachment 2—CHILDHOOD BLOOD LEAD SCREENING                                                                                     19

Attachment 3—TUBERCULOSIS (TB) DETECTION AND CONTROL PROGRAM                                                                    21

ATTACHMENT 4—ANIMAL BITE – RABIES PREVENTION PROGRAM                                                                            25
 4                                                                    AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014



                                            Chapter 1

                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. United States Air Force Surgeon General (USAF/SG).
     1.1.1. Provides policy guidance on the surveillance, prevention, control, treatment and
     reporting of diseases and conditions of public health or military significance affecting AF
     personnel on military installations.
     1.1.2. Ensures compliance with DoD directives and instructions and serves as the executive
     agent for the DoD Influenza Surveillance Program.
1.2. Air Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA).
     1.2.1. Establishes Air Force policies and guidance for the surveillance, prevention, control,
     treatment and reporting of diseases and conditions of public health or military significance.
     1.2.2. Represents USAF/SG for surveillance, prevention, and control of diseases and
     conditions of public health or military significance, or delegates representation for USAF/SG
     involvement, including collaborative research, to other DoD or Federal agencies and
     organizations.
1.3. Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA).
     1.3.1. Executes programs and policies on surveillance, reporting, and prevention, treatment
     and control of diseases and conditions of public health or military significance.
     1.3.2. Reviews periodic reports of various disease surveillance, prevention, and control
     programs and makes recommendations to USAF/SG for improvement.
     1.3.3. Utilizes evidence-based information and population health data to assist Major
     Commands (MAJCOM) and MTFs in optimizing population health through effective and
     efficient health care delivery and disease detection, prevention, treatment, and control.
1.4. Air Reserve Component (ARC) Surgeons.
     1.4.1. Coordinate with AFMSA to provide their component’s policies and guidance for
     prevention, control, surveillance, treatment, and reporting of diseases and conditions of
     public health or military significance.
     1.4.2. Ensure ANG and AFR medical units report cases of Armed Forces Reportable
     Medical Events acquired while the member is on military status on federal installations to
     ANG Surgeon General, AFR Command Surgeon General, state/local health officials, and to
     the United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine Public Health and Preventive
     Medicine Department (USAFSAM/PH).
1.5. MAJCOM and Air Forces Forward (AFFOR) Surgeons (references to MAJCOMs in
this AFI include the Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command [HQ AFRC], ANG Readiness
Center and other agencies that HQ USAF designates as “Major Command equivalent”).
     1.5.1. Provide specific Command policy and guidance to fixed and deployed MTFs for
     preventing, controlling, treating, and reporting diseases and conditions of public health and
     military operational significance.
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                      5


  1.5.2. During disease outbreaks, public health emergencies, and pandemic events ensure that
  AF medical components transmit reports on exposures, diseases, injuries and fatalities
  involving deployed personnel. After deployments, ensure that AF medical components
  forward copies of lessons learned and after action reports to the Joint Lessons Learned
  Information System (AF-JLLIS) at https://www.jllis.mil/USAF and the National Center for
  Medical Intelligence (NCMI) under the “Send NCMI Information” link at
  https://www.intelink.gov/ncmi/index.php
  1.5.3. During disease outbreaks, public health emergencies, or biological incidents of
  operational significance, provide operational guidance and oversight to MTFs.
1.6. USAFSAM/PH.
  1.6.1. Develops and conducts training on prevention, investigation, control, reporting
  requirements and applied epidemiology on diseases affecting USAF personnel.
  1.6.2. Provides worldwide consultation services to the AF and DoD in public health
  surveillance, epidemiology, preventive medicine, and outbreak response.
  1.6.3. Manages, monitors and analyzes surveillance data and other AF-specific data (e.g.,
  AFDRSi) for disease trends and reports significant events to appropriate AF and DoD
  authorities.
  1.6.4. Supports the Defense Health Agency, Public Health Division in the standardization of
  laboratory data and information for surveillance, including identifying emerging pathogens
  and common sources of disease outbreaks.
  1.6.5. Manages the DoD influenza surveillance program; coordinates with Service
  representatives and with the DoD Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center-Global
  Emerging Infections Surveillance and Response System (DoD-GEIS).
     1.6.5.1. Identifies sentinel bases for etiology-based influenza surveillance in
     collaboration with Army, Navy, DoD-GEIS, and CDC POCs. Sentinel sites are available
     online     at     the    USAFSAM      website:   https://gumbo2.wpafb.af.mil/epi-
     consult/influenza/resources/.
     1.6.5.2. Provides viral collection materials to sentinel bases, and others upon request.
     Analyzes and reports positive influenza isolates to appropriate personnel at MTFs for
     notification and follow-up.
     1.6.5.3. Generates regular reports during the influenza season and annual report at the
     end of each influenza season. Provides these reports to sentinel sites, AFMSA, AFMOA,
     MAJCOMS, DoD-GEIS, Service and Health Affairs POCs.
     1.6.5.4. Coordinates findings in viral identification and typing with the CDC for
     consideration in national influenza vaccine selection.
  1.6.6. Provides clinical reference lab and diagnostic services for the AF and DoD, including
  performing requested AF accessions screening.
  1.6.7. Provides medical entomological support to AF installations, including consultation
  services for vector/pest management, personal protection recommendations, and
  environmental entomology support (e.g., arthropod identification).
 6                                                                     AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


     1.6.8. Provides tuberculosis (TB) risk assessment consultative support to AF activities,
     including guidance on TB risk assessment and prevention of TB transmission using current
     World Health Organization surveillance data on TB prevalence.
     1.6.9. Provides on-site epidemiological response support to AF activities upon request.
     1.6.10. Plans and programs for appropriate resources to examine, analyze, and respond, as
     necessary, to diseases and conditions that affect the health of AF personnel and their
     beneficiaries.
1.7. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) and AF Training Centers. Collect,
analyze, and disseminate information on significant events and mortality from the training
populations, and participate in DoD efforts to reduce morbidity and mortality in training
populations.
     1.7.1. Maintain information systems to track health events in the training populations and
     program for appropriate resources to examine, analyze, and respond to diseases and
     conditions that affect the health of those involved in training.
     1.7.2. Perform population-based febrile respiratory illness (FRI) surveillance at the AF basic
     training recruit center. The Naval Health Research Center (NHRC) in San Diego, California
     manages this population-based component of the DoD Influenza Surveillance program.
1.8. Installation Responsibilities.
     1.8.1. Installation Commander. Ensures all units/tenants comply with requirements for
     preventing and controlling diseases, injuries and other reportable conditions. (T-0).
     1.8.2. Unit/Squadron Commander. Ensures personnel report to the MTF or Reserve
     Medical Unit for screening, immunizations and medical appointments, as required by the
     wing, MAJCOM, AF or DoD level directives. (T-0).
        1.8.2.1. Ensures that personnel processing to and arriving from overseas locations (e.g.
        permanent change of station, deployment) report to the MTF for appropriate health
        assessments, screenings, immunizations and medical exams. (T-0).
        1.8.2.2. Ensures personnel complete appropriate routine screenings, immunizations and
        medical exams IAW DoD and AF guidance. (T-0).
        1.8.2.3. Ensures that non-prescription public health countermeasures (e.g. mosquito
        netting, insect repellent, sanitation measures) are available for deployment. Ensures
        personnel obtain required prescription products (e.g. malaria prophylaxis). Directs
        personnel to comply with recommendations for use. (T-1).
     1.8.3. Base Civil Engineer. Collaborates with Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) and
     Public Health (PH) to ensure the base has a safe water supply, effective sanitation
     infrastructure (e.g. proper sewage and trash disposal), effective disease vector and reservoir
     control (e.g. insects, rodents), proper site selection, and any other environmental safeguards
     necessary to reduce illnesses or injuries on the base, taking into consideration operational
     priorities and resources. (T-2).
     1.8.4. Military Treatment Facility Commander (Active Component only unless otherwise
     specified as Air Reserve Component responsibility).
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                          7


     1.8.4.1. Provides for the surveillance and control of diseases, injuries, and conditions that
     adversely impact the health of the base population, and recommends and takes actions to
     prevent or reduce their impact (applies to Reserve Medical Unit). (T-0).
     1.8.4.2. Ensures collection, surveillance, prevention, detection, treatment, and public
     health activities adhere to AF, DoD, CDC guidelines, and applicable federal, state/local,
     or host nation requirements, and that they are integrated with population health functions
     (applies to ARC). (T-1).
     1.8.4.3. Appoints, in writing, physician(s) as clinical consultants for TB and HIV.
     Appoints additional physician(s) as clinical consultants for other communicable disease
     control measures based on real or potential health threats (applies to ARC). (T-2).
     1.8.4.4. Ensures Force Health Protection Prescription Products (FHPPP) (e.g., malaria
     prophylaxis or Pyridostigmine Bromide tablets) when dispensed to individual personnel,
     are appropriately prescribed by a credentialed health care provider. Ensures the MTF
     dispenses FHPPP to individuals with a legal prescription, appropriate education, and
     documentation on an SF 600 or within the Armed Forces Health Longitudinal
     Technology Application (AHLTA). (applies to ARC). (T-0).
     1.8.4.5. Maintains tuberculosis screening and immunization functions and ensures
     complete documentation in the Aeromedical Services Information Management System
     (ASIMS Web), or currently approved tracking system (applies to ARC). (T-1).
     1.8.4.6. Ensures collection and surveillance of communicable, environmental, and other
     reportable disease/conditions IAW Armed Forces Reportable Medical Events Guidelines
     & Cases Definitions document as posted by the Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center
     (AFHSC) (see Attachment 1 for URL) and ensures reporting to USAFSAM/PH via
     AFDRSi, MAJCOM/PH and state/local or host nation officials, as appropriate (applies to
     Reserve Medical Unit). (T-0).
     1.8.4.7. Ensures contracts for healthcare employees clearly specify appropriate
     prophylaxis and vaccination requirements and delineates the support provided by the
     contractor and the MTF. (T-2).
     1.8.4.8. Ensures that health care providers and clinical laboratory personnel notify PH of
     those patients with reportable diseases or other unusual diseases/conditions. (T-0).
     1.8.4.9. Ensures reportable diseases diagnosed at clinical visits are correctly coded, using
     the International Classification of Disease (ICD), and entered into current information
     systems. ICD Codes for reportable events are listed in the Armed Forces Medical Events
     Guidelines and Case Definitions document (see Attachment 1 for URL). (T-0).
     1.8.4.10. Ensures adequate resources and training provided for surveillance, prevention
     and control of diseases and conditions of public health or military significance. Note: PH
     personnel should have the appropriate mobile capability (e.g. laptop, tablet) to perform
     real-time epidemiologic data collection during emergency events such as disease
     outbreaks or disaster investigations in-garrison and in the deployed environment. (T-2).
     1.8.4.11. Ensures providers are aware of current clinical management guidelines when
     treating patients. (T-1).
8                                                                     AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


       1.8.4.12. Ensures compliance with the requirements of the DoD Influenza Surveillance
       Program (applies to ARC). (T-0).
       1.8.4.13. Ensures MTF implements an effective Childhood Blood Lead Screening
       program IAW most current CDC guidelines and state/local regulations (see Attachment
       2 for Childhood Blood Lead Screening). (T-0).
       1.8.4.14. Ensures MTF implements an effective TB control program IAW most current
       CDC guidelines (see Attachment 3 for Tuberculosis Detection and Control Program)
       (applies to ARC). (T-0).
       1.8.4.15. Ensures MTF complies with rabies prevention and control program
       requirements IAW most current state/local, CDC guidelines, and AFI 48-131 Veterinary
       Health Services (see Attachment 4 for Animal Bite – Rabies Prevention Program). (T-0).
    1.8.5. Chief of Medical Staff (SGH) and Chief of Aerospace Medicine (SGP).
       1.8.5.1. Assist PH in developing MTF instructions and procedures to implement the
       surveillance and control of diseases, injuries, and conditions that adversely impact the
       health of the base population. (T-2).
       1.8.5.2. Provide clinical guidance to the MTF medical professional staff for the
       prevention, control, surveillance, treatment, and reporting of diseases and conditions of
       public health or military significance. (T-2).
       1.8.5.3. At training installations, oversee trainee population health. Collaborate with Line
       of Air Force (LAF) at wing and installation forums for preventing and controlling
       diseases and injuries in the trainee population. (T-2).
       1.8.5.4. The SGH will ensure that all credentialed and licensed health care professionals
       are briefed annually on communicable/infectious disease reporting and animal bite
       treatment/reporting requirements. (T-2).
    1.8.6. PH (Active Component Only).
       1.8.6.1. Conducts community or location-specific public health surveillance, which
       includes chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) terrorism and syndromic
       surveillance as directed by DoDI 6200.03 Public Health Emergency Management and
       DoDI 6490.02E Comprehensive Health Surveillance. Provides information to the MTF
       commander and medical staff as necessary. (T-0).
       1.8.6.2. Conducts and manages epidemiological surveillance and contact interviews, and
       serves as a non-clinical consultant on disease prevention, education and control
       programs. In the event of a suspected or declared public health emergency, these
       activities (including reporting) shall be conducted in coordination with the Public Health
       Emergency Officer (PHEO) and state and/or local health departments, as appropriate.
       Note: In the event of outbreaks in training populations coordinate with Preventive
       Medicine Physician, if available. (T-1).
       1.8.6.3. Informs the MTF Commander, providers, the PHEO, MAJCOM/PH,
       USAFSAM/PH, and, if deployed, the Joint Task Force/Theater Surgeon of the incidence,
       prevalence, modes of transmission, and recommended control measures for
       diseases/conditions of PH or military significance, as necessary. (T-2).
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                        9


     1.8.6.4. Ensures appropriate syndromic surveillance is being conducted to assess threats
     to public health through the use of the Electronic Surveillance System for Early
     Notification of Community-based Epidemics (ESSENCE) or other established
     surveillance systems. Note: MTF should have, at least, two active ESSENCE account
     holders. (T-0).
        1.8.6.4.1. Reviews MTF surveillance data and conducts investigations as appropriate.
        At a minimum, this syndromic surveillance will include respiratory (influenza-like
        illness), gastrointestinal, febrile illness (fever), and dermatologic conditions. (T-1)
        1.8.6.4.2. Conducts special surveillance not specified by this directive, as
        appropriate. Conditions not identified as reportable in the Armed Forces Reportable
        Medical Events Guidelines and Case Definitions document (See Attachment 1 for
        URL) may require special surveillance activities when the local risk is significant.
        Such decisions are based on the local threat assessment from civilian and installation
        morbidity and mortality reports and military medical intelligence. (T-1).
            1.8.6.4.2.1. Provides health surveillance, disease and injury prevention (including
            immunization recommendations and screening) for recruits and training
            populations based on the unique population risk characteristics (e.g., age,
            challenging physical activities, and close living quarters) IAW national
            recommendations, AF and DoD policies. (T-1).
        1.8.6.4.3. Performs active and passive surveillance to detect, track, and trend the
        incidence of reportable diseases/conditions of PH significance. Surveillance programs
        to identify, describe, and report diseases and conditions of PH significance should be
        conducted and reviewed at a frequency determined by the Aerospace Medicine
        Council (AMC). (T-2).
     1.8.6.5. Evaluates risk of vector-borne and zoonotic disease in the local geographical
     area. (T-2).
     1.8.6.6. Collaborates with the local military installations as well as state/local or host
     nation public health officials. Maintains awareness of local epidemiological activities,
     including local surveillance, prevention, and control capabilities. (T-2).
     1.8.6.7. Completes disease-specific case investigation forms as mandated by
     federal/state/local or host nation health officials. Ensures reportable diseases (including
     conditions of public health or military significance), are reported to appropriate
     authorities and entered into AFDRSi. (T-0).
     1.8.6.8. Reviews test results provided by the laboratory and other electronic data sources
     to ensure timely identification and investigation of reportable and communicable
     infections, including disease/conditions of PH or military significance not identified in
     the Armed Forces Medical Events Guidelines and Case Definitions document (See
     Attachment 1 for URL). (e.g. Sexually Transmitted Infections, Childhood Blood Lead as
     outlined in Attachment 2). (T-1).
     1.8.6.9. Disseminates information derived from PH surveillance in a timely manner.
     This includes periodic feedback to health care providers and to appropriate MTF
     committees (e.g., AMC, Population Health Working Group, Professional Staff,
10                                                                AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


     Occupational Health Working Group, and Infection Control) regarding incidence or
     prevalence of diseases and conditions of interest or importance. (T-2).
     1.8.6.10. Transmits all AF Reportable Medical Events to USAFSAM/PH via the
     AFDRSi. Note: the website to report Reportable Medical Events (referred to as Medical
     Event        Reports     in      AFDRSi)        can       be        found       here:
     https://data.nmcphc.med.navy.mil/afdrsi/Login.aspx. (T-1).
         1.8.6.10.1. Armed Forces medical events guidelines and case definitions for
         Reportable and Urgently Reportable Conditions are available at the following
         AFHSC website: http://www.afhsc.mil/reportableEvents. (T-1).
         1.8.6.10.2. PH should report disease information as required by their state/ local
         public health officials, to include conditions determined to be Urgently Reportable.
         (T-0).
     1.8.6.11. At sentinel influenza surveillance sites, provides the Primary Care Manager
     (PCM) team with program instructions and updates, including the case definition for
     influenza-like illness. Coordinates with the PCM to ensure the influenza questionnaire is
     sent to USAFSAM/PH using the prescribed mechanism. (T-2).
     1.8.6.12. Interviews individuals with communicable infections that require contact
     tracing IAW CDC guidelines (see Attachment 3 for specifics on Tuberculosis Detection
     and Control). (T-0).
     1.8.6.13. Refers contacts of patients with reportable diseases or diseases/conditions of
     PH or military significance, if eligible, for medical care and counseling within the MTF;
     refers non-beneficiaries to the health department in their area of residence. ARC PH will
     submit information to local and state health authorities as required. (T-1).
     1.8.6.14. Performs disease outbreak investigations and works with the SGP and PHEO to
     advise the MTF Commander on the management and control of disease outbreaks. (T-2).
  1.8.7. Clinical Laboratory.
     1.8.7.1. Notifies providers and PH of reportable diseases/conditions meeting laboratory
     criteria for diagnosis as listed in the Armed Forces Reportable Medical Events Guidelines
     and Case Definitions document (see Attachment 1 for URL). Notifies PH of any
     unusual pattern of laboratory testing results or significant increase in incidence of a
     disease. (T-1).
     1.8.7.2. Participates in the CDC Laboratory Response Network for Bioterrorism and
     Chemical Terrorism. Reports identification of potential offensive biological and chemical
     agents IAW CDC-DoD notification protocols. Facilitates process for forwarding clinical,
     environmental, and food specimens (e.g., unusual pathogens, antibiotic-resistant strains,
     chemical and radiological exposures), where appropriate or required, to DoD or civilian
     reference labs. (T-0).
     1.8.7.3. During epidemiological and outbreak investigations, coordinates with PH on
     appropriate sample collection protocols, test availability, and result reporting. (T-2).
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                        11


     1.8.7.4. For influenza surveillance, sentinel MTFs will send respiratory specimens to
     USAFSAM weekly during influenza season (usually October to May or year-round if
     indicated), as directed by USAFSAM/PH. (T-2).
  1.8.8. MTF Information Management Officer. Maintains systems to support reporting
  and surveillance activities, including training population, and immunization tracking
  databases. (T-2).
  1.8.9. MTF Medical and Dental Providers.
     1.8.9.1. Counsel individuals on communicable diseases, risk factor reduction, and early
     recognition of symptoms. (T-1).
     1.8.9.2. Refer patients to PH with reportable conditions listed in the Armed Force
     Reportable Medical Events Guidelines and Case Definitions (see Attachment 1 for
     URL), AF-specific reportable diseases (listed on the USAFSAM/PH website, see
     Attachment 1 for URL), diseases that require contact tracing, or those required by
     state/local, or host nation directives. Diseases/ conditions that have PH impact or military
     significance are also reported to PH. (T-1).
     1.8.9.3. Use case definitions and ICD Codes for reportable events outlined in the Armed
     Forces Reportable Medical Events Guidelines and Case Definitions document (see
     Attachment 1 for URL). If a case definition is not available in the Armed Forces
     Guidelines, use CDC guidelines and case definitions. (T-0).
     1.8.9.4. Report to PH, within 24 hours, conditions determined to be Urgently Reportable
     (list of Urgently Reportable conditions available at USAFSAM website, see Attachment
     1 for URL), any unusual disease activity, disease clusters or indications of a possible
     outbreak. Ensure appropriate reporting through chain of command. (T-1).
     1.8.9.5. At sentinel influenza surveillance sites, identify patients meeting the case
     definition for influenza, collect respiratory specimens, and ensure completion of the
     influenza questionnaire. (T-1).
     1.8.9.6. Prescribe pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis, including vaccines, IAW AF,
     DoD, Combatant Command (CCMD) policies and CDC or the Advisory Committee on
     Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations and any applicable attachments to this
     instruction. (T-0).
     1.8.9.7. Screen, treat, and follow up with personnel with communicable infections IAW
     AF, DoD, CDC and the US Preventive Services Task Force recommendations, taking
     into account the local epidemiology and high-risk groups (such as basic military
     trainees), as necessary. (T-0).
  1.8.10. Air Reserve Component Medical Units. Report cases of Armed Forces Reportable
  Medical Events (see Attachment 1 for URL) detected while the member is on military status
  on federal installations to Air National Guard Surgeon General or Headquarters Air Force
  Reserve Command Surgeon General; and to USAFSAM/PH; and their respective local PH
  authorities.
 12                                                             AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


                                        Chapter 2

                       SPECIFIC PROGRAM ATTACHMENTS

2.1. Childhood Blood Lead Screening. Instructions for MTFs to identify children who are at
risk for lead exposure are found in Attachment 2.
2.2. Tuberculosis (TB) Prevention and Control Program. Specific components for effective
TB prevention and control are in Attachment 3.
2.3. Animal Bite – Rabies Prevention Program. Guidance for MTFs on managing the risk
and exposure to rabies are in Attachment 4.




                                         THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                         Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                         Surgeon General
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                       13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 6490.02E, Comprehensive Health Surveillance, 8 February 2012.
DoDD 6205.02E, Policy and Program for Immunizations to Protect the Health of Service
Members and Military Beneficiaries, 19 September, 2006.
DoDI 6200.3, Public Health Emergency Management within the Department of Defense, 5
March 2010, Incorporating Change 2 Oct 2013.
DoDI 6490.03, Implementation and Application of Joint Medical Surveillance for Deployments,
11 August 2006.
DoDI 6025.19, Individual Medical Readiness, 2 October 2013.
Control of Communicable Diseases Manual, (most current edition) American Public Health
Association, 1015 15 Street NW Washington DC 20005.
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs Memorandum, Human Rabies Prevention
During and After Deployment , September 23, 2011.
American Public Health Association. Rabies. In: Heymann D, ed. Control of communicable
diseases manual. 19th ed. Washington, DC: American Public Health Association; 2008:498--
508.
CDC. Updated Guidelines for Using Interferon Gamma Release Assays to Detect
Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection — United States, 2010. MMWR 2010; Vol. 59 / RR-5.
CDC. Targeted tuberculin testing and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection. MMWR 2000
Vol 49 / RR-6.
CDC. Latent Tuberculosis Infection: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers, 2013.
Available on the CDC website at the following url:
http://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/LTBI/default.htm
CDC. Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Health-
Care Settings, 2005. MMWR 2005 Vol 54 / RR-17.
CDC. Essential Components of a Tuberculosis Prevention and Control Program. MMWR
1995;44 (No. RR-11).
CDC. Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know. Sixth Ed, 2013.
CDC. Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines 2010. MMWR 2010; 59 (RR-12).
CDC. Case Definitions for Infectious Conditions under Public Health Surveillance. MMWR
1997;46 (No.RR-10).
CDC. Compendium of Animal Rabies Control, 2011, National Association of State Public Health
Veterinarians, Inc. MMWR November 4, 2011; 60 (RR06); 1-14.
 14                                                                 AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


CDC. Use of a Reduced (4-Dose) Vaccine Schedule for Postexposure Prophylaxis to Prevent
Human Rabies Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices,
MMWR 2010; 59(No.RR-2): 1-12.
CDC. Human Rabies Prevention - United States, 2008, Recommendations of the Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR 2008; 57(No. RR-1).
CDC. Immunization of Health-Care Workers: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (ACIP) and the Hospital Infection Control Practices Advisory
Committee (HICPAC). MMWR Nov 25, 2011; 60(RR07);1-45.
Hospital Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC). Guidelines for Isolation
Precautions: Preventing Transmission of Infectious Agents in Healthcare Settings, 2007.
Available on CDC website at following url:
http://www.cdc.gov/hicpac/2007IP/2007isolationPrecautions.html
Guidelines for Infection Control in Health Care Personnel. Am J Inf Cont. Jun 1998, Vol. 26,
Num. 3.
CDC. Guidelines for Infection Control in Dental Health-care Settings. MMWR 2003; 52(No.
RR-17): 1-61.
Federal Register 29 CFR Part 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Blood Pathogens; Final
Rule.
Federal Register 29 CFR 1960, Occupational Illness and Injury Reporting Guidelines for
Federal Agencies.
OSHA CPL 2.106, Enforcement Procedures and Scheduling for Occupational Exposure to
Tuberculosis TB Respiratory Protection Program in Health Care Facilities, Administrator’s
Guide, NIOSH, CDC, (1999, September) publication 99-143.
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs Memorandum, Human Rabies Prevention
During and After Deployment, November 14, 2011.
Assistant Secretary of Defense Memorandum, Guideline for Tuberculosis Testing and Screening,
20 April 2012.
The “Red Book,” 2012 Report of the Committee on Infectious Diseases. 29th edition, 2012 or
most recent version, American Academy of Pediatrics
Title 10, United States Code (USC), Section 8013, Medical Records System. 10 U.S.C., Chapter
55, Medical and Dental Care, 10 U.S.C., Sec. 8013, Power and Duties of the Secretary of the Air
Force Executive Order 9397 Systems Record Notices F044 AF SG E, Medical Records System,
and Reporting of Medical Conditions of Public Health and Military Significance
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 1582
Armed Forces Reportable Medical Events Guidelines and Case Definitions document, Army
Medical Surveillance Activity. Available at http://www.afhsc.mil/reportableEvents
US Preventive Services Task Force, Screening Tuberculosis Infection, Guide to Clinical
Preventive Services, 2nd edition, 1996 or most recent update.
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 23 August 2011
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                            15


AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 19 October 2011
AFI 32-1067, Water Systems, 3 April 2013
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012
AFI 44-108, Infection Prevention and Control Program, 1 March 2012
AFI 48-102, Medical Entomology Program, 27 May 2010
AFJI 48-110-IP, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis (Joint AFI), 27 October 2013
AFI 48-116, Food Safety Program, 22 March 2004
AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services (Joint AFI), 29 August 2006
AFI 44-178, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Program, 4 March 2014
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 12 February 2014
AFI 10-2604, Disease Containment Planning, 3 September 2010
AFI 10-2603, Emergency Health Powers on AF Installations, 13 October 2010
USAFSAM/PHR Epi Consult Division website: https://gumbo2.wpafb.af.mil/epi-
consult/index.cfm
Memo 95009, 26 June 95, Modification of Pediatric Blood Lead Screening Program.
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 2453, Tuberculosis Detection and Control Data
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite – Potential Rabies Exposure

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF-JLLIS—Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System
AFFOR—Air Force forces
AFHSC—Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
 16                                                          AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


ASIMS—Aeromedical Services Information Management System
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
BLLS—blood lead levels
CBRN—chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear
CDC—Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
DMSS—Defense Medical Surveillance System
DOD—Department of Defense
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DOD-GEIS—DoD Global Emerging Infections Surveillance and Response System
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRSi—Disease Reporting System Internet
ESSENCE—Electronic System for Early Notification of Community-based Epidemics
FRI—Febrile Respiratory Illness
FHPPP—Force Health Protection Prescription Products
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICD—International Classification of Disease
IGRA—Interferon-Gamma Release Assay
INH—Isoniazid
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System (AF-JLLIS)
LTBI—latent tuberculosis infection
MDO—medical defense officer
MAJCOM—major command
MMWR—Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NCMI—National Center for Medical Intelligence
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PB—Pyridostigmine Bromide
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PEP—Post-exposure Prophylaxis
PH—Public Health
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                         17


PHEO—Public Health Emergency Officer
RAB—Rabies Advisory Board
RAC—Rabies Advisory Council
SG—Surgeon General
SGH—Chief of Medical Staff
STI—Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB—Tuberculosis
THMP—Trainee Health Management Program
THWG—Trainee Health Working Group
TST—Tuberculin Skin Test
URL—Universal Resource Locate
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
USAFSAM/PH—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine/Public Health and
Preventive Medicine Department
WHO—World Health Organization

Terms
Accessions—Service accessions include service members in recruit training, Officer Candidate
School, Service Academy preparatory school, Service academy, Officer-indoctrination school,
other officer accession programs, and officers that are directly commissioned.
Active Surveillance—Requires direct action to collect disease information. For example, active
surveillance includes —contacting physicians, hospitals, laboratories, or other health entities to
actively search for disease cases.
Air Force Reserve Component (ARC)—Reserve forces that include the Air National Guard
and the Air Force Reserve Command
Diseases and conditions of public health or military significance—These are diseases or
health conditions that impact the health or readiness of Air Force personnel, their dependents, or
other eligible personnel and which have a potential for substantial mission degradation,
widespread morbidity, or significant adverse sequelae or mortality.
High—risk TB prevalence country/area—A country or geographical area with a high
prevalence of tuberculosis as determined by the USAFSAM/PH in conjunction with the National
Center for Medical Intelligence (NCMI), World Health Organization (WHO) and other health
agencies. See USAFSAM site https://gumbo2.wpafb.af.mil/epi-consult/tb/ and/or NCMI site
https://www.intelink.gov/ncmi/index.php for country risk profile.
Nonreportable STIs—STIs that are not included on the list of Armed Forces Reportable
Medical Events Guidelines and Case Definitions. Patients with these diseases may be referred to
PH for education, sexual contact identification, and follow-up, as appropriate.
 18                                                                    AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


Disease Outbreak—The occurrence of cases of disease in excess of what would normally be
expected in a defined community, geographical area or season. An outbreak may occur in a
restricted geographical area, or may extend over several countries. It may last for a few days or
weeks, or for several years. A single case of a communicable disease long absent from a
population, or caused by an agent (e.g. bacterium or virus) not previously recognized in that
community or area, or the emergence of a previously unknown disease, may also constitute an
outbreak and should be reported and investigated.
Passive Surveillance—The reliance on health care providers or laboratories to report cases of
disease.
Public Health Surveillance—The regular or repeated collection, analysis, and dissemination of
uniform health information for monitoring the health of a population, and intervening in a timely
manner when necessary.
Public Health Emergency Officer (PHEO)—A senior health professions military officer or
DoD civilian employee, designated by the installation commander, with experience in preventive
medicine/ emergency response who is responsible for advising the installation commander in the
exercising of emergency health powers (as outlined in DoDI 6200.3 and AFI 10-2604) in the
event of a suspected or confirmed public health emergency.
Rabies Virus Exposure—Rabies virus is transmitted when the virus is introduced into bite
wounds, into open cuts in skin, or onto mucous membranes from saliva or other potentially
infectious material such as neural tissue.
Reportable STIs—Patients with STIs identified as reportable in the Armed Forces Medical
Events Guidelines and Case Definitions. These patients should be referred to PH by the provider
for sexual contact identification, evaluation, education, and annual reporting.
Screening—A method for early detection of disease or health problem before an individual
would normally seek medical care. Screening tests are usually administered to individuals
without current symptoms, but who may be at high-risk for certain adverse health outcomes.
Sexually Transmitted Infection—An infection that can be transferred from one person to
another through sexual contact.
Syndromic Surveillance—The surveillance of disease syndromes (groups of signs and
symptoms), rather than specific, clinical, or laboratory-defined diseases. Surveillance of
syndromes recorded at the time of patient visit, instead of specific diagnoses reported after
laboratory or other diagnostic procedures, can greatly lessen the time it takes to determine that an
outbreak is occurring (ESSENCE is an example of a syndromic surveillance system).
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                         19


                                         Attachment 2
                        CHILDHOOD BLOOD LEAD SCREENING

A2.1. The objective of this program is to identify children living on and off base who are at risk
for environmental lead exposure IAW CDC guidelines and state/local regulations.
   A2.1.1. Military Treatment Facility Commander ensures MTFs implement an effective
   Childhood Blood Lead Screening program IAW guidelines outlined by the CDC and
   state/local regulations for screening, investigation, treatment and follow-up. (T-0).
   A2.1.2. Chief of Medical Staff (SGH) coordinates with PH to ensure the development of a
   local risk assessment questionnaire for targeted lead screening. This questionnaire
   supplements the CDC’s standard lead exposure screening questions and reflects the
   community-specific lead exposure risk. (T-1).
   A2.1.3. MTF Medical Provider
       A2.1.3.1. Ensures parents receive educational materials about prevention and risk of
       childhood lead exposure. (T-2).
       A2.1.3.2. Conducts universal childhood blood lead testing when required by state/local
       regulations. Otherwise, medical providers will conduct targeted or risk-based screening
       IAW CDC guidelines. (T-1).
       A2.1.3.3. Conducts targeted screening through risk assessment questionnaire beginning
       at 9-12 months of age and periodically between 24 months to 6 years of age. Ensures
       completed questionnaires are placed in the electronic medical record (e.g. AHLTA). (T-
       1).
           A2.1.3.3.1. Test children with one or more lead-exposure risk factors for blood lead
           levels. Uses CDC guidelines for instructions on blood lead sampling technique,
           treatment and follow-up of elevated blood lead levels (BLLs). (T-0).
           A2.1.3.3.2. Refers all children with BLLs above current CDC reference value to PH.
           (T-2).
   A2.1.4. Public Health
       A2.1.4.1. Initiates a lead toxicity investigation for any confirmed pediatric BLLs above
       the current CDC reference value. Coordinates with BE or local PH department for lead
       sampling of the facility based on epidemiological data IAW CDC and OSHA guidelines.
       Note: Ensure BE reviews the local lease agreement prior to initiating any sampling in
       Privatized Housing Areas to determine if the base or state has jurisdiction. (T-0).
           A2.1.4.1.1. Reports all BLLs above the current CDC reference value to
           USAFSAM/PH using AFDRSi. (T-2).
           A2.1.4.1.2. Submits periodic reports of blood-lead laboratory results to
           USAFSAM/PH via AFDRSi. Reports an elevated venous blood test once per patient
           (follow-up test results on the same patient are not counted again). (T-2).
           A2.1.4.1.3. Provides findings from lead toxicity investigation to the patient’s medical
           provider. (T-1).
20                                                               AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


        A2.1.4.1.4. Track and follow-up on elevated blood lead results for children younger
        than 6 years of age. (T-3).
  A2.1.5. USAFSAM/PH
     A2.1.5.1. Provides surveillance and maintains a historical database of past pediatric
     blood lead screening results from each installation. (T-3).
     A2.1.5.2. Reports significant findings or unusual trends on blood lead results to AFMOA
     and submits an annual fiscal year summary of the Childhood Blood Lead Screening
     Program. (T-2).
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                         21


                                         Attachment 3
           TUBERCULOSIS (TB) DETECTION AND CONTROL PROGRAM

A3.1. The objective of this program is to align the AF TB program with the national program to
eliminate tuberculosis. The AFMS follows current CDC guidelines for TB prevention and
control. The following guidance is intended to cover areas where CDC guidance is vague or does
not exist.
A3.2. The AF TB screening program will be a targeted program based on environmental and
operational mission requirements. The TB testing program for Air Force personnel will be
limited to individuals with high-risk TB exposure histories or those with clinical indications for
testing.
   A3.2.1. TB screening for recruits and new accessions will be based on current clinical
   recommendations and guidance from trainee health medical leadership.
A3.3. Military Treatment Facility Commanders.
   A3.3.1. Ensure MTFs and Reserve Medical Units implement an effective TB control
   program IAW current CDC guidelines as outlined per paragraph 1.9.4.14. (T-0).
   A3.3.2. Ensure a written plan on prevention of transmission and treatment of TB for the
   MTF and Reserve Medical Unit is completed and reviewed annually. The plan will include a
   multi-disciplinary healthcare team (e.g., SGH, Infection Control, PH, BEE) evaluation and a
   written TB risk assessment IAW CDC guidelines. The plan will also include appropriate
   respiratory protection for potentially exposed health-care workers, effective engineering
   controls, education, counseling and evaluation of healthcare workers, and identification and
   treatment of individuals with active disease or latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI). (T-1).
A3.4. Public Health.
   A3.4.1. Coordinates with the Infection Control Committee and Bioenvironmental
   Engineering to ensure compliance with relevant Occupational Safety and Health
   Administration guidelines for the control of occupational exposure to tuberculosis. (T-3).
   A3.4.2. Implements MTF TB exposure control plan for prevention of transmission and
   treatment of TB if necessary. Reviews plan annually recommending risk-based procedures
   for screening, control, and protection against TB IAW CDC guidelines. Coordinates the
   review with Infection Control Committee and Bioenvironmental Engineering. (T-0).
   A3.4.3. Conducts risk assessment of personnel, including re-deployers and beneficiaries
   returning from high-risk TB endemic locations and countries to determine the frequency of
   TB testing. Follow local city, county, and/or state recommendations if their guidance
   requires more frequent testing or inclusion of other individuals. (T-1).
   A3.4.4. Performs the initial LTBI patient interview IAW CDC guidelines and refers patient
   to PCM. (T-0).
   A3.4.5. Performs contact tracing IAW CDC guidelines and ensures the proper screening,
   and treatment as indicated, for personnel who may have become infected from persons with
   active TB disease. (T-0).
 22                                                                    AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


   A3.4.6. Monitors local TB risk and provides prevention and education messages for the
   installation population. (T-3).
   A3.4.7. Reports active TB cases within 24 hours to USAFSAM/PH via AFDRSi. (T-0).
A3.5. Primary Care Management (PCM) team.
   A3.5.1. Evaluates all individuals with non-negative tuberculosis tests. Non-negative tests
   include:
       A3.5.1.1. Tuberculin skin test (TST) indurations greater than or equal to 5mm. (T-0).
       A3.5.1.2. Indeterminate or positive blood assays for M. tuberculosis Interferon-Gamma
       Release Assay (IGRA). (T-0).
   A3.5.2. Records positive reactions, initial and follow-up care on AF Form 2453,
   Tuberculosis Detection and Control Data. Places AF Form 2453 in the patient’s medical
   record upon completion of medical treatment. PCM will document all patient interventions,
   including attempts to contact member, in the medical record (e.g., the DoD electronic
   medical record, currently the Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application).
   (T-1).
   A3.5.3. Ensures all patients with LTBI or active TB are referred to PH for contact tracing,
   education, and reporting. (T-2).
       A3.5.3.1. ARC providers in collaboration with ARC PH equivalent will refer patients for
       initial LTBI patient interview and contact investigation IAW CDC guidelines to
       respective AD servicing MTF/state/local public health departments/private practice
       physicians. (T-2).
       A3.5.3.2. ARC PH equivalent will obtain medical documentation on the status of
       patients requiring X-Ray clearance and INH treatment determination from start to
       completion, deferment, and exemption. (T-2).
   A3.5.4. Evaluates patients for active disease. Provides clinical management and follow-up
   of patients with LTBI or active TB IAW CDC guidelines. (T-0).
   A3.5.5. Ensures recent converters who do not have active TB but who are on flying status,
   have flying status handled IAW current AFMSA LTBI prophylaxis policy. If the services of
   the flyer are of a critical nature, (e.g., in a combat zone or for alert force manning and unable
   to be in DNIF status for three days) and active TB has been ruled out, INH therapy can be
   delayed for up to 18 months with the approval of the base SGP documented in the clinical
   record. During this time the flight surgeon will continue to monitor the flyer closely until
   his/her services are no longer critical and INH can be initiated. (T-1).
A3.6. Immunization Technician or Personnel Administering Tuberculosis Testing.
   A3.6.1. Follow current CDC guidance on testing procedures and interpretation of tests. (T-
   0).
   A3.6.2. Trained Immunization clinic personnel and other clinicians with experience or
   formal training can place, read, and record Purified Protein Derivative (PPD) skin tests. (T-
   3).
A3.7. Tuberculosis Testing Programs.
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                         23


   A3.7.1. The AF TB testing program is a targeted program. AF personnel (including
   deployers and other forward-based personnel) are only to be tested when they have high-risk
   exposures, high-risk occupations (e.g. Healthcare Workers), or are employees with clinical
   indications for testing as per local Aerospace Medicine Council recommendation.
       A3.7.1.1. Persons at risk for developing TB disease fall into two categories: those who
       have been recently infected, and those with clinical conditions that increase the risk of
       progression from LTBI to TB disease.
          A3.7.1.1.1. Recent infection should be suspected in close contacts of a person with
          active TB, persons who have immigrated from or visit areas of the world with high
          rates of TB, residents or employees of congregate settings (homeless shelters,
          correctional facilities, and nursing homes), health care workers caring for patients
          who are at increased risk of TB and children exposed to adults who are at increased
          risk for TB.
          A3.7.1.1.2. Clinical conditions that increase the risk of progression from LTBI to TB
          disease include HIV infection, age less than 5 years, persons who are receiving
          immunosuppressive        therapy such as tumor necrosis factor–alpha (TNF-α)
          antagonists, systemic corticosteroids equivalent to ≥15 mg of prednisone per day, or
          immune suppressive drug therapy following organ transplantation, persons who were
          infected with TB within the past 2 years, persons with a history of untreated or
          inadequately treated LTBI, low body weight (10% below ideal), silicosis, diabetes
          mellitus, chronic renal failure or being on hemodialysis, gastrectomy, jejunal bypass,
          history of cancer of the head, neck or lung.
A3.8. Testing Methods for Tuberculosis.
   A3.8.1. The Mantoux tuberculin skin test (TST) uses Intermediate-strength Purified Protein
   Derivative (IPPD) injected under the skin. Most people who have been infected with TB will
   have a T-cell mediated delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction at the injection site, peaking at
   48-72 hours after the injection. The TST is the preferred test in children younger than 5 years
   of age.
       A3.8.1.1. Delay the TST at least four weeks after live-virus vaccine administration,
       unless operational or clinical circumstances require administration of TST on the same
       day.
       A3.8.1.2. Measure TST reactions in millimeters of induration and record the results in
       ASIMS and the DoD electronic medical record (e.g. AHLTA). Do not delete results of
       previous TB tests in the AF automated immunization tracking system.
       A3.8.1.3. Refer all individuals with TST indurations greater than or equal to 5 mm to
       PH. If active TB is suspected, alert the infection Control Officer, the PCM team, and PH
       to ensure that appropriate precautionary infection control measures are applied.
   A3.8.2. IGRAs – Detect the presence of M. tuberculosis infection by measuring the immune
   response to TB proteins in a blood sample. IGRAs can be used in all circumstances in which
   the TST is used, including contact investigations, evaluation of recent immigrants who have
   had Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccination, and TB screening of healthcare workers and
   others undergoing serial evaluation for M. tuberculosis infection. An IGRA is the preferred
 24                                                                  AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


   test in persons who may be unlikely to return for TST reading, and persons who have
   received BCG.
A3.9. Indications for TB Screening Tests.
   A3.9.1. Screen AD and ARC members during initial processing at officer or enlisted
   accession centers or at their first duty station. (T-1).
   A3.9.2. Perform annual testing for all individuals stationed in a high-prevalence overseas
   area and who have direct and prolonged contact with high-risk populations or have high-risk
   exposure. Perform another tuberculosis test at 3 months (no later than 6 months) after
   returning to CONUS or a low TB prevalence OCONUS location. (T-1).
   A3.9.3. Combatant Command may direct additional TB testing. When the Combatant
   Command defers to Service policy for TB testing, then the following applies:
       A3.9.3.1. Individuals who deployed to high-prevalence areas for greater than or equal to
       30 consecutive days and who had direct and prolonged contact with the locals population
       or had high-risk or known exposure to an active TB case should receive a TB test at 3
       months (no later than 6 months) post-deployment. (T-1).
       A3.9.3.2. Testing more frequently than every 12 months is not necessary for personnel
       who deploy regularly to high prevalence areas unless they have other risk factors for TB.
       (T-1).
   A3.9.4. Perform baseline two-step TST or one IGRA for healthcare workers (including
   civilians, contractors, and volunteers) upon employment/volunteer service if there is no
   verifiable history of being tested within the previous 12 months. A documented, initial TB
   test done on accession (baseline test) for Air Force personnel is considered the first step of
   the two-step TST. The second step should be completed within twelve months at either the
   first duty assignment or subsequent training program. Repeat or interval testing for
   healthcare workers is based on risk assessment for the setting IAW CDC guidelines or in
   consultation with USAFSAM/PH. Healthcare workers transferring between healthcare
   settings or AFMS medical treatment facilities that are classified as low risk are not retested.
   Healthcare workers transferring from low to medium risk settings should be tested within 30
   days of transfer to the medium risk setting location. (T-1).
   A3.9.5. Perform baseline and subsequent TB testing for family members and other
   beneficiaries IAW CDC guidelines. (T-0: IAW current CDC guidelines).
       A3.9.5.1. Baseline TB testing is indicated for individuals who are PCSing to a high TB
       prevalence country and who have no verification of having been previously tested.
       Testing should be completed prior to departure. (T-1).
       A3.9.5.2. Baseline TB testing is indicated prior to overseas travel if individuals
       anticipate prolonged contact with populations in settings at high-risk for transmission of
       infectious TB (e.g., hospital, prison, homeless shelters) and 3 months after returning. (T-
       1).
AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014                                                                       25


                                      ATTACHMENT 4
                   ANIMAL BITE – RABIES PREVENTION PROGRAM

A4.1. The purpose of this attachment is to provide policies and procedures for rabies prevention
and control across AF installations. It is intended primarily for use by PH, MTF medical
providers and others with related responsibilities or interests. AFI 48-131 Veterinary Health
Services is the guiding document that provides specifics regarding rabies prevention and control
in animals.
A4.2. Reporting.
   A4.2.1. Military and Tricare beneficiaries who are exposed to rabies or potentially exposed
   to rabies shall promptly report their animal exposure and seek medical treatment from a
   health care provider as soon as possible, preferably within 24 hours. Potential exposure
   events from an animal capable of spreading rabies include a bite or salivary contact with an
   open wound or mucous membrane. Note: Potential exposure to rabies virus includes: any
   bite, scratch or other situation in which saliva or central nervous system (CNS) tissue of a
   potentially rabid animal enters an open wound, fresh wound, or comes in contact with a
   mucous membrane by entering the eye, mouth or nose. Inadvertent bat contact will also be
   considered a potential rabies exposure event. (T-1).
   A4.2.2. MTF medical providers shall initiate and complete all relevant portions of the DD
   Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite – Potential Rabies Exposure, for each patient with
   possible exposure to rabies and include the DD 2341 in medical record documentation (to
   include patients evaluated/treated at off-base medical facilities). (Ref: AFI 48-131,
   Veterinary Health Services). (T-0).
   A4.2.3. Individuals in deployed settings should be encouraged to report any possible rabies
   exposures on their Post-Deployment Health Assessment (DD Form 2796) as “animal bite” or
   in free-text sections of the forms. (T-3).
A4.3. Public Health.
   A4.3.1. Epidemiologically monitors and communicates rabies risk in the local area to MTF
   providers and reports exposures (potential or confirmed cases) IAW state/local, Federal, or
   AF guidelines. Note: PH should routinely review MTF surveillance data (e.g. Emergency
   Room reports) and conduct investigations as appropriate. (T-2).
   A4.3.2. Tracks animal bite cases, tracks completion of post-exposure prophylaxis and
   reports to the AMC as necessary. (T-2).
   A4.3.3. The Public Health Officer (PHO) (or SGP/senior flight surgeon when PHO is
   unavailable) will review all animal bite case reports in order to verify appropriateness of
   case-specific risk assessment. As needed, the PHO, SGP/senior flight surgeon (or SGH) and
   the treating physician will meet to discuss cases when appropriateness of risk
   assessment/PEP tx decision is in question. (T-2).
A4.4. Immunizations Clinic.
   A4.4.1. Ensures administration of post-exposure prophylaxis is documented in the patient
   immunization record. (T-2).
 26                                                                   AFI48-105 15 JULY 2014


   A4.4.2. Notifies individuals of required post-exposure prophylaxis and immunization
   schedule. (T-2).
A4.5. MTF Medical Providers.
   A4.5.1. Initiate and complete DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite—Potential Rabies
   Exposure, for each patient with possible exposure to rabies and ensure the DD Form 2341 is
   included in medical record documentation. (T-2).
   A4.5.2. Ensure patients are assessed, treated (to include tracking patients for completion of
   rabies prophylaxis when necessary), and educated IAW current CDC guidelines. PCM team
   will document all patient interventions, including attempts to contact member, in the medical
   record (e.g., the DoD electronic medical record, AHLTA). Note: The need for post-exposure
   prophylaxis is to be based on a case-specific risk assessment by the treating MTF provider.
   The treating MTF provider should contact the PHO for assistance in determining rabies risk
   from an animal bite/exposure. (T-0).
   A4.5.3. When rabies prophylaxis is initiated; measures will be in place to ensure the
   completion of the protocol without deviations (for most current treatment requirements and
   rabies risk assessment reference www.cdc.gov/rabies/resources/index.html). (T-1).
   A4.5.4. Consult with PH for local rabies prevalence and most current rabies prophylaxis
   recommendations/guidelines. (T-3).
A4.6. Rabies Advisory Board (RAB).
   A4.6.1. The RAB provides case-by-case medical consultation regarding rabies risk,
   prophylaxis, and prevention measures. The RAB shall be chaired by a credentialed and
   privileged medical corps officer and should be convened as needed to review high-risk cases.
   (T-2).
   A4.6.2. The RAB will be comprised of an AF Public Health officer (or US military
   veterinarian) and at least two MTF medical providers trained in rabies risk assessment or in
   preventive medicine (e.g. SGP, treating provider). (T-2).
A4.7. AMC.
   A4.7.1. Review all reported animal bite/exposure cases, post-exposure prophylaxis
   administration, regional prophylaxis supply, documentation, supporting surveillance efforts,
   and other zoonotic diseases at least annually, or at frequency informed by local risk . (T-2).
   A4.7.2. Annually the AMC should invite representatives from the major agencies and
   organizations involved with rabies prevention and control across the military installation (e.g.
   Security Forces, US military veterinarian, local/state health officials) in order to review
   aspects of the animal bite/rabies prevention program. (T-3).
   A4.7.3. The AMC shall convene on a frequency determined by local MTF leadership in an
   appropriate epidemiological context informed by rabies risk to review and make
   recommendations on the Animal Bite – Rabies Prevention Program. (T-3).
