BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
BASE COMMANDER GRAND FORKS AIR
FORCE BASE                                                  GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement

                                                                            8 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                                Certified Current on 30 April 2013
                                                                               Medical Command

                                                                           FAMILY ADVOCACY


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 319 MDOS/SGOW                                              Certified by: 319 MDOS/SGOHM
Supersedes:    GRANDFORKSAFBI40-101,                                    (Capt Daphne E. Brewton)
               1 February 2002                                                           Pages: 6


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy
Program, 30 November 2009. This supplement provides direction and guidelines for
responsibilities, operations and effectiveness of the Family Advocacy Program (FAP) at Grand
Forks Air Force Base. This supplement applies to all military and civilian personnel and their
dependents entitled to receive medical care in a military treatment facility as specified in AFI 41-
115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health System. This
publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974 authorized by 10 USC 8013. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA) applies. This supplement ensures all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gess-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1.5.3.7. In cases of suspected physical/sexual maltreatment or neglect, when appropriate, the
MTF will ensure a physician will evaluate, treat, document and, if necessary, refer for further
 2                               AFI40-301_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011


evaluation and/or care. The FAP will make special efforts to coordinate protection of the alleged
victim in order to preserve evidence of a possible crime.
1.6.1.2. Special attention will be given to all suspected child maltreatment incidents occurring in
DoD sanctioned activities. High interest cases involving incidents resulting in major injury,
death, or child sexual abuse will be coordinated with the base/community agency responsible for
the investigation.
1.7.1. Commanders and First Sergeants must ensure the safety of potential victims. They should
consider issuing verbal and/or written no contact orders to military personnel accused of
domestic violence. Such orders should remain in effect until the allegations are resolved or until
the commander consults with FAP and JA. Such orders may run concurrently with civilian
restraining orders.
1.7.2. Commanders and First Sergeants should coordinate AFOSI and SFS with FAP prior to
investigating any allegations.
1.7.5.(Added) Regarding action on orders prohibiting contact, Commanders and First Sergeants
shall:
1.7.5.1.(Added) Ensure potential victims are safe.
1.7.5.2.(Added) Notify the Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) and FAP whenever a
military or civilian order prohibiting contact with a family member is issued or discontinued.
1.7.5.3.(added) Coordinate administrative and UCMJ actions through JA.
1.10.1.(Added) The military has proprietary jurisdiction on Grand Forks AFB. This means the
State of North Dakota and Grand Forks County retain jurisdiction over crimes committed on
Grand Forks AFB which violate state law. The initial investigation of a report or allegation of
family maltreatment shall be referred to Air Force Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI) and
Security Forces Squadron (SFS). This instruction sets forth a consistent policy for responding to
domestic violence for both married and unmarried intimates on Grand Forks AFB.
1.10.1.1.(Added) SF Reports and Analysis (SFS/S5R) will receive orders prohibiting contact,
issued through GF county, from the Grand Forks County Sheriff’s Office via fax.
1.10.1.1.1.(Added) BDOC will notify the following agencies:
1.10.1.1.2.(Added) SFS/S3
1.10.1.1.3.(Added) SFS/S2
1.10.1.1.4.(Added) Appropriate First Sergeant and Commander
1.10.1.1.5.(Added) JA
1.10.1.1.6.(Added) FAP
1.10.1.1.7.(Added) OSI
1.10.1.2.(Added) BDOC will annotate receipt of protection orders/no contact orders and
notifications in the SF Blotter.
1.10.1.3.(Added) SFS/S5R will maintain copies of all Domestic Violence reports, child
maltreatment reports, and all orders prohibiting contact.
AFI40-301_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                       3


1.10.1.4.(Added) Authorized personnel may request copies of these reports and/or orders from
SFS/S5R. In turn, SFS/S5R will make copies of such documents available for pick-up by
authorized personnel.
1.10.1.5.(Added) The FAC Chairman will provide SFS/S5R a listing of personnel who are
authorized to request copies of reports.
1.10.7. If, after investigation, probable cause exists to believe a person has committed a crime
involving domestic violence, whether or not the crime was committed in the presence of the
investigator, the investigating agency shall contact Security Forces through the Base Defense
Operations Center (BDOC) or OSI. These organizations will investigate, work with legal to
identify grounds for substantiation and contact Grand Forks County Sheriff’s Department, if
necessary. Reporting the crime to Security Forces or OSI shall take place under this instruction
regardless of military or civilian status of the perpetrator or victim. In other words, there is no
distinction under the law between a military-on-military domestic violence incident and a
military-on-civilian domestic violence incident.
1.11.4. Investigations by AFOSI or SFS investigators (SFS/S2I) will be initiated when needed,
regardless of whether or not a civilian agency is investigating the matter.
1.11.8. If, after investigation, probable cause exists to believe a person has committed a crime
involving domestic violence, whether or not the crime was committed in the presence of the
investigator, the investigating agency shall contact Security Forces through the Base Defense
Operations Center (BDOC) or OSI. These organizations will investigate, work with legal to
identify grounds for substantiation and contact Grand Forks County Sheriff’s Department, if
necessary. Reporting the crime to Security Forces or OSI shall take place under this instruction
regardless of military or civilian status of the perpetrator or victim. In other words, there is no
distinction under the law between a military-on-military domestic violence incident and a
military-on-civilian domestic violence incident.
1.13.4.(Added) In cases of apparent physical abuse/neglect, photographs will be taken to
document alleged maltreatment. Public Affairs/Alert Photographer will be contacted through
SFS or AFOSI to take these photographs. The photos will be taken as soon as possible before
external evidence of injuries subsides or to document damage or neglect to physical property.
Follow-up photographs should be taken 24 hours after the incident and again at 48 hours after the
incident, if possible. Any photographs taken will also be made available to the Family Advocacy
Office.
1.14. No military member shall interfere with a civilian law enforcement officer who determines
arresting a domestic violence offender is warranted under the circumstances.
1.14.1.(Added) All military and DoD personnel are required to report any suspected incident(s)
of child maltreatment. Additionally, all medical personnel, law enforcement agents, school
educators, youth service personnel, family home day care providers and child development staff
are mandated to report suspected child maltreatment/neglect. Failure to do so can result in
disciplinary actions. Incidents of family maltreatment must be reported to AFOSI and SFS.
Such incidents must also be referred to the Family Advocacy Office for assessment. If the FAP
is not the first agency to receive the referral, the first agency to receive an allegation of family
maltreatment, will refer the case to the FAP. FAP will ensure OSI and SFS are alerted if they
have not already been. All reports of suspected child or family maltreatment maltreatment
 4                                AFI40-301_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011


(domestic violence or child maltreatment) will be called into the FAP office during regular duty
hours by calling commercial: 701-747-6806 or DSN: 362-6806. After Duty Hours, all reports
will be made to the behavioral health on-call provider by calling Commercial: 701-741-3231. In
addition, the report shall be directed to the BDOC at Commercial: 701-747-5351 or DSN 362-
1.14.1.1. (Added) All military personnel shall give full support and credit to civilian court orders
prohibiting contact between family members. Military members who are not sure of the full
force and effect of the order should consult with JA.
1.17. (Added) If a civilian commits acts of domestic violence on Grand Forks AFB, the Mission
Support Group Commander shall immediately assess the situation and determine an appropriate
response: e.g., a warning letter, revocation of base housing privileges or recommendation to bar
the offender from Grand Forks AFB.
2.1. Mission Statement: The Grand Forks Air Force Base Family Advocacy Program (FAP)
supports the 319th Air Base Wing. The FAP, a medical program mandated by Congress, is
designed to prevent and treat child and intimate partner maltreatment. Whenever a suspicion of
family maltreatment is reported or a request for information or counseling on psychosocial issues
is received, the FAP will provide services in a collaborative partnership with base and
community initiatives. The FAP team assists in assessing base community needs and designing
prevention services in collaboration with the base Integrated Delivery System (IDS).
4.5.1. The FAP does not have jurisdiction to handle child placement. Grand Forks County
Sheriff’s Department and/or County Social Services have jurisdiction on-base to determine
temporary foster care for children at immediate risk.
4.5.1.1. (Added) When the Family Advocacy Office receives notification of a civilian Order for
Protection, it will be treated the same as a referral.
4.5.7.1.(Added) Any interview of a minor child will be conducted with full coordination of
agencies having a viable interest in the case (i.e., Child Protective Services, AFOSI, SFS, JA,
Grand Forks County Sheriff’s Office and FAP). Interviewers will attempt to obtain all pertinent
information in one interview of the minor child. Agency representatives who wish to participate
may observe and suggest additional questions as deemed necessary. However, AFOSI, SFS or
civilian law enforcement personnel will decide on the appropriate method for interviewing the
child.
5.3.5.1. (Added) Security Forces will forward information for disposition either to Grand Forks
County Sheriff’s Office or Grand Forks County Social Services. A behavioral health provider is
on-call for any consultation or referral to appropriate installation or community agencies. If
there is a reason to believe a child may be at risk, the Grand Forks County Sheriff’s office must
be contacted to evaluate the home to determine whether or not the condition of the home presents
an immediate risk to the child’s physical well-being.




                                              DONALD L. SHAFFER, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 319th Air Refueling Wing
AFI40-301_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011                                            5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Instruction 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009
Air Force FAP Program Standards, 1 October 2009
Grand Forks County Social Services Memorandum of Understanding, 24 May 2011
Deputy Secretary of Defense Policy Memorandum on Domestic Violence, 19 November 2001
Air Force Chief of Staff Policy Memorandum on Domestic Violence, 24 June 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFRC—Airman and Family Readiness Center
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
CRB—Central Registry Board
CPS—Child Protective Services
FAC—Family Advocacy Committee
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAOM—Family Advocacy Outreach Manager
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
FATM—Family Advocacy Treatment Manager
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
JA—Judge Advocate
MDG/CC—Medical Group Commander
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
SFCC—Security Forces Control Center
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SFS/S2I—SFS Investigators Section
SFS/S3—SFS Operations Section
SFS/S5R—SFS Reports and Analysis Section
SFMIS—Security Forces Management and Information System
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
 6                          AFI40-301_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011


SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
