BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 44-108
459TH AIR REFUELING WING                                       459TH AIR REFUELING WING
                                                                               Supplement

                                                                             3 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                                           Medical

                                                           INFECTION CONTROL PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 459 AMDS/SGN                                                     Certified by: 459 AMDS/CC
                                                                        (Col Michele A. Wiliams)
                                                                                         Pages: 9


This supplements AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program, and AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_I, and
outlines the authority, functions, and responsibilities of the Infection Control Review Function
(ICRF), and identifies the purpose and goals of the Infection Control Program (ICP).
Compliance with this regulation is applicable to all personnel assigned to the 459 ARW Medical
Reserve Units (AES, AMDS, and ASTS). This also applies to all personnel assigned, attached,
or on contract to a 459 ARW Medical Reserve Unit.

1. Purpose. The purpose of the ICP is to reduce and prevent clinic acquired infections, to
identify infections when they occur, implement control measures, and assess situations for
infection risk. The ICRF oversees the program and ensures unit Infection Control policies meet
The Joint Commission (TJC), Center for Disease Control (CDC), Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA), Air Force and Air Force Reserve Operational Instructions and
other regulatory requirements.
2. Authority Statement.
2.1. The ICRF shall have the authority, through its Chairperson and Infection Control Manager
(ICM), to institute any appropriate control measures when a situation is identified or reasonably
thought to be a danger to patients or personnel. The Executive Management Committee (EMC)
must approve all other changes to policy before implementation.
2.2. The Executive Committee of the Medical Staff (ECOMS) gives authority to the ICM or
other registered nurse responsible for patient care to report any actual or suspected infections and
collect a specimen for culture and sensitivity testing or isolation precautions.
 2                              AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_459ARWSUP 3 NOVEMBER 2011


2.3. The ICM will have access to all records and areas for surveillance activities in order to
fulfill the responsibilities of the job.
3. Environmental Sampling:
3.1. Definition. Environmental sampling is defined as a microbiological culture of an inanimate
object. This does not include any inanimate object removed form patients or sterilization
biological spore monitoring.
3.2. Environmental cultures will not be done without approval of the ICRF.
3.3. The 459 ARW Bioenvironmental Engineering does not perform environmental testing.
Active Duty from Malcolm Grow Medical Center performs ventilation surveys and will notify
the 459 AMDS of any adverse findings.
4. Responsibilities:
4.1. The 459 AMDS Commander will:
4.1.1. Be the lead unit for the ICP.
4.1.2. Appoints, in writing, a senior physician with expertise/interest in ICP as the Chairperson
of the ICRF.
4.1.3. Appoint an ICM, in writing, who is qualified by training, experience, or interest to
perform surveillance and coordinate the activities of the ICP for the 459 AMDS and be a
resource for the other medical squadrons.
4.1.4. Other medical unit commanders will appoint, in writing, an ICM who is qualified by
training, experience, or interest to perform surveillance and coordinate the activities of the ICP
for their squadron.
4.2. ICRF:
4.2.1. The ICRF is a wing-wide multidisciplinary committee. Membership consists of ICRF
Chairperson, medical squadrons ICM, Public Health (PH), Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE),
Immunization Clinic representative, Senior Air Reserve Technician (ART), dental representative,
and others as required.
4.2.2. The ICRF meets quarterly, either in person or electronically, to review surveillance data
and discuss/assess identified problems or issues of concern. In turn, ICRF members inform
squadron personnel and squadron EMC members of recommendations and actions.
4.2.3. Review surveillance data and makes recommendations based on surveillance findings
regarding management of infections, continuing education programs, and quality improvement
(QI) activities.
4.2.4. Reviews and approves all section infection control policies or instructions at least every 2
years.
4.3. ICRF Chairperson:
4.3.1. Provides direction and support to the ICM.
4.3.2. Notifies the 459 AMDS Commander of situation posing an imminent hazard to patient
care.
AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_459ARWSUP 3 NOVEMBER 2011                                                      3


4.3.3. Designates ad hoc groups and appoints members to Quality Improvement (QI) activities,
when necessary.
4.3.4. Conducts ICRF meetings and ensures documentation of ICRF actions and QI issues in the
minutes.
4.4. 459 AMDS ICM:
4.4.1. Reviews Infection Control Program annually and updates as needed. Compiles, analyzes,
and reports trends and deviations from baseline rates to the ICRF. Ensures surveillance occurs
throughout the facility as outlined in the annual plan.
4.4.2. Serves as consultant regarding appropriate isolation precautions, observes patient care
practices, and provides the ICRF with observations and recommendations for improvement.
4.4.3. Coordinates infection control and bloodborne pathogen education with 459 ARW units
(ASTS, AES, SFS, CES, and LRF). Public Health may handle the BBP training for outside
units.
4.4.4. Disseminates changes in infection control guidelines and policies to 459 ARW unit
(ASTS, AES, SFS, CES, and LRF) personnel when necessary.
4.4.5. Assists in the development and implementation of on-going issues concerning
immunizations, monitoring of possible outbreaks within the facility and development of
Exposure Control Plans.
4.4.6. Functions as a consultant for units of the 459 ARW in areas related to infection control.
4.4.7. Maintains current infection control statistics and records. Infection control work sheets
and summaries will be on file in the ICM office for 2 years.
4.4.8. Consults on the purchase of supplies and equipment related to infection control.
4.5. Medical Unit ICM:
4.5.1. Reviews IC Program annually at ICRF and updates as needed. Compiles, analyzes and
report trends and deviations from baseline rates to the ICRF. Ensures surveillance occurs
throughout the facility as outlined in the annual plan.
4.5.2. Serves as consultant regarding appropriate isolation precautions, observes patient care
practices, and provides the ICRF with observations and recommendations for improvement.
4.5.3. Assists in the development and implementation of on-going issues concerning
immunizations, monitoring of possible outbreaks within the facility and development of
Exposure Control Plans.
4.5.4. Maintains current infection control statistics and records within their units. Infection
control work sheets and summaries will be on file in the ICM office for 2 years.
4.5.5. Consults on the purchase of supplies and equipment related to infection control.
4.5.6. Ensures all BBP exposures are reported the 459 AMDS Infection Control or Public Health
Officer for tracking.
4.6. Medical and Dental staff will:
4.6.1. Report suspected clinic related infections to ICM.
 4                              AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_459ARWSUP 3 NOVEMBER 2011


4.6.2. Ensures clinic related infections are documented in the member’s clinical record.
4.6.3. Evaluate wing members with infection; make recommendation on duty limitation, and
clear members before returning to work.
4.7. Laboratory. Reports significant results on any cultures or lab work to ICRF.
4.8.
Section S upervisors:
4.8.1. Develops section policies for areas not covered in this program.
4.8.2. Submits to ICRF annually and whenever changes occur.
4.8.3. Ensure personnel have the knowledge and comply with infection control policies and
procedures.
4.8.4. Reports members with suspected infection or communicable disease.
4.8.5. Assists ICM with surveillance in their respective areas.
4.8.6. Accompanies ICM during visual surveillance inspection of section as requested.
4.8.7. Ensure staff members attend Newcomer’s Orientation within the first three UTA’s and
annual exposure control plan (BBP and TB) training as required.
4.9. The 459 ARW personnel will:
4.9.1. Report to a healthcare provider in accordance with the Employee Health Program for
evaluation of possible infections and communicable diseases.
4.9.2. Attend Newcomer’s Orientation and annual infection control training as required.
4.9.3. Comply with duty section infection control policies and procedures.
4.9.4. Identify and report any deviations from infection control work practices to supervisory
personnel.
4.9.5. Education and training will maintain a database of hospital newcomer’s initial orientation
to BBP and TB training.
5. Orientation and Training:
5.1. All incoming medical personnel assigned to the 459 ARW receive an orientation to the
Infection Control Program through unit Newcomer’s Orientation.
5.2. All 459 ARW personnel at risk for bloodborne exposure, as identified in the BBP Exposure
Control Plan are required to receive annual BBP training approved by infection control or public
health personnel.
5.3. A copy of the training plan, attendance rosters, and dates attended will be maintained in the
IC office and reported quarterly at the ICRF.
6. Reporting Hospital Infections and Communicable Disease:
6.1. Medical professionals order or collect body site cultures of suspected infections and report
known or suspected infections and communicable diseases to appropriate offices (PH and IC).
AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_459ARWSUP 3 NOVEMBER 2011                                                        5


6.2. Nursing staff have the authority to institute transmission-based precautions and obtain
cultures (non-invasive) when an infection is suspected.
6.3. Reporting Healthcare-Associated Infections:
6.3.1. Inpatients do not apply to the 459 AMDS, 459 ASTS, or 459 AES. 459 AES may
document infections that were associated with missions flown.
6.3.2. Outpatients suspected of a clinic-acquired infection will be reported to infection control.
6.3.3. The following situations require immediate notification of the ICM with subsequent
follow-up:
6.3.3.1. Highly contagious diseases such as chicken pox, active tuberculosis, or measles.
6.3.3.2. Any communicable disease in healthcare personnel.
6.3.3.3. Any bloodborne pathogen exposure after being seen at the emergency room at Malcolm
Grow Medical Center.
7. Types of Isolation Precautions . The wing follows the 2007 CDC Guidelines for Isolation
Practices in the Healthcare Setting. There are two tiers of precautions. The first tier is “Standard
Precautions” and the second tier is “Transmission-Based Precautions.”
7.1. Standard Precautions:
7.1.1. Standard Precautions treat all blood, body fluids, secretions, and excretions except sweat
regardless of whether or not they contain visible blood; non-intact skin; and mucous membranes
as if contaminated with a bloodborne pathogen. This includes Universal Precautions related to
Bloodborne Pathogens.
7.1.2. Standard Precautions will be used in the care of all patients and employ the following
work practices and personal protective equipment:
7.1.3. Hand Hygiene in accordance with CDC guidelines. Correct and appropriate hand hygiene
can decrease the incidence of infections by half.
7.1.3.1. Upon arriving to work.
7.1.3.2. Before patient contact
7.1.3.3. After patient contact
7.1.3.4. Before and after handling patient care devices such as IV catheters, urinary drainage
systems, and respiratory therapy equipment or patient specimens.
7.1.3.5. After removing gloves.
7.1.3.6. After blowing or wiping the nose, coughing into the hands, or touching nose or eyes.
7.1.3.7. Before and after eating, smoking, or drinking.
7.1.3.8. After personal use of toilet.
7.1.3.9. Before leaving the work area.
7.1.4. Personal Protective Equipment:
 6                              AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_459ARWSUP 3 NOVEMBER 2011


7.1.4.1. Gloves will be worn whenever contact with blood, body fluids, secretions, excretions
and contaminated items are anticipated, and whenever accessing the circulatory system.
7.1.4.2. Mask and eye protection must be worn when the task could result in a splash exposure
of blood or other potentially infectious materials (OPIM) are possible. Both eye, nose and mouth
protection is required.
7.1.4.3. Gowns will be worn whenever soiling of clothes with blood, body fluids, secretions,
excretions, and contaminated items is possible.
7.1.5. Handling of Needles and Sharps. Place all used sharps directly into a puncture-resistant
container immediately after use. Safety devices must be activated before discarding. Do not
bend, break or recap needles before disposal. In rare instances, needles may be recapped using a
one-handed scoop or hook technique.
7.1.6. Cough Etiquette Practices. Staff will request coughing or sneezing members to wear a
mask. Instruct members to cover mouth and nose with tissue or use elbow when coughing or
sneezing and perform hand hygiene using alcohol based hand rub afterwards.
7.1.7. Safe Injection Practices. Use single use devices for single patient. Do not enter a multi-
dose vial with a used or contaminated needle or device.
7.2. Transmission-Based Precautions. Since we do not provide hospital care as part of our
mission, type of precautions required is available on-line at www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dhqp/pdf/
guidelines/isolation2007.pdf.  In addition to Standard Precautions, Transmission-Based
Precautions are used for patients known or suspected to be infected by epidemiologically
important pathogens spread by airborne or droplet transmission, or by contact with skin or
contaminated surfaces.
7.2.1. Airborne Precautions are used for diseases that can be transmitted via small droplet nuclei
(Tuberculosis, measles, and chickenpox) and requires special negative pressure ventilation in the
room and staff must wear National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
approved respiratory protection (N-95 or HEPA filter).
7.2.2. Contact Precautions are used for diseases that can be transmitted via direct or indirect
contact and requires gown and gloves are worn when contacting patient or patient environment.
7.2.3. Droplet Precautions are used for disease that can be transmitted via droplets that travel
short distances (3-6 feet) and requires staff to wear a surgical or isolation mask when within 6
feet of the patient.
7.3. The duration of isolation and precautions for specific diseases is outlined in CDC
guidelines.
7.4. Place patients with signs or symptoms of an infectious on appropriate precautions until a
definitive diagnosis can be made.
7.5. Contact the ICM for any questions or concerns regarding appropriate isolation practices.
7.6. The final decision regarding any conflict of opinions pertinent to starting or terminating
precautions rest with the ICFR Chairperson.
7.7. Compliance.    All personnel are responsible to comply with the requirement of these
precautions.
AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_459ARWSUP 3 NOVEMBER 2011                                                 7


8. Patient Care Equipment. Handle used patient care equipment soiled with blood or body fluids
in a manner that prevents exposure, contamination of clothing and transfer of microorganisms to
the other patients and environments.
9. Linen. All soiled linen is considered contaminated and is bagged at the point of use into
fluid-resistant laundry bags. Since off site laundry practices follow standard precautions when
handling any soiled linen, they do not need to be labeled “biohazard.”
10. Preventive Measures. Healthcare personnel found to be infectious should be removed from
direct patient care and evaluated by a medical doctor for treatment and follow-up.
11. Approved Agents:
11.1. Disinfectants used on instruments (lenses, ventilator parts, non-disposable anesthesia
equipment, removable prosthetic dental devices, dental cartridges, and selected dental sharps)
must be approved for the device and cleaned IAW manufacturer’s instruction. Appropriate
personal protective equipment is required.
11.2. Reusable equipment must be cleaned with a detergent to remove blood, body fluids and
organic material from contaminated instruments before high-level disinfection or sterilization.
Detergents have no disinfectant qualities; appropriate PPE is required.
11.3. Each unit will have an approved list of disinfectants and detergents as part of their unit
policy.
11.4. Cleaning agents used by housekeeping will be approved by the ICFR during annual review
of the housekeeping contract.
11.5. Hand Hygiene agents:
11.5.1. The host facility products for hand washing are approved for use by the 459 ARW
members.
11.5.2. Alcohol-based hand rubs can replace soap and water unless hands are visibly soiled,
after using the bathroom (unless soap and water not available), before handling food, and when
dealing with a patient who has diarrhea.
12. Storage:
12.1. Effective control of dust a primary concern and should be evaluated by the individual area
when designing their storage method.
12.2. Supplies are stored, at a minimum, behind a single barrier (behind a closed supply room
door or in a covered or closed cabinet. Maintain the area free from moisture, dust, and vermin.
12.3. Visibly dirty supplies are considered contaminated and must be discarded.
12.4. Supplies are stored 8-10 inches from the floor (to permit adequate cleaning of the floor),
and 18 inches from the ceiling (away from vents, sprinklers and lights), and 2 inches from an
outside wall (to permit circulation and protect package integrity).
12.5. Sterile items are stored on the upper shelves; and clean on the lower shelves.
12.6. Outdates are checked monthly. Supplies outdated or those that will outdate before the next
check are removed and discarded, if disposable.
12.7. Rotate supplies so the oldest stock is used first.
 8                             AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_459ARWSUP 3 NOVEMBER 2011


12.8. Warehouse boxes or shipping cartons will not be stored in clean supply areas; units of
issue (contents of boxes) may be stored in clean storage areas. Although plastic bins to contain
these items is preferred.
13. Expirations:
13.1. All multi-dose vials, stock medication bottles, ointments, and tubes once opened will be
discarded at the manufacturer’s date of expiration or if contamination is suspected except
Purified Protein Derivative (PPD) skin testing solutions.
13.2. PPD skin testing solution bottles must be dated when opened and discarded after 30 days.
13.3. Reconstituted drugs will be discarded after14 days or as directed by accompanying
literature.




                                            RUSSELL A. MUNCY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 459 ARW
AFI 44-108_AFRCSUP1_459ARWSUP 3 NOVEMBER 2011                 9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AES—Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron
AMDS—Aerospace Medicine Squadron
ART—Air Reserve Technician
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
ASTS—Aeromedical Staging Squadron
BBP—Bloodborne Pathogens
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CDC—Center for Disease Control
ECOMS—Executive Committee of the Medical Staff
EMC—Executive Management Committee
ICM—Infection Control Manager
ICP—Infection Control Program
ICRF—Infection Control Review Function
LRF—Logistics Readiness Flight
OPIM—Other Potential Infectious Materials
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
NIOSH—National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
PH—Public Health
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
PPD—Purified Protein Derivative
QI—Quality Improvement
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
TJC—The Joint Commission
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
