BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)
                                                                  CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               Supplement
                                                                                   30 MAY 2012
                                                            Certified Current On 7 October 2014
                                                                             Medical Command

                                                                          FAMILY ADVOCACY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOMDOS/SGOMH                                                Certified by: 27 SOMDG/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Jeffrey A. Stinson)
Supersedes:    AFI40-                                                                    Pages: 4
               301_CANNONAFBSUP1,
               18 Sep 2006


AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 Nov 2009, is supplemented as follows: This instruction
establishes the Cannon Air Force Base (CAFB) Family Advocacy Program (FAP). It explains
policies and procedures for identification, treatment and prevention of family maltreatment. It
requires that all suspected reports of family/unmarried intimates maltreatment be referred to the
CAFB FAP office at (575)784-2474. This instruction assigns responsibilities and explains
procedures for the management of the FAP. It applies to all military and civilian AF personnel
and their dependants. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the current FAP organizational structure to align as directed in AFI 40-301,
Family Advocacy, 30 Nov 2009. It has been revised according to the new USAF Family
Advocacy Standards and maltreatment definitions, updating program information, structure and
contact numbers for collaborative agencies.
 2                                               AFI40-301_CANNONAFBSUP 30 MAY 2012


1.3.3. (Added) 27 SOW/CC delegates to 27 SOMDG/CC the authority to administer the
installation Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) and appoints 27 SOMDG/CC as FAC
chairperson. This authority and appointment are redelegable to 27 SOMDG/CD.
1.3.4. (Added)    27 SOW/CC delegates to 27 SOW/CV the responsibility to attend FAC
meetings.
1.3.8. (Added) Ensures all incidents of suspected family maltreatment are reported to the
Family Advocacy Officer (FAO), 27 SOSFS/S2I Investigations, and Det. 120, Air Force Office
of Special Investigations. (Det. 120, AFOSI)
1.4.1. (Added) The Cannon AFB FAP will follow all guidance in the most current version of
the     Air   Force     Family      Advocacy     Program  Standards,     available     at
https://www.airforcefap.af.mil/skins/affap/home.aspx.
1.4.3. (Added)     In response to child sexual maltreatment; the Child Sexual Maltreatment
Response Team (CSMRT) will be activated upon a referral of suspected child sexual
maltreatment immediately, meaning within 8 hours of the referral. The team will develop
appropriate steps to interview all parties involved and make appropriate referrals. If it is
warranted; the CSMRT will develop a safety plan and activate the plan to ensure safety of the
child. The CSMRT will consist of 27 SOW/JA, Det 120, OSI and the FAO. The FAO or
designee will be responsible for reporting the CSMRT findings to the CRB and appropriate key
base personnel.
1.4.4. (Added) The High Risk For Violence Response Team (HRVRT) will be activated when
an established FAP client (or client that is referred to FAP) is assessed to be at high risk for
imminent bodily danger by spouse or cohabitating partner. The HRVRT will also be activated
when FAP or Mental Health (MH) staff members may be in imminent danger of being harmed
by a FAP client or ex-client. The HRVRT will be activated within 24 hours of the assessment
and a safety plan will be developed and then activated by the HRVRT (if warranted). If a safety
plan is developed and activated the HRVRT will reconvene in one week to revise the safety plan
(if risk for violence is still high) or close the case when the risk for violence is low/moderate. In
addition, the FAP client will be tracked on the MH High Risk Log until the risk of violence has
decreased.
1.4.8.12. (Added) The FAC may invite representatives of the local New Mexico Children,
Youth and Families Department (CYFD) and other appropriate authorities or support agencies at
the discretion of the chairperson.
1.4.9.4. (Added) All home visits conducted by FAP staff must be documented in the “Home
Visit Log.” All entries must consist of when the staff member left the FAP office; projected time
of arrival to client’s residence; when the staff member actually arrived at client’s house;
estimated time of visit and staff member must call the FAP office notifying Family Advocacy
Program Assistant (FAPA) of when staff member left the client’s residence. If staff member
does not notify FAPA within 25 minutes of expired departure time the FAPA will attempt to
make contact with the staff member. After two attempts have failed the FAPA will alert the
FAO. The FAO will attempt to make contact with staff member. If no contact is made, the FAO
will alert the MDG chain of command and make notification to 27 SOSFS with detailed
information of last known whereabouts.
AFI40-301_CANNONAFBSUP 30 MAY 2012                                                              3


1.7.5. (Added) Coordinate with the FAO or Family Advocacy Treatment Manager (FATM),
and with the SARC and/or the 27 SOW/JA Victim Witness Assistance Program Coordinator, as
appropriate, to provide a safe environment for the victim.
1.7.6. (Added) Commanders shall exercise their authority over military member to provide a
“no contact order” to allow for a “cooling off period” if it is deemed necessary.
1.7.7. (Added) Assess whether immediate contact with 27 SOW/JA’s office is necessary in a
given situation. Coordinate with 27 SOW/JA on the appropriate range of responses by the
commander or supervisor.
1.10.4. 27 SOSFS personnel will notify the FAO, FATM, or FAPA of all incidents involving
suspected cases of maltreatment within 4 to 6 hours of response to incident. If incident occurs
after hours the on call MH provider will be notified of all incidents involving suspected cases of
maltreatment in a timely manner so safety can be assessed and coordination with civilian
agencies can be arranged if necessary. A copy of the incident report will be made available to
FAP staff for inclusion in the FAP record. 27 SOSFS has agreed to electronically send the
Blotter to the FAO’s squadron commander for documentation purposes in the FAP record.
1.14. (Added) All agencies, departments or individuals affiliated with CAFB will report all
incidents of suspected or established family maltreatment directly to the FAP office, 27 SOSFS
or Det 120, OSI. All suspicions of child maltreatment will be reported to the New Mexico
CYFD and/or civilian authorities. The base FAO or designee is primarily responsible for
coordinating and reporting abuse and neglect cases to civilian authorities. The FAO or designee
serves as the reporting liaison for military and civilian agencies. When the FAO is unavailable
(e.g. TDY, leave), base agencies will contact the FAP staff, FATM or MH provider during duty
hours. Report after duty hours family maltreatment to the on call MH Provider via the 27 SOW
Command Post and/or 27 SOSFS.
1.17. (Added) Although the CAFB FAP has no jurisdiction over civilian agencies, state and
community agencies will be encouraged to notify the FAO of any incidents of child maltreatment
involving military families in accordance with the Memorandum Of Understanding between
CAFB and CYFD, Curry County Sheriff’s Office, Clovis Police Department, New Mexico State
Police, Roosevelt County Sheriff’s Office and Portales Police Department.
4.1.2. (Added) Each (regular) Central Registry Board (CRB) member shall be appointed in
writing. Squadron commander(s), equivalent civilian supervisors, and/or First Sergeant(s), that
supervise an individual who has (or whose family member has) a reported incident, will be
present and may vote during the incident determination. Any changes will be reflected in the
CRB minutes. The CRB will meet at the call of the chairperson, but at least monthly.
4.1.3.14. (Added) Ensure unit Commanders of each AD member involved in a maltreatment
incident receive a determination from the CRB on each incident stating the incident status
determination.
4.2.10. (Added)     Clinical Case Staffing (CCS) will occur monthly. CCS will review
concur/non-concur on the non-opening of “No Reasonable Suspicion” and “No Assessment
Warranted” referrals. These incidents will not be presented to the CRB unless the CCS
determines that a FAP incident should be opened and a family assessment is completed.
 4                                             AFI40-301_CANNONAFBSUP 30 MAY 2012


4.2.11. (Added) CCS will review current FAP maltreatment cases at least quarterly and
provide treatment recommendations, managing safety risk, review client’s progress toward goals
and closing cases when treatment is completed.
4.3.1. (Added) When appropriate, additional CSMRT members will be representatives from
other agencies having legal, investigative or child protection responsibilities (e.g., local CYFD
representative).
4.3.1.4. (Added)      FATM will follow up with the AD member’s commander, civilian
supervisor, and/or First Sergeant to advise them of the family’s level of risk for further
maltreatment, level of motivation in services, and any recommendations.




                                            ALBERT M. ELTON II, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
