BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                                              ACADEMY

                                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 44-154
                                                                           Supplement

                                                                       11 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 19 AUGUST 2011

                                                                            Medical Command

                                                  SUICIDE AND VIOLENCE PREVENTION
                                                           EDUCATION AND TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 10 MDOS/SGOW                                                  Certified by: 10 MDOS/CC
                                                                           (Col Jon M. Casbon)

                                                                                       Pages: 8


Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-154, 3 January 2003, is supplemented as follows: This
supplement establishes guidance for suicide prevention at the United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA). The instruction specifies Major Commands (MAJCOM) and unit responsibilities for
suicide prevention, outlines procedures for reporting suicides to Headquarters USAFA
(HQ USAFA) Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC) and formalizes responsibilities for suicide and
suicide attempt investigation and reporting. Although prevention efforts extend as much as
possible to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) personnel,
AFRC and ANG are not tasked with any of the requirements as specified for the active duty
force. This supplement applies to all USAFA military and civilian personnel. This supplement
applies primarily to all Department of Defense (DoD) active duty military personnel, but is also
intended to include dependents of active duty military personnel, retirees and their family
members and DoD civilian personnel to the fullest extent possible. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF
Records            Disposition            Schedule           (RDS)            located         at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.
 2                                              AFI44-154_USAFASUP 11 FEBRUARY 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the opening paragraph to include correct information that was
formerly included in paragraph 1, which has been deleted. Office symbol for the 10th Medical
Operations Squadron Mental Health Flight is updated from 10 MDOS/SGOMH to
10 MDOS/SGOW throughout. In addition, paragraph 6.1.6. updates the Air Force Reportable
Event Surveillance System (AFRESS) to the Department of Defense Suicide Event Report
(DoDser). A margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous edition.


1. DELETED.
2.1.2. The purpose is to reduce the number of suicides among USAFA personnel. Suicide is a
leading cause of death among United States Air Force (USAF) active duty members. Risk
factors for suicide are well documented and include: relationship problems (especially with a
spouse or significant other), legal problems, financial difficulties, substance abuse (particularly
alcohol) and/or work-related problems. A heightened awareness to suicide risk and appropriate
referral to helping agencies is the first line of defense against suicide.
2.2.1. Violence, particularly in the workplace, is also an issue of growing concern. The
recognition of risk factors and the knowledge of intervention skills and referral procedures for
potentially at-risk personnel is the primary means of prevention.
6. (Added) Responsibilities of USAFA Organizations:
6.1. (Added) 10th Medical Group Commander (10 MDG/CC)
6.1.1. (Added) Serves as Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for publishing this
supplement.
6.1.2. (Added) Monitors non-fatal self-injurious events (suicide attempts).        Maintains and
reports USAFA and Air Force suicide data.
6.1.3. (Added) Develops or provides standardized information packages on suicide prevention
and awareness for use by all USAFA tenant unit commanders/DRU Directors and remote site
commanders.
6.1.4. (Added) Coordinates suicide fatality briefing for USAFA/CC, HQ USAFA/CV, and
mission element commanders.
6.1.5. (Added) Ensures medical professional participation in base suicide and violence
prevention training programs.
6.1.6. Ensures suicide attempts are investigated and reported through the Department of Defense
Suicide Event Report (DoDser).
6.1.7. (Added) Appoints team leader for Traumatic Stress Response Team (TSR) in accordance
with AFI 44-153, Traumatic Stress Response.
6.2. (Added) Headquarters USAFA Chaplain (HQ USAFA/HC)
6.2.1. (Added) Provides guidance to installation chaplains on effective suicide prevention
principles focusing on the importance of the chaplaincy as an alternative and less threatening
route of access to counseling and other potential interventions.
AFI44-154_USAFASUP 11 FEBRUARY 2009                                                            3


6.2.2. (Added) Encourages USAFA chaplains to participate in base suicide and violence
awareness training and assist in establishing and maintaining effective suicide interventions.
6.2.3. (Added) Ensures continuing professional training regarding suicide is provided to
assigned chaplains.
6.3. (Added) Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) Representative (AFOSI Det
808/CC):
6.3.1. (Added) Distributes any AFOSI published summaries and other relative materials to the
Command Surgeon, Command Chaplain, Field Support, installation AFOSI and other
appropriate agencies.
6.3.2. (Added) Forwards findings of suicide investigations, preliminary and final, to the
Command Surgeon.
6.4. (Added) Director of Public Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA):
6.4.1. (Added) HQ USAFA/PA will provide guidance to all USAFA installation public affairs
personnel on the topic of suicide contagion or clustering, aspects of news coverage, which can
promote suicide contagion and the appropriate reporting of suicides to the public through various
news media.
6.5. (Added) Headquarters USAFA Staff Judge Advocate (HQ USAFA/JA)
6.5.1. (Added) Provides expert legal guidance to USAFA directorates and commanders
concerning suicide and violence prevention issues.
6.5.2. (Added) Provides expert opinion, review and coordination on written correspondence
regarding suicide and violence prevention activities when consulted by the Mental Health Flight.
6.6. (Added) Headquarters USAFA Inspector General (HQ USAFA/IG)
6.6.1. (Added) HQ USAFA/IG will be prepared to evaluate the effectiveness of installation
suicide and violence prevention programs as a HQ USAFA/IG special interest item during
USAFA installation inspections, should such a measure be deemed necessary by
HQ USAFA/CC.
6.7. (Added) 10th Air Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC):
6.7.1. (Added) 10 ABW/CC appoints Integrated Delivery System (IDS) members representing
an appropriate cross-section of installation personnel to oversee, among other programs, suicide
and violence prevention and awareness activities.
6.7.2. (Added) Ensures widest dissemination of all appropriate print and broadcast information
pertaining to suicide and violence prevention and awareness.
6.7.3. (Added) Provides guidance and support to appropriate helping agencies in the full
implementation of this plan.
6.7.4. (Added) Ensures appropriate suicide and violence prevention and awareness training is
provided. The majority of training will be provided via computer-based modules as part of the
Total Force Awareness Training section titled “Human Relations.” Live briefings will be
provided at First Term Airman’s Center briefings and upon request by commanders.
6.8. (Added) Unit Commanders/DRU Directors:
 4                                              AFI44-154_USAFASUP 11 FEBRUARY 2009


6.8.1. (Added) Ensure all military and DoD civilian personnel are briefed on suicide and
violence prevention and awareness.
6.8.2. (Added) Refer to Mental Health Clinic those active duty members, who under the stress
of impending Uniform Code of Military Justice disciplinary action, demonstrate indications of
suicide risk. These members may be enrolled in the Limited Privilege Suicide Prevention
(LPSP) program in accordance with (IAW) AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and
Military Law, evaluated and treated, as appropriate, to minimize suicidal potential.
6.8.3. (Added) Recommend commanders check with HQ USAFA/JA prior to referring anyone
to the Mental Health Clinic with known or suspected risk factors such as financial, legal,
relationship, or occupational problems.
6.8.4. (Added) Notify AFOSI of suicide event to begin investigation, unless already initiated
through other channels (e.g., Security Forces).
6.9. (Added) Unit Leadership.
6.9.1. (Added) All Unit Commanders/DRU Directors, first sergeants and supervisors will
emphasize suicide and violence prevention at all levels and foster an atmosphere of open
communication.
6.10. (Added) Installation Integrated Delivery System (IDS):
6.10.1. (Added) Develops and implements a standardized, comprehensive suicide and violence
prevention and awareness program IAW AFI 44-154, Suicide and Violence Prevention
Education and Training. Mental health personnel will serve as the OPR for training
development and execution with input and participation by the chaplains, Family Support and
other IDS team members.
6.10.2. (Added) Monitors and reports suicide and violence prevention and awareness training
for the required training levels.
6.11. (Added) Air Force Office of Special Investigations/Detachment 808:
6.11.1. (Added) Investigates suicides occurring on USAFA installation and reports findings.
For suicides occurring off base or where civilian law enforcement officials maintain jurisdiction,
coordinates data collection and reporting.
6.11.2. (Added) Provides USAFA/CC, 10 ABW/CC, and affected unit commanders with
findings for preliminary, ongoing and completed suicide investigations.
6.11.3. (Added) Forwards AFOSI published suicide summaries and other relevant materials to
installation medical commanders and senior chaplain.
7. (Added) Reporting Requirements:
7.1. (Added) Training. Suicide and violence prevention and awareness education and training
metrics will be tracked quarterly by Unit Training Monitors (UTMs) and submitted to the Mental
Health Flight. Metrics will be reported quarterly to HQ USAFA/SG at the Community Action
Information Board (CAIB).
7.2. (Added) Active Duty Suicide Fatality:
AFI44-154_USAFASUP 11 FEBRUARY 2009                                                            5


7.2.1. The unit commander of an active duty suicide fatality will contact 10th Medical
Operations Squadron Mental Health Flight (10 MDOS/SGOW) for guidelines on the format that
preliminary data must be submitted in. Available data should be forwarded as soon as possible
but no later than seven calendar days after the suicide.
7.2.2. Within 30 days of the issuance of the final AFOSI report of investigation, the squadron
commander of the deceased individual will present a suicide-fatality briefing to USAFA/CC or
an appointed representative and the 10 ABW/CC regarding the circumstances of the suicide and
lessons learned. Guidance regarding the preparation of this briefing is provided in Attachment 5.
10 MDOS/SGOW will provide the commander with a Suicide Briefing Boiler Plate PowerPoint
presentation for their use in creating the briefing. HQ USAFA/SG will coordinate the briefing.
8. DELETED.
8.1. DELETED.
8.2. DELETED.




                                            ANNE C. SPROUL, Col, USAF
                                            Commander, 10th Medical Group
 6                                         AFI44-154_USAFASUP 11 FEBRUARY 2009


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
AFI44-154_USAFASUP 11 FEBRUARY 2009                                                              7


                                     Attachment 5 (Added)
             SQUADRON COMMANDER SUICIDE BRIEFING CHECKLIST

A5.1. Briefing: As a squadron commander, you had the unfortunate occurrence of losing a
member of your squadron. You must brief the USAFA/CC (or appointed representative) and the
wing commander within 30 days of issuance of the final AFOSI suicide report. This checklist is
designed to guide you through the suicide briefing process.
A5.1.1 (USAFA) To standardize the process, use this guide and the attached briefing format
when conducting the review and preparing the briefing. As you go about this task, keep in mind
the goal is preventing similar occurrences in the future--look for lessons learned and highlight
these in the briefing. Integrated Delivery System (IDS) and Mental Health Flight personnel will
assist in reviewing this incident and serve as consultants in the briefing preparation. The POC is
10 MDOS/SGOW 333-5177.
   A5.1.2. Treat all information as “For Official Use Only (FOUO).”
A5.2. Review: Start your review of the incident as soon as possible. Use the AFOSI final
suicide investigation report as the primary source of information. Review the report with an eye
toward any systemic causes within human control that can be changed to prevent future
incidents. Do not conduct your own investigation. Be sure all investigations, toxicology tests,
etc., are completed before the briefing. At a minimum, you will want to consult with OSI, JA,
and SG when trying to construct an accurate picture of what happened in the member’s life that
led to the suicide.
A5.3. Facts: The briefing must center on pertinent information such as circumstances, known
risk factors, timeline of events, actions taken, lessons learned, and recommendations.
Remember, information should be developed only from the facts reviewed in the AFOSI report.
Do not speculate. If facts are not sufficient to answer a question, then say so.
A5.4. Questions: The following are some of the most frequently asked questions by
commanders and others assisting in brief preparations.
   A5.4.1. Have all contributing factors to the death been reviewed (e.g., alcohol/drugs,
   supervision, family matters, etc.)? This is a very important question.
   A5.4.2. Was the supervisor aware of any previous problems the deceased may have had (i.e.,
   financial, marital, family, and deceased’s job performance) prior to the death? This includes
   reviewing the individual’s personnel records, etc.
   A5.4.3. If work/personal problems were known, what action had been taken to assist the
   individual?
   A5.4.4. Is the family (when appropriate) being taken care of?
   A5.4.5. If the member worked a second job, know where, type, and hours worked.
   A5.4.6. Was the member being seen for any medical conditions?
   A5.4.7. Did the member have annual suicide prevention training?
   A5.4.8. Did the member have a history of disciplinary actions or investigations, etc.?
 8                                               AFI44-154_USAFASUP 11 FEBRUARY 2009


     A5.4.9. If a weapon was involved, when and where did the individual get it, and was the
     deceased trained on its proper use?
     A5.4.10. On what dates did members of the supervisory chain last receive the mandatory
     suicide prevention training?
A5.5. Briefing guidelines to be followed:
     A5.5.1. Use attached slides for proper slide format.
     A5.5.2. Slides should contain the following information:
        A5.5.2.1. Title slide:   Suicide Fatality briefing and briefer’s name, duty title, and
        organization.
        A5.5.2.2. Overview slide: Contains deceased member’s data.
        A5.5.2.3. Personal background.
        A5.5.2.4. Sequence of events slide(s) explaining what happened, what should have
        happened if things had gone right, if something went wrong, etc. Diagrams, etc., may be
        helpful.
        A5.5.2.5. Actions taken: Prevention of suicide contagion, mitigation of psychological
        impact on the unit, support for family survivors, etc.
        A5.5.2.6. Risk factors: Alcohol/drugs, finances, supervision, marital problems, etc.
        A5.5.2.7. Protective factors:    Strengths in the individual's situation, social support
        network, etc.
        A5.5.2.8. Lessons learned and initiatives (something that could be shared with other
        units to prevent a similar event).
     A5.5.3. Use proper military titles and last names for applicable personnel. Do not include
     non-USAF personnel names on the slides. Do not refer to individuals by first name.
