BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-102
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   3 JUNE 2002

                                                                             TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                          Supplement
                                                                                    25 FEBRUARY 2008
                                                                     Certified Current on 22 October 2010
                                                                                       Medical Command

                                                                  TOBACCO USE IN THE AIR FORCE

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFMOA/SGZP                                                         Certified by: HQ AFMOA/CC
                                                                              (Brig Gen Gary H. Murray)
Supersedes AFI 40-102, 1 August 1998.                                                          Pages: 9

                                                (TRAVIS)
OPR: 60MDG/SGPZ                                            Certified by: 60MDG/CC (Col Lee E. Payne)
                                                                                           Pages: 4

This instruction implements AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion, and establishes procedures to control tobacco
use in Air Force buildings, facilities, vehicles, and aircraft. It also implements DoD Directive 1010.10,
Health Promotion, March 11, 1986, and DoD Instruction 1010.15, Smoke-Free DoD Facilities, January 2,
2001. It does not supersede or cancel other instructions that control smoking because of fire, explosive, or
other safety hazards.

(TRAVIS) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-102,
Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 3 June 2002. This publication establishes and expands on installation
guidelines for the use of all tobacco products, both smoking and smokeless. This does not cancel or super-
sede other instructions that control tobacco use due to fire, explosives, or other safety hazards. This sup-
plement applies to all Travis Air Force Base personnel.
(TRAVIS) Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are main-
tained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https:/
/afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
2                                              AFI40-102_TRAVISAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2008



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This updates the publication to add counseling and referral of patients to health promotion personnel by
Primary Care Manager (PCM) Team members (paragraphs 1.2.3. and 2.6.2.); reflects the 3-year phase-in
period which allows self-identified recreational Services facilities to enclose and exhaust smoking areas
directly to the outside (paragraphs 2.2.3. and 6.); clarifies PME and formal training school instructor and
staff use of tobacco products during school duty hours (paragraph 2.2.8.); drops the requirement of a
12-month follow-up for tobacco cessation programs (paragraph 2.6.8.).


1. Functional Area Responsibilities.
    1.1. HQ USAF.
       1.1.1. HQ USAF/CC. The Chief of Staff provides guidance on the use of tobacco products (spit
       tobacco, defined by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC] to be loose tobacco
       used by “dippers” and “chewers”) and all types of smoking tobacco, to include cigars in Air Force
       facilities.
       1.1.2. HQ USAF/SG. The Surgeon General is responsible for mission support of tobacco cessa-
       tion programs.
    1.2. Installations and Units.
       1.2.1. Installation commanders enforce policies on the use of tobacco products.
       1.2.2. Medical treatment facility commanders (MTF/CC) ensure tobacco product cessation
       classes are provided to active duty members, family members, and retirees. Cessation classes are
       also made available to employees of the federal government on a space available basis.
           1.2.2.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Tobacco cessation classes will be offered to active duty personnel,
           to include personnel assigned to geographically separated units. Classes will also be offered to
           other members of the Travis Air Force Base (TAFB) community (e.g., active duty family
           members, reservists, civilian employees, and retirees) on a space available basis. If demand
           exceeds resources, then priorities will be established to fit resource availability.
           1.2.2.2. (Added-TRAVIS) Tobacco Cessation classes offered to civilian employees as part of
           an approved health promotion program may be provided at no charge.
       1.2.3. Medical care providers ask individuals about tobacco use history at every encounter; Den-
       tal care providers ask individuals about tobacco use history at every annual examination, as a min-
       imum. Medical and dental providers and/or Primary Care Manager (PCM) Team members will
       furnish pertinent professional advice to every tobacco user, using the guidelines in the Smoking
       Cessation Clinical Practice Guideline (AHCPR Pub # 96-0692) published by the US Department
       of Health and Human Services. For those individuals desiring a cessation program, providers and
       PCM Teams will facilitate referrals to health promotion personnel.
           1.2.3.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Medical Care Providers will document the tobacco history of
           patients on AF Form 1480, Summary of Care, and will document tobacco use histories and
           intervention efforts on other applicable medical/dental records (e.g., AF Form 3922, Preven-
           tive Care – Flow Sheet, SF 600, Health Record – Chronological Record of Medical Care, and
AFI40-102_TRAVISAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2008                                                              3


          AF Form 696, Dental Patient Medical History). All patients will receive counseling on avail-
          able programs at the Health and Wellness Center (HAWC) and initial the Preventative Health
          Assessment (PHA) form that they received counseling.

2. Program Elements.
   2.1. Tobacco Use. The Air Force discourages the use of all tobacco products; The ill effects of
   tobacco use are well documented.
      2.1.1. (Added-TRAVIS) The goals of the 60th Air Mobility Wing are to educate all personnel, to
      include family members, other military beneficiaries and civilians, on the hazards associated with
      using tobacco products, discourage and deglamorize tobacco use, and provide help for those who
      wish to quit using tobacco products. Adopting a healthy lifestyle and leading by example is the
      first step to reaching the “Tobacco Free Air Force” goal.
      2.1.2. (Added-TRAVIS) Commanders/senior leaders will eliminate conflicting messages IAW
      AFI 40-102 and evaluate their policy letters on tobacco use areas annually.
      2.1.3. (Added-TRAVIS) Elimination of the use of any tobacco product (smokeless and smoking
      tobacco) is the goal at TAFB.
   2.2. Workplace. The Air Force prohibits smoking (cigar, cigarette, pipe) and the use of smokeless
   (spit/loose tobacco) products in the workplace to protect the health of all workers.
      2.2.1. The use of tobacco products is permitted only in designated tobacco use areas.
          2.2.1.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Commanders should consider the rights, health, comfort, and con-
          venience of non-tobacco users, as well as those of tobacco users, when designating tobacco
          use areas. In this regard, commanders should also consider the majority of Air Force personnel
          do not use tobacco products. Tobacco use remains the number one preventable cause of dis-
          ease and death in the U.S. Millions of dollars are spent and thousands of people die each year
          due to tobacco use related disease. Consequently, the Air Force must ensure the health and fit-
          ness of its force, our most valuable asset.
      2.2.2. The Air Force recognizes equal work breaks (when these breaks are permitted) for tobacco
      users and non-tobacco users.
          2.2.2.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Breaks are permitted for tobacco and non tobacco users consistent
          with mission requirements.
      2.2.3. The Air Force prohibits indoor tobacco use in all Air Force facilities, except in assigned
      government housing and recreation facilities specifically designated by the installation com-
      mander permitting indoor tobacco use. In such cases, the tobacco use area is designated and sepa-
      rate from common areas that non-smokers must utilize and the area must be enclosed and
      exhausted directly to the outside. Exhaust from these enclosed areas must be located away from
      air intakes and maintained under negative pressure sufficient to contain tobacco smoke in the des-
      ignated area. Workforce must not be required to enter such areas during normal business hours
      while environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) is present. The designated indoor tobacco use area may
      not be a public, common-use area, such as: restrooms, hallways, stairways, or offices. Installation
      commanders are encouraged to limit the size of these areas.
4                                            AFI40-102_TRAVISAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2008


       2.2.3.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Tobacco use is prohibited in all TAFB Services facilities including
       the Bowling Center.
       2.2.3.2. (Added-TRAVIS) Indoor tobacco-use areas may not be built in any facilities on
       TAFB after the effective date of this supplement.
    2.2.4. Tobacco use is prohibited in recreation facilities offering programs that are oriented toward
    children. Additionally, tobacco use is prohibited in all other recreation facilities during children’s
    programs.
       2.2.4.1. (Added-TRAVIS) All fitness, recreational areas to include playgrounds, Child
       Development Center, Youth Center, and After School Program facility will be tobacco-free.
       This includes unit picnics and fitness activities as well as inside any dining areas and common
       gathering areas to include common areas in family housing.
    2.2.5. The Air Force prohibits tobacco use in Air Force vehicles by all personnel, civilian or mil-
    itary.
    2.2.6. The Air Force prohibits tobacco use in medical treatment facilities (MTF). Patients using
    tobacco must do so only in a designated area and must have the attending (or PCM) provider's
    written order.
    2.2.7. The Air Force prohibits tobacco use on Air Force or contract aircraft.
    2.2.8. The Air Force prohibits students from using tobacco in any professional military education
    (PME) or formal training school during school duty hours. Instructors and staff of PME and for-
    mal training courses are strongly encouraged to refrain from use of tobacco products and must be
    away from student view if using tobacco products during school duty hours.
       2.2.8.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Tobacco use is prohibited at Professional Military Education Cen-
       ters including the Airman Leadership School and First Term Airman Center and during atten-
       dance at all official wing functions (i.e., PME graduations, banquets, etc.). This includes all
       bar areas.
    2.2.9. Points of ingress and/or egress (i.e. doors) to facilities, in addition to windows and air
    intake units/vents, are considered part of the workplace for the purpose of this instruction. Any
    designated tobacco use areas will be away from these points. Tobacco use area distance must be
    more than sufficient so as not to allow smoke to be drawn into the building through openings in
    doors, windows, and/or air intake units.
       2.2.9.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Criteria for areas identified as outdoor-designated tobacco use
       areas are as follows: Commanders will limit tobacco areas to the minimum number required,
       combining with other facilities in the area where possible. These areas will be a minimum of
       50 feet from any point of egress/ingress, open windows and air intakes to ensure smoke is not
       drawn into the building. These areas should not be a common area where non-tobacco users
       frequent.
    2.2.10. When possible, installation and/or squadron commanders designate outdoor tobacco use
    areas, which are reasonably accessible to employees and provide some protection from the ele-
    ments.
    2.2.11. Installation commanders ensure that all smoking areas are marked with signs: “Desig-
    nated Tobacco Use Area.” Butt cans and receptacles are located only in the designated outdoor
AFI40-102_TRAVISAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2008                                                               5


     area and away from doorways or vestibules. Only fire, explosives, or safety hazard areas require
     “No Smoking” signs. Government housing does not require "Designated Tobacco Use Area"
     signs.
         2.2.11.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Tobacco users will properly dispose of their tobacco waste prod-
         ucts in appropriately designated receptacles. It is not permitted to dispose of tobacco waste
         products by depositing them on the ground/grass, sidewalk, parking lots, or streets. Butt cans
         and receptacles are located only in the designated tobacco areas. Violation of this paragraph is
         punishable under Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
         2.2.11.2. (Added-TRAVIS) Squadron commanders will immediately ensure that all tobacco
         use areas are marked with signs: “Designated Tobacco Use Area” as well as an advertisement
         for available tobacco cessation opportunities, and the squadron responsible for the tobacco use
         area.
     2.2.12. (Added-TRAVIS) While on base, ALL tobacco use is prohibited for military personnel
     while in uniform when not in a designated tobacco use area. This is not applicable to military per-
     sonnel while traveling in their POV or Military Family Housing. It does include while walking to
     and from designated tobacco use area or to or from a POV.
  2.3. Sale of Tobacco. The Air Force prohibits the sale of tobacco products in medical treatment facil-
  ities.
     2.3.1. The sale of tobacco from vending machines is strictly prohibited on Air Force installations.
     2.3.2. No tobacco products are sold on the installation to anyone under the age of 18 years.
  2.4. Advertisement of Tobacco. The Air Force prohibits advertisements for tobacco products in all
  official Air Force publications.
     2.4.1. The distribution of tobacco samples on the installation is prohibited.
  2.5. Smoking in Dormitory and Housing Facilities. The Air Force does not house smokers and
  non-smokers together, in the same room or adjoining rooms, in dormitory facilities. Note: All Air
  Force lodging common areas and guest rooms, including Temporary Lodging Facility units, are now
  no-smoking areas per AFI 34-246, para 1.9, Air Force Lodging Program, May 17, 2001.
     2.5.1. Smoking is prohibited in all common areas of dormitory facilities and family housing.
     2.5.2. Smoking is allowed only in rooms designated for smokers. If a smoker is assigned a
     non-smoking room, smoking will not be permitted in the room.
     2.5.3. If the smoke or odor from tobacco seeps from a smoking room into common areas or non-
     smoking rooms, the rights of the nonsmoker will prevail.
         2.5.3.1. Commanders may designate areas or buildings in dormitories or family housing
         smoke-free where there is a common air handling unit for multiple individuals or families (e.g.
         dormitories, stairwell housing, etc.) to ensure a healthy and safe environment for all residents.
             2.5.3.1.1. When an area or building is designated smoke-free, provisions must be made to
             reasonably accommodate the smoker, e.g. an area or building designated for smoking.
             2.5.3.1.2. (Added-TRAVIS) Tobacco use in dormitories to include personal living spaces
             and dayrooms is prohibited.
6                                                AFI40-102_TRAVISAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2008


    2.6. Education Programs.
       2.6.1. Health promotion personnel ensure installation health promotion programs (to include
       health promotion personnel in ANG units) incorporate education programs and information on
       resources available in the community to discourage tobacco use.
           2.6.1.1. Tobacco use risk education is provided at all work sites where the respiratory system
           has been identified as a target of occupational risk.
       2.6.2. Medical and dental providers and PCM Team members inquire about the individual’s
       tobacco use history during medical and dental appointments. All tobacco users receive profes-
       sional information about the risks of tobacco use and, if desired, assistance and/or referral for ces-
       sation programs.
       2.6.3. Using the “Stages of Change” behavioral model, tobacco cessation participants are evalu-
       ated on their readiness to change. Emphasis for cessation is for those identified in “contemplation”
       or “preparation” stages.
       2.6.4. Tobacco cessation programs incorporate cognitive and behavior change strategies, the
       “cold turkey” approach, or the use of nicotine replacement therapy when appropriate.
           2.6.4.1. (Added-TRAVIS) Supervisors are encouraged to allow tobacco users to attend
           tobacco cessation classes offered through the HAWC.
           2.6.4.2. (Added-TRAVIS) Participation in an approved tobacco cessation program is encour-
           aged prior to receiving a prescription for nicotine replacement therapy and or other tobacco
           cessation pharmacotherapy.
       2.6.5. Professionals with a background in behavior change therapies have consultational over-
       sight of the program structure.
       2.6.6. The MTF/CC appoints a provider from the MTF as the POC to assess appropriateness of
       nicotine replacement therapy, contraindications for use, and prescribes therapy as needed.
       2.6.7. The MTF/CC ensures that tobacco cessation programs are available during both duty hours
       and non-duty hours at least quarterly.
       2.6.8. Health promotion personnel ensure evaluation of program success through follow-up sur-
       veys administered six months after tobacco use has stopped.

3. Application to Civilian Employees of the Federal Government. Guidance on local implementation
of tobacco use conforms to applicable local bargaining agreements.
    3.1. Local bargaining obligations must be satisfied prior to implementation.
    3.2. Address any concerns about this policy to the local Labor Relations Officer.
    3.3. (Added-TRAVIS) All civilian personnel are highly encouraged to follow this instruction.

4. Application to Contractor Employees and other Non-DoD Personnel. This instruction applies to
all contractor employees and other non-DoD personnel on Air Force facilities and in Air Force buildings,
vehicles, and aircraft.
    4.1. (Added-TRAVIS) All contractors awarded a contract involving on-base performance will be
    advised of the installation’s tobacco use policy. Policies restricting the use of tobacco by civilian con-
AFI40-102_TRAVISAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                  7


   tractor personnel on Air Force installations must be included as administrative notices on all new con-
   tracts.
   4.2. (Added-TRAVIS) All visitors to Travis AFB are subject to and expected to abide by the base
   tobacco use policy.

5. Tobacco Use Measurement. Fitness Assessment Monitors query members about tobacco use at the
time of their fitness evaluation.
   5.1. Health promotion personnel review and track installation tobacco use data and use it to guide
   implementation of programs.

6. Phase-In Period For Services Facilities. Other than those recreational Services facilities that sponsor
children’s programs, all other recreational facilities will be given a 3-year phase-in period that ends 7 Dec
02 to implement renovations and procure equipment necessary to meet the requirements in subparagraph
2.2.3. At the end of this 3-year period, any facility that has not completed the modifications necessary to
establish the required special exhaust and containment features in the designated smoking area shall be
smoke free.
   6.1. Installation commanders using the phase-in program for recreational Services facilities will
   maintain separate smoking and non-smoking areas in the affected facilities.



                                                PAUL K. CARLTON, JR., Lt General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                Surgeon General

                                                (TRAVIS)

                                                STEVEN J. ARQUIETTE, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander
8                                          AFI40-102_TRAVISAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2008


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 1010.10, Health Promotion, March 11, 1986
DoD Instruction 1010.15, Smoke-Free Workplace, January 2, 2001
AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion, March 21, 1994
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, May 17, 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
CDC—Center for Disease Control and Prevention
DoD—Department of Defense
ETS—Environmental Tobacco Smoke
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCM—Primary Care Manager
PME—Professional Military Education
POC—Point of Contact
SGZP—AFMOA Prevention Division
AFI40-102_TRAVISAFBSUP_I 25 FEBRUARY 2008                       9


                                    Attachment 1 (TRAVIS)

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
HAWC—Health and Wellness Center
PHA—Preventative Health Assessment
RDS—Records Distribution Schedule
TAFB—Travis Air Force Base
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
