BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-104
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              17 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                               Medical Command

                                                         HEALTH PROMOTION NUTRITION



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMSA/SG3P                                                          Certified by: AF/SG3/5
                                                                     (Maj Gen Dorothy A. Hogg)
Supersedes:    AFI40-104, 4 October 2011                                               Pages: 14


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 40-1, Health Promotion.
It establishes policies governing Health Promotion Nutrition to promote Airmen health, fitness,
mission readiness, and work productivity. This publication applies to all military and civilian
Air Force (AF) personnel, including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air
National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to
waiver wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval
authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: identifies Tiered waiver authorities for unit level compliance items; requires the
installation commander to establish the Nutritional Environment Working Group to address
 2                                                             AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014


opportunities to improve the installation nutritional environment (Active Component only); and
establishes Air Force dietary supplement policy in the areas of education, high-risk supplements,
and provider training.
AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       3



                                           Chapter 1

                                  PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. Overview. Health Promotion Nutrition is the science and art of helping people change
nutrition patterns to move toward a state of optimal health. The process includes the assessment,
planning, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of comprehensive strategies that target
populations and groups. Nutrition can be improved through a combination of efforts to enhance
awareness, change behavior, and create environments to sustain healthy eating
practices. Providing supportive environments has the greatest impact to produce lasting change.
1.2. Purpose. Health Promotion Nutrition supports the commander in cultivating a fit and ready
force that is resilient, productive, effective, and healthy. Health Promotion Nutrition emphasizes
changing and structuring the nutritional environment to facilitate and promote healthy food
choices.
1.3. Scope. Health Promotion Nutrition strategies should consider all levels of the Social-
Ecological Model. Health status is dependent upon the collective behaviors, attitudes,
knowledge, and beliefs of family and community. Delivery of programs and services are
provided in locations where target populations live, work, and play with emphasis on high
population reach programs and strategies.
 4                                                              AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014


                                            Chapter 2

                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG).
     2.1.1. Oversees Air Force nutrition and dietary supplements policy.
     2.1.2. Ensures adequate programming, budget, training, and research to support nutritional
     fitness and dietary supplement safety for Airmen.
     2.1.3. Advocates for comprehensive and evidence-based strategies to create a culture and
     environment supportive of nutritional fitness.
     2.1.4. Collaborates and coordinates nutrition policy with US Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff
     for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1).
2.2. Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1).
     2.2.1. Supports AF/SG in developing Air Force nutrition and dietary supplements policy.
     2.2.2. Provides policy and guidance for integrating and vetting new/emerging institutional
     education and training requirements or learning outcomes into accessions, Professional
     Military Education (PME), Professional Continuing Education (PCE) and ancillary training..
     2.2.3. Monitors Air Force Personnel Center Services, Army and Air Force Exchange Service
     (AAFES), and Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA) sales of dietary supplements and
     coordinates with AF/SG.
     2.2.4. Develops policy on the availability and sales of supplements to support the safety,
     health and performance of Airmen to include compliance with Food and Drug
     Administration (FDA) warnings and recalls.
     2.2.5. Ensures dietary supplement standard warnings and disclaimers are prominently
     displayed to include special provisions for flyers and Personnel Reliability Program (PRP).
     2.2.6. Ensures, pursuant to applicable agreements and DoD Directives/Instructions, that
     AAFES operations on Air Force installations:
        2.2.6.1. Support an environment that places priority on warfighters’ nutritional fitness,
        performance and health.
        2.2.6.2. Use effective marketing strategies to promote the purchase of healthy foods and
        beverages.
        2.2.6.3. Provide dietary supplement sales information to AF/A1.
        2.2.6.4. Comply with FDA warnings and recalls. Ensure standard supplement warnings
        and disclaimers are prominently displayed to include special provisions for flyers,
        Personnel Reliability Program (PRP), and other military populations with guidance
        restrictions on supplement use when notified by the appropriate authority.
        2.2.6.5. Make healthy foods available, convenient, reasonably priced, appetizing, and
        flavorful to consumers of AAFES food, beverage, and vending operations.
AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     5


2.3. Air Force Medical Support Agency, Health Promotion (AFMSA/SG3P).
   2.3.1. Develops policy, systems, and environmental interventions to support nutritional
   fitness and dietary supplement safety.
2.4. Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA).
   2.4.1. Biomedical Sciences Corps Operations (SGB)
      2.4.1.1. Coordinates with AFMOA Health Promotion and AF/SG Dietetics Consultant
      on nutritional guidance and programs.
   2.4.2. Health Promotion Operations (SGPZ)
      2.4.2.1. Develops, implements and evaluates interventions that promote nutritional
      fitness and dietary supplement safety.
      2.4.2.2. Advances the capabilities of the Air Force Medical Service to provide nutrition
      education to Military Treatment Facility (MTF) beneficiaries, particularly at MTFs
      without medical nutrition therapy services.
      2.4.2.3. Partners with Air Force Personnel Center, Services and other stakeholders to
      operationalize standardized tools to assess the eating environment, identify opportunities
      for improvement, and implement and evaluate targeted interventions to promote the
      purchase and consumption of healthy foods.
      2.4.2.4. Ensures dietitian serves as AF HP Nutrition Consultant and is the consultant to
      Major Command (MAJCOM) dietitians on community nutrition and population-based
      nutrition approaches as appropriate.
2.5. AF/SG Dietetics Consultant.
   2.5.1. Advises AF/SG on nutrition policy.
   2.5.2. Coordinates with AFMOA Health Promotion and AFMOA/SGB on nutritional
   guidance and programs.
2.6. Air Force Personnel Center, Services.
   2.6.1. Partners with Air Force Health Promotion to promote availability and consumption of
   healthy food options on Air Force installations; annual assessment of the installation
   nutritional environment; and training of food service personnel in healthy menu planning and
   food preparation.
   2.6.2. Ensures Air Force dining facilities label food items IAW the Go For Green criteria
   (see Attachment 2).
   2.6.3. Provides food service personnel with knowledge, skills and training necessary for
   menu planning and food preparation that will maximize the nutritional value of foods and
   promote healthy food purchase and consumption.
   2.6.4. Monitors the sale of dietary supplements and nutritional products in AF Services
   facilities.
   2.6.5. Implements policy on the availability and sales of supplements to support the safety,
   health and performance of Airmen to include compliance with Food and Drug
   Administration (FDA) warnings and recalls in AF Services facilities.
 6                                                               AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014


     2.6.6. Implements dietary supplement standard warnings and disclaimers are prominently
     displayed, to include special provisions for flyers and Personnel Reliability Program (PRP),
     in AF Services facilities.
2.7. MAJCOM or MAJCOM-Designated Dietitian Consultants.
     2.7.1. Coordinates with AFMOA/SGPZ on implementation of HP nutrition strategies and
     interventions/initiatives and orientation, training, and mentorship of HP Registered
     Dietitians.
     2.7.2. Advises the command and appropriate higher headquarters staff on nutrition issues,
     and provides guidance and nutrition consultation to bases and MTFs.
     2.7.3. Serves as clinical supervisor for HP Registered Dietitians to include the credentialing
     process and diet certification.
     2.7.4. Ensures that the peer review process for HP Registered Dietitians complies with
     AFMAN 44-144, Nutritional Medicine.
2.8. Wing Commander (or equivalent).
     2.8.1. Supports an environment that supports installation personnel to make food choices
     that improve health, performance and well-being. (T-2)
     2.8.2. Appoints a cross-functional Nutritional Environment Working Group IAW
     Paragraph 3.2.1. (NOTE: Active Component only. Does not apply to ARC) (T-2)
     2.8.3. Communicates informed, responsible, and safe use of dietary supplements at least
     annually IAW Paragraph 4.1.1 (T-3)
     2.8.4. Appoints a cross-functional Operation Supplement Safety (OPSS) Working Group
     IAW Paragraph 4.1.2 (NOTE: Active Component only. Does not apply to ARC) (T-3)
2.9. Unit Commander and Supervisor.
     2.9.1. Supports a work environment that promotes access to healthy foods. (T-3)
2.10. Force Support Squadron Commander/Director (FSS/CC).
     2.10.1. Promotes healthy food purchase and consumption, including food service and
     vending contracts. (T-1)
     2.10.2. Supports assessment of the nutritional environment, and implements and evaluates
     interventions to promote the availability, purchase and consumption of healthy foods. (T-1)
     2.10.3. Monitors the sale of dietary supplements and nutritional products in Services
     facilities. (T-1)
     2.10.4. Implements policy on the availability and sales of supplements to support the safety,
     health and performance of Airmen to include compliance with Food and Drug
     Administration (FDA) warnings and recalls. (T-1)
     2.10.5. Ensures dietary supplement standard warnings and disclaimers are prominently
     displayed to include special provisions for flyers and Personnel Reliability Program (PRP).
     (T-1)
AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014                                                                         7


   2.10.6. Coordinates with Medical Group Commander (MDG/CC) on evaluating efficacy and
   health risks of dietary supplements being sold in AF Services facilities. (T-3)
   2.10.7. Ensures dietary supplements and other nutritional products sold by individuals on
   base are IAW AFI 36-2925, Personal Commercial Solicitation on Air Force Installations.
   (T-1)
2.11. Medical Group Commander (MDG/CC).
   2.11.1. Advocates for comprehensive, evidence-based strategies to create a culture and
   environment supportive of nutritional fitness. (T-3)
   2.11.2. Provides adequate programming, budgeting, training, and resourcing to achieve HP
   Nutritional Fitness goals and objectives resulting in improved Airman performance and
   health. (T-3)
   2.11.3. In collaboration with the MAJCOM Consultant Dietitian and AFMOA/SGPZ,
   provides options to ensure that all patients have access to nutrition education when the MTF
   does not have Nutritional Medicine (NM) operations IAW AFMAN 44-144. (T-3)
   2.11.4. Coordinates with NM and/or HP to provide guidance to FSS/CC on the health risks,
   efficacy and sale of dietary supplements in Services facilities. (T-3)
2.12. Food Facility Managers.
   2.12.1. Ensures food is labeled IAW the Go For Green criteria (Attachment 2) in military
   dining facilities. (T-0)
   2.12.2. Ensures food service personnel have knowledge, skills and training necessary for
   menu planning and food preparation that will maximize the nutritional value of foods and
   promote healthy food purchase and consumption. (T-3)
   2.12.3. Supports assessment of the nutritional environment, and implements and evaluates
   interventions to promote the availability, purchase and consumption of healthy foods. (T-3)
2.13. Installation Health Promotion Team. (NOTE: For stand-alone AFRC installations only,
Exercise Physiologist/Fitness Program Manager is responsible for the installation's Reservist HP
Nutrition program, which is not subject to the requirements set forth in this AFI. Exercise
Physiologist/Fitness Program Manager implements Reservist HP Nutrition program to the extent
that resources and capabilities are available.) (T-3)
   2.13.1. Informs commanders at least annually (e.g. briefing, written report, e-mail) on the
   nutritional and weight status of their units, as well as strategies to improve health and mission
   productivity. (T-3)
   2.13.2. Coordinates an annual assessment of the installation nutritional environment through
   the installation Nutritional Environment Working Group; identifies opportunities to improve
   healthy eating options; and implements and evaluates interventions to promote the
   availability, marketing, purchase and consumption of healthy foods, in partnership with
   installation food service establishments. (T-1)
 8                                                               AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014


                                            Chapter 3

                                          NUTRITION

3.1. Go For Green.
     3.1.1. All food in military dining facilities shall be categorized and displayed in accordance
     with Go For Green criteria (Attachment 2) and IAW AFI 44-141/BUMEDINST 10110.6/AR
     40-25, Nutrition and Menu Standards for Human Performance. (T-0)
3.2. Nutritional Environment Assessment (NOTE: Active Component only.                   Does not
apply to ARC)
     3.2.1. The installation commander shall appoint a cross-functional Nutritional Environment
     Working Group coordinated by a dietitian or health promotion coordinator. Membership may
     include: dietitian, health promotion coordinator, the Appropriated Fund (APF) dining facility,
     exchange, commissary, Non-Appropriated Fund [NAF] food facilities, lodging, fitness
     center, and any other installation stakeholders interested in promoting a healthy nutritional
     environment. (T-2)
     3.2.2. The Nutritional Environment Working Group shall conduct an annual assessment of
     the installation nutritional environment, develop an annual healthy food improvement action
     plan, and brief installation leadership at least annually. (T-2)
AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014                                                                          9


                                            Chapter 4

                                  DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS

4.1. Operation Supplement Safety (OPSS).
   4.1.1. OPSS is the DoD initiative to educate healthcare providers and Service members on
   dietary supplement safety, including energy drinks. The installation commander shall
   communicate informed, responsible, and safe use of dietary supplements at least annually.
   (T-3)
   4.1.2. (NOTE: For stand-alone AFRC installations only, Exercise Physiologist/Fitness
   Program Manager is responsible for the installation's Reservist HP Nutrition program,
   which is not subject to the requirements set forth in this AFI.                           Exercise
   Physiologist/Fitness Program Manager implements Operation Supplement Safety to the
   extent that resources and capabilities are available.) The installation commander shall
   appoint a cross-functional OPSS Working Group chaired by a dietitian or health promotion
   coordinator. The OPSS Working Group will communicate consistent, coordinated, and
   widespread messages on dietary supplement safety. Membership may include dietitian, diet
   technician, flight surgeon, other primary care health providers, aerospace physiologist,
   exercise physiologist, health educator, fitness center staff, safety, public affairs, drug demand
   reduction staff, and any other installation stakeholder committed to dietary supplement
   safety. The OPSS Working Group shall brief installation leadership at least annually. (T-3)
4.2. Use of Dietary Supplements.
   4.2.1. Dietary supplement use, as defined by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education
   Act (DSHEA), shall generally be permitted. Aircrew is required to gain approval for dietary
   supplement use by the flight surgeon IAW AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
   Standards. (T-1)
   4.2.2. Airmen are discouraged from using high-risk dietary supplements with unacceptable
   benefit-to-risk ratio, as defined by Air Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA/SG3P).
   Consult the Health Promotion Nutrition Guide for current guidance.
   4.2.3. The absence of a dietary supplement on the high-risk list does not imply Air Force
   endorsement of the dietary supplement. Dietary supplements may contain substances that are
   prohibited.
4.3. Healthcare Provider Training.
   4.3.1. Healthcare providers shall be trained at least annually on the need to obtain a thorough
   history of dietary supplement use, to include herbal preparations, multivitamin, mineral, and
   other dietary supplements in the form of gels, pills, powders, and shakes. The history will be
   documented in the patient’s medical record. (T-3)
10                                                         AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014


  4.3.2. Healthcare providers shall be trained at least annually on the need to report any
  adverse event that they believe may be associated with dietary supplements. Adverse events
  shall be reported through Air Force Medical Operations Agency. (T- 3)




                                         THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                         Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                         Surgeon General
AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 6130.05, DoD Nutrition Committee, 18 February 2011
AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion, 17 December 2009
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,25 September 2013
AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program, 17 April 2014
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 21 October 2013
AFI 36-2925, Personal Commercial Solicitation on Air Force Installations, 28 August 2013
AFI 40-101, Health Promotion, 17 December 2009
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 Jan 2012
AFI 44-141_IP (AR 40-25/BUMEDINST 10110.6), Nutrition Standards and Education, 15 June
2001
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 5 November 2013
AFI 90-501, Community Action Information Board and Integrated Delivery System, 15 October
2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 44-144, Nutritional Medicine, 29 June 2011
USDA Dietary Guidelines for Americans, http://www.cnpp.usda.gov/dietaryguidelines.htm
USDA MyPlate, http://www.choosemyplate.gov
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AF/A1—US Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operation Agency
AFMOA/SGHC—Air Force Medical Operation Agency, Health Promotion Operations
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
 12                                                  AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014


AFMSA/SG3O—Air Force Medical Support Agency, Health Promotion
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AF/SG—US Air Force Surgeon General
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAIB—Community Action Information Board
DeCA—Defense Commissary Agency
FSS—Force Support Squadron
FSS/CC—Force Support Squadron Commander/Director
HP—Health Promotion
HPP—Health Promotion Program
HPSO—AF Health Promotion Support Office
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
MDG—Medical Group
MNT—Medical Nutrition Therapy
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NM—Nutritional Medicine
PHWG—Population Health Working Group
RD—Registered Dietitian
USDA—US Department of Agriculture
           AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014                                                                                                               13


                                                                         Attachment 2
                                                           GO FOR GREEN CRITERIA

           Table A2.1. Go for Green Criteria.
Tips to build a healthy                          Eat Often                               Eat Occasionally                             Eat Rarely
         plate                                 (Almost anytime)                         (Select portions carefully)                 (Once in a while)
Vegetables                          Fresh or frozen vegetables                    Fresh or frozen vegetables with        Fried or tempura vegetables
• Eat 3–4 cups non-starchy          Canned vegetables rinsed to remove              light sauces                         Vegetables with high-fat sauces (Al-
vegetables a day.                     salt (green beans, beets)                   Canned vegetables                         fredo)
                                    No-added-salt canned vegetables                                                      Creamed vegetables
• Starchy vegetables such             (tomato)                                                                           Some salads; see salad dressings
as potatoes and corn are in         Leafy green salads with dark greens                                                  and toppings under Fats/Oils
the Grains/Starches group.            (spinach, spring mix) and vegetable
                                      toppings

Fruits                              Fresh fruit                                   Frozen fruit with added                Dried fruit with coatings (yogurt,
• Eat 2–2.5 cups of fruit a         Frozen fruits (all types) with no added       sugar/syrups Canned fruit in             choco- late, others)
day.                                   sugar/syrup                                light syrup Dried fruit                Dried fruit with added sugar
                                    Fruit canned in water or fruit juice          (sulfured)                             (Craisins) Canned fruit in heavy
• Eat your fruit, don’t drink it.   Dried fruit (un-sulfured with no added        100% fruit juice                       syrup Some fruit desserts
                                       sugar)                                     Some fruit desserts

Grains/Starches                     Brown rice, bulgur, quinoa, barley            White rice, couscous, pasta            Biscuits, croissants, full-fat muffins
• Choose 100% whole                 Oatmeal Baked potato/sweet potato             Cereals with more than 10g             Doughnuts, Danishes, pastries,
grain for at least half of all      with skin Baked sweet-potato “fries”          sugar Sweetened                        sweetened
                                    Whole-grain pasta                             oatmeal/oatmeal packets Grits,            breads
grain servings.                     Cereal with less than 10g sugar and at        polenta                                Processed cereals with sugar
                                      least 3g fiber                              Baked French fries Mashed              Fried rice
                                    Whole-grain breads, bagels, rolls, Eng-       potatoes (no butter or cream)          Pasta with cream sauce
                                      lish muffins with 3g or more fiber          White breads, bagels, rolls,           French fries (fried in oil)
                                                                                  cornbread                              Mashed potatoes (butter and/or
                                                                                                                         whole
                                                                                                                            milk/cream), potato casseroles
                                                                                                                         Grits with added fat

Protein                             Egg whites/egg substitutes                    Whole eggs Tuna                        Fried meat/poultry/fish/seafood
• Vary your protein choices.        Fish and shellfish (baked, broiled,           canned in water                        Fried eggs prepared with fat/oil
Include seafood/fish twice             grilled)                                   Chicken/turkey with                    Ground beef, fatty (marbled) cuts
                                    Most fish canned in water (except tuna)       skin Pork, ham,                        of red meat, beef ribs, and corned
a week.                             Chicken/turkey (without skin)                 Canadian bacon Deli                    beef, pork sausage or bacon
• Include beans for protein         Ground poultry (90% lean)                     meats Chicken/turkey                   Hot dogs, kielbasa, bratwurst
and fiber.                          Beans/lentils                                 sausage                                High-fat deli meats (salami,
                                    Tofu or edamame                               Beans/lentils with added sugar, fat,   bologna)
                                    Vegetable or bean burgers/patties                ham, bacon                          Refried (with lard) beans
                                       (black-bean burgers)                       Soy patties, links, burgers


Fats/Oils                           Oils – olive, canola, safflower, sunflower,   Oils – vegetable, soy, corn, peanut    Oils – coconut, palm, palm
• Choose healthy fats and              sesame, grapeseed                          Salad dressings made with these        kernel Shortening and lard
oils.                               Salad dressings made with these oils          oils Mayonnaise made with these        Gravy (made with fat
                                    Nuts and seeds, unsalted Natural nut          oils Gravy (made with water or         drippings) Most margarines
                                    butters (peanut butter,                       low-fat milk) Margarine spreads        Full-fat creamy salad dressings
                                       almond, hazelnut, soynut)                  with no trans fats Peanut butter       Cream (half-and-half, whipped,
                                                                                  with added oils/fats                   others) Non-dairy creamer (liquid
                                                                                                                         or powdered)
           14                                                                                  AFI40-104 17 OCTOBER 2014


Tips to build a healthy                     Eat Often                              Eat Occasionally                          Eat Rarely
         plate                            (Almost anytime)                        (Select portions carefully)               (Once in a while)
Beverages                      Water (plain or carbonated) Flavored         Sports drinks                         Coffee and tea with more than 2
• Choose water instead of      seltzers/waters with no artificial           100% fruit juice                        tbsp cream and/or 4 tsp
sugary beverages.              sweetener Decaf tea and decaf coffee,        2% (low-fat) milk                       sugar
                               plain Herbal tea                             Tea and coffee, plain or no more      Sweetened beverages of any
                               Low-sodium, 100% vegetable juice             than 2 tsp sugar and 1 tbsp cream       kind (sodas, sweet teas, fruit
                               Non-fat/skim/1% milk                         Artificially sweetened beverages of     punches)
                                                                              any kind (diet sodas, diet teas,    Whole milk
                                                                              many flavored waters)



Dairy                          Milk (non-fat, skim, 1%) Milk alternatives   Chocolate milk (strawberry or         Whole milk, cream, half-
• Compare sugar contents       (soy, almond, rice with calcium and             other flavors)                     and-half Plain yogurt
of yogurt.                     vitamin D added) Yogurt (non-fat, skim,      Milk (2% fat) Yogurt (2%              (about 3% fat)
                               1%)                                          fat) Cheese (reduced-                 Cottage cheese (about 3%
                               Low-fat cottage cheese                       fat, low-fat)                         fat) Most cheeses Cream
                                                                                                                  cheese, sour cream

Desserts/Snacks                Fruit                                        Fruit desserts (made with             High-sugar frozen ice
• Choose fruit for dessert.    Yogurt-and-fresh-fruit parfait                 minimal added fats and              pops Fruit pies,
• Choose nuts, dairy, fruit,   Frozen 100% fruit-juice bars                   sugar)                              cobblers Cakes,
                               Milk (non-fat, skim, 1%)                     Low-fat puddings Frozen               cookies, most pastries
vegetables, and whole          Other foods from the Green list              yogurt and ice milk                   Ice cream, gelato
foods for snacks.                                                           Popcorn, pretzels, baked              Pudding
                                                                            chips                                 Fried chips, buttered popcorn
