BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 47-101
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)
                                                                CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                 19 JULY 2012

                                                                                         Dental

                                                   MANAGING AIR FORCE BASE DENTAL
                                                                         SERVICES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOAMDS/SGPD                                               Certified by: 27 SOMDG/CC
                                                                         (Col Jeffrey C. Gillen)
                                                                                       Pages: 3


This publication supplements AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services, 1 June 2009.
This supplement applies to all units assigned, attached, or associate to the 27th Special
Operations Wing (27 SOW) and who are authorized dental care in accordance with the
provisions of AFI 47-101. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.

1.11.10. (Added) The CDS will supervise all procedures outlined in this instruction to include
the notification of unit commanders when their personnel fail to keep scheduled appointments.
1.15. (Added) Organizational Commanders will:
1.15.1. (Added) Ensure their personnel know that all dental appointments are directive in
nature and attendance is mandatory.
1.15.2. (Added) Direct the Unit Scheduler to:
1.15.2.1. (Added) Work in conjunction with the dental clinic to coordinate the scheduling of
personnel for periodic dental examinations.
 2                                             AFI47-101_CANNONAFBSUP 19 JULY 2012


1.15.2.2. (Added) Inform squadron members when to report for their examination through the
use of computer generated notification letters or other internal communication methods.
1.15.2.3. (Added) Advise the Dental Clinic of last minute contingencies that prevent the
scheduled patient’s attendance.
1.15.2.4. (Added)    Take necessary actions to reduce the incidence of broken appointments in
their units.
1.16. (Added) The Defense Force Commander will:
1.16.1. (Added) Ensure prisoners/detainees entrusted to the Security Forces receive timely
emergency dental care to prevent undue pain or suffering.
1.16.2. (Added) Provide security police escorts to remain in the Dental Clinic with those
military prisoners/detainees receiving dental care.
6.1.4. (Added) Active duty personnel may schedule themselves for routine care over the
phone or in person during normal duty hours with the exception of persons rescheduling a
broken appointment. These individuals must report to the clinic to reschedule.
6.1.5. (Added) Every effort should be extended to provide at least 24-hour’s notice when an
appointment must be canceled to effectively utilize scheduled appointment times. Ideally, a new
appointment should be rescheduled at the time of the cancellation.
6.1.6. (Added) A dental appointment will be considered “broken” if the patient is not present
in the dental clinic within ten minutes after the scheduled appointment start time. If the patient
arrives late and there is sufficient time remaining in the appointment time to accomplish some
meaningful work, the patient will still be seen, provided a fill-in patient was not assigned the
slot. Names of individuals who break appointments will be forwarded to the individual’s
commander.
6.2.5.1. (Added) Non-active duty, eligible beneficiaries are authorized routine care on a
standby space-available basis only. Routine care typically means care that can be accomplished
at a single appointment. This is a system where eligible persons may sign-in at the appointment
desk and remain in the waiting room to take advantage of broken or canceled appointment fill-in
opportunities. Such openings will be filled on a first-come, first-serve basis. Family members
enrolled in the Tri-Care Dental Plan (TDP) are authorized dental care that is not covered by the
plan on a standby, space-available basis.
6.5.3. (Added) Emergency Dental Care: All eligible beneficiaries including those enrolled in
the Active Duty Dental Plan (ADDP), and the Tri-Care Dental Plan (TDP) are authorized
treatment for acute dental problems. Dental sick call is held at 0700 each duty day. During other
than normal duty hours, patients should contact the after-hours emergency call line (575) 784-
2778 (APPT). A dental officer will be on call at all times to treat bonafide emergencies.
6.6.1.1. (Added) Examinations: Active duty military personnel receive periodic examinations
IAW AFCSM 36-699 Vol I, Personnel Data System (PDS), Unit/GSU Support. The Dental
Clinic will coordinate with each unit’s schedulers to schedule the examination appointments.
6.9.1.1.1. (Added) All active duty personnel will seek the dental care necessary to ensure their
eligibility for worldwide duty. Personnel in Dental Readiness Class 3 (oral conditions that may
AFI47-101_CANNONAFBSUP 19 JULY 2012                                                               3


require emergency care within 12 months) will immediately after being placed in Dental Class 3
status, have a physical profile change (AF 469) initiated.
6.10.3.3. (Added) The Military Personnel Flight (MPF) will advise individuals being assigned
to isolated or remote duty stations to report to the Dental Clinic within 10 days of notification of
their assignment for a Dental Clearance Examination.

6.24.2.4.1.1. (Added) The active duty member is required to receive counseling by the CDS or
designee regarding elective orthodontic care, have written approval from member’s squadron
commander approving the member for extended care (2-4 years average), and if a rated member,
receive written approval from an Aerospace Medicine provider.

6.28.2.1.1. (Added) The clinical phase will include: The program for active duty personnel to
receive a periodic dental examination, oral prophylaxis (tooth cleaning), topical (surface)
application of fluoride, sealants, and oral health counseling as necessary. Protective mouth
guards for contact sports will be made on request for active duty personnel.
6.28.2.3.7. (Added) Presentation of educational information through the base newspaper and
base bulletin, as well as group lectures to squadrons arranged through their unit health monitors.
Special emphasis will be extended to children during National Children’s Dental Health Month
each February.
6.28.2.3.8. (Added) The review of reports for fluoride levels in the base water supply.
6.28.2.3.9. (Added) The periodic review of dental products available at the Base Exchange
and Commissary, and discuss any recommendations with the respective managers.




                                              ALBERT M. ELTON II, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
