BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER 97TH                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
AIR MOBILITY WING (AETC)
                                                                   ALTUS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               Supplement

                                                                          2 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                            Medical Command

                                                                        FAMILY ADVOCACY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 97 MDOS/SGOW                                           Certified by: 97 MDG/CC (Colonel
Supersedes: AFI40-                                                             Sharon Hunter)
            301_ALTUSAFBSUP, 01                                                      Pages: 5
            Dec 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 40-3, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-
301, Family Advocacy Program (FAP) and applies to US military and US civilians assigned to
Altus Air Force Base and all assigned organizational units. This instruction assigns
responsibilities and explains procedures for the management of the Altus AFB FAP. It explains
local policies and procedures in accordance with AFI 40-301 for the protection of family
members/partners and enhancement of family life through the identification, treatment and
prevention of family maltreatment. It defines the roles and responsibilities of the Family
Advocacy Committee (FAC), Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT) and High
Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT). Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Form 847 from the field through major
command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Scheduled (RDS) located at Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) at
Air Force (AF) Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1.1. (Added) The FAP builds readiness through a strong, resilient community. Family
maltreatment reduces community strength and family resilience. Through prevention and
treatment services, the FAP emphasizes community support of Altus AFB active duty (AD)
military families. Retirees and Department of Defense (DoD) civilians at Altus AFB may be
 2                                       AFI 40-301_ALTUSAFBSUP 2 DECEMBER 2011


served on an emergency basis via crisis intervention and referrals, and are offered prevention
programs on a space available basis. Altus AFB acknowledges the importance of a coordinated
and consistent approach in reducing family maltreatment and affirms its commitment to
providing every resource possible in building a healthy community.
2. (Added) Responsibilities.
2.1. (Added) 97th Air Mobility Wing Commander (97 AMW/CC):
2.1.1. (Added) Has ultimate responsibility for the FAP for Altus AFB (AAFB).
2.1.2. (Added) Appoints in writing the core membership for the 97 AMW Central Registry
Board (CRB) and their alternates.
2.1.3. (Added) Ensures the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between AAFB and the
Department of Human Services (DHS), Associated Christian Ministries Incorporated (ACMI)
House and Southwestern Youth Services is enforced and reviewed every 24 months.
2.1.4. (Added) Appoints in writing the core membership for the 97 AMW FAC and their
alternates. The 97th Medical Group Commander (97 MDG/CC) will serve as the chairperson
and the 97th Medical Group Deputy Commander (97 MDG/CD) will be the alternate.
2.1.5. (Added) Delegates the 97th Mission Support Group Commander (97 MSG/CC) to serve
as a member of the FAC in his stead. The 97th Mission Support Deputy Group Commander (97
MSG/CD) will be the alternate.
2.2. (Added) 97 MDG/CC:
2.2.1. (Added) Serves as the Incident Status Determination Review (ISDR) Process Reviewer
and serves as an observer of the process to document that the CRB automated decision tree was
adhered to.
2.2.2. (Added) Ensures the FAO or designee will brief the 97 AMW/CC at the quarterly
Community Action Information Board (CAIB).
2.2.3. (Added) Ensures medical group personnel notify the FAP personnel if a patient is a
suspected victim of maltreatment at 481-5376.
2.2.3.1. (Added) After duty hours, Security Forces Squadron (SFS) at 481-7444 will be the
point of contact. Security Forces will notify the Mental Health on-call provider either by their
on-call contact number or through the Command Post.
2.2.4.   (Added) Ensures annual training is provided to all FAC members on roles,
responsibilities and the overall FAP mission.
2.2.5. (Added) Approves, in writing, nominations for membership on the CRB, CSMRT, and
HRVRT teams and ensures teams are trained annually.
2.4. (Added) FAO:
2.4.1. (Added) Child and/or spouse maltreatment may occur in civilian jurisdiction. The FAO
and Family Advocacy Treatment Manager (FATM) are responsible for maintaining collaboration
with Jackson County DHS, local agencies, courts, and local law enforcement in the monitoring
of cases of family maltreatment occurring on and off base.
AFI 40-301_ALTUSAFBSUP 2 DECEMBER 2011                                                              3


2.4.2. (Added) Ensures the timely evaluation of all reported referrals of child and spouse
maltreatment in accordance with existing Air Force guidelines and the laws of Oklahoma.
2.5. (Added) Squadron CC, First Sergeants (CCF):
2.5.1. (Added) Will respond to the scene in person, or designate a representative, when
requested by medical or investigative authority to assist in case management of suspected spouse
or child maltreatment cases.
2.5.2. (Added) Will assist Security Forces, or designate a representative, and will offer
assistance to provide for the safety of the victim, if warranted. Assistance may include:
2.5.2.1. (Added) Referral to ACMI House (local shelter for battered women), local DHS or
Southwestern Youth Services.
2.5.2.2. (Added) Arrange alternate housing when the commander, FAO, FATM, or other
investigative personnel feel there is a risk for continued violence to the victim or other members
of the family. A safety plan will be established with the member and the FATM in collaboration
with the unit commander.
2.6. (Added) Other Base Agencies:
2.6.1. (Added) Staff Judge Advocate (SJA):
2.6.1.1. (Added) Coordinates and advises on enforcement of civil laws of Oklahoma and the
Uniform Code of Military Justice in cases of child and spouse maltreatment on base IAW AF
guidelines.
2.6.1.2. (Added) Shall consult with FAP when considering lethality risk factors when advising
the responsible commander on their response and duties to domestic abuse.
2.6.2. (Added) SFS personnel:
2.6.2.1. (Added) Will notify the sponsor’s unit commander or first sergeant and FAP personnel
when SFS have investigated or intervened in any cases of domestic violence involving suspected
child and spouse maltreatment.
2.6.2.2. (Added) Notifies the FAO if the Security Forces escorted a local DHS caseworker to
any location on base for the purposes of assessing suspected cases of child maltreatment.
2.6.2.3. (Added) Provides immediate intervention when required to prevent bodily harm.
2.6.3. (Added) The medical provider may determine to admit the child to Jackson County
Memorial Hospital if a child is felt to be at risk or if the facts of the case warrant further medical
observation.
2.6.4. (Added) Altus AFB Public Affairs, Visual Information section will provide a
photographer when requested by AFOSI, SFS or 97 MDG to record evidence of child or adult
maltreatment.
3.1. (Added) The Altus FAP is a pro-active program that offers services to families to enhance
overall family life, offering special groups, classes and seminars in areas such as parenting,
marriage enrichment and coordination and management of families’ needs. The focus is to
provide support to families before problems occur and provide assistance to resolve problems
 4                                       AFI 40-301_ALTUSAFBSUP 2 DECEMBER 2011


should they exist. The FAP takes responsibility for coordinating among on and off base agencies
regarding prevention and outreach programs through Altus’ Integrated Delivery System.
3.2. (Added) High risk individuals are tracked by being placed on the Mental Health Clinic
High-Risk Log (HRL). The HRL cases are reviewed two days per week at the Mental Health
multidisciplinary case staffing meeting.




                                           ANTHONY B. KRAWIETZ, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 97th Air Mobility Wing
AFI 40-301_ALTUSAFBSUP 2 DECEMBER 2011                                              5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 Nov 09
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
DoD 6400.1, Family Advocacy Program, 23 Aug 04
USAF Family Advocacy Program Standards (https://www.airforcefap.af.mil), 1 Oct 09
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACMI— Associated Christian Ministries Incorporated
AD— Active Duty
CAIB— Community Action Information Board
CRB— Central Registry Board
DHS— Department of Human Services
CSMRT— Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
DoD— Department of Defense
HRL— High-Risk Log
HRVRT— High Risk for Violence Response Team
ISDR— Incident Status Determination Review
FAC— Family Advocacy Committee
FAP— Family Advocacy Program
FATM— Family Advocacy Treatment Manager
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
