BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 44-153
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              31 MARCH 2006

                                                                      HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                     Supplement
                                                                                          16 APRIL 2007

                                                                                                  Medical

                                                                    TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/SGOC                                              Certified by: AF/SGO (MG Charles B. Green)
Supersedes AFI 44-153, 01 Jul 99                                                          Pages: 21

                                            (HOLLOMAN)
OPR: 49 MDOS/SGOH                                                              Certified by: 49 MDG/CC
                                                                               (Colonel Matt Adkins, Jr.)
Supersedes Life Skills Support Center OI 44-12,                                                 Pages: 4
           15 January 2005

This instruction implements AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations. It establishes the requirement for Trau-
matic Stress Response (TSR) teams at all active duty Air Force installations, encouraging an integration
of resources and efforts of the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG). It
provides guidance to these teams, whose primary function is to consult with unit leaders and provide ini-
tial response when groups or individuals expect to be, or have been, exposed to potentially traumatic
stress. The primary goal of TSR teams is to foster resiliency in those exposed to potentially traumatic
stress. This is accomplished through preparatory education for those likely to experience potentially trau-
matic stress, and through education, screening, psychological first aid, and referral for those exposed to
potentially traumatic stress.
Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recom-
mendations for Change of Publication, through channels to AFMSA/SGOC, 110 Luke Avenue, Room 405,
Bolling AFB, DC 20032-7050. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, (will become AFMAN 33-363) Manage-
ment of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/

(HOLLOMAN) This instruction implements AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations and AFI 44-153, Trau-
matic Stress Response and establishes procedures for implementation and operation of the Traumatic
Stress Response (TSR) team at Holloman AFB. It provides guidance to the TSR Team, whose primary
2                                                            AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007


function is to consult with unit leaders and provide initial response when groups or individuals expect to
be, or have been, exposed to potentially traumatic stress. The primary goal of the TSR team is to foster
resiliency in those exposed to potentially traumatic stress. This is accomplished through preparatory edu-
cation for those likely to be exposed to potentially traumatic stress, and through education, screening, psy-
chological first aid, and referral for those exposed to potentially traumatic stress. It is applicable to all
military and civilian personnel assigned or attached to Holloman AFB. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123,
(will become AFMAN 33-363) Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records
managers as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision establishes
TSR teams at all active duty Air Force installations. TSR teams (1) serve as trauma response consultants
to unit leaders; (2) prepare personnel likely to be exposed to potentially traumatic events; and (3) provide
screening, education, psychological first aid, and referral for those exposed to potentially traumatic
events. This document also provides revised training guidance.
(HOLLOMAN) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
establishes a TSR team at Holloman AFB. The TSR team (1) serves as trauma response consultants to
unit leaders; (2) prepares personnel likely to be exposed to potentially traumatic events; and (3) provides
screening, education, psychological first aid, and referral for those exposed to potentially traumatic
events.
      1.      General Information. ..................................................................................................    3
      2.      Organizational Responsibilities. ................................................................................          3
      2.      (HOLLOMAN) Organizational Responsibilities. ......................................................                         3
      3.      Pre-Exposure Preparation (PEP). ...............................................................................           6
      4.      Enhancing Resilience .................................................................................................    6
      5.      Combat Stress Control (CSC) ....................................................................................           7
      6.      (Added-HOLLOMAN) Assessment of Local Conditions .........................................                                  7
      7.      (Added-HOLLOMAN) High Risk Groups ................................................................                        7
      8.      (Added-HOLLOMAN) Traumatic Stress Response Services ...................................                                   8

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          9

Attachment 1—(HOLLOMAN) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
           INFORMATION                                                                                                                  11

Attachment 2— TRAINING OUTLINE FOR TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE (TSR)
           TEAM MEMBERS                                                                                                                 12
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007                                                                 3


1. General Information. Many types of events have the potential to produce traumatic stress responses.
Most individuals exposed to such events will not experience long-term adverse effects. However,
exposure to potentially traumatic events often results in short-term symptoms (i.e., normal responses to an
abnormal event), which may worsen if unaddressed. Therefore it is Air Force policy to provide TSR ser-
vices to enhance resilience to potentially traumatic events. Designated TSR teams, in close coordination
with unit leaders, provide TSR services. Pre-Exposure Preparation (PEP) services are provided to unit and
community members whenever potentially traumatic events are anticipated. Assistance will be available
after potentially traumatic civil and military events.

2. Organizational Responsibilities.
2. (HOLLOMAN) Organizational Responsibilities.
   2.1. Establishment of TSR teams
   2.1. (HOLLOMAN) Establishment of TSR team.
       2.1.1. The senior wing commander or installation commander at each active duty Air Force
       installation with a medical treatment facility will ensure the establishment of at least one TSR,
       with a privileged Life Skills provider designated as the TSR team chief. At geographically sepa-
       rated units and bases without medical treatment facilities, the need to provide TSR services can be
       met by ensuring there is a TSR team available to respond as needed. TSR teams will assist individ-
       uals and units in preparing for and dealing with potentially traumatic events. When forming these
       teams, commands should consider TSR resources available through nearby active and/or AFRC/
       ANG military installations. Installations with more than one resident wing are not required to have
       more than one TSR team.
       2.1.1. (HOLLOMAN) The senior wing commander at Holloman AFB will ensure the establish-
       ment of at least one TSR team, with a privileged Life Skills provider designated as the TSR team
       chief.
           2.1.1.1. AFRC and ANG units are encouraged to develop and utilize their own resources,
           when possible. Partnership with the regular component or with other military resources is
           encouraged when necessary.
           2.1.1.2. AFRC unit commanders will request the AFRC TSR team through HQ AFRC.
           AFRC/SG will coordinate and fund TSR response for AFRC events at collocated and non-col-
           located AFRC Wings. AFRC/SG will coordinate with AD TSR teams as necessary.
       2.1.2. Local TSR teams will be contacted in the event of a potentially traumatic event. When the
       local command post becomes aware of a potentially traumatic event, it will notify the TSR team
       chief as part of required notification protocol. The wing commander is responsible for ensuring an
       effective notification and activation process.
       2.1.2. (HOLLOMAN) The Holloman AFB TSR team will be contacted in the event of a poten-
       tially traumatic event. When the command post becomes aware of a potentially traumatic event, it
       will notify the TSR team chief at the Life Skills Support Center (572-5676) or after duty hours via
       the 49th MDG Ambulance Response Element (572-3260) as part of the required notification pro-
       tocol. The wing commander is responsible for ensuring an effective notification and activation
       process.
4                                              AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007


       2.1.3. TSR services will be made available in response to all air or ground mishaps that involve
       loss of life or major injury. TSR services may also be provided in response to other events at the
       request of the unit commander. The affected wing commander will support or arrange for consul-
       tation between the TSR team chief and the affected unit commander to determine what level of
       service, if any, is needed. The services provided will vary depending on the nature of the mishap
       and the needs of the squadrons involved in the mishap. In general, the commander of any unit that
       incurs loss of personnel or significant injury to personnel as a result of a mishap should consult
       with a TSR team leader to determine whether there is a need for TSR support. Then, if the com-
       mander subsequently requests service, the nature of those services should be developed by the
       commander in collaboration with the TSR team leader.
       2.1.3. (HOLLOMAN) TSR services will be made available in response to all air or ground mis-
       haps that involve loss of life or major injury. TSR services may also be provided in response to
       other events at the request of the unit commander. The wing commander will support or arrange
       for consultation between the TSR team chief and the affected unit commander to determine what
       level of service, if any, is needed. The commander of any unit that incurs the loss of personnel or
       significant injury to personnel as a result of a mishap should consult with a TSR team leader to
       determine whether there is a need for a TSR support Then, if the commander subsequently
       requests service, the nature of those services will be developed by the commander in collaboration
       with the TSR team leader.
           2.1.3.1. All individuals participating in search and rescue activities, as well as professional
           personnel such as forensic pathologists and mortuary personnel should have the opportunity to
           receive TSR services.
    2.2. Team membership and formation. TSR teams will be composed of individuals fulfilling the fol-
    lowing roles:
    2.2. (HOLLOMAN) Team membership and formation.
       2.2.1. Life Skills – typically a psychiatrist, psychologist, social worker, mental health nurse,
       7-level mental health technician, or fully-trained 5-level if assigned with one of the above. A priv-
       ileged Life Skills provider serves as the TSR team chief.
       2.2.1. (HOLLOMAN) The Holloman AFB TSR team will be composed of individuals from the
       following organizations: Life Skills Support Center, Chaplains, and Airman and Family Readi-
       ness.
       2.2.2. Spiritual support – a chaplain and chaplain assistant;
       2.2.2. (HOLLOMAN) The 49th FW commander will appoint a privileged Life Skills provider as
       the TSR team chief. The TSR team chief will be identified to the command post by the 49th FW
       commander to ensure required notification in the event of a potentially traumatic event.
           2.2.2.1. (Added-HOLLOMAN) The TSR team chief will ensure that the TSR team compo-
           sition is in compliance with AFI44-153.
           2.2.2.2. (Added-HOLLOMAN) The TSR team chief will maintain the TSR binder in the
           Life Skills Support Center (200 First Street, Building 17).
           2.2.2.3. (Added-HOLLOMAN) The TSR team chief will ensure regular training per
           AFI44-153 of the TSR team and will maintain documentation of all team members’ training.
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007                                                               5


        2.2.2.4. (Added-HOLLOMAN) The TSR team chief will complete and maintain after action
        reports in the TSR binder.
        2.2.2.5. (Added-HOLLOMAN) The TSR team chief will advocate for TSR involvement
        during base exercises with medical readiness
     2.2.3. Family Support Center- a community readiness consultant (NOTE: Personnel from the
     above areas who may be deployed are highly encouraged to be selected as team members, or if
     not, to participate in TSR training in order that they can apply TSR training in deployed situa-
     tions.)
     2.2.4. These multidisciplinary teams will include, as a minimum, individuals in each of the three
     roles noted, with at least one officer. Identification and training of primary and alternate members
     for each role is required to ensure continuous availability.
     2.2.5. When forming TSR teams on active duty installations, qualified AFRC/ANG personnel
     should be considered as candidates for membership when available.
     2.2.6. The TSR team chief may request additional volunteer personnel, such as non-caregiver
     workforce representatives, to serve as TSR members on either a long-term or short-term basis.
     Long-term team members will participate in all team training, while volunteers used for single
     incidents will receive just-in-time training. The TSR team chief must ensure all team augmentees
     have sufficient training to assist with education, screening and referral activities.
     2.2.7. The wing commander will appoint a privileged Life Skills provider as the TSR team chief,
     who has overall responsibility for TSR training and service implementation. The TSR team chief
     will be identified to the command post by the wing commander to ensure required notification in
     the event of a potentially traumatic event.
     2.2.8. The TSR team chief will coordinate with the Family Support Center and other agencies as
     appropriate to arrange TSR services to family and community members at installations impacted
     by a potentially traumatic event.
     2.2.9. All TSR teams will establish standard operating procedures that will include, as a mini-
     mum, an assessment of local conditions and high-risk groups, a survey of locally trained
     resources, and a plan addressing various response scenarios.
     2.2.10. TSR teams will support the Medical Group in developing and executing Medical Risk
     Communication plans for Chemical, Biological, Radiological and High-Yield Explosive
     (CBRNE) events.
  2.3. TSR Team Training Requirements.
     2.3.1. TSR teams will meet at least quarterly to train. Training will focus on preparation to
     respond to real world circumstances which have the potential to produce traumatic stress
     responses, such as pre and post deployment activities, mass violence incidents and natural disas-
     ters.
     2.3.2. TSR teams will coordinate with other base agencies, such as security forces, to participate
     in exercises involving potentially traumatic scenarios.
     2.3.3. Formal course attendance that provides certification is not required for TSR team members.
     Rather, team members must be able to apply the principles outlined in Attachment 2. The TSR
6                                              AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007


       team chief is responsible for ensuring all team members and augmentees are knowledgeable with
       the training material contained in Attachment 2, and are able to provide education, screening and
       referral services as required.
       2.3.4. A complete list of reference material for training is provided in Attachment 1.
       2.3.5. When possible, it is preferable for teams to train and exercise as a unit. TSR team chiefs
       will establish ongoing training and exercise requirements to assure the primary and backup team
       members maintain proficiency and can function effectively as a team.
    2.4. Requesting Deployable Units for TSR
       2.4.1. In the event an installation does not have the necessary local TSR resources to manage a
       traumatic event, the installation commander will request deployable mental health and chaplain
       assets as needed through the responsible MAJCOM, which makes necessary arrangements to
       ensure sufficient TSR resources are available.

3. Pre-Exposure Preparation (PEP).
    3.1. PEP training is a preventive approach that helps individuals and units prepare for potentially
    traumatic events. TSR teams are available to provide pre-exposure consultation to units and commu-
    nities who expect to face trauma.
    3.2. PEP focuses on effective approaches to trauma stress management and emphasizes resiliency
    and the normalcy of feeling stress under abnormal circumstances. Material for conducting pre-expo-
    sure preparation training is contained in Attachment 2.
    3.3. PEP training should be coordinated between unit leaders and the TSR team chief, and should
    only occur when both unit leader and TSR team chief agree such training is necessary. PEP training
    should be tailored to specific unit requirements and should not duplicate existing training.

4. Enhancing Resilience
    4.1. Airmen are recruited and trained to excel under a variety of stressful conditions. The purpose of
    TSR services is to enhance resilience in individuals and groups who are or may be exposed to poten-
    tially traumatic events. This objective is accomplished through the utilization of TSR teams who (1)
    Consult with leaders regarding potentially traumatic events; (2) Prepare personnel who are likely to be
    exposed to potentially traumatic events; (3) Provide education, screening, psychological first aid, and
    referral to those exposed to potentially traumatic events.
    4.2. To the extent possible with existing resources, all individuals directly involved in a potentially
    traumatic event should be provided the opportunity to access TSR services.
    4.3. Participation in TSR services is voluntary, though unit leaders may require affected personnel
    receive TSR education, at a minimum, in some instances.
    4.4. TSR team services, to include PEP, education, screening and referral, are not medical services,
    and therefore do not involve medical or mental health record documentation.
    4.5. Members on Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) status exposed to trauma will be referred to
    competent medical authority (CMA) for evaluation and follow-up as needed and will be advised to
    report any decrement in functioning to their Certifying Official. When providing TSR services, TSR
    team members do not evaluate or report potentially disqualifying information for PRP purposes.
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007                                                            7


   4.6. Following a potentially traumatic event, individuals can seek up to four one- on-one meetings
   with any member of the TSR team. One-on-one meetings are for the purpose of education and consul-
   tation and not for medical assessment and treatment.

5. Combat Stress Control (CSC)
   5.1. IAW DoD Directive 6490.5, TSR teams in deployed environments shall be responsible for
   implementing CSC programs, which seek to prevent or minimize adverse effects of Combat and
   Ongoing Operational Stress Reactions (COSR) through primary, secondary and tertiary prevention
   efforts.
      5.1.1. TSR teams shall coordinate with Public Health programs to ensure deployed members
      receive appropriate screening and education after arriving and prior to departing from the
      deployed environment.
      5.1.2. TSR teams shall consult with line commanders about surveillance and prevention, identifi-
      cation, and management of COSR in units and individuals before and after deployments.
      5.1.3. Deployed chaplains and Life Skills personnel shall be responsible for CSC programs in
      deployed locations.
      5.1.4. TSR teams in deployed environments will use Module A2 from the VA/DoD Clinical Prac-
      tice Guideline for the Management of Post-Traumatic Stress to manage COSR.
6. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Assessment of Local Conditions
   6.1. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Many types of events have the potential to produce individual and com-
   munity traumatic stress, and this is especially the case at Holloman AFB with its high operations
   tempo, frequent deployments, and separation of families from their usual supports in CONUS.
   6.2. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Potentially traumatizing events fall into several categories:
      6.2.1. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Natural disasters, such as flood and fire.
      6.2.2. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Acts of terrorism
      6.2.3. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Acts of violence, which may or may not include death
      6.2.4. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Severe injury or fatality accidents
      6.2.5. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Acts of abuse, homicide, or suicide
      6.2.6. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Serious threat of injury or injury to self, family member, friend, or
      co-worker
      6.2.7. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Observation of individual or community traumatic event
7. (Added-HOLLOMAN) High Risk Groups
   7.1. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Security Forces personnel
   7.2. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Casualty Affairs
   7.3. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Mortuary Affairs
   7.4. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Pilots
   7.5. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Medics and medical providers
8                                               AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007


    7.6. (Added-HOLLOMAN) First responders (i.e. ARE and fire fighters)
    7.7. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Munitions personnel
    7.8. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Deployers
8. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Traumatic Stress Response Services
    8.1. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Pre-Exposure Preparation (PEP) briefings will be offered to all military
    members. The TSR team will work with unit leaders to tailor these briefings to their unit’s needs.
    8.2. (Added-HOLLOMAN) The TSR team will seek to educate the base community on the impor-
    tance of fostering resiliency. This will be accomplished through briefings, presentations, events, liter-
    ature and articles in the base paper.
    8.3. (Added-HOLLOMAN) Following a potentially traumatic event, the TSR team will identify
    individuals needing one-on-one assistance. They will be offered this voluntary service per AFI44-153.




                                                (HOLLOMAN)

                                                DAVID L. GOLDFEIN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Commander
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007                                                          9


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 6490.5, Combat Stress Control (CSC) Programs
DoD Instruction 5210.42-R, Nuclear Weapon Personnel Reliability Program
AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training
AFI 44-109, Mental Health and Military Law
AFI 34-1101, Assistance to Survivors of Persons Killed in Air Force Aviation Mishaps and Other Inci-
dents
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
National Institute of Mental Health (2002). Mental Health and Mass Violence: Evidence-Based Early
Psychological Intervention for Victims/Survivors of Mass Violence: A Workshop to Reach Consensus on
Best Practices NIH Publication No. 02-5138, Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office http:/
/www.nimh.nih.gov/research/massviolence.pdf
Iraq War Clinician Guide 2nd Edition. National Center for PTSD, Executive and Resource Center Divi-
sion, www.ncptsd.org Phone: (802) 296-5132; Fax: (802) 296-5135
DoD/VA Clinical Practice Guideline for Management of Traumatic Stress: Module A: Acute Stress Reac-
tion, http://www.oqp.med.va.gov/cpg/PTSD/PTSD_Base.htm
Mental Health Response to Mass Violence and Terrorism: A Training Manual (2004). U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA),
Washington DC 20015. http://www.mentalhealth.samhsa.gov/publications/allpubs/SMA-3959/
default.asp
Psychological First Aid, Field Operations Guide, National Center for PTSD http://www.nctsn.org/
nccts/nav.do?pid=ctr_terr_resources_pfa

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component and Air National Guard
CONUS—Continental United States
CPG—clinical practice guideline
CSC—combat stress control
10                                                  AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007


COSR—combat and operational stress reaction
MAJCOM—major command
NIMH—National Mental Health Institute
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PRP—Personal Reliability Program
SIB—safety investigation board
SG—Surgeon General
TSR—traumatic stress response

Terms
Class A Mishap—A mishap resulting in one or more of the following:
        Direct mishap cost totaling $1,000,000 or more.
        A fatality or permanent total disability.
        Destruction of a DoD aircraft.
Traumatic Stress Response—A coordinated response initiated by unit leaders in which TSR teams
engage in the provision of services to individuals and groups who may have or who have had direct
exposure to a potentially traumatic event.
Traumatic Stress Response teams—Designated teams that provide pre-exposure preparation training,
consultation to unit commanders and leaders, screening, psychological first aid, education and referral in
order to foster reliance to potentially traumatic events.
Potentially Traumatic Event—Direct exposure or personal experience of an event that involves actual
or threatened death or serious injury, or other threat to one’s physical integrity; or learning about
unexpected or violent death, serious harm, or threat of death or injury experienced by a family member or
other close associate.
        Traumatic events that are experienced directly include, but are not limited to, military combat,
        violent personal assault (sexual assault, physical attack, robbery, mugging), being kidnapped,
        being taken hostage, terrorist attack, torture, incarceration as a prisoner of war or in a
        concentration camp, natural or manmade disaster, severe automobile accidents, or being
        diagnosed with life-threatening illness. Witnessed events include, but are not limited to, observing
        the serious injury or unnatural death of another person due to violent assault, accident, war, or
        disaster or unexpectedly witnessing a dead body or body parts. Events experienced by others that
        are learned about include, but are not limited to, violent personal assault, serious accident, or
        serious injury experienced by a family member or close friend; learning about the sudden,
        unexpected death of a family member or a close friend; or learning that one’s child has a
        life-threatening disease.
Pre-Exposure Preparation—A preventive approach prior to exposure to a potentially traumatic event
that uses an educational approach to emphasize the typical and normal stress responses and basic
techniques in stress management.
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007                                                                  11


                                     Attachment 1 (HOLLOMAN)

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 44-153, Traumatic Stress Response, 31 March 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
PEP—Pre-Exposure Preparation
TSR.—Traumatic Stress Response

Terms
Potentially Traumatic Event—direct exposure or personal experience of an event that involves actual or
threatened death or serious injury, or other threat to one’s physical integrity; or learning about unexpected
or violent death, serious harm, or threat of death or injury experienced by a family member or other close
associate.
Pre-Exposure Preparation—a preventive approach prior to exposure to a potentially traumatic event
that uses an educational approach to emphasize the typical and normal stress responses and basic
techniques in stress management.
Psychological First Aid—Psychological First Aid is an evidence-informed modular approach for
assisting children, adolescents, adults and families in the immediate aftermath of disaster and terrorism.
Psychological First Aid is designed to reduce the initial distress caused by traumatic events, and to foster
short- and long-term adaptive functioning. Principles and techniques of Psychological First Aid meet four
basic standards. They are: (1) consistent with research evidence on risk and resilience following trauma;
(2) applicable and practical in field settings; (3) appropriate to developmental level across the lifespan;
and (4) culturally informed and adaptable.
Resilience—Resilience is the process of adapting well in the face of adversity, trauma, tragedy, threats, or
even significant sources of stress -- such as family and relationship problems, serious health problems, or
workplace and financial stressors. It means "bouncing back" from difficult experiences.
Traumatic Stress Response—a coordinated response initiated by unit leaders in which TSR teams
engage in the provision of services to individuals and groups who may have or who have had direct
exposure to a potentially traumatic event.
Traumatic Stress Response team—designated teams that provide pre-exposure preparation training,
consultation to unit commanders and leaders, screening, psychological first aid, education and referral in
order to foster resilience to potentially traumatic events.
12                                               AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007


                                                Attachment 2

     TRAINING OUTLINE FOR TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE (TSR) TEAM MEMBERS
TSR team chiefs are responsible for ensuring TSR team members have reviewed all information con-
tained in this attachment. TSR training, which must be accomplished at least quarterly and documented,
will ensure all TSR team members are familiar with the key principles of: PEP, early interventions after
mass violence, and clinical practice guidelines for traumatic stress management. All team members
should be able to provide consultation, education, screening, psychological first aid and referral in
response to potentially traumatic events.
I. PRE-EXPOSURE PREPARATION (PEP)
PEP education is the primary preventive function of TSR teams.
Community education regarding the functions of the TSR teams and PEP should be accomplished on a
regular basis through briefings and articles in base publications. Education regarding the services of the
TSR teams should not wait until a potentially traumatic event is anticipated or has occurred. Pre-exposure
guidance should be offered to all individuals for whom exposure to a potentially traumatic event is antic-
ipated.
The following information can be shared with units or individuals who may be exposed to potentially
traumatic events, to enhance resilience.
TRAUMA-RELATED STRESS
What to expect when exposed to a potentially traumatic event
Responses to a potentially traumatic event vary from person to person, depending on a number of factors,
including previous life experiences and personal experience of the actual event. Research has shown most
stress-related symptoms, when present, are short-term in duration. However, sometimes symptoms per-
sist, and should be addressed to prevent long-term problems.
Typical and Normal Stress Responses include:
Feeling keyed up, on edge, and restless; hyper-vigilance; exaggerated startle response; irritability or out-
bursts of anger; sadness and crying; fatigue; difficulty concentrating, preoccupation with the traumatic
event; muscle tension; sleep disturbances (difficulty falling or staying asleep, or restless unsatisfying
sleep); appetite disturbances (forgetting to eat or drink)
Keys Concepts to know when dealing with Traumatic Stress:
Trauma-related stress reactions are normal reactions to abnormal situations
Airmen are specially selected and trained to perform under highly stressful circumstances
Coping with and surviving a traumatic event enhances resilience and self-confidence
Effective Coping Strategies for Stress Include:
Talking about feelings of stress with others
Attention to basic needs: sleep, diet, exercise, social, spiritual needs
Helping others who are in need
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007                                                                    13


When and Where to Seek Assistance from Professionals:
Seek immediate referral when the following symptoms are present:
Suicidal or homicidal ideation, intention, or plans; hallucinations or delusions; severe depression; alcohol
or drug abuse
Seek assistance when the following symptoms last for over a month, and/or impact work or social func-
tioning:
Persistent avoidance of reminders of the trauma and emotional numbing; persistent loss of interest in
friends, family and activities; feelings of detachment from others; restricted range of affect (e.g., unable to
have loving feelings); flashbacks; feeling as if the traumatic event were recurring; feelings of worthless-
ness or excessive guilt; depressed mood most of the day, nearly every day, with persistent crying, feelings
of emptiness and sadness.
II.  KEY OPERATING PRINCIPLES OF EARLY INTERVENTION FOLLOWING MASS
VIOLENCE
The following information in paragraphs II and III are adapted from National Institute for Mental Health
(NIMH) Recommendations. These recommendations apply to intervention efforts following episodes of
mass violence.
Training for early interventions should address preparation, planning, education, training, service provi-
sion, and evaluation of efforts to assist those affected by mass violence and disasters. Early intervention
policies should be based on empirically defensible and evidence-based practices. An ethical duty exists to
discourage the use of ineffective or unsafe techniques.
Key Components of Early Intervention
Through exercises and training, TSR members will know how to implement the following key compo-
nents in the event of mass exposure to trauma:
       Basic Needs
-      Provide survival, safety, and security
-      Provide food and shelter
-      Orient survivors to the availability of service/support
-      Communicate with family, friends, and community
-      Assess the environment for ongoing threats
Psychological First Aid
-      Protect survivors from further harm
-      Reduce physiological arousal
-      Mobilize support for those who are most distressed
-      Keep families together and facilitate reunions with loved ones
-      Provide information and foster communication and education
-      Use effective risk communication techniques
14                                               AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007


-       Assess the current status of individuals, groups, and/or populations and institutions/systems. Ask
how well needs are being addressed, what the recovery environment offers, and what additional interven-
tions are needed.
-        No requirement for a formal mental health evaluation unless there is a red flag in the initial screen-
ing, i.e., a red flag in a post-deployment screening
Rescue and Recovery Environmental Observation
-      Observe and listen to those most affected
-      Monitor the environment for toxins and stressors
-      Monitor past and ongoing threats
-      Monitor services that are being provided
-      Monitor media coverage and rumors
Outreach and Information Dissemination
-      Offer information/education and “therapy by walking around”
-      Inviting community members to bring in other people that may be affected, but were not able to be
involved in early interventions
-      Use established community structures
-      Distribute flyers; encourage those not initially identified to seek services
-      Host web sites
-      Conduct media interviews and programs and distribute media releases
Technical Assistance, Consultation, and Training
-      Improve capacity of organizations and caregivers to provide what is needed
-      Reestablish community structure
-      Foster family recovery and resilience
-      Safeguard the community
-      Provide assistance, consultation, and training to relevant organizations, other caregivers and
responders, and leaders
Fostering Resilience and Recovery
-      Foster but do not force social interactions
-      Provide coping skills training
-      Provide risk assessment skills training
-      Provide education on stress responses, traumatic reminders, coping, and normal versus abnormal
functioning, risk factors, and services
-      Offer group and family interventions
-      Foster natural social supports
   AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007                                                                                  15


   -        Look after the bereaved
   -        Repair the organizational fabric
   Triage
   -        Conduct clinical assessments, using valid and reliable methods
   -        Refer when indicated
   -        Identify vulnerable, high-risk individuals and groups
   -        Provide for emergency hospitalization
   Treatment
   -        Know when to refer individuals for specialty assistance
   III. GUIDANCE FOR TIMING OF EARLY INTERVENTIONS

PHASE:               Pre-incident         Impact                  Rescue              Recovery              Return to Life
                                          (0-48 Hours)            (0-1 Week)          (1-4 weeks)           (2Weeks-2 years)


GOALS:               Preparation;         Survival,               Adjustment          Appraisal/            Reintegration
                     Improve coping       Communication                               Planning


BEHAVIOR:            Preparation vs.      Fight/flight, freeze,   Resistance vs.      Grief, reappraisal,   Adjustment vs.
                     Denial               Surrender, etc.         Exhaustion          Intrusive memories,   Phobias, PTSD,
                                                                                      Narrative formation   Avoidance, depression


ROLE OF ALL          Prepare, train       Rescue, protect         Orient; provide     Respond with          Continue
HELPERS:             Gain knowledge                               For needs           sensitivity           Assistance


ROLE OF MENTAL Prepare                    Basic Needs             Needs               Monitor the           Treatment
HEALTH                                                            Assessment          Recovery
PROFESSIONALS:                            Establish safety/       Assess current      Environment           Reduce or
                     Train                security/survival       status, how well    Observe and           ameliorate
                                                                  needs are being     listen for those      symptoms or
                     Gain knowledge       Ensure food             addressed           most affected         improve
                                          and shelter                                                       functioning via:
                     Collaborate                                  What additional     Monitor the
                                          Facilitate              interventions are   environment           * Individual, family,
                     Inform and           communication           needed for          for toxins            and group
                     influence policy     with family, friends,                                             psychotherapy
                                          and community           * Group             Monitor past and      * Pharmacotherapy
                     Set Structures for                           * Population        ongoing threats       * Short-term or
                     rapid assistance     Assess the              * Individual                              long-term
  16                                                    AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007


PHASE:            Pre-incident        Impact               Rescue                 Recovery            Return to Life
                                      (0-48 Hours)          (0-1 Week)            (1-4 weeks)         (2Weeks-2 years)


                                      environment for                             Monitor services    hospitalization
                  Provide Pre-        ongoing threat/                             that are being
                  Exposure training   toxin                Triage                 provided
                                                           Clinical
                                      Psychological        Assessment             Spiritual Support
                                      First Aid
                                                           Refer when
                                      Support and          indicated
                                      "presence" for
                                      those who are        Identify vulnerable,
                                      most distressed      high-risk
                                                           individuals
                                                           and groups
                                      Keep families
                                      together and
                                      Assess caregivers

  IV.    CLINICAL PRACTICE GUIDELINES FOR TRAUMATIC STRESS MANAGEMENT
  The following flow charts provide an overview of the Department of Veterans Affairs/ Department of
  Defense/ (VA/DoD) Clinical Practice Guideline (CPG) on Management of Traumatic Stress. TSR team
  members can use this CPG to screen and refer individuals who have been exposed to potentially traumatic
  events. The first flow chart depicts a core module that can be used to screen any individual who has been
  exposed to a potentially traumatic event. The remaining charts provide guidance on management of indi-
  viduals with acute stress reactions, combat and operational stress reactions, and those who are referred to
  primary care or Life Skills for further assessment.
  Medical and Life Skills providers are encouraged to review the entire VA/DoD CPG for the Management
  of Post-Traumatic Stress (see References section.)
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007   17
18   AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007   19
20   AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007
AFI44-153_HOLLOMANAFBSUP_I 16 APRIL 2007   21
