BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
JOINT BASE ANDREWS AIR FORCE                                           JOINT BASE ANDREWS
BASE
                                                                                      Supplement
                                                                         NAVAL AIR FACILITY
                                                                                  Supplement
                                                                            3 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                               Medical Command

                                                                          FAMILY ADVOCACY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at the www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasablility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 779 MDOS/SGOW                                                   Certified by: 779 MDOS/CC
                                                                                     (Col Stewart)
                                                                                          Pages: 6
Supersedes:    ANDREWSAFBI40-301,
               30 NOV 2009


AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009, is supplemented as follows. This publication
establishes policies and procedures for the administration of the Air Force Family Advocacy
Program at Joint Base Andrews (JBA). This publication applies to any incident occurring on or
off base where active duty military members (i.e., Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps) or
their family members are victims of maltreatment. This publication establishes responsibilities
and procedures to be followed by base personnel and agencies for all allegations of child or
spouse maltreatment. This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, Title 5 United States Code (U.S.C.) 552a, Records
Maintained of Individuals, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996,
Public Law (P.L.) 104-191, and other applicable federal and state laws. The authority to collect
and maintain the records prescribed in this instruction is found in Title 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary
of the Air Force. Privacy Act statements required by AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, are
annotated on DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement Health Care Record. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) locatedhttps://www.myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact
supporting records managers as required. Contact supporting records managers as required.
 2                          AFI40-301_JBANDREWSSUP_NAFSUP 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to 779th Medical Operations
Squadron, Family Advocacy Office (779 MDOS/SGOW).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication provides information in addition to AFI 40-301 regarding the Familiy
Advocacy Program process and child maltreatment practices for those members of Joint Base
Andrews, NAF.
1.3.3. The installation commander will appoint the 779th Medical Group Commander (779
MDG/CC) to chair the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC).
1.3.6. The installation commander has responsibility to promote and ensure cooperation among
installation organizations to build healthy, resilient communities in order to prevent and treat
family maltreatment.
1.3.14. The installation commander will develop a process to ensure that the Family Advocacy
Officer receives current monthly rosters of new installation commanders and First Sergeants
(CCFs).
1.4.8.12. The FAC may add other members as appropriate, such as but not limited to other JBA
wing representatives, JBA Navy representatives, civilian agencies and community service
organizations.
1.4.9. The FAC will meet once a quarter. Additional meetings may be held at the call of the
chairperson to accomplish the following tasks:
1.4.9.15. (Added) Set policy and procedures for operating the FAP, based on this instruction
and FAP standards.
1.4.9.16. (Added) Review available data on families to identify at-risk groups requiring
prevention services and to detect trends. Use findings to ensure that responsible programs are
implemented.
1.4.9.17. (Added) Advocate to establish and improve services that promote healthy families.
1.4.9.18. (Added) Solicit the resources needed to successfully run the FAP.
1.4.9.19. (Added) Develop and maintain a directory of community resources.
1.5.3.3.1. (Added) After-hours reports of child and spouse maltreatment will be taken by the
Mental Health on-call provider through notification by the Security Forces Squadron (SFS) or
Malmcolm Grow Medical Clinic.
1.10.4. The SFS Law Enforcement Desk will notify the FAO or designee of all incidents
involving suspected cases of maltreatment. A copy of the incident report will be made available
to the FAO for inclusion in the FAP record.
1.12.2. The AFOSI will notify the FAO or designee of all cases involving suspected or
established family maltreatment that come to the attention of 7 FIS, HQ AFOSI, and JBA MD.
AFI40-301_ JBANDREWSSUP_NAFSUP 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                  3


1.12.4.1. (Added) When allegations of extra-familial maltreatment occur in DoD sanctioned
youth or child care activities, the FAO will notify 11 SFS, 7 FIS and CPS. If appropriate the
FAO will coordinate with the Medical Group and Wing Commander for additional support.
1.17. (Added) All military personnel, to include active duty, guard, reserves and all other
individuals affiliated with Joint Base Andrews and its organizations and tenants will report all
identified incidents of suspected or known child or spouse maltreatment to the FAP.
2.1. The mission of the JBA FAP is to promote the health and well being of military families, so
as to maintain the readiness ability of the active duty member.
3.3.2. The FAOM will provide annual Family Violence Education and Prevention Training to
include dynamics of family maltreatment, identification, and referral procedures to all CCs and
CCFs (to include Wing Installation CCs, MSG/CCs, CCM, healthcare providers as defined by
DoD, JA, SFS, AFOSI, A&FRC, Child Development Center (CDC), Family Child Care
providers, Youth Center, DoDEA, FAC, IDS, SARC, and other key personnel IAW DoDI
6400.06 and AF FAP Standards).
4.1.2. The CRB is composed of the host wing Vice Wing Commander, SJA, Squadron
Commander/First Sergeant, Command Chief Master Sergeant, FAO, AFOSI and SFS. Only
trained and appointed alternates may fill in for the primary representative.
4.3.1. The composition of the CSMRT will include a Family Advocacy clinician, AFOSI, SJA,
and representatives from agencies having legal, investigative or child protection responsibilities,
when appropriate. The CSMRT is activated immediately and manages the initial response to
allegations of child sexual maltreatment. This meeting will occur in a timely manner not to
exceed 72 hours. The purpose of the CSMRT is to review the allegation, coordinate a course of
action and tend to the well being of the victims, their family, and the alleged offender.
4.3.1.4. (Added) The FAP will be notified immediately when allegations of child sexual
maltreatment occur, and the FAO or designee will initiate a CSMRT. If a child sexual
maltreatment case is reported/occurs during non-duty hours, the on-call mental health provider
will be notified. The purpose of the on-call provider is to assess the victim for immediate risk
and safety, but not conduct a thorough evaluation or interview of the alleged sexual
maltreatment. The on-call provider can contact AFOSI who will determine who will conduct the
forensic interview(s).
4.4.1. The HRVRT will be activated when there is a threat of immediate and serious harm to
family members or FAP staff. The HRVRT is a multidisciplinary team whose goal is to
coordinate FAP, Unit/Squadron/Wing command and community response to effectively manage
potentially dangerous situations to family members or FAP personnel.
4.4.2. HRVRT is activated at the discretion of the FAO. Members are appointed by their CC and
approved by the FAC. Membership includes the FAO, FAP clinician working with the family,
sponsor’s SQ/CC, JA, SFS representative, Mental Health provider, AFOSI Detachment
representative, DAVA, and representatives from other agencies having legal, investigative, or
protective responsibilities, as appropriate.
4.4.3. Members must be trained prior to serving on the HRVRT. Team activation must be
reported to and documented in the FAC minutes. The HRVRT:
 4                           AFI40-301_JBANDREWSSUP_NAFSUP 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


4.4.3.4. (Added) may address imminent danger to FAP staff members of being harmed by a
FAP client or former client.
4.4.3.5. (Added) The FAO will be notified immediately of threats of immediate harm to
individuals within the FAP system. After duty hours, the on-call Mental Health provider will be
notified.
4.4.3.6. (Added) When possible and/or appropriate the FAO/HRVRT will involve the
threatened individual(s) in the safety planning process.
4.7. Domestic Abuse Reporting Options. Adult victims of domestic abuse have two reporting
options: unrestricted reporting and Restricted Reporting (RR).
4.7.1. Unrestricted Reporting for Domestic Abuse. Unrestricted reporting is a process allowing a
victim of domestic abuse to report an incident using chain of command, law enforcement or
AFOSI Detachment, and Family Advocacy for clinical intervention.4.7.2. Restricted Reporting
(RR) for Domestic Abuse.
4.7.2.1. RR is a process allowing an adult victim of domestic abuse, who is eligible to receive
military medical treatment the option of reporting an incident of domestic abuse to specified
individuals for the purpose of receiving medical care, supportive services, and/or advocacy and
information without initiating the investigative process or notification to the victim’s or alleged
offender’s CC.
4.7.2.1.1. When sexual assault occurs between spouses or unmarried intimates it is domestic
violence and will be managed by FAP.
4.7.2.1.2. Once FAP assumes case management of domestic abuse sexual assault cases, no
information about the case is shared with the SARC without the client’s consent.
4.7.2.2. When an adult victim elects RR, and discloses an abuse allegation to a DAVA, or
healthcare provider (including FAP staff), the domestic abuse allegation may not be disclosed to
command or civilian or military investigative or law enforcement agencies except as provided in
the exceptions to this RR policy or mandated by state law.




                                             WILLIAM M. KNIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 11th Wing
AFI40-301_ JBANDREWSSUP_NAFSUP 3 SEPTEMBER 2013             5


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordination
DAVA- Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate

HRVRT- High Risk for Violence Response Team

CSMRT- Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team

FAO- Family Advocacy Officer

CRB- Central Registry Board
 6                           AFI40-301_JBANDREWSSUP_NAFSUP 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 2
                  ANDREWS AFB CHILD SUPERVISION GUIDELINES

A2.1. This attachment outlines the age specific guidelines for child supervision. * Note: The
ages specified are based on the average child’s ability to demonstrate age-appropriate behavior.
Children who do not consistently demonstrate age-appropriate behavior should not be given the
same degree of self-management responsibilities. In all instances below where “yes” is indicated,
the parent it responsible for using reasonable judgment and for any incident or mishap (not
considered preventable) that occurs.

Figure A2.1. Child Supervision Guidelines.
