BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                   TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                Supplement

                                                                         14 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                             Medical Command

                                                                         FAMILY ADVOCACY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 60 MDOS/SGOWF                                               Certified by: 60 MDOS/SGOW
                                                                           (Lt Col Susan Bowes)
                                                                                        Pages: 2


AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009, is supplemented as follows:

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 10
March 2005 and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-301, Family Advocacy Program, 30 November
2009. This instruction outlines responsibilities for key players in the 60 AMW Family Advocacy
Program (FAP). It explains local policies and procedures in accordance with AFI 40-301 for the
protection of family members and enhancement of family life through the identification,
treatment and prevention of family maltreatment. This supplement applies to all of the 60 th Air
Mobility Wing and tenant unit personnel assigned to Travis AFB and to other uniformed services
personnel supported in the Travis AFB community.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                       AFI40-301_TRAVISAFBSUP 14 SEPTEMBER 2011


1.10.4. 1 (Added) Ensures the 60th SFS Reports and Analysis Section provides FAP copies of
AF IMT 3545, Incident Report, and all supportive documentation for incidents involving
suspected or established child maltreatment or domestic violence/domestic abuse.
1.10.8. (Added) When notified by the Law Enforcement Desk or FAP, activate the base on-call
photographer (Alert Photo) to photograph the victim’s injuries, as specified, for use by medical
or investigative authorities, appropriate inclusion in the case file, use in the FAP assessment
process, and/or for the Central Registry Board.
1.14.1. (Added) Maltreatment reporting procedures for installation agencies and individuals:
During normal duty hours, allegations of family maltreatment will be referred to the FAP. In
addition, when allegations involve children the referring individual/organization will also call the
California Department of Child Welfare Services. After duty hours, all maltreatment referrals
will be reported to Security Forces who will in turn notify the Mental Health on-call provider.
The on-call provider will assess and make recommendations relative to safety to the Active Duty
Member’s commander and/or first sergeant and will inform the FAP staff of the incident the
following duty day.
3.6.    (Added) Youth Supervision Guidelines. Attachment 1 to this operating instruction
establishes Child Supervision Guidelines for the 60 AMW communities. Violations of these
guidelines require a report to the FAP, but does not constitute an automatic opening of a family
maltreatment record.
3.6.1. (Added) All USAF personnel covered by this instruction are responsible for complying
with and reporting violations of current installation child supervision guidelines. A violation of
these guidelines requires a report to Family Advocacy, but does not constitute an automatic
establishment of a family maltreatment record. When immediate action is required to protect the
safety of a child, report violations to SFS or local police authorities.




                                              JAMES C. VECHERY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing (AMC)
