BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 41-120
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                    18 OCTOBER 2001

                                                                                        Health Services

                                                               MEDICAL RESOURCE OPERATIONS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/SGMC (Maj Leslie Ness)                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/SGM
                                                                              (Col Allen W. Middleton)
Supersedes AFI 41-120, 5 August 1994                                                          Pages: 21
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources. It provides guidelines for
flight commanders of either the Resource Management Flight or the Business Operations & Beneficiary
Support Flight in military medical treatment facilities (MTF). This instruction does not apply to the Air
Force Reserve or Air National Guard. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed
processes in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule. Send comments and sug-
gested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to
HQ USAF/SGMC, 110 Luke Avenue Room 400, Bolling AFB DC 20332-7050.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision provides general updates to resource programs, establishes requirements for the Medical
Annual Planning and Programming Guidance (MAPPG), deletes requirement for a self-inspection pro-
gram, and provides minimum program management requirements for the Business Office to include the
Medical Affirmative Claims (formerly Third Party Liability). Deletes requirement for formally aligning
the Air Force Suggestion Program with the Medical Resource Operations function. A bar (|) indicates
revisions from the previous edition.

Section A—Overview

1. Concept of Operations. The Resource Management Flight or Business Operations & Beneficiary
Support Flight, depending on organizational alignment, is responsible to the medical group commander
(MDG/CC) for effective management of medical resources.

2. The Flight Commander. This person is a key advisor to all Squadron Commanders and the MDG/CC
and should participate in MTF Executive Committee meetings on a regularly scheduled basis to brief or
discuss resource management issues. Every MTF should have a full-time Flight Commander.
2                                                                      AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


3. Major Functions and Responsibilities:
    3.1. Financial Management .
       3.1.1. Plan, execute, account, manage, and analyze MTF financial resources. Primary financial
       management should focus on optimizing the MTF’s performance under the Military Health Sys-
       tem (MHS) Optimization Plan and Primary Care Optimization.
       3.1.2. In facilities without a Business Operations and Beneficiary Support Flight, coordinate with
       the Tricare Flight as necessary for management of the MTF’s enrolled population.
       3.1.3. Manage resources for sharing with external agencies, such as the Department of Veteran’s
       Affairs.
       3.1.4. The Flight Commander should be a member of the base financial working group.
    3.2. Manpower Programs .
       3.2.1. Perform analysis for Medical Annual Planning and Programming Guidance (MAPPG), col-
       lect personnel utilization data, prepare requests for changes to manpower requirements and autho-
       rizations, and participate in the review and validation of manpower requirements.
       3.2.2. Coordinate with wing (XP) counterparts on manpower and organizational structure
       changes ensuring compliance with Objective Medical Group (OMG) guidelines. This includes
       implementation of new organizational structure codes (OSC) and requesting updates to unit man-
       power documents.
    3.3. Business Office .
       3.3.1. Manage accounts receivable through the Medical Service Account (MSA) and the Third
       Party Collection (TPC) Program. Maintain a complete and reliable financial record of the opera-
       tions covered.
       3.3.2. Oversee coordination of the Third Party Liability (TPL)/Medical Affirmative Claims
       (MAC) program with the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA). Further instruction on these programs is
       contained in DoD Manual 6010.15, Uniform Business Office and AFI 41-115, Authorized Health
       Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services System.
    3.4. Beneficiary Support . The Flight Commander in organizations with an established Business
    Operations & Beneficiary Support Flight performs this function. If this flight is not established, the
    Flight Commander, Tricare Flight will perform this function.
       3.4.1. Member Services. Manage a range of services to support DoD beneficiaries to include
       health benefit counseling, TRICARE enrollment, marketing and education, appointments, refer-
       rals, claims, information desk, patient advocacy (including grievances and benefit management),
       access standards, and clinic liaison.
       3.4.2. Provider Services. Manage a range of services to support both in-house and external pro-
       viders and manage referrals to these providers.
       3.4.3. Utilization Management/Utilization Review. Ensure cost-effective patient management
       and integration with other activities that share common information such as provider profiling, uti-
       lization metrics, resource sharing/resource support, and business case analysis activities.
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                               3


       3.4.4. Act as the Managed Care Support Contractor (MCSC) Liaison and ensure Contract Officer
       Technical Representative (COTR) activities are accomplished.
       3.4.5. Work with the MCSC on resource sharing and resource support issues.
       3.4.6. Perform strategic planning and marketing activities related to managed care operations.
       3.4.7. Coordinate with the DoD Health Services Regional Lead Agent as appropriate.
       3.4.8. Ensure Debt Collection Assistance Officers (DCAOs) are implemented. DCAOs are man-
       dated at each MTF and lead agent office. Upon notification and presentation of appropriate docu-
       mentation of a debt collection or adverse credit rating issue due to an unpaid TRICARE bill,
       DCAOs assume responsibility and work the case to conclusion. An implementation and training
       guide is available on the TMA web site, http://www.tricare.osd.mil/dcao. Access is restricted to
       DCAOs and not for public use. DCAOs should contact their lead agent for instructions to access
       this web site.
       3.4.9. Ensure Beneficiary Counseling and Assistance Coordinators (BCACs) are implemented.
       BCACs are mandated in Chapter 55 of title 10 United States Code, at each TRICARE Lead Agent
       (Regional) Office and Military Treatment Facility. BCACs provide beneficiaries with health ben-
       efit information and act on their behalf to resolve care issues such as claims, appointments and
       enrollment.
   3.5. Information Management/Information Technology (IM/IT) . When no IM/IT Flight exists,
   the Resource Management Flight performs these functions according to guidance in AFI 41-211, The
   Medical Information Systems Management Program.
   3.6. Internal Management Control Program .
       3.6.1. Implements the MTF’s Internal Management Control Program. Conducts the annual pro-
       gram assessment and reports identified materiel weaknesses through the Base Financial Manage-
       ment channels, major command (MAJCOM) and Secretary of the Air Force, Financial
       Management.
       3.6.2. Key member of the Data Quality Team, to include the Budget Analyst, MEPRS Program
       Manager, and Uniform Business Office Manager (as needed) to ensure reliable, consistent, and
       accurate data is captured, coded, and reported according to published guidelines, AFI 41-102,
       Department of Defense Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS) for Fixed
       Military Medical and Dental Treatment Facilities, and AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Func-
       tions.

4. Responsibility for Allocating Medical Resources. The MDG/CC determines how medical resources
are used internally to meet the unit's mission, within financial management guidance as disseminated by
HQ USAF/SGMC via the MAJCOM. The Flight Commander will:
   4.1. Analyze demographics of the enrolled beneficiary population.
   4.2. Analyze recurring workload experience, resource consumption reports, and other performance
   measures.
   4.3. Compile, analyze, and interpret performance data for MEPRS work centers and cost centers.
   4.4. Determine resources required to support medical plans and programs.
4                                                                       AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


    4.5. Provide cost center managers with analysis of the MTFs performance, enrolled population,
    workload, resource consumption, and unit cost information at least quarterly.
    4.6. Perform special management analysis and studies as required.
    4.7. Establish a program for Third Party Collections, incentives, and revenue distribution.
    4.8. Analyze patient referrals to determine opportunities for recapture and to monitor private sector
    care expenditures in relation to the MCSC bid price adjustment and active duty supplemental care.

5. Management and Economic Analysis .
    5.1. Manages data collection, reporting, and analysis requirements of the DoD Medical Expense and
    Performance Reporting System (MEPRS), the biometrics program, and other health care statistical
    data.
    5.2. Performs strategic planning and business case analysis as required by the MDG/CC.
    5.3. Monitors and analyzes private sector care referrals and associated expenditures. Identifies oppor-
    tunities to recapture patient care being accomplished in the civilian community.
    5.4. Responsible for cost effectiveness analysis related to Primary Care Optimization.

Section B—Financial Management

6. Financial Programs. The Flight Commander will:
    6.1. The Budget :
       6.1.1. Determine funding needed to operate and maintain the MTF.
       6.1.2. Prepare necessary budget exhibits.
    6.2. Execution :
       6.2.1. Spend authorized funds.
       6.2.2. Ensure optimum use of quarterly expense authority.
       6.2.3. Determine funding needs based on established guidance and validated requirements.
    6.3. Accounting :
       6.3.1. Account for all funds allocated for operation of the medical facility.
       6.3.2. Certify accuracy of expenses and obligations prior to Expense Assignment System (EAS)/
       MEPRS interface. Coordinate with Base Financial Office and Defense Finance and Accounting
       Services (DFAS) to minimize edit requirements prior to interface.
       6.3.3. Administer and account for expenses under the MEPRS.
    6.4. Cost Center Management (CCM) :
       6.4.1. Manage the MTF CCM program.
       6.4.2. Serve as chairman of the CCM Function.
       6.4.3. Train cost center managers so as to involve them in the resourcing process.
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                               5


       6.4.4. Recognize outstanding cost center manager contributions.
       6.4.5. Allocate funds to cost centers.
       6.4.6. Implement cost containment initiatives.
       6.4.7. Promote resource protection.
       6.4.8. Develop and maintain the Cost Center Manager’s Guide.
       6.4.9. Provide quarterly briefings to the Executive Committee.
   6.5. Fiscal Analysis :
       6.5.1. Perform economic analyses.
       6.5.2. Develop standard costs and forecasts of resource requirements.
       6.5.3. Audit the MEPRS expense and obligation data.
       6.5.4. Analyze significant variations in fiscal quarter data.

7. Capitation Financing. Unlike other areas within DoD, the MHS provides funding to the Air Force
Medical Service (AFMS), and in-turn the MAJCOMs and MTFs, based on a capitated financing
approach. One of the basic purposes of capitation is to empower the MTF to provide health care services
to an enrolled population with a predetermined level of financial resources. Within the Budget Activity
Group guidance (paragraph 6.2.), the MTF determines how best to allocate those resources among the full
spectrum of health care services to best meet the health and wellness needs of the enrolled population.
   7.1. Capitation Categories. The DoD capitation methodology is composed of three distinct catego-
   ries. Each category’s capitation figures include components for both military personnel funding
   (MILPERS) and operations and maintenance funds (O&M).
       7.1.1. Capitation Category 1, Military Medical Support. This funding category is actually not cap-
       itated, but funded based on validated requirements. It includes those medical operations that sup-
       port broader military operations such as overseas medical operations, aeromedical evacuation,
       environmental compliance, and initial outfitting expenses.
       7.1.2. Capitation Category 2, Military Unique. This category provides funding for military unique
       activities not normally associated with civilian managed care plans. This category is subdivided
       into the following:
           7.1.2.1. Capitation Category 2a, Military Unique and Medical Readiness. This subcategory is
           capitated based on the military active duty end-strength within each MTF’s catchment area. It
           provides funding for such activities as readiness planning and exercises, dental care, occupa-
           tional health, military funded emergency leave, veterinary services, and physiological training
           flights.
           7.1.2.2. Capitation Category 2b, Military Medical Education and Training. This subcategory
           is capitated based on the military medical active duty end-strength at each MTF. It provides
           funding for all activities associated with continuing education and skill training for military
           medical personnel.
       7.1.3. Capitation Category 3, Peacetime Healthcare. This category includes all other direct care
       funding for CONUS MTFs.
6                                                                      AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


       (NOTE: Although Capitation Financing has for the most part been “overtaken” by the Budget
       Activity Group structure below, it is still used at the Headquarters level for several purposes and
       may be required in the future by capitation category, especially in light of ongoing Defense Health
       Program restructuring.)
    7.2. Budget Activity Groups (BAG). Commanders and Flight Commanders must aggressively
    review and manage MTF operations according to the BAG funding structure mandated by the TRI-
    CARE Management Activity (TMA). BAGs are defined by the Program Elements (PE) contained
    therein. The PEs are defined in DoD 7045.7-H, Future Year Defense Program (FYDP) Structure,
    Appendix D (http://web7.whs.osd.mil/pdf2/70457h(7-00)/70457h.pdf). BAG structure is as follows:
       7.2.1. BAG 01 - In House Care: Includes PEs 87700, 87900, 87715, and 87915.
       7.2.2. BAG 02 - Private Sector Care (PSC): Includes PEs 87713 and 87723 (only used by TMA).
       7.2.3. BAG 03 - Consolidate Health Support (CHS): Includes PECs 81720, 87705, 87714, 87724,
       87725, 87760, and 87785 (not used by AF facilities).
       7.2.4. BAG 04 - Information Management/Information Technology (IMIT): Includes PEC 87791
       (used only by TMA), 87793 (used only by TMA) and 87781 (beginning in FY02).
       7.2.5. BAG 05 - Management Activities (MA): Used by MAJCOM Headquarters or TMA only.
       Includes PECs 87798 and 87709.
       7.2.6. BAG 06 - Education and Training (E&T): Includes PECs 86721 (not used by AF), 86722
       and 86761.
       7.2.7. BAG 07 - Base Operating Support (BOS): Includes 87753 (not used by AF), 87754 (not
       used by AF), 87756, 87776, 87976, 87778, 87978, 87779, 87979, 87795, 87995, 87796, 87996,
       and 87790. PECs 86276, 86376, 86278 and 86278 will replace PECs 87776,87976, 87778 and
       87978 respectively, beginning in FY02.
       7.2.8. BAG 08 - Pharmacy: Includes PEC 87701, 87702, and 87901, beginning in FY02.
    7.3. Execution of Allocated Funds . Day-to-day execution of funding still follows Air Force-wide
    established policies, procedures, and accounting methods. Use AFI 65-601, Volume I, Budget Guid-
    ance and Procedures, in addition to MAJCOM guidance and other Air Force financial guidance dur-
    ing execution of available funds.
    7.4. Equipment, Maintenance and Special Financial Requirements : Id en t i fi c at i o n o f MT F
    financial requirements continues throughout the year. New and replacement equipment, facility main-
    tenance and repairs, and special and unusual circumstances generate requirements that are an impor-
    tant part of sustaining medical operations. The Flight Commander ensures frequent contact is made
    with key medical facility personnel, obtains requirements from cost center managers, gathers enroll-
    ment, workload and expense data, and applies knowledge of future program expansion or medical ser-
    vice closures to outline future requirements. These requirements are then validated and prioritized
    with MAJCOMs and HQ USAF.
       7.4.1. Expense Equipment. Identify expense equipment requirements for each budget year. Pro-
       grammed replacement factors for many types of expense equipment are based on an average life
       of 8 years.
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                                  7


       7.4.2. Investment Equipment. Develop the program in conjunction with the Medical Logistics
       Flight for at least the current budget year plus two additional years and revise as necessary. This is
       a continuous process and involves each key manager in the MTF. The advice of the medical main-
       tenance staff should be considered in determining the estimated life of equipment. The end result
       of the long-range investment equipment program will reflect realistic procurement requirements
       to support the goals of the medical facility. Consider any associated O&M funding requirements
       (e.g. sustainment and maintenance costs) when budgeting for investment equipment.
       7.4.3. Real Property Maintenance. Real Property Maintenance Account (RPMA) funds are allo-
       cated based on Plant Replacement Value (PRV). The AFMS target each year is to provide RPMA
       funding equal to 3% of PRV. MTFs and MAJCOMs will determine how much of the allocation
       goes for facility maintenance and how much for repair or minor construction projects and design
       services.
   7.5. Budgeting for the Defense Business Operations Fund (DBOF), Medical-Dental Stock Divi-
   sion . Through the Medical Logistics Flight, the Air Force Medical Logistics Office (AFMLO) man-
   ages, prepares, and provides annual guidance for this fund. The Flight Commander must take an
   active interest in the DBOF, since MTF operations affects the projected sales forecast of the DBOF.
   The DBOF procures materiel with DBOF money and issues it to the consumer. The MTF reimburses
   the DBOF for the materiel when it is issued.

8. Programming and the AFMS: The Planning Programming and Budgeting System (PPBS) is the
DoD resources management system controlled by the Secretary of Defense and used to establish, main-
tain, and revise the Future Years Defense Program and DoD portion of the President’s Budget. It is a bien-
nial cycle process containing three interrelated phases: planning, programming, and budgeting.
   8.1. As part of the PPBS, DoD created the concept of the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) to
   provide a multi-year focus for the Defense Program. The PPBS is a continuous cycle without a defi-
   nite start or end, and the PPBS segments in any given year overlap segments of a number of other
   years.
   8.2. The Air Force Program as described in the PB is the result of the Air Force PPBS. The Air Force
   Program evolves from a series of resource allocation decisions and is based on the collective require-
   ments and programs of all Air Force organizations. These requirements and programs are documented
   in the POM, BES, and PB.
   8.3. The ultimate objective of the PPBS is to provide the best mix of forces, equipment, and support
   attainable within fiscal constraints" (DoD Directive 7045.14). Bottom line, the PPBS (Figure 1)
   enables senior leadership to assess alternative ways to achieve these goals.
8                                                                       AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


Figure 1. The PPBS




    8.4. Annually, the OSD publishes Fiscal Guidance (FG) and the Defense Planning Guidance (DPG)
    for the FYDP. The FG sets the overall amount of Total Obligation Authority (TOA) for each of the
    Services’ and the DoD Agencies. FG is usually published 1 March, near the start of the POM cycle.
    The DPG provides broad and sometimes very specific planning and programming guidance intended
    to fulfill the National Security Strategy and National Military Strategy. The DPG has typically been
    published around April, near the start of the final POM deliberations.
    8.5. In the POM, the Air Force employs the Air Force Corporate Structure to match available
    resources against validated requirements to create a balanced Air Force Program for the FYDP. The
    Air Force Corporate Structure provides the corporate review as a basis for centralized decisions by
    SECAF and the CSAF. With participation by the CINCs, MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs, it provides
    the necessary programmatic information to the SECAF and CSAF.
    8.6. The baseline for the start of the POM is always the previous PB, and in turn, provides the basis
    for the BES.
       8.6.1. The POM integrates operational requirements with projected fiscal, manpower, and mate-
       riel resources. It involves balancing readiness and sustainability, force structure, infrastructure,
       and modernization requirements to ensure a warfighting capability for both today and the future.
       8.6.2. Underlying the entire process is the overarching importance of recruiting, training, and
       maintaining quality personnel–the key to both near-term stability and future capability. The care-
       ful balancing of all these factors, supported by extensive analysis, yields a program that is respon-
       sive to Air Force, joint, and cross-service program requirements.
    8.7. In order to successfully navigate the PPBS, the AFMS utilizes a similar corporate structure
    (AFMSCS). The primary objective of the AFMSCS is to enhance cross-functional decision-making,
    formally empower the corporate structure organizations, improve lines of communication, and ulti-
    mately provide the best possible recommendations to the Air Force Surgeon General. Figure 2 illus-
    trates the overall AFMSCS business approach as it compares to the Air Force Corporate Structure.
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                                  9


Figure 2. Comparing the AFMSCS and the Air Force Corporate Structure




   8.8. During POM development, the traditional bottom-up “vetting” of issues begins with inputs from
   the MAJCOMs, Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), and Field Operating Agencies (FOAs) to the Panels.
   Additionally, throughout the remainder of the year MAJCOMs, DRUs, and FOAs work through the
   AFMSCS review processes, functional organizations, Panels, and Integrated Process Teams (IPTs) for
   program adjustments and specific issues.
   8.9. Additional information on the PPBS and Air Force Corporate Structure are available at the HQ
   USAF/XP web site http://www.xp.hq.af.mil/XPP/main/air_force_corporate_structure.htm

9. Cost Center Management (CCM). The appropriate Squadron Commander will appoint MTF cost
center managers. At larger MTFs, Squadron Commanders may designate resource coordinators for major
functional areas (e.g. inpatient operations, outpatient operations, surgical services, administrative support
functions, etc.). The Flight Commander maintains close contact with cost center managers through peri-
odic visits and quarterly cost center management function meetings.
   9.1. Initial/Ongoing Training.
       9.1.1. The Flight Commander or designee meets with newly appointed cost center managers to
       discuss local resource management policies and procedures, resource allocation needs, manpower
       management, workload reporting, and MEPRS requirements. The Flight Commander establishes
       ongoing training to focus on initial CCM indoctrination, current CCM problem areas, and other
       areas needing more in-depth discussion.
       9.1.2. The Flight Commander will conduct CCM Function meetings at least quarterly for updates,
       budget requirements, and ongoing training. The Executive Committee will review minutes of
       CCM Function and copies will be provided to all cost center managers and resource coordinators.
   9.2. Cost Center Manager’s Guide . The Flight Commander will produce this guide as a local pam-
   phlet and update as needed. The guide must contain information about the Air Force’s resource man-
   agement system (RMS), financial management strategies, local resource management policies and
   procedures, manpower management, workload reporting, the DoD MEPRS, data quality require-
   ments, and data analysis techniques.
10                                                                      AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


10. General Requirements for Cost Data. The Flight Commander compiles cost data on selected med-
ical performance factors or output measures. This cost data is used by MTFs and MAJCOMs in analyzing
cost trends, developing budgets and programs, and identifying areas needing improved management. The
Air Force Surgeon General’s Office reports medical costs to various federal agencies and the Congress,
and uses performance data for various types of analyses and studies. Data accuracy and confidence in data
quality is critical to this program. The Flight Commander will ensure monthly Financial Reconciliation is
accomplished between the Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System Program Manager and
Budget Analyst, and that all data edits are documented, auditable, and reported.

Section C—Management and Economic Analysis

11. Purpose. This section provides general guidelines and procedures for collecting, displaying, analyz-
ing, and interpreting performance data. This activity supports the MTF’s organizational development pro-
gram. The Flight Commander will manage data collection, reporting, and analysis requirements of the
DoD Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS), the biometrics program, and other
health care statistical data.

12. Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS). This system is mandated for all
fixed military MTFs. See DoD Manual, 6010.13M, Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System
for Fixed Military Medical and Dental Treatment Facilities, and AFI 41-102, Department of Defense
Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS) for Fixed Military Medical and Dental
Treatment Facilities for detailed information about MEPRS. Resource Management Flight Commander
will:
     12.1. Implement requirements.
     12.2. Train medical personnel in MEPRS procedures and requirements.
     12.3. Monitor the data collection process and ensure workload, personnel, and financial data is recon-
     ciled and validated prior to entry into the Expense Assignment System (EAS).
     12.4. Prepare the MEPRS data for monthly processing through EAS.
     12.5. Audit assigned expenses and obligations and ensure financial, workload, and personnel recon-
     ciliation is accomplished.
     12.6. Review EAS output products and validate the DoD MEPRS data.
     12.7. Provide analysis of MEPRS data to the MTF’s Executive Committee.
     12.8. Manage the operation of EAS to include annual and periodic file and table updates.
     12.9. MEPRS Reporting Requirement. Accurately and timely reports the data processed through the
     EAS. Data from this report is used for health care management decisions at all levels of the MHS.

13. Executive Management Information. On a routine basis, the Flight Commander gives the MDG/
CC and key management personnel a summary of the MTFs performance and cost effectiveness, popula-
tion (enrolled and other) served, workload, costs, financial status, staffing, and MEPRS, with narrative
comments.
     13.1. Perform strategic planning and business case analysis as required by the MDG/CC.
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                                11


   13.2. Monitor and analyze private sector care referrals and associated expenditures. Identify opportu-
   nities to recapture patient care being accomplished in the civilian community.
   13.3. Conduct cost effectiveness analysis related to Primary Care Optimization.

14. Data for Functional Managers. The Flight Commander furnishes data on population (enrolled and
other) served, manpower requirements, workload, costs, cost effectiveness, and related areas to functional
and cost center managers. The Flight Commander analyzes the MEPRS Detail Unit Cost Report and
sends information to the CCMs quarterly.

15. Business Plan/Mission Support Plan Inputs. On an ongoing basis, the Flight Commander will per-
form studies that could potentially increase the efficiency and value of health care services being deliv-
ered to the population, especially enrolled population. The Flight Commander will analyze population
data and projected healthcare needs, historical workload, costs and staffing levels, readiness requirements,
and alternative modes of providing health care services.

16. Briefings. The Flight Commander gives periodic briefings to the MTFs Executive Committee on the
status of resource management programs. The Flight Commander will also prepare organizational brief-
ings to health services inspections (HSI), MAJCOM staff assistance teams, and other visits by external
agencies.

17. Workload Collection, Auditing, and Reporting. The Flight Commander ensures workload is col-
lected and reported accurately and in a timely fashion. Workload reporting is accomplished using the
Worldwide Workload Report and Workload Assignment Module (WAM) of the Composite Health Care
System (CHCS), and the MEPRS.

Section D—Manpower and Organization

18. Manpower Responsibilities of Resource Management. The Flight Commander is the focal point
for the management of manpower resources in the MTF. Details on the Air Force Manpower Program are
included in the AFI 38 series. Responsibilities of the Flight Commander include:
   18.1. Provide necessary inputs to the Medical Annual Planning and Programming Guidance
   (MAPPG).
   18.2. Fully support Primary Care Optimization (PCO) by using the Manpower Requirements Tool-
   box (MRT) software application and allocate manpower in accordance with the facility’s maximum
   allowable enrollment (MAE).
   18.3. Recapture workload performed by the MCSC where beneficial to the MTF using business case
   analysis, private sector care data, and the cost effectiveness model. Make manpower realignment rec-
   ommendations in accordance with outcome of analysis and MAJCOM and Air Staff approval.
   18.4. Collect validated personnel utilization data for all work centers and compute full-time equiva-
   lent (FTE) work months for the MEPRS program.
   18.5. Prepare authorized change requests (ACR) for changes to manpower requirements and authori-
   zations for the MTF based on detailed analysis and other needs.
12                                                                    AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


     18.6. Prepare and coordinate organizational structure changes with wing and MAJCOM functions for
     deviations from the OMG Guidance (Dec 96) and in conjunction with AFI 38-101, Air Force Organi-
     zation.
     18.7. Review and validate revised or new manpower determinants.
     18.8. Properly align the unit manning document (UMD) with the HQ USAF/SG approved manpower
     requirements as determined in the Program Objective Memorandum (POM) or Amended POM
     (APOM) submission to Congress.
     18.9. Develop effective working relationships with the base manpower office, civilian personnel
     flight, and the MAJCOM manpower office.

19. Manpower Needs Assessment:
     19.1. The Flight Commander accomplishes or monitors all taskings related to the MAPPG:
        19.1.1. Conduct application of the Manpower Requirements Toolbox (MRT) to identify all man-
        power requirements in support of the MAPPG. The requirements will be accurately identified at
        the functional account code (FAC), AFSC, grade, and PE code level of detail. The Flight Com-
        mander will manage the application and coordinate the balance of requirements (i.e. officer,
        enlisted, and civilian) and FYDP resources by use of the “checkbook” feature in the MRT.
        19.1.2. Provide assistance to the executive staff on near and long-term strategic and business
        planning efforts in concert with the MAPPG and supporting the Mission Support Plan (MSP).
     19.2. The Flight Commander briefs the Executive Committee and functional managers on proposed
     service mix changes based on business case analysis, recapture, primary care optimization, satellite
     networking, and associated manpower needs. Any service closure efforts that provide savings in man-
     power must be submitted through the MAJCOM to Air Staff and planned for in accordance with the
     POM cycle.

20. Air Force Manpower Determinants. Those applicable to medical functions are listed in AFIND 18,
Index of Air Force Manpower Standards. The Flight Commander will keep a current Air Force Manpower
Determinant on each FAC for which the medical facility is authorized manpower. Applicable MAJCOM
supplements will also be available.

21. Civilian Manpower Management. The Flight Commander will monitor civilian manpower authori-
zations and personnel actions to determine the financial impact of expected gains and losses. Civilian
work years will be tracked and forecasted as required in the MRT and by the MAJCOM. This is necessary
to ensure effective use of civilian manpower resources.

22. Manpower Alignment. Resource Management personnel coordinate with the Personnel and Admin-
istration Flight to ensure personnel assigned to the MTF are placed against correct position numbers and
Organization Structure Codes (OSC) on the Unit Personnel Management Roster (UPMR). This includes
incoming personnel as well as permanent reassignment of military personnel from one work center to
another within the MTF.
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                             13


Section E—Business Office

23. Medical Service Account (MSA). The MSA system exists at MTFs when charges are made or cash
is collected for subsistence or medical services. The MSA is designed to:
   23.1. Provide a complete and reliable financial record of the operations covered.
   23.2. Maintain control over collections, accounts receivable, and deposits. At those locations where
   the volume of cash transactions does not warrant the establishment of an MSA function, the servicing
   Financial Services Office (FSO) will make collections, according to local requirements. Since MSA
   functions at most facilities are automated under CHCS, program guidance for that system should be
   followed where applicable. The MTF MSA program must be in compliance with DoD 6010.15M,
   Uniform Business Office.
   23.3. Billing Other Uniformed Services. The MSA will ensure any accounts billed to the U.S. Coast
   Guard or U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS)/National Oceanic Administration Agency (NOAA)
   reflect the difference between reimbursements from Third Party Payers (full reimbursement rate) and
   the appropriate interagency rate before forwarding DD Form 7, Report of Treatment Furnished Pay
   Patient-Hospitalization Furnished (Part A) or DD Form 7A, Report of Treatment Furnished Pay
   Patient-Outpatient Treatment Furnished (Part B) to HQ USAF/SGMC, or USPHS/NOAA.
   23.4. Collecting Insurance Information on Behalf of DoD Civilian Employees Overseas. In order to
   reduce the number of delinquent accounts in the MSA function and expedite reimbursement from
   third party payers overseas, the MDG/CC may request health insurance information for pay patients
   from the local Civilian Personnel Flight

24. Medical Service Subsistence Accounting . IAW AFMAN 44-144, Nutritional Medicine Manage-
ment, AF Form 541, The Nutritional Medicine Service Subsistence Cost Report, provides the financial
status of nutritional medicine service activities operating under the Subsistence Credit Allowance Man-
agement System. It also provides programming data for central budgeting at HQ USAF for medical sub-
sistence in the military personnel appropriation. MTFs using the Nutritional Medicine Information
System (NMIS) may submit the Monthly Facility Summary Report (pages 1-4 only) in lieu of the AF
Form 541.
   24.1. Medical Facility Responsibility. Each Medical Facility with a food service operation shall pre-
   pare the AF Form 541, or the NMIS Monthly Facility Summary Report as of the end of the fiscal quar-
   ter. Forward the original and one copy to the MAJCOM within 5 workdays after the close of the
   quarter. Maintain local copies in the MSA and/or Nutritional Medicine Services. Additionally, MTFs
   will forward the information requested in Attachment 2 to their MAJCOM within 5 duty after the
   close of the month.
   24.2. Major Command Responsibility. The MAJCOM monitors the timeliness and accuracy of food
   cost reports and verifies the accuracy of data cumulated on a quarterly and fiscal year basis. Forward
   the original or fax a legible copy of the AF Form 541 or NMIS Monthly Facility Summary Report not
   later than the 20th calendar day of the month following the close of the quarter to HQ USAF/SGMC.
   Additionally, each MAJCOM will forward a consolidated, monthly report with the information
   requested in Attachment 2, by MTF, not later than the 10th duty day following the close of the month.
   24.3. When Cost of Food Served Exceeds Credit Earnings. The monetary status will be reviewed at
   the end of the fiscal year or upon transfer of the account to a new Nutritional Medicine officer or
14                                                                       AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


     NCOIC. If the monetary status exceeds (plus or minus) 2 percent at the end of the fiscal year or 5 per-
     cent during the first three quarters, take appropriate action in accordance with AFMAN 44-144, Nutri-
     tional Medicine Management.

25. Third Party Collection (TPC) Program. Public Law 99-272 directs military facilities to collect
from third party insurance carriers the cost of medical services provided non-active duty personnel treated
in DoD MTFs. The Flight Commander is responsible for TPC program implementation to include pro-
gram awareness, implementation of an incentive program, identification and collection of insurance infor-
mation, billing third party payers on behalf of other Uniformed Services, collecting and depositing funds,
compliance program implementation, and reporting TPC program results. The MTF TPC Program must
be in compliance with DoD 6010.15M, Uniform Business Office, and at a minimum will implement and
maintain the following management requirements:
     25.1. TPC Program Awareness. The Flight Commander will establish a TPC marketing program, tar-
     geting patients as well as MTF staff, to include posters throughout the MTF, semiannual letters to
     retirees, pamphlets available at all possible patient stops, and briefings at commander’s calls and
     retiree forums. All marketing material should point out program benefits (e.g., funds used to enhance
     care, purchase equipment, continuing medical education, etc.).
     25.2. Incentive Program. The Flight Commander will devise a method of distributing a percentage of
     funds collected to active participants as an incentive for clinical, ancillary, and support personnel to
     support the program.
     25.3. Insurance Information Identification and Collection.
        25.3.1. The MTF/CC will ensure MTF staff query 100% of the eligible population regarding
        other health insurance information at all patient entry points, to include Admissions and Disposi-
        tions Office, outpatient clinics, Emergency Room, Pharmacy, Clinical Laboratory, Radiology, and
        any other clinical/ancillary area where a billing rate is published. The contact will be documented
        on the DD Form 2569, Third Party Collection Program – Insurance Information Sheet.
        25.3.2. On a monthly basis, business office personnel/TPC contractor will conduct a random
        review of a representative sampling of non-active duty patient medical records to ensure health
        insurance has been accurately identified. This review will be conducted by sending a question-
        naire to the patient or by contacting the employer when the DD Form 2569 indicates no insurance
        exists or when no DD Form 2569 is on file. Information obtained by this review will be filed in the
        medical record and updated in the appropriate source system, currently CHCS and Third Party
        Outpatient Collection System (TPOCS).
        25.3.3. Business office personnel/TPC contractor will, on a monthly basis, review a representa-
        tive sample of medical records and reconcile insurance information between CHCS and TPOCS.
        This reconciliation will ensure information is identical in all three areas (records, CHCS, TPOCS).
        25.3.4. Business Office personnel/TPC contractor will conduct recurring training on at least a
        quarterly basis to all personnel responsible for interviewing patients for other health insurance.
        This training will be conducted in accordance with interview techniques outlined in DoD
        6010.15M.
        25.3.5. Business office personnel/TPC contractor will conduct a weekly review of a representa-
        tive sampling of billings to identify other potential billable encounters either associated with or
        from previous episodes of care. Other billable encounters can include admissions, outpatient vis-
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                              15


      its, ambulatory procedure visits, ancillary services, supplemental care, immunizations, and ambu-
      lance services. These services can be researched for potential billing by reviewing medical
      records, patient registers to include ancillary services in CHCS, referral logs for supplemental
      care, and emergency room logs for ambulance services.
   25.4. Billing on Behalf of Other Uniform Services. TPC personnel will bill third party payers on
   behalf of the U.S. Coast Guard or USPHS/NOAA beneficiaries and coordinate billings and collec-
   tions with the MSA office.
   25.5. Collecting and Depositing Funds for Delinquent Claims. IAW DoD 6010.15M, the MDG/CC
   will establish a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the base’s Staff Judge Advocate’s (SJA)
   Claims Office outlining MTF and SJA responsibilities for delinquent claims. MTFs will ensure follow
   up of all claims at a minimum of 30 days and continue follow up until all efforts to collect are
   exhausted. MTFs will maintain an audit trail of all attempts to collect from a payer. A reasonable goal
   is to maintain claims on the Accounts Receivable for not more than 60 days. All accounts open greater
   than 180 days shall be forwarded to the SJA with follow up documentation for disposition. Only an
   official of the US Government, not contractor personnel, may accomplish closure of delinquent
   accounts due to invalid reduction or denial.
   25.6. Auditing and Compliance. The Flight Commander will ensure an audit and compliance pro-
   gram is established and active in accordance with requirements outlined in DoD 6010.15M. A
   pro-active compliance program is critical to maintain good accounting practices.
   25.7. Reporting. Each MTF will submit data from the DD Form 2570, Third Party Collection Pro-
   gram – Report on Program Results, via the DoD/TMA automated web-based metrics tool. MAJ-
   COMs will establish separate reporting requirements to ensure MTFs are maximizing TPC
   reimbursements throughout their respective commands. Additionally, MTFs will send a quarterly,
   abbreviated Aging Schedule to their respective MAJCOM UBO Program Manager for validation.
   MAJCOMs will summarize MTF data (MTF name, number of days outstanding (from 30 – 180 days),
   number of claims, and dollar amounts outstanding) with explanation for all accounts open greater than
   120 days) and forward it to HQ USAF/SGMC not later than the 20th calendar day of the month follow-
   ing the end of the quarter.

26. Third Party Liability (TPL)/Medical Affirmative Claims (MAC).
   26.1. Medical Care Notification. MTFs must notify the base SJA of situations in which the MHS
   might become liable or financially responsible for treating individuals whose disease or injury was
   caused by a third party. All injury treatment should be reported to the SJA as a potential TPL/MAC
   claim. Additionally, any record for which a copy is requested should be reviewed for its potential as a
   TPL/MAC claim, especially if the request is received from an attorney. The MTF is also responsible
   for expeditiously providing any documentation to support a potential claim the SJA may be pursuing.
   26.2. Liability Policy. In accordance with the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (FMCRA), the Air
   Force must make all attempts to recover the cost of providing medical care to an individual whose
   injury or disease was caused by a third party (see Title 42, U.S.C., Sections 2651 through 2653, judi-
   cial decisions, and DoD and Air Force regulations). The Air Force is entitled to recover medical care
   costs when the United States becomes a third party beneficiary under the medical care provisions of
   insurance or worker’s compensation. AFI 51-502, Personnel and Government Recovery Claims, pro-
16                                                                       AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


     vides information on how the United States asserts and settles claims against third parties for costs of
     medical care it provided under FMCRA.
     26.3. Procedures for Processing Medical Affirmative Claims. The MDG/CC and the base SJA
     develop a written MOU covering the notification procedure, the preparation and follow-up for AF
     Form 438, Medical Care - Third Party Liability Notification. The MTF also develops internal proce-
     dures for clinical service coordination, tracking of civilian medical care paid for by the government,
     and establishing appropriate procedures for closing cases. Number all AF Form 438s on a fiscal year
     basis before submitting to the SJA.
     26.4. Initiating Notification. Use AF Form 1488, Daily Log of Patients Treated for Injuries, is used to
     report all patients treated by the MTF or in the network. Ensure all MTF personnel at patient entry
     points are trained in identifying/suspecting potential injury cases. Personnel should provide com-
     pleted AF Form 438 or supporting medical records for claims upon request by the SJA. The RMO will
     ensure development of a CHCS report identifying hospital admissions and visits related to injuries
     and compare to the AF Form 1488. Cases not submitted will be researched and an AF Form 1488 will
     be prepared for forwarding to the base legal office.
     26.5. Documentation Management Policy. All medical records (inpatient and outpatient) for which
     MTF personnel identify third party liability should have appropriate entries addressing third party lia-
     bility issues. The local facility determines the content and placement of these remarks. To confirm
     completion of patient treatment, the MTF should review all medical records before filing.
     26.6. Reconciliation. The medical facility will conduct a quarterly reconciliation with the base SJA
     for claims submitted to ensure proper identification and processing of medical documentation. The
     reconciliation will consist of a review of the status of each claim (open, transferred, or closed). Dis-
     crepancies will be corrected and a written report will be forwarded to the SJA and MDG/CC.

27. Forms Prescribed.
     27.1. DD Form 7, Report of Treatment Furnished Pay Patient-Hospitalization Furnished (Part A)
     27.2. DD Form 7A, Report of Treatment Furnished Pay Patient-Outpatient Treatment Furnished
     (Part B)
     27.3. DD Form 2569, Third Party Collection Program - Insurance Information Sheet
     27.4. DD Form 2570, Third Party Collection Program – Report on Program Results
     27.5. AF Form 438, Medical Care - Third Party Liability Notification
     27.6. AF Form 541, The Nutritional Medicine Service Subsistence Cost Report
     27.7. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
     27.8. AF Form 1488, Daily Log of Patients Treated for Injuries



                                                PAUL K. CARLTON, JR., Lt General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                Surgeon General
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                      17


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 6010.13M, Medical Expense and Performance Reporting (MEPR) System for Fixed Military Medial
and Dental Treatment Facilities
DoD 6010.15M, Uniform Business Office
AFIND 18, Index of Air Force Manpower Standards
AFPD 38-2, Manpower
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources
AFMAN 44-144, Nutritional Medicine Management
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization
AFI 41-102, The Medical Expense and Performance Reporting (MEPR) System for Fixed Military Medi-
cal and Dental Treatment Facilities
AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services System
(MHSS)
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions
AFI 41-211, The Medical Information Systems Management Program
AFI 51-502, Personnel and Government Recovery Claims
AFI 65-601V1, USAF Budget Policies and Procedures
OMG Guide, Objective Medical Group Guide

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIND—Air Force Index
AFMLO—Air Force Medical Logistics Office
AFMS—Air Force Medical System
AFMSCS—Air Force Medical System Corporate Structure
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
APOM—Amended Program Objective Memorandum
BAG—Budget Activity Group
BCAC—Beneficiary Counseling and Assistance Coordinators
BOS—Base Operating Support
CC—Commander
18                                                       AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


CCM—Cost Center Manager
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
CHS—Consolidated Health Support
CMDS—Command Manpower Data System
COTR—Contract Officer Technical Representative
DBOF—Defense Business Operations Fund
DCAO—Debt Collection Assistance Officers
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Services
DoD—Department of Defense
DPG—Defense Planning Guidance
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EAS—Expense Assignment System
FAC—Functional Account Code
FG—Fiscal Guidance
FMCRA—Federal Medical Care Recovery Act
FOA—Field Operating Agencies
FSO—Financial Services Office
FTE—Full Time Equivalent
FYDP—Future Year Defense Program
HSI—Health Services Inspection
IM/IT—Information Management/Information Technology
IPT—Integrated Process Team
MA—Management Activities
MAC—Medical Affirmative Claims
MAE—Maximum Allowable Enrollment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAPPG—Medical Annual Planning and Programming Guidance
MCSC—Managed Care Support Contract
MDG—Medical Group
MEPRS—Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System
MHS—Military Health System
MILPERS—Military Personnel
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                          19


MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MRT—Manpower Requirements Toolbox
MSA—Medical Service Account
MSP—Mission Support Plan
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NOAA—National Oceanic Administration Agency
NCOIC—Non Commissioned Officer in Charge
NMIS—Nutritional Medicine Information System
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
OMG—Objective Medical Group
OSC—Organization Structure Code
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PB—President’s Budget
PCO—Primary Care Optimization
PE—Program Elements
POM—Program Objective Memorandum (see also APOM)
PPBS—Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System
PRV—Plant Replacement Value
PSC—Private Sector Care
RMS—Resource Management System
RPMA—Real Property Maintenance Account
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TMA—TRICARE Management Activity
TPC—Third Party Collection
TPL—Third Party Liability
TPOCS—Third Party Outpatient Collection System
UBO—Uniform Business Office
UPMR—Unit Personnel Management Roster
UMD—Unit Manning Document
U.S.C.—United States Code
USPHS—United States Public Health Service
WAM—Workload Assignment Module
20                                                                     AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001


WWR—Worldwide Workload Report

Terms
Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System—The PPBS is the DoD resources management
system controlled by the Secretary of Defense and used to establish, maintain, and revise the Future Years
Defense Program and DoD portion of the President’s Budget. It is a biennial cycle process containing
three interrelated phases: planning, programming, budgeting. Use this process to identify medical facility
requirements.
Expense Equipment—These are items of medical and non-medical equipment having a unit price less
than $100,000.
Investment Equipment—These are items of medical and non-medical equipment having a unit price of
$100,000 or more.
AFI41-120 18 OCTOBER 2001                                                                              21


                                                 Attachment 2

MONTHLY NUTRITIONAL MEDICINE SUBSISTENCE REPORT (EXCEL SPREADSHEET)




                                             OPERATIONAL

                                             TOTAL MEAL
                                              PURCHASES




                                             BREAKFAST




                                             MEAL DAYS

                                             MEAL DAYS

                                             MEAL DAYS
                                             EARNINGS
MAJCOM




                                             COST OF




                                             PATIENT
                                             MEALS -

                                             MEALS -

                                             MEALS -
                                             DINNER
                                             LUNCH




                                             OTHER
                             MBDFA




                                             MEALS
                                             ISSUES
                     OBDFA




                                             TOTAL




                                             TOTAL




                                             TOTAL
                                     PBDFA




                                             DAYS
             MTF




          TOTAL:


Instructions for completion:
1. MAJCOMs will submit a consolidated report, by MTF, on a monthly basis.
2. Definitions:
   2a. OBDFA: Operational Basic Daily Food Allowance, provided by the base food services officer,
  without any modifications. Use to calculate operational rations.
  2b. MBDFA: MTF Basic Daily Food Allowance. The OBDFA modified to include the cost
  of 100% ground beef. Used to calculate SIK and CTIM meal earnings.
         2c. PBDFA: Patient Basic Daily Food Allowance. MBDFA plus an additional 15% for patient
         feedings. Used to calculate patient meal earnings.
         2d. Meals: Breakfast, Lunch, or Dinner (percent of meal days is 20/40/40).
         2e. Meal Day: Replaces the term "ration". Equivalent of 3 meals served in 24 hours. One bed
         day = one meal day.
         2f. Patient Meal Day: Equals one bed day or the Ambulatory Procedure Visit (APV)
         equivalent -normally 40% per meal.
         2g. Other Meal Day: All other meals served by the MTF dining facility.
         2h. Operational Meal Day: Meals issued for exercises.
