BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 48-144 CANNON
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)                                      AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          Supplement
                                                                             23 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                        DRINKING WATER SURVEILLANCE
                                                                           PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOAMDS/SGPB                                                 Certified by: 27 SOMDG/CC
                                                                           (Col Jeffrey C. Gillen)
                                                                                         Pages: 5


Air Force Instruction (AFI) 48-144, Drinking Water Surveillance Program, is supplemented as
follows. This supplement applies to all personnel, military and civilian, responsible for
implementation of the Drinking Water Surveillance Program for Cannon AFB. This publication
applies to the U. S. Air Force Reserve units and members attached or assigned to Cannon AFB.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1.9.3.7.1. (Added) Civil Engineer (CE) Water and Fuels System Maintenance (WFSM) will
call Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE), CE Water Treatment Plant (WTP), and affected
Facility Managers as soon as possible of any unscheduled water outages. If there is an
emergency interruption of service due to distribution system repair, replacement, or
modification, applicable organizations will be notified immediately.
1.9.3.7.2. (Added) CE Customer Service Desk will call BE and CE WTP to notify them of
scheduled water outages. The service desk should report as much information as possible to
include; Affected Building(s), Purpose of Outage, Start Date, End Date, Estimated Start Time,
and Estimated Duration. The service desk at a minimum must provide a job order number, to
allow BE a reference to request additional information as it becomes available.
 2                                       AFI48-144_CANNONAFBSUP 23 OCTOBER 2013


1.9.3.7.3. (Added) ROUTINE WATER LINE BREAKS: Routine water line breaks are
characterized by water line breaks where water pressure was maintained during the repair and no
contamination was able to flow back into water mains. Under normal circumstances, no
disinfection is required during this type of incident and no notifications are required.
1.9.3.7.4. (Added) LOCALIZED WATER LINE BREAKS: Localized water line breaks are
those that affect five or fewer facilities where positive pressure was not maintained. WFSM will
determine the number of facilities affected and call BE and CE WTP to report pertinent
information. After identifying the location and human exposure of the break, the area should be
carefully inspected to locate and isolate sewers and other contaminant sources. Where
conditions permit, the affected section should be isolated, service connections should be shut off
and the section should be subjected to disinfection procedures established by the American
Water Works Association (AWWA).
1.9.3.7.4.1. (Added) BE, with assistance from Public Health (PH), will determine if event
requires “Boil Water Notice,” or “Boil Water Advisory” to discourage consumption prior to
confirmation that the water is safe. Conditions which prompt this action includes the affected
portion of distribution system cannot be effectively isolated from the rest of system and/or
potable concerns dictate. If event requires notice or advisory, BE will draft documents and route
thru 27 SOMDG/CC to 27 SOW/CC. See Attachment 2 for a “Boil Water Advisory” example.
1.9.3.7.4.2. (Added) BE will collect bacteriological samples following disinfection to
determine the effectiveness of the process prior to resumption of potable water service. Analysis
for localized water line breaks may be conducted by a non-certified laboratory, such as that
operated by BE.
1.9.3.7.4.3. (Added) BE will report the analysis results to the WFSM NCOIC and advise on
further disinfection procedures, if any, and approve resumption of water service when results
indicate the final sample is free of bacteriological contamination.
1.9.3.7.5. (Added) BASE-WIDE WATER POTABILITY ISSUES: Widespread water line
issues are defined as water line breaks where samples after repair/disinfection test positive for
fecal coliform or E. Coli and the contamination cannot be isolated or when routine samples test
positive for fecal coliform or E. Coli after a resample was taken. Disinfection and flushing for
these incidents will be performed in accordance with 20.7.1.II.208A through C New Mexico
Administrative Code, Drinking Water, and disinfection procedures established by the AWWA.
1.9.3.7.5.1. (Added) BE will contact a New Mexico Environment Department (NMED)
drinking water representative to ascertain notification and sampling requirements.
1.9.3.7.5.2. (Added) WFSM will ensure BE is aware of the extent and ramifications of the
service interruption in order for BE to make the necessary arrangements with the New Mexico
certified laboratory to expeditiously conduct the final analysis. WFSM should be aware that BE
must have confirmation of negative results from the certified laboratory approving resumption of
normal water service. Reporting of results may be delayed based on operating hours of the
laboratory.
1.9.3.7.5.3. (Added) In the event of an emergency or critical lapse in the distribution system, in
consultation with BE, CE will notify the wing commander and initiate base-wide notification as
appropriate (e.g., signs at base gates, Cannon_All email), with 27 SOMSG/CC approval and
coordination with Public Affairs (PA).
AFI48-144_CANNONAFBSUP 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                          3


1.9.3.7.5.4. (Added) CE will request that PA announce the incident to the general population.
PA will post all pertinent information on the base website which feeds to Cannon AFB Twitter
and Facebook. A press release with non-sensitive information will be sent out to be picked up by
civilian news agencies.
1.9.3.7.5.5. (Added) BE will collect water samples for analysis using a New Mexico certified
laboratory. If the samples test positive for fecal coliform and E. Coli, WFSM will flush and re-
chlorinate the system. BE will collect and analyze the samples and the process is repeated if the
confirmation samples are positive. CE may boost base chlorine concentrations to facilitate
precautionary disinfection. If confirmation samples test negative for total coliform (an indicator
that fecal coliform may be present), BE will recommend that water advisories be lifted.
1.9.3.7.6. (Added) For scheduled or unscheduled service interruptions in Cannon AFB military
housing, the housing office will notify and/or deliver advisories to each affected resident.
Should the housing office have insufficient manning to deliver advisories in a timely manner, BE
personnel may assist with deliveries to residents.
1.9.3.7.7. (Added) To maintain continual communication during emergency break or repair,
WFSM will assign an onsite point of contact (POC). The onsite POC is responsible for
providing repair update and will be available by phone (on-call phone or personal cell phone) to
answer time critical questions regarding repair.
3.1.3.1. (Added) WFSM will contact BE to confirm disinfection and flushing are completed
and affected areas are ready to sample. WFSM will advise BE of the location of isolation areas
to maximize the efficient use of sample collection resources.
3.1.3.2. (Added) BE will notify WFSM and WTP of the sample results after the 24-hour
incubation period, whether analysis is conducted in-house or by a certified laboratory. BE will
utilize email for reporting of water sampling results to the WTP to facilitate record retention of
the events and sampling results.
3.1.3.3. (Added) BE will initiate the issuance and removal of notices and advisories.
Advisories or notices will not be removed until testing confirms that all harmful microbiological
contamination has been eliminated.
3.1.3.4. (Added) BE will contact PA with all updates and, when appropriate, request the
removal of notices and advisories. PA is responsible for updating all base websites with the
most current information.




                                             TONY D. BAUERNFEIND, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                     AFI48-144_CANNONAFBSUP 23 OCTOBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 48-144, Drinking Water Surveillance Program, 28 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management Systems
AWWA—American Water Works Association
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CE—Civil Engineering
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Affairs
PH—Public Health
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
WFSM—Water Fuels and System Maintenance
WTP—Water Treatment Plant
AFI48-144_CANNONAFBSUP 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                            5


                                     Attachment 2 (Added)
                           EXAMPLE BOIL WATER ADVISORY

           WATER SYSTEM REPAIR ADVISORY
                     INCREASED RISK OF WATER CONTAMINATION

On DAY MONTH YEAR rain and mud caused built up pressure on a water main to
buildings XXX and XXX to burst a cap, which necessitated replacement. To repair the
water main, 27 SOCES will be required to shutoff water service to multiple buildings.
During the course of this repair, the water line was exposed to the outside environment
leaving it susceptible to potential contamination. 27 SOCES personnel follow all standard
industry guidelines to minimize the risk of contamination; however, the drinking water
provided to Buildings XXX, XXX, XXX, and XXX cannot be certified free of
contamination without further testing. After the repair, the Bioenvironmental Engineering
(BE) Flight collected water samples from the affected areas and sent them to a certified
laboratory for analysis. After the 24-hour analysis, BE will determine if additional actions
are required. BE expects to have the sampling results by DAY OF WEEK, DAY, MONTH,
YEAR and TIME.

CONSUMERS OF THE DRINKING WATER PROVDIED TO BUILDINGS XXX AND XXX
ARE ADVISED TO BOIL DRINKING WATER AND ALL WATER USED FOR COOKING,
DISHWASHING, HAND WASHING, AND BRUSHING TEETH FOR FIVE (5) MINUTES
BEFORE USE. THIS INCLUDES WATER USED FOR MAKING ICE AND WATER THAT
HAS BEEN TREATED BY REVERSE OSMOSIS UNITS.
At this time, there is nothing to suggest your drinking water is unsafe; however, the recent repair
does leave your water at an increased risk of contamination. Should additional information arise
indicating your water may not be safe, instructions will be provided to all affected individuals.

Water from the low-fluoride taps on base have not been affected and are available for pick-up
anytime into a clean container. The low-fluoride taps are located in Building 336 (107 Engineers
Way) or Building 76 (202 Eagle Claw Blvd) and users must bring their own containers.

Please share this information with all other people who drink this water, especially those who
may not have received this notice directly.

For additional information, contact Bioenvironmental Engineering at 784-4063.



NAME, Rank, USAF, BSC
Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight Commander
