BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 48-148
RAF LAKENHEATH (USAFE)
                                                                           RAF LAKENHEATH
                                                                                  Supplement

                                                                          22 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                 IONIZING RADIATION PROTECTION (PA)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 48 AMDS/SGPB                                                     Certified by: 48 AMDS/CC
Supersedes: LAKENHEATHI48-101,                                               (Col Blake D. Lollis)
            31 July 2006                                                                 Pages: 5


This supplement establishes responsibilities, policies, and procedures to minimize occupational
exposures to ionizing radiation on RAF Lakenheath and RAF Mildenhall. Commanders of each
organization tasked by this supplement are responsible for compliance with the sections
pertaining to their jurisdiction. Requirements apply to each unit where radioactive materials or
radiation-producing devices are used and to each respective Radiation Safety Officer (RSO).
The contracting office will ensure that the information in this publication is part of appropriate
contract language when soliciting projects for bid. This supplement details the appointment and
responsibilities of Installation, Unit, and Permit RSOs, documentation requirements for radiation
exposure incidents, and Radiation Protection Program (RPP) oversight activities conducted by
the Installation RSO. It implements the Air Force RPP concept of “as low as reasonably
achievable” (ALARA). Minimum requirements are established for conducting the RPP and
quality assurance requirements are outlined to ensure exposures are kept ALARA. It does not
apply to exposure of patients during diagnostic or therapeutic medical procedures. This
supplement applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel working RAF Lakenheath,
RAF Mildenhall, and includes tenant units and contractors whose duties require work with
sources of ionizing radiation or work in areas where exposure to ionizing radiation may occur.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
prescribed by AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program; route AF Form 847s from the field
through MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
 2                                   AFI48-148_LAKENHEATHSUP 22 SEPTEMBER 2011


Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, U.S.C, Section 8013. The applicable Privacy Act SORN F033
AF B, Privacy Act Request File is available at http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. System of
Records notice F044 AF SG O, United States Air Force Master Radiation Exposure Registry, applies.

AFI 48-148, 12 October 2001, is supplemented as follows:

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement requires the Installation RSO to accomplish annual radiation protection reviews.
Results will be presented to the Installation Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
Council and the 48 AMDS, Aerospace Medicine Council.
2.11.1.1. Ensure the most qualified personnel are appointed as Unit RSOs, and update RSO
appointment letters as necessary.
2.15.11. Review/approve contractor use of NRC, Radioisotope Committee (RIC) or equivalent
licensed radioactive materials. In addition, the Installation RSO has authority to suspend
contractor operations believed to be unsafe. Such action must be coordinated with the
contracting officer/designated representative.
2.15.12. Review all applications, including amendments, for USAF radioactive material permits
and requests for use of X-ray machines.
2.15.13. Coordinate with and assist users with disposal of all radioactive materials, including
electron tubes.
2.15.14. (Added) Survey, monitor and document all operations according to Air Force
requirements at least annually. Determine when specific operating instructions for specific work
areas are required.
2.15.15. (Added) Ensure Unit and Permit RSOs possess the necessary qualifications.
2.15.16. (Added) Provide ALARA and Intrinsic Radiation (INRAD) training packages to Unit
and Permit RSOs.
2.16. 6 Ensure the Unit RSO conducts radiation safety training for all individuals (military,
civilians, and in-house contractors) whose exposures have the potential to exceed 10 percent of
the annual dose limits for ionizing radiation while working with radioactive material or when
radiation producing devices are used or transferred.
2.16. 7 Ensure Unit RSOs conduct required surveys and implement controls as required by the
Installation RSO.
2.16.8. (Added) Unit and Permit RSOs will complete and submit USAF Radioactive Material
Permit applications and amendment requests through the Installation RSO IAW AFI 40-201.
2.16.9. (Added) Unit and Permit RSOs will obtain approval from the Installation RSO on all
projected changes regarding use of radiation-producing devices or radioactive material prior to
their implementation.
AFI48-148_LAKENHEATHSUP 22 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                       3


2.16.10. (Added) Unit and Permit RSOs will routinely inspect all areas where radioactive
materials or radiation-producing devices are used or stored to ensure no unexpected changes
occur and to ensure they remain in accordance with requirements of USAF Radioactive Material
Permits and Air Force directives.
2.16.11. (Added) Unit and Permit RSOs will develop operating instructions (OIs), as needed, or
as required by the Installation RSO, to help keep exposures ALARA. Submit the OIs to the
Installation RSO for coordination and final approval. All OIs must be reviewed and resubmitted
to the Installation RSO annually.
2.16.12. (Added) Unit and Permit RSOs will conduct initial and annual radiation safety training
for all individuals working/frequenting any area where radioactive material or radiation-
producing devices are used. Document training on an AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
Record, prescribed by AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire
Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program. Training shall be tailored to the requirements of the
workplace and must address the topics specified in AFI 48-148. Submit training materials to the
Installation RSO for approval.
2.16.13. (Added) Unit and Permit RSOs will ensure that personnel involved with the use of
radioactive material and radiation-producing devices are qualified for such use.
2.17.6. (Added) The base Civil Engineer will ensure the Installation RSO and all appropriate
agencies review plans for modification of facilities which involve the use of radioactive material
or radiation-producing devices.
2.21. 48th Civil Engineering Squadron (48 CES) and Defence Infrastructure Organisation
(DIO) will:
2.21.1. Ensure all new construction or modification to facilities statement of work and/or
contract specifications includes a reference requiring radioactive materials and/or radiation-
producing devices be identified to the Installation RSO. The information must ensure
requirements mentioned below are met.
2.21.2. Ensure contractors send a request to the Installation RSO at least 30 calendar days before
bringing radioactive materials onto the installation. In addition, the Installation RSO has
authority to suspend contractor operations believed to be unsafe. Such action must be
coordinated with the 48 CONS contracting officer/designated representative.
2.21.3. Requests of proposed activities must be in writing and include: the name, local address,
and telephone number for the responsible local representative and the name, address, and
telephone number of the Installation RSO; brief description of the proposed activities; copy of a
current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) or equivalent license detailing the specific use
locations (license must specifically list the installation or grant approval for work at temporary
sites); and a copy of the 48 CONS or DIO contract authorizing and describing work to be done at
the installation and the inclusive dates of the work.
2.21.4. Ensure contractors allow the Installation RSO to make periodic checks to ensure that
contractor personnel follow radiation safety practices to prevent exposures to Air Force
personnel and avoid contamination of government property. In addition, the Installation RSO
has authority to suspend contractor operations believed to be unsafe. Such action must be
coordinated with the 48 CONS contracting officer/designated representative.
 4                                   AFI48-148_LAKENHEATHSUP 22 SEPTEMBER 2011


2.22. Bioenvironmental Engineering (48 AMDS/SGPB) will:
2.22.1. Perform an annual review of the radiation protection program for each area using
radioactive material or radiation-producing devices.
2.22.2. Conduct radiation surveys of all radioactive material shipments and receipts.
2.22.3. Monitor and maintain a log of radiation survey results of all radioactive material
shipments and receipts.
3.1.1.2. 1 (Added) The appointment letter must include the rank, name, telephone number, and
Date of Estimated Return from Overseas (DEROS) of the designated Unit RSO. Send a copy to
the appointed individual, the Installation RSO, and 48 AMDS/SGPB. The Permit RSO shall be
appointed as directed by the Air Force Radioisotope Committee and stated on each individual
permit.
7. (Added) Acute Radiation Exposure Incidents.
7.1. (Added) The exposed worker will report immediately to the Emergency Room for physical
examination. The physician will complete a SF 513, Medical Record - Consultation Sheet,
prescribed by GSA/ICMR under 41 CFR, Federal Property Management Regulations 101-
11.203(b)(10), to generate an AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report, prescribed by
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
7.2. (Added) The worker will notify the Unit RSO whenever a suspected overexposure occurs.
The Unit RSO will notify the Installation RSO within 3 hours. The Unit RSO, in coordination
with the Installation RSO, will obtain a signed, narrative statement from the exposed worker and
witnesses immediately. The statement will include:
7.2.1. (Added) Name, rank, and last four digits of SSAN of exposed worker.
7.2.2. (Added) Radiation source - include activity (or power settings if X-ray source).
7.2.3. (Added) Brief description of event.
7.2.4. (Added) Length of exposure.
7.2.5. (Added) Distance from source.
7.2.6. (Added) Name, rank, and phone number of attending physician.
7.3. (Added) The Installation RSO will make appropriate notifications and coordinate an
investigation. At a minimum the Installation RSO will contact the Wing Commander (FW/CC),
48th Medical Group/CC, 48th AMDS/CC, and USAFE/SGPB.
AFI48-148_LAKENHEATHSUP 22 SEPTEMBER 2011                                       5


                                       Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program, 22 December 2008
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, 16 March 2011
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, 12 October 2001
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, 5 August 2011
AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report, 1 August 2003
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
Standard Form 513, Medical Record - Consultation Sheet, 1 August 1992
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DE--Defense Estates
FPMR--Federal Property Management Regulation
GSA--General Services Administration
INRAD –Intrinsic Radiation
OI--Operating Instruction
RAF--Royal Air Force
RIC--Radioisotope Committee
SF--Standard Form
SSAN--Social Security Account Number
DEROS--Date Eligible for Return from Overseas




                                          JOHN T. QUINTAS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 48th Fighter Wing
