BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 48-112
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             27 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                USAF HYPERBARIC MEDICINE PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFSAM/FEEH                                                           Certified by: AF/SG3
                                                                     (Brig Gen Charles E. Potter)
Supersedes:    AFI48-112, 17 November 2010                                              Pages: 15


This instruction directs requirements for the USAF Hyperbaric Medicine Program and
implements Air Force Policy Directive 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program. It applies to all
personnel involved in the use of clinical, operational, portable and research hyperbaric chambers.
It assigns management responsibilities and defines training requirements and duties of US Air
Force hyperbaric medicine teams. The instruction also applies to Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard units and personnel when activated or engaged in the applicable activities. Send
comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through channels, to USAFSAM/FEEH-Hyperbaric Medicine Dept, 2200 Bergquist
Dr. Ste #1, JBSA-Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, TX, 78236-9908. The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition
(RDS). The system of records covered by this instruction is authorized by 10 U.S.C. 133 and
8013. The DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement--Health Care Records, guides the use of each
form required by this instruction that falls under the Privacy Act. In addition, relative
information is HIPAA protected within DoD 6025.18-R, Military Health System (MHS) Clinical
Assurance (CQA) Program Regulation. This publication requires the collection and/or
 2                                                           AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014


maintenance of information protected by Section 552a. Forms affected by the PA have an
appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System of Record Notices is F044 F SF 3,
Electronic Medical Records System.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
are as follows: Verb tense throughout this document identifying tier requirements for wing
compliance items has been modified. Guidance in reporting management of decompression
sickness patients and the distribution and management of forms documenting Decompression
Sickness (DCS) have changed. Staff requirements managing staffing and training of clinical and
operational chambers, to include Mobile Hyperbaric Systems (MoHS)/Emergency Evacuation
Hyperbaric Stretcher (EEHS) have changed. EEHS information for use has been modified.
Disorders treated with hyperbaric medicine have been removed from this document. Land and
air transport and transport decisions for DCS and Arterial Gas Embolism (AGE) patients have
been removed from this document. Team member qualifications have been revised. Specific
guidance for Hyperbaric Safety Officer/Safety Director Responsibilities has been updated.
AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     3



                                          Chapter 1

                                  PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. USAF Hyperbaric Medicine utilizes pressures greater than atmospheric pressure,
typically in combination with pure oxygen for clinical and operational purposes. This
treatment modality requires specialized training and equipment. Due to the specialized nature of
the hyperbaric mission, treatment locations are limited. The Air Force Medical Service, School
of Aerospace Medicine, Hyperbaric Division is the Department of Defense Lead Agent for
clinical hyperbaric medicine.
 4                                                                 AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014


                                            Chapter 2

                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Office of the Surgeon General, Command Surgeons:
     2.1.1. Headquarters United States Air Force Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG). The
     USAF/SG shall establish policy for the Hyperbaric (HBO) Medicine Program throughout the
     Air Force.
     2.1.2. Major Command Surgeon (MAJCOM/SG): Command Surgeons will provide
     medical, technical, fiscal, and administrative support for their fixed and portable hyperbaric
     chamber systems.
2.2. United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM): shall develop and
conduct specific instructional courses in manning, maintaining, and operating hyperbaric
chamber systems (T-3). As such, USAFSAM is responsible for supporting the Hyperbaric
Medicine Fellowship in accordance with Accreditation Council of Graduate Medical Education
(ACGME) requirements. This includes, but is not limited to establishing memoranda of
understanding with other supporting facilities, operational support, registration and curriculum
support, and Graduate Medical Education/ACGME oversight.
2.3. USAFSAM Hyperbaric Medicine Department (USAFSAM/FEEH): USAFSAM/FEEH
shall serve as the focal point for USAF hyperbaric expertise and central point of contact for all
USAF worldwide consults regarding hyperbaric medical therapy or diving medical issues (T-3).
The Chief, USAFSAM/FEEH, recommends and executes HQ USAF/SG policy and procedures
for all Air Force hyperbaric systems. The Chief, USAFSAM/FEEH provides consultation to HQ
USAF/SG for all USAF clinical, operational, and research hyperbaric facilities. As such, the
Chief, USAFSAM/FEEH (or senior ranking hyperbaricist on staff) will be the USAF Surgeon
General’s Consultant for Hyperbaric Medicine (T-3). USAFSAM/FEEH will:
     2.3.1. Recommend proper         HBO     treatment    tables    for   all   USAF    hyperbaric
     treatment/chambers (T-3).
     2.3.2. Collect and disperse information to USAF hyperbaric dive team members on
     current/evolving techniques and procedures that promote safe and effective chamber
     operation. (T-3).
     2.3.3. Routinely review Occupational Illnesses related to Decompression Sickness/Illness
     events documented in the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS), to include Altitude
     Chamber Induced DCS (T-3). This review provides a focused awareness of factors
     contributing to pressurization injuries that affect Air Force members.
     2.3.4. Assist medical provider personnel to determine suitable referral of DoD beneficiaries
     to hyperbaric facilities for DCS treatments (T-3).
     2.3.5. Guide, develop and provide advanced training in clinical hyperbaric medicine and
     physiology for physicians, nurses, and medical technicians (T-3). The Hyperbaric Medicine
     Fellowship supplies hyperbaric medicine trained physicians for the DoD and allied nations
     when approved on a case by case basis. Board certification is granted by the American
     Board of Preventive Medicine, as it does for Aerospace Medicine, following the successful
AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                                   5


  passage of the Board’s annual examination. The AF Fellowship will follow ACGME
  requirements in curriculum development and execution including indications recognized by
  the professional organization, the Undersea and Hyperbaric Medicine Society (UHMS). As
  such, it will work closely with the ACGME liaison at USAFSAM.
  2.3.6. Assist and coordinate with USAF site designated hyperbaric facility safety directors
  and medical directors to approve equipment and materials for use in, on, and around
  hyperbaric environments supported by Air Force personnel (T-3).
  2.3.7. At the Commander’s request of a hyperbaric facility, conduct a staff assistance visit
  every 3 years, or earlier as required, to validate the safety and operations of hyperbaric
  treatment and research chamber facilities supported by USAF personnel (T-3).
 6                                                             AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014


                                           Chapter 3

                              GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES

3.1. Clinical Hyperbaric Chamber Facilities:
     3.1.1. Shall provide hyperbaric oxygen therapy for patients with disorders that are
     recognized as amenable for treatment by the Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society’s
     Committee for Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (http://membership.uhms.org/?page=Indications) and
     other disease processes as deemed medically indicated (T-0).
     3.1.2. Shall render 24/7 consultation as requested from DoD aeromedical and hospital
     services in selecting those patients likely to benefit from hyperbaric oxygen therapy (T-3).
3.2. Operational Hyperbaric Chamber Facilities: Fixed hyperbaric chamber facilities and
mobile hyperbaric systems will support the DoD’s operational flying and Special Operation
missions by treating altitude or diving-induced Decompression Sickness (DCS) and other
emergent disorders within operational capabilities that are amenable to HBO therapy (T-2).
3.3. USAFSAM Hyperbaric Medicine Department: USAFSAM/FEEH shall provide subject
matter expert consultation to the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) regarding the treatment of
suspected DCS or AGE, and other illnesses considered amenable to hyperbaric therapy (T-3).
When a hyperbaric procedure in an operational environment is considered necessary to
emergently preserve life, limb or eyesight, treatment should not be delayed, but a fellowship
trained USAFSAM/FEEH hyperbaric physician should be consulted as soon as feasible. An
additional exception to making pretreatment contact is when radio or telephone contact would
adversely compromise a combat, secure, or special operations environment. USAFSAM/FEEH
Contact Information. Emergency Referral/Consultation: (DCS, AGE, CO), during duty hours
(0700 – 1600 CST) call the Hyperbaric Medicine Department at 210-292-3483 (DSN 554-3483).
After normal clinic hours, (1600-0700 CST and weekends/holidays) the Hyperbaric Medicine
Physician On call can be contacted at SAMMC Call Center at 210-916-2500 (DSN 429-2500).
Request the Hyperbaric physician on call. An alternate number is: 210-336-6167.
3.4. DoD Mobile Hyperbaric Systems: The option of utilizing a mobile hyperbaric system for
emergency hyperbaric treatment for a patient with an indication for usage shall be considered for
operational use only (T-3). USAFSAM/FEEH must be notified when USAF personnel are
considered for treatment (if patient’s condition will not be adversely affected by delayed
treatment) in any variation of MoHS (T-3). The EEHS is available to sustain the High Altitude
Reconnaissance Mission Support, High Altitude Mission Support and USAF Special Operations
Command programs as well as other Joint Service expeditionary, rescue, pararescue, and
contingency operations. The USAF will utilize the Emergency Evacuation Hyperbaric Stretcher
(EEHS) as its mobile hyperbaric systems (MoHS).
     3.4.1. EEHS Unit Administration: Each Medical or Operational Unit maintaining the EEHS
     will appoint in writing an EEHS Training Manager (UEEHSTM) and an EEHS Equipment
     Manager (UEEHSEM) (T-3). These appointments will be made by the applicable Medical
     Group Commander or the Operational Support Group Commander. The appointment will be
     routed through the pertinent MAJCOM/SGP and USAFSAM/FEEH.
AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        7


   3.4.2. Training: Formal training is required for all EEHS Team Members before conducting
   EEHS operations. Personnel operating the EEHS must complete the USAFSAM Emergency
   Evacuation Hyperbaric Stretcher Course (B3OZYEEHS 0A1A/ B7OZYEEHS 0A1A) and
   maintain operator currency (T-3) Additional information can be found on the AFMS KX.
   Course specifics can be found at the Air Force Education and Training Course
   Announcements (https://etca.randolph.af.mil) by entering the keyword “hyper” on the
   search page. Personnel requiring this course should contact their local formal training office
   to request a training quota. This course is normally taught at various locations, with
   instructors traveling to those locations. The requesting unit provides the funding for mobile
   classes. The curriculum and student objectives are standardized; however, adjustments to the
   class length may need to be made based on availability of equipment, number of instructors,
   and facilities. Training requests are sent from the requesting unit/CC in memorandum format
   to USAFSAMRegistrar@wpafb.af.mil.
       3.4.2.1. Certification Requirements:         EEHS Team Members supporting USAF
       Operations must complete the USAFSAM EEHS course outlined above in section 3.4.2
       of this Instruction and maintain recurrent training requirements outlined in section 3.4.2.2
       of this Instruction. Personnel are then qualified to operate and maintain the EEHS in the
       discharge of their official duties and within the scope of their assigned duties.
       3.4.2.2. Recurrent Training: Must be completed every six (6) months and recurrent
       training will be proctored by the UEEHSTM and include a complete set-up and tear-
       down of the EEHS while conducting a “patient scenario” appropriate for use with the
       EEHS (T-3). Training will be documented in the individual’s training folder or AFTR as
       applicable with an AF Form 797 and a 623a comment (T-3).
       3.4.2.3. Recertification Requirements: Personnel that have previously met certification
       requirements described in paragraph 3.4.2.1 of this Instruction and have not operated the
       EEHS (training or otherwise) for equal to or greater than seven (7) months shall not be an
       EEHS Treatment Team Member (T-3). To recertify, the member must accomplish a
       complete set-up and tear-down of the EEHS while conducting a “patient scenario”
       appropriate for use with the EEHS. Personnel will be observed by the UEEHSTM, who
       must be currently certified. Personnel who have not operated the EEHS for equal to or
       greater than three (3) years must attend the USAFSAM Emergency Evacuation
       Hyperbaric Stretcher Course (B3OZYEEHS 0A1A/ B7OZYEEHS 0A1A) prior to being
       utilized as an EEHS Team Member (T-3).
3.5. Hyperbaric Team Staffing: The composition of hyperbaric chamber staffing varies based
on the hyperbaric chamber facility’s requirements. Basic team member training qualifications
are identified in paragraph 3.5.1 of this Instruction. The selection of members to supplement
hyperbaric chamber staffing is per the discretion of the Medical Group Commander. Hyperbaric
team members have traditionally been utilized based on previous familiarity with the effects of
pressure or due to possessing a background knowledge/certification to manage patient’s medical
conditions in the hyperbaric environment. Table 3.1 of this Instruction provides the suggested
staffing models displayed by Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSCs) for the primary and
supplemental staff members used in hyperbaric operations. USAF and DoD sister service
equivalents, similarly experienced and trained in hyperbaric patient care as those listed in Table
3.1 of this Instruction may apply to become supplemental team members (see paragraph 3.5.2 of
this Instruction).
 8                                                          AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014


Table 3.1. Hyperbaric Medicine Team Member and EEHS Team Members Eligible
AFSCs:
Primary Team Members                    AFSC
Medical Officer                         48XX
Nurse                                   46XX
Physician Assistants                    42GX (for EEHS use)
Medical Technician                      4N0X1
Pararescue Specialty                    1T2XX (for EEHS use)
Supplemental Team Members               AFSC
Physicians                              44XX/45XX/48XX
Oral Surgeons                           47SX
Nurses                                  46XX
Physician Assistants                    42GX
Podiatrists                             42FX
Medical Technicians                     4N0X1
Respiratory Therapist                   4H0X1
Note: The list of Supplemental Team Members is not intended to be
all inclusive, but to suggest AFSC’s that have skills, knowledge ad
attributes that will benefit the hyperbaric mission.

     3.5.1. Team Member Qualifications: Primary and Medical Supplemental Team Members:
        3.5.1.1. All hyperbaric treatment team personnel that will be compressed inside a
        chamber must be found fit for dive duty by a flight surgeon or by a physician who is
        trained        in         diving          medicine        /hyperbaric      medicine,
        http://www.nbdhmt.org/position_statements.asp#h01 (T-0). Hyperbaric team member
        medical qualifications shall mirror the standards outlined in AFI48-123, Medical
        Examinations and Standards, section 6.24.2, Operational Support Flying (OSF) Duty.
        The member will require an initial and an annual AF 1042, Medical Recommendation for
        Flying or Special Operational Duty (T-2).
        3.5.1.2. At a minimum, Clinical HBO Primary Treatment Team Members must obtain
        basic HBO training by attending an UHMS approved Primary Training in Hyperbaric
        Medicine Course (T-3).
        3.5.1.3. Physicians working at USAF hyperbaric treatment facilities must have
        completed a Fellowship in Hyperbaric Medicine and have board eligibility or board
        certification in hyperbaric medicine (T-3). Physicians who have completed a 40-hour
        hyperbaric medicine primary training course sponsored by the UHMS may be considered
        on a case by case basis for assignment to supplement the provider staff of a USAF
        hyperbaric treatment center. This will require approval by the USAF Surgeon General
        Consultant for Hyperbaric Medicine (T-3). A non-hyperbaric fellowship trained
        physician treating a USAF member in any hyperbaric capability will do so under the
        direction of USAFSAM/FEEH throughout the treatment dive (T-3).
        3.5.1.4. Nurses assigned to clinical hyperbaric treatment facilities must have as a
        minimum, current Basic Life Support (BLS) certification and have completed a
AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                                      9


     hyperbaric medicine and wound care course approved by the UHMS or the National
     Board of Diving and Hyperbaric Medical Technology (NBDHMT) en-route, or within 3
     months of assignment. In addition, a minimum of 2-years expertise in inpatient care or
     emergency nursing services is mandatory (T-3). Flight nurse experience or completion of
     the USAF Flight Nurse course (B3OBY46FX ) is highly desirable. It is highly
     encouraged that military nursing staff obtains commensurate certification in hyperbaric
     nursing if assignment is expected to exceed two years.
     3.5.1.5. Civilian contractors or civil servants assigned to clinical hyperbaric treatment
     facilities must maintain the appropriate level of verifiable training or certification for
     their respective hyperbaric positions. Contract or civilian maintenance personnel must
     demonstrate appropriate certification or verifiable subject matter expertise before they
     may perform either chamber operation or maintenance duties (T-3). Additionally, those
     personnel must hold, or obtain within 6 months of start date, certification by the
     NBDHMT as a Certified Hyperbaric Technician (T-3).
     3.5.1.6. Personnel utilized to provide inside tender duties must demonstrate competency
     in patient care according to local medical facility training requirements and have current
     BLS certification (T-3). Continuing education for members requiring re-certification is
     the responsibility of the CHT or CHRN. Any civilian or contract personnel that are
     unable to comply with CHT/CHRN requirements prior to hyperbaric chamber operation
     must be evaluated to determine competence for assigned responsibilities and have the
     certification requirement waived by the Facility Safety Director and the Hyperbaric
     Medical Director prior to independent chamber operation (T-3).
     3.5.1.7. Aerospace Medical Service Technicians (minimum 4N051 AFSC) assigned to
     clinical hyperbaric treatment facilities will obtain certification as a Certified Hyperbaric
     Technician through the National Board of Diving and Hyperbaric Medical Technology
     within one year of completing an approved NBDHMT Team Training course and 480
     hours of clinical hyperbaric medicine work experience (T-3). The 490 SEI for hyperbaric
     medicine is awarded to 4N0X1s that possess a NBDHMT certification in Hyperbaric
     Medical Technology.
  3.5.2. Qualifying for Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP): A Regular Air Force
  (RegAF) or Reservist hyperbaric team member qualifies for HDIP in accordance with DOD
  7000.14-R, Financial Management Regulation, Military Pay Policy-Active Duty and Reserve
  Pay. This can be accomplished by serving as an inside attendant on treatment dives,
  functional test dives, research dives, and proficiency or equipment-check dives. HDIP is
  prorated for the member’s first and last months of hazardous duty. Members on HDIP orders
  who do not participate in a hyperbaric dive at least once during a month must be reported to
  their accounting and finance office for collect-pay action for that month according to DFAS-
  DEM 177-373, Defense Joint Military Pay Program (T-1). This collect pay action is not
  required if members are qualified to participate in hypobaric chamber operations in lieu of
  participating in hyperbaric dive operations. Qualifying members from DoD sister services
  will be provided the appropriate forms to submit through their specific service pay channels
  certifying their eligibility for HDIP.
     3.5.2.1. Medical Supplemental Team Members (MSTMs): Within the local area, up to
     30 other medical personnel qualified as MSTMs may be designated to assist clinical
 10                                                            AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014


      hyperbaric treatment facilities and receive HDIP for hyperbaric exposures (T-1). Up to
      10 other medical personnel qualified as MSTMs may be designated to assist operational
      hyperbaric treatment facilities and receive HDIP for hyperbaric exposures (T-1). All
      supplemental team members must be trained utilizing an approved curriculum from
      USAFSAM/FEEH. (T-3)
      3.5.2.2. Team proficiency: Each team member is required to complete a minimum of
      one dive per month. Proficiency dives must go to a minimum of 2.0 ATA (33 FSW) to
      qualify. Permanently assigned hyperbaric team support personnel (non-physician/RN)
      should be rotated through applicable crew positions on subsequent dives in order to
      maintain optimum team proficiency (T-3).
   3.5.3. Dive Team Composition: The clinical hyperbaric dive team shall consist of a
   minimum of four trained individuals while operating a Class A, multiplace hyperbaric
   chamber (T-3). Regarding patient and staff safety concerns, three qualified staff members (to
   include the staff physician) are the minimum needed to operate a monoplace hyperbaric
   chamber (T-3). In all cases, when a monoplace chamber is in operation, one qualified team
   member must stay at the chamber control and communication center to maintain a constant
   observation of patients being treated, http://www.nbdhmt.org/position_statements.asp#f06
   (T-0). Clinical team member duties are determined and published in local job descriptions,
   and basic operational checklists are developed by the USAFSAM/FEEH and are available to
   other USAF clinical hyperbaric treatment facilities for local implementation.
3.6. General Administration:
   3.6.1. Operational hyperbaric chamber facilities, to include MoHS, must annotate
   documentation of recompression therapy at a minimum on AF Form 1352/AF Form 1354.
   Use of locally generated forms or electronic medical record documentation to document the
   same information is acceptable (T-3). Clinical units may use comparable forms. Medical
   documentation is subject to the guidelines of the MTF providing oversight as listed in section
   3.10 of this Instruction.
   3.6.2. All clinical and operational hyperbaric chamber facilities must maintain a roster of
   qualified team members who can be promptly recalled 24 hours/day, 7 days/week (T-3).
   Each hyperbaric facility must practice actual or telephone recall procedures during after-duty
   hours at least quarterly. An actual recall (response for treatment) may satisfy the quarterly
   practice recall procedure.
   3.6.3. Telephone directories at installations hosting clinical or operational hyperbaric
   chamber facilities must list duty-hour and after-duty-hour phone numbers for contacting on-
   call personnel of each facility (T-3). This may be accomplished through the installation’s 24-
   hour command post or medical treatment facility call team activation process.
   3.6.4. Each USAF hyperbaric or hypobaric chamber facility must maintain an updated listing
   of contingency hyperbaric chamber facilities in the surrounding geographical area (T-2). It is
   required that all USAF Flight Surgeon Offices also maintain a similar list of local area
   hyperbaric chambers to appropriately manage the effects of a suspected DCS or AGE patient
   (T-2). Chamber evaluation criteria and chamber directory links are available at the AFMS
   Knowledge Exchange, https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx2/HyperbaricMedicine/Pages/home.aspx.
AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                                          11


3.7. Emergency Hyperbaric Treatments: USAFSAM/FEEH shall maintain oversight and
consultation responsibilities of USAF patients requiring emergency hyperbaric oxygen therapy
due to a DCS or AGE, whether they receive treatment at a DoD or civilian facility (T-3).
USAFSAM/FEEH contact information is listed in section 3.3.1 of this Instruction. Additional
supporting information such as chamber evaluation criteria and chamber directories is available
at the hyperbaric section of the AFMS Knowledge Exchange. Specific administrative disposition
guidance regarding Flying after DCS Treatments and Aeromedical Disposition is provided in the
Waiver      Guide,      Decompression     Sickness      and    Arterial    Gas      Embolism,
https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx2/HyperbaricMedicine/Pages/home.aspx.
3.8. Types of Hyperbaric Chamber Exposures and de-nitrogenation: Hyperbaric chamber
exposures are conducted for patient treatments, human research, student training, functional
testing, proficiency testing, and equipment checks. All USAF hyperbaric facilities shall
determine a risk of DCS to a hyperbaric inside attendant and incorporate a de-nitrogenation
process for inside attendants, such as the USN Dive Tables, or other approved residual nitrogen
calculator in an effort to minimize the risk of developing DCS (T-3).
3.9. Hyperbaric Facility Safety Officer/Director: Fixed hyperbaric chamber facilities shall
designate a safety officer (operational)/director (clinical) for all hyperbaric operations
http://www.nbdhmt.org/position_statements.asp#c03 (T-0). This position must be filled by
an employee working in the hyperbaric department with recognized credentials and Safety
Director Training. Hyperbaric Safety Director Training focuses on National Fire Protection
Agency requirements for safe and responsible hyperbaric chamber use. The military does not
sponsor this training, and therefore, it must be acquired through civilian opportunities. The
Safety Officer/Director will report directly to the facility chief in order to assure the integrity of
the safety program. The safety officer/director is responsible for assuring the safe operation,
control, and maintenance of the chamber and support equipment as well as the safety of all
personnel in and around the hyperbaric chamber. Safety Officer/Director pertinent information
may be referenced in AFMS Knowledge Exchange.
3.10. USAF Hyperbaric Exposure Clinical/Operational Records: Hyperbaric Medicine
Facilities shall be responsible for tracking the continued use of hyperbaric oxygen in treating
selected medical conditions to better define hyperbaric oxygen efficacy, safety, and optimal dose
and response. Hyperbaric Medicine Facilities shall maintain the clinical/operational records of
patients, subjects and inside observer research files for all exposures at hyperbaric facilities
involving Air Force personnel in accordance with AFRIMS Table 48-02, Rule 21.00 and AFI 33-
364, Record Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities (T-1).
3.11. Hyperbaric Oxygen Research: Clinical hyperbaric treatment facilities are authorized to
conduct Major Force Program (MFP) 6 and Defense and Health Program (DHP) research
projects. All human research protocols must be developed according to AFI 40-402, Protection
of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research (T-1). Research facilities utilizing
HBO on animal test subjects will refer to AFMAN 40-401 IP, The Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals in DoD Programs (T-1). All hyperbaric oxygen protocols must be reviewed and
 12                                                      AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014


approved by USAFSAM/FEEH prior to submission to either the Institutional Review Board or
the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (T-1).




                                        THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                        Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                        Surgeon General
AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                                13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-202V3, Aircrew Training, General Flight Rules, 22 Oct 2010
AFI 11-403, Air Force Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 30 Nov 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013
AFI 33-364, Record Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006
AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 13 Dec
2010
AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Medical Standards, Flying and Special Operational
Duty, 05 Nov 2013
AFI 48-149, Flight and Operational Medicine Program (FOMP), 29 Aug 2012
AFMAN 40-401 IP, The Care and Use of Laboratory Animals in DoD Programs, 16 Feb 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFPD 40-4 Clinical Investigation and Human Use in Medical Research, 11 May 1994
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Enterprise, 23 Aug 2011
DFAS-DEM 177-373, Defense Joint Military Pay Program
DoD 5400.11, DoD Privacy Program, 08 May 2007
DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, 02 Dec 2009
DOD 7000.14-R Vol 7A, Chapter 24, Financial Management Regulation, Military Pay Policy-
Active Duty and Reserve Pay, Apr 2013
P-117, Article 15-102, Manual of the Medical Department NAVMED, 03 May 2012
Prescribed Forms:
AF Form 1352, Hyperbaric Patient Information and Therapy Record, 01 Oct 1982
AF Form 1354, Hyperbaric Chamber Operations Record, 01 Oct 1982
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement--Health Care Records, Feb 1976

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operating Agency
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
 14                                                  AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014


AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AGE—Air gas embolism
ASME—American Society of Mechanical Engineers
ATA—Atmospheres Absolute
CHT—Certified Hyperbaric Technologist
CO—Carbon monoxide
CONUS—Continental United States
DCS—Decompression Sickness
DHP—Defense Health Program
DoD—Department of Defense
EEHS—Emergency Evacuation Hyperbaric Stretcher
FEEH—Hyperbaric Medicine Department
FSW—Feet Sea Water
HBO—Hyperbaric Oxygenation
HDIP—Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay
MFP—Major Force Program
MHS—Military Health System
MoHS—Mobile Hyperbaric System
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
NAVMED—Navy Medicine
NAVSEA—Naval Sea Systems Command
NBDHMT—National Board of Diving and Hyperbaric Medical Technology
NFPA—National Fire Protection Agency
PVHO—Pressure Vessel for Human Occupancy
SG—Surgeon General
SNDL—Standard Navy Double Lock
TRCS—Transportable Recompression Chamber System
UHMS—Undersea and Hyperbaric Medicine Society
USA—United States Army
USAF—United States Air Force
AFI48-112 27 OCTOBER 2014                                      15


USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
USCG—United States Coast Guard
USN—United States Navy
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
