BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIRFORCE INSTRUCTION 48-149
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                 AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement

                                                                               29 JUNE 2010

                                                                         Aerospace Medicine

                                                       SQUADRON MEDICAL ELEMENTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/SGPF                                                   Certified by: HQ ACC/SGP
                                                                  (Colonel Bruce M. Edwards)
                                                                                    Pages: 20


AFI 48-149, 28 February 2003 is supplemented as follows: This supplement focuses on tasks
and processes which are unique to Air Combat Command (ACC) Squadron Medical Element
(SME)/Combat Search and Rescue Medical Element (CSARME) units, and those that merit
emphasis because of their application in the special operations environment. It applies to all
active duty ACC SME and CSARME units. This supplement has been coordinated with HQ
ANG/SG and HQ AFRC/SG and also applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and to the Air Force
Reserve (AFRC) personnel when they are under TACON/OPCON to HQ ACC.

Ensure that all records created as a result of this publication in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting
records managers as required. Send recommended changes to this publication via AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ ACC/SGPF, 162 Dodd Boulevard, Langley
AFB VA 23665-2796.

This supplement supersedes the use of AFSOCI 48-101, 1 September 2005, by CSARME units.

1.5.1.2. SMEs can be recognized by the Chief, Aerospace Medicine (SGP) as appropriate for
performance of duties within Flight Medicine. Annual medical awards will be routed through
their unit commander with coordination through the SGP IAW AFI 36-2856, Medical Service
Awards.
 2                                                       AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


1.6.3. The Medical Treatment Facility Commander (MTF/CC) is responsible for the
professional medical activities of SME flight surgeons through the SGP. Likewise, the MTF
senior Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 4N0, Medical Service, will supervise professional
activities of the SME technicians.
1.9.1.1. (Added) SMEs should be considered when planning Flight Medicine clinic training and
schedules with respect to specific unit training/responsibilities.
1.9.1.1.1. (Added) Flight Surgeons will be assigned medical duties by the SGP (or designee), in
coordination with the assigned line commanders. Duties include clinical medicine (sick call and
appointments) and non-clinical duties (flying, shop visits, squadron briefings, etc.).
1.9.1.1.2. (Added) Independent Duty Medical Technicians (IDMT)/AFSC 4N0 personnel will
be assigned medical duties by the senior “4N0” (or designee) who will outline work schedules
and daily supervision. IDMTs will work with the installation IDMT coordinator in meeting
IDMT certification and sustainment training requirements, and to maintain clinical/ancillary
skills IAW AFI 44-103, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program, and the
respective ACC supplement.
1.9.1.2.     (Added) SME personnel are generally expected to participate in line unit
activities/additional duties as determined by their unit commander. In these instances, SME
personnel should communicate early and coordinate with the SGP/senior “4N0” to deconflict
schedules. Refer to additional guidance listed in AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Operations,
and AFI 44-103.
1.9.1.2.1. (Added) If the SME personnel are assigned as Unit Health Monitor, they will review,
track and maintain Preventive Health Assessments and Individual Medical Readiness
(PIMR)/Air Force Complete Immunization Tracking Application (AFCITA) mobility
requirements, assist in pre/post-deployment interviews, and report monthly statistics to their
commanders, in coordination with Host Medical Treatment Facility (HMTF) Force Health
Management (FHM).
1.9.1.2.2. (Added) SME personnel have primary responsibility to provide and perform
administrative medical support (e.g. aeromedical waivers, shop visits, mobility processing lines,
etc.) for their respective assigned units. SME personnel should develop memorandums of
agreement (MOA) with HMTF SGP on when and how to shift responsibility in case of short
notice taskings.
1.9.1.3. (Added) SME personnel (1 flight surgeon and 2 medical technicians) support the broad
scope of flying missions such as fighter, bomber, search and rescue, transport, long-duration,
high-altitude, reconnaissance, unmanned system, and rotary wing. CSARME personnel are a
specialized subset of SME personnel who are required to meet additional mission support
requirements due to the specific nature of the personnel recovery mission. For that reason, this
supplement will discuss and define general SME, as well as additional CSARME, requirements,
duties, expectations, and responsibilities. This supplement is meant to clarify guidance from
numerous sources in order to assist SME/CSARME medical personnel in ACC.
1.9.1.4. (Added) Flight Surgeons (FS), Medical Technicians (AFSC 4N0/4N1), and IDMTs
assigned to operational units have unique roles and responsibilities. SME medical personnel are
operational medics assigned to their respective line units and as such, command and control is
executed through their unit commanders. Additionally, SME personnel must maintain their
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                                   3


medical credentials and privileges at the HMTF and must ensure a healthy working
relationship with MTF medical personnel and leadership. Thus, SME personnel must
continually work to balance line, clinical and training responsibilities.
1.9.2.1. (Added) The first priority of SME medical personnel is mission execution. SMEs are
integral members of their respective units, providing medical support to include clinical care,
disease prevention, safety counsel, environmental countermeasures, occupational medicine, and
sanitation surveillance in the home and deployed environment. SME personnel should engage
early and often with their respective line units regarding medical planning for training and real-
world mission completion.
NOTE: Flight Surgeons and IDMT personnel must also ensure that their unit specific duties are
properly balanced with professional medical responsibilities, e.g., clinical duties,
physician/technician training, continuing medical education requirements, operational medical
support (such as conducting shop visits, Fly Preventive Health Assessments (PHA), waiver
processing, occupational medical exams), and meeting attendance (such as Occupational Health
Working Group (OHWG), Aeromedical Council (AMC), weekly 1041 log reviews, and
Professional Staff).
1.9.2.2. (Added) All SME personnel will be assigned to line unit Unit Type Code (UTC) and
will ensure that all training requirements are met to deploy in support of line unit missions
requirements.
1.9.2.2.1. (Added) SMEs will be associated with the local MTF in Medical Readiness Decision
Support System Unit Level Tracking and Reporting Application (MRDSS ULTRA) for training
purposes only. For deployment taskings, they will be managed through their respective line units
IAW AFI 41-106, Unit Level Management of Medical Readiness Programs.
1.9.2.2.2. (Added) All SME personnel must maintain their deployed medical equipment in a
consistent state of readiness, working closely with the local MTF logistics section to ensure
proper maintenance and calibration. SME personnel will accomplish exercise/function checks of
their UTC equipment (i.e., Air Transportable Clinics) annually at a minimum, and accomplish
individual, unit and UTC training requirements IAW AFI 41-106.
1.9.2.3. (Added) SME personnel must ensure all unit members are medically mission ready at
all times. This includes, but is not limited to, pre/post-deployment medical screening,
immunizations and medical training.
1.9.3. All technicians will comply with AFI 44-103_ACC SUP 1 and AFMAN 44-158, The Air
Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Medical and Dental Treatment Protocols, until
formal training classes are acquired. The technician will perform within their scope of practice
when assigned.
1.9.4. (Added) There are other types of SME units (e.g. Contingency Support Group, Red
Horse) that operate under local operating instructions due to the unique mission requirements.
However, these medical personnel are still accountable to this publication and other applicable
guidance. They should assure their training and proficiency is current at all times to meet
demands of the position they hold.
1.10. (Added) CSARME Responsibilities.
 4                                                       AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


1.10.1. (Added) CSARME FSs and IDMTs assigned to operational units bring a distinctive
capability to the search and rescue mission. They are typically assigned either to individual
flying squadrons or to the Operational Support Squadron through the Operational Support
Medical (OSM) unit and command and control are executed through the unit commander.
IDMTs in CSARMEs will be assignment availability code 43 once assigned.
1.10.2. (Added) CSARMEs will ensure professional competencies are sustained through the
SGP and senior “4N0” in the MTF respectively.
1.10.3. (Added) CSARMEs are integral members of their respective units, providing clinical
medicine, disease prevention, safety, and environmental/occupational/sanitation surveillance in
the deployed environment. Additionally, CSARME personnel are integral to the sustainment of
unit medical training requirements to include patient movement for all assigned pararescuemen
(PJ). CSARME personnel should engage early and often with their respective line units
regarding medical planning for training and real-world mission completion.
1.10.4. (Added) All CSARME personnel will be assigned to designate UTC FFQER and ensure
they are always prepared to deploy and fully execute mission requirements IAW appropriate
Mission Capability Statement (MISCAP). Reference UTC 7PRTM/7PRCS MISCAP for
supported mission.
1.10.4.1. (Added) CSARME personnel will be associated with the HMTF for training purposes
only and medical training will be placed in MRDSS ULTRA by that MTF IAW AFI 41-106.
Taskings for deployments will remain the responsibility of their respective unit.
1.10.4.2. (Added) CSARMEs must maintain their equipment UTCs (FFQEN & FFQEM) in a
constant state of readiness, working with their logistics personnel to ensure proper maintenance
and calibration. CSARME personnel will accomplish exercise/function check these UTCs
annually at a minimum.
1.10.5. (Added) The primary duty location is as follows when not deployed:
1.10.5.1. (Added) CSARME personnel will perform regular operations with their unit of
assignment. However, CSARME personnel must work in the local Flight Medicine Clinic
whenever possible to assist with medical care for their assigned personnel. The FS and IDMTs
should perform duties in the clinic together whenever possible.
1.10.5.2. (Added) CSARME FSs not assigned to OSMs will develop a periodic (e.g. monthly)
schedule for all medical personnel assigned. After required operational duties are accounted for,
the schedule will be provided to Chief of Flight Medicine to allow for appropriate scheduling of
clinical, administrative, operational support activities and training responsibilities within the
MTF. Dispute resolution will be handled between the line unit commander and installation SGP.
1.10.6.       (Added) CSARME personnel will participate in unit extra-curricular
activities/additional duties as determined by the unit commander. Refer to additional guidance
listed in AFI 48-101 and AFI 44-103.
1.10.7. (Added) CSARME personnel will be recognized for quarterly/annual awards through
their unit of assignment. Annual medical awards will be routed through their unit commander
with coordination through the local SGP IAW AFI 36-2856.
1.10.8. (Added) The CSARME at each location is responsible for medical oversight of PJs
assigned at their duty station/deployed location. All IDMTs assigned to line rescue or
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                                    5


operational units will be involved in assisting the flight surgeon with the medical training of the
PJs. Medical oversight consists of:
1.10.8.1. (Added) Medical academic and clinical training at the EMT-Basic level or higher.
1.10.8.2. (Added) Medical Exercise (MEDEX).
1.10.8.3. (Added) Conduct medical proficiency skills assessment when requested.
1.10.9. (Added) Senior CSARME FS Oversight of Pararescue Medical Practice.
1.10.9.1. (Added) Pararescue Medical Treatment and Procedures/Protocols. The Pararescue
Medication and Procedure Handbook is the approved medication formulary and protocol
handbook for rescue PJs as prescribed by AFI 16-1202 Volume 1, Pararescue and Combat
Rescue Officer Training.
1.10.9.2. (Added) Changes in the pararescue medical protocols or medication formulary are to
be coordinated through the Pararescue Medical Operations Advisory Board (PJ MOAB) to the
Command Surgeon (HQ ACC/SG).
1.10.9.3. (Added) Medications not listed in the Pararescue Medication and Procedure
Handbook (non-formulary medications) may be used for a specific mission, if required for safe
completion of the mission, IAW the following stipulations:
1.10.9.3.1. (Added) Non-formulary medication must be supplied with oversight by a US
military physician, preferably a CSARME flight surgeon.
1.10.9.3.2. (Added) If possible, the CSARME FS is to be notified of any non-formulary
medication issue prior to use. In the event that this is impossible due to security or operational
considerations, a written explanation will be forwarded to the CSARME flight surgeon as soon
as possible.
1.10.9.3.3. (Added) The CSARME FS will report issue and/or use of non-formulary
medications by PJs to the HQ ACC/SG as soon as possible.
1.10.9.3.4. (Added) The CSARME FS or senior deployed flight surgeon is responsible for
medical quality assurance of PJ encounters by reviewing the Pararescue Patient Treatment Cards.
The CSARME or senior FS will check treatment IAW the Pararescue Medical Treatment and
Procedures/Protocols and provide feedback to the PJ as required.
1.10.9.4. (Added) Policy Guidance. PJs are not to engage in “sick call” medicine, unless seeing
patients in a student capacity to enhance emergency and trauma skills at an MTF under the direct
supervision of a physician or physician assistant.
1.10.9.5. (Added) Medical (Trauma) Care Delivered by PJs. PJ mission reports will be
reviewed by the senior CSARME FS responsible for ensuring medical oversight for all PJ
missions and forwarding mission reports to the PJ Medical Program Manager at the ACC Flight
Medicine Branch (HQ ACC/SGPF) via e-mail to accsgpf.flightmedicine@langley.af.mil.
1.10.9.6. (Added) Continuing Education. Pararescue continuing medical education is described
in AFI 16-1202 Volume 1 and also listed at https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/asps/CoP/opencop.asp.
PJs will maintain National Registry EMT-P certification.
2.1.1.3. CSARME and other units with unique mission requirements will have IDMTs fill both
technician positions.
 6                                                       AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


2.4.1.1. (Added) This guidance provides implementation instructions for all mandated
deployment health surveillance requirements. Unit commanders are responsible for ensuring all
deployment-processing requirements are met. HMTF are responsible for implementing all
necessary medical procedures to meet DoD and AF policies and Public Law.
2.4.1.2. (Added) Compliance. ACC SME/CSARME, if tasked as unit health monitor, will track
compliance with all deployment health surveillance requirements for each member who deploys.
Units will maintain logs (preferably electronic) of deploying, deployed and returned personnel
(by name and unit) and track compliance with current policy. SME/CSARME’s should compare
their deployment logs of personnel who have completed pre- and post-deployment health
assessments with documentation maintained by the HMTF FHM.
2.4.1.2.1. (Added) Pre-deployment Requirements at Home Station.
2.4.1.2.1.1. (Added) Unit commanders are responsible for identifying to the HMTF, all
deploying personnel prior to deployment. SME/CSARME personnel will develop a close
working relationship with HMTF FHM section, the Installation Deployment Officer (IDO),
Personnel Readiness Unit (PRU), and Unit Deployment Managers (UDM), especially with the
UDM’s from units that cut their own orders, to prevent personnel from deploying without
medical clearance.
2.4.1.2.1.2. (Added) In conjunction with HTMF FHM, SME/CSARME personnel will ensure
that deploying personnel accomplish all pre-deployment health requirements in accordance with
AEF Online reporting instructions (https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/default.aspx).
2.4.1.2.2. (Added) Further guidance can be obtained through the ACC Public Health Branch
(HQ           ACC/SGPM)            Community            of        Practice         (CoP)
(https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=MD-SG-00-09).
2.4.2.2. (Added) The SME/CSARME personnel will contact the deployed medical leadership
(e.g. SGP, SGH, or CC) within 24 hours and follow the processes in place to ensure medical
requirements (Pre and Post deployment) are met by all personnel IAW established AFIs and
theater directives.
2.4.3.2. (Added) Additionally the SME/CSARME will:
2.4.3.2.1. (Added) Collect and store the DD Form 2766, Adult Preventive and Chronic Care
Flowsheet, which will be used as the deployed medical record. Keep records of all medical
encounters (Standard Form 600, Chronological Record of Medical Care); environmental and
occupational health exposures; known or potential exposure to nuclear, biological and chemical
agents; or other health risk exposures, and file in the DD Form 2766.
2.4.3.2.2. (Added) Collect any Force Health Protection Prescription products that were issued to
personnel or troop commanders, which are not needed immediately, for distribution when threat
increases. For example, if Pyridostimine Bromide tabs are issued to the individual, ensure
procedures are in place to replace them after 90 days.
2.4.3.2.3. (Added) If available, enter personnel into any deployed automated medical tracking
system (e.g. Medical Communications for Combat Casualty Care (MC4), Complete
Immunization Tracking Application (AFCITA), etc.) in use. This may be done via a download
from Personnel Support of Contingency Operations (PERSCO) database.
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                                  7


2.4.3.2.4. (Added) Ensure Post-Deployment health requirements are completed in accordance
with policy.        Guidance can be obtained from HQ ACC/SGPM CoP
(https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=MD-
SG-00-09-18&Filter=MD-SG-00-09).
2.6. (Added) Infection Control.
2.6.1. (Added) Responsibilities.
2.6.1.1. (Added) IAW AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program, Paragraph 1.6., the HMTF,
Medical Group Commander establishes an Infection Control Committee (ICC) and appoints a
medical/dental provider, usually the Chief of Clinical Services (SGH), to chair the ICC. The
SGH maintains overall responsibility for the Infection Control Program (ICP).
2.6.1.2. (Added) In SME/CSARME units functioning independent of the HMTF and without
direct oversight by an SGH, the senior flight surgeon or designee will ensure an ICP is developed
and submitted to the installation MTF ICC for approval prior to implementation at ACC
SME/CSARME units.            The ICP will include guidance regarding in-garrison and
TDY/deployment work practices, including but not limited to standard precautions, hand
washing, management of sharps, needles, regulated waste, disposal of hazardous waste in austere
locations, and use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
2.6.1.3. (Added) SME/CSARME Senior Flight Surgeon will:
2.6.1.3.1. (Added) Review and update the ICP accordingly to reflect new or modified tasks and
procedures or available resources.
2.6.1.3.2. (Added) Maintain a copy of AFI 44-108; AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and
Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health or Military Significance; AFI 91-301, Air
Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFSOSH)
Program, and this publication.
2.6.1.3.3. (Added) Ensure SME/CSARME personnel understand and comply with infection
control policies and procedures.
2.6.1.3.4. (Added) Conduct initial and periodic training for medical personnel at deployed
location by in-service or information letters. Document training for infection control practices
on the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, maintained for enlisted in the
member’s AF IMT 623, On-the-Job Training Record, and for officers, by their supervisor.
2.6.1.3.5. (Added) Evaluate work practices to find ways of improving personnel practices and
protection.
2.6.1.3.6. (Added) Report infection control discrepancies and inconsistencies to the SGH and
the local MTF ICC.
2.6.2. (Added) Surveillance. Surveillance of infection control policies and procedures will be
in accordance with DoD and AF guidance.
2.6.3. (Added) Exposure Incident. Management of exposures will be in accordance with DoD,
AF and relevant clinical protocol guidance.
2.7. (Added) Use of Controlled Medications.
 8                                                      AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


2.7.1. (Added) Controlled medications are used both clinically and operationally. The clinical
use of controlled medications in garrison or deployed will be IAW DoD policy; AFI 44-102,
Medical Care Management; and Public Law.
2.7.2. (Added) The operational use of Air Force approved Go and No/Go pills will be IAW Air
Force                       policy                        available                     at:
https://kx.afms.mil/kxweb/dotmil/kjPage.do?cid=CTB_018355&functionalArea=Aerospace
Medicine and the most recent Official Air Force Aircrew Medications list available at:
https://kx.afms.mil/kxweb/dotmil/kjPage.do?cid=CTB_020686&functionalArea=Aerospace
Medicine.
2.8. (Added) Quality Reporting. SME/CSARME units will conduct physician preceptor review
of IDMT medical records at least twice per calendar year IAW AFI 44-103 and the respective
ACC Supplement. The reports of the reviews will be forwarded to the installation IDMT
coordinator.
2.9. (Added) Medical Scope of Care and Quality Assurance in Deployed Environment.
2.9.1. (Added) This supplement defines the roles and responsibilities of health care providers
(HCP) and IDMTs regarding scope of care and quality assurance monitoring while in a deployed
setting. HCP are defined as physicians, physician assistants (PAs), nurse practitioners and
Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs). Credentialing, privileging and quality
assurance for in-garrison care remains the responsibility of the HMTF in accordance with AFI
44-119, Medical Quality Operations.
2.9.2. (Added) Scope of Care Documentation. All HCPs will maintain a current copy of their
Inter-facility Credentials Transfer Brief (ICTB) in their deployment folders. IDMTs will
maintain a copy of their current certification paperwork in their deployment folders. All will
hand carry these documents for the duration of the deployment. HCPs and IDMTs will provide
the medical commander with a copy of these documents and comply with local MTF instructions
if deployed to location with other medical assests (e.g. MTF, Expeditionary Medical Support
(EMEDS), Combat Army Surgical Hospital (CSH), etc). If no fixed medical facility exists,
HCPs and IDMTs will ensure the senior physician at the deployed location reviews all ICTBs
and IDMT certification documents. HCPs and IDMTs will practice within their respective scope
of care (as documented by ICTB and IDMT certifications) at all times.
2.9.3. (Added) Quality Assurance. The senior deployed flight surgeon is responsible for
medical quality assurance during deployments. Quality Assurance will include chart reviews as
determined by HMTF/MAJCOM directives for HCPs and IAW AFI 44-103 for IDMTs. Chart
reviews will be accomplished by the SME/CSARME unit flight surgeon or next senior physician.
In cases when an appropriate reviewer is not readily available, charts will be reviewed
immediately upon return to home station. After return from deployment, a copy of all
documentation of chart reviews will be forwarded to HMTF IDMT Program Manager.
2.10. (Added) Aeromedical Disposition.
2.10.1. (Added) Aeromedical disposition for flying or special operations duty personnel will be
managed IAW AFI 48-101 and AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards--Flying and
Special Operational Duty.
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                                  9


2.10.2. (Added) All HCPs and IDMTs may place an aircrew member on duties not including
flying (DNIF) status or special operations duty personnel on duties not including controlling
(DNIC) status. Only a credentialed and privileged flight surgeon may return aircrew or special
operations duty personnel to flying/controlling status or make a determination that a member
does not need to be placed in DNIF/DNIC status.
2.10.2.1.    (Added) In contingencies when no flight surgeon is available, all other
providers/IDMTs must contact a flight surgeon for appropriate aeromedical disposition. This
must be documented in the aviator’s medical record and subsequently countersigned by the
consultant or home station flight surgeon upon return from deployment.
2.10.2.2. (Added) Any DoD flight surgeon may be used as an aeromedical consultant. Non-US
flight surgeons will not be used as consultants for aeromedical dispositions or return to flying
status.
2.10.2.3. (Added) In the circumstance that no flight surgeon is available for consultation and
there is loss of communication the non-flight surgeon provider will discuss the aviator’s medical
condition with the deployed line commander for disposition.
NOTE: Non-AF flight surgeon consultation requires aeromedical disposition review as soon as
feasible.
2.10.2.4. (Added) All SME/CSARME flight surgeons (not on LV, deployed, TDY or in
mandatory training) must attend the weekly Aircrew Management (Grounding Management)
meeting at their HMTF. They will provide current information and updates on ACC grounded
personnel, waivers, soft contact lens status, Mission Essential Task Lists (METLs) currency, and
other flight medicine programs IAW AFI 48-101.
2.11. (Added) Immunizations. This guidance, along with AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and
Chemoprophylaxis, provides implementation instructions for all immunization requirements.
Additional immunization and chemoprophylaxis requirements may be recommended by the Joint
Preventive Medicine Policy Group or may be required by Theater Combatant Commanders
(COCOM). All ACC personnel are responsible for maintaining current immunizations.
SME/CSARME units will track immunization requirements through FHM for assigned personnel
and will notify commanders if/when members are non compliant every 30 days. Unit
commanders, in coordination with HQ ACC/SG, may require additional immunizations based on
a risk assessment.
3.6. (Added) Administration.
3.6.1. (Added) Formal Training. The HQ ACC/SG Manpower and Force Management Branch
(HQ ACC/SGSM) (accsgsm.manpower@langley.af.mil) coordinates formal medical training for
all CSARME/SME personnel.
3.6.2. (Added) Unit Training Manager (UTM) Appointment. ACC MTF, tenant unit, or
Operations Support Medical Flight commanders appoint a UTM in writing. Appointment letter
is forwarded to HQ ACC/SGSM. The UTM is the POC for all formal medical training
request/issues.
NOTE: CSARME/SME’s should be proactive in attaining quotas by directly contacting HQ
ACC/SGSM in the event a UTM is not identified to HQ ACC/SGSM.
3.6.3. (Added) Formal Training Projection.
 10                                                      AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


3.6.3.1. (Added) Annual screening allows each MAJCOM to project training requirements
resulting in funded and unfunded training quotas for the FY. HQ ACC/SGSM will send out a
training spreadsheet to all units requesting input of formal training courses required for each
upcoming FY (i.e. April 09 request inputs for FY 10). Suspense for this input will be 30 days.
3.6.3.2. (Added) UTMs or CSARME/SMEs will obtain requirements for the upcoming FY by
September every year. This data must be forwarded to HQ ACC/SGSM by October.
3.6.3.3. (Added) Training quotas are allocated by Air Education and Training Command, Air
Force Material Command and the Air Force Medical Operations Agency, to each MAJCOM.
HQ ACC/SGSM notifies respective UTMs or CSARME/SMEs of the training quotas available.
3.6.3.4. (Added) The UTM or CSARME/SME submits the full name, grade, SSN and AFSC of
the individual for the allocated quotas IAW education and training course announcements
(https://etca.randolph.af.mil/default.asp). Type 5 training courses (identified by a 5 in the
second digit of the course number) require the addition of security clearance, unit mailing
address, duty title and DSN.
3.6.3.5. (Added) Out-of-cycle training requirements may be requested when quotas were not
projected or for additional quotas. The UTM or CSARME/SME submits request for out-of-cycle
quotas by letter, e-mail or fax to HQ ACC/SGSM. The request must include the course title,
course number and the individual’s information as described.
3.7. (Added) Medical Training, Certification and Reporting Requirements.
3.7.1. Table 1 and 2 outline ACC’s required, priority and optional medical training for personnel
assigned to SME/CSARME units. Approved platforms for required training are outlined in
section 12.2 below. Refer to unit DOC statement for Status of Resources and Training System
(SORTS) reportable training requirements. All required IDMT training will be reported in the
quarterly executive report IAW ACC Sup 1 to AFI 44-103_ACC SUP 1, Table A1. The ACC
Nursing Division (HQ ACC/SGN) Functional Area Manager is the waiver authority for all
required IDMT training and the ACC Aeromedical Services Division (HQ ACC/SGP) is for all
flight surgeon related training. Required, priority or optional training is defined as follows.
3.7.1.1. (Added) Required Training. Minimal training needed for personnel to be considered
operational. It is based on a GO/NO-GO status. The requirement can be waived by proper
authority (i.e. unit commander) if absolutely necessary.
3.7.1.2. (Added) Priority Training. Training that should be completed within the first 12
months of being assigned to a unit however can be completed during the assignment period and
will not be required for the operational readiness of personnel.
NOTE: CSARME/SME have priority for these courses however MTF FS or IDMTs can attend.
3.7.1.3.   (Added) Optional Training. Training that will add to the capabilities of
CSARME/SME personnel but have no requirement for completion time or operational
considerations.

Table 3.1. (Added) Training for SME/CSARME Flight Surgeons.
 REQUIRED FS TRAINING                                      FREQUENCY
 ATLS                                        All           Initial training/maintain currency
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                           11


Altitude Chamber                          All      Initial training/maintain currency
                                                   Initial training/maintain currency
Survival Training (including Underwater
Egress, Parachute Water Survival, and     All
other unit directed training)
Field Management of Chemical and
Biological Casualties                     All      Initial training
Medical Management of Chemical and
Biological Causalities                    All      Initial training
Combat Casualty Care Course - C4          All      Initial training
Critical Care Air Transport Team          CSARME   Initial training/maintain currency
(CCATT)
PRIORITY FS TRAINING                               FREQUENCY
Global Medicine                           All      Initial training
Top Knife II                              All      Initial training
Aircraft Mishap Investigation             All      Initial training
CASEVAC/Army MEDEVAC                      CSARME   Initial/maintain currency
OPTIONAL FS TRAINING                               FREQUENCY
Public Health CONOPS                      All      Initial training
Advanced Clinical Concepts in             All      Initial training
Aeromedical Evacuation (ACCAE)
Joint Enroute Care Course (JECC) Fort     All      Initial training
Rucker
Contingency Preventive Medical Course     All      Initial training
Human Performance Enhancement             All      Initial training
Occupational Medicine                     All      Initial training
SGP Course                                All      Initial training
Advance Wilderness Life Support           CSARME   Initial training

Table 3.2. (Added) Training for SME/CSARME Medical Technicians.


REQUIRED TECHNICIAN TRAINING                       FREQUENCY
ACLS                                      All      Obtain/maintain currency
                                                   Initial training/maintain currency
Trauma Sustainment Training               All
Field Management of Chemical and
Biological Casualties                     All      Initial training
Medical Management of Chemical and
Biological Causalities                    All      Initial training
SERE 100 (on-line training)               All      Initial training/maintian currency
 12                                                        AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


 NREMT-Paramedic                              CSARME         Initial training/maintain currency
 PRIORITY TECHNICIAN TRAINING                                FREQUENCY
 Public Health CONOPS                         All            Initial training
 Operational Entomology                       All            Initial training
 Survival Training (SV-80)                    CSARME         Initial training
 CASEVAC/Army MEDEVAC Training                CSARME         Initial training/maintain currency
 OPTIONAL TECHNICIAN TRAINING                                FREQUENCY
 Global Medicine Course                       All            Initial training
 Underwater Egress Training                   CSARME         Initial training
 Altitude Chamber Training                    CSARME         Initial training/maintain currency

3.7.2. (Added) Approved training platforms (not all inclusive).
3.7.2.1. (Added) NREMT-P (CSARME Units).
3.7.2.1.1. (Added) Initial EMT-P training for IDMTs will be accomplished at one of the
approved training sites. Contact HQ ACC/SGN for a list of sites.
3.7.2.1.2. (Added) Paramedic refresher training (required every two years). ACC personnel
will attend any HQ ACC/SGN approved NREMT-P refresher course.
3.7.2.2. (Added) Trauma Skills Sustainment. SME/CSARME personnel require exposure to the
hands on management of human trauma patients in an environment where current best practices
in trauma care can be attained or refreshed. Individuals require AFSC appropriate exposure to
10 trauma patients during the prior two years at a minimum. Methods of acquiring patient
experience are as follows.
3.7.2.2.1. (Added) Combat Casualty Care Course (C4).
3.7.2.2.2. (Added) War Surgery Course.
3.7.2.2.3. (Added) Joint Forces Combat Trauma Management Course.
3.7.2.2.4. (Added) Special Operations Forces Medical Skills Sustainment Course through the
Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) Surgeon General Operations Division (HQ
AFSOC/SGO).
3.7.2.2.5. (Added) Advance Trauma Life Support (ATLS).
3.7.2.2.6. (Added) C-STARS at the Baltimore Trauma Center or a similar military trauma
training program. Alternate programs will not require formal waiver as long as they are designed
to provide significant exposure to traumatized human patients, are run by a DOD organization,
and are greater than 10 days in length. Successful course completion will fulfill the trauma skills
sustainment requirement; a patient list will not be required. CSARME/SME technicians should
attend the IDMT Track at C-STARS Baltimore for initial training.
3.7.2.2.7. (Added) Monitored work at another level I or II trauma center. A patient list
identifying the number of patients, their injuries and procedures performed must be maintained
in the individual’s training folder. Coordination with and approval by HQ ACC/SGN or HQ
ACC/SGP respectively must be completed prior to skills sustainment training completed at non
C-STARS cites.
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                                   13


3.7.2.2.8. (Added) Trauma patients managed in a deployed setting can account for up to 5 of the
required 10 trauma patients managed during a two year period. A patient list identifying the
number of patients managed while deployed, their injuries and procedures performed must be
maintained in the individual’s training folder.
3.7.2.2.9. (Added) Members reporting directly to CSARME/SME units from residency and/or
internship programs are considered to have current trauma skills within 2 years from the last
month they were on a rotation that exposed them routinely to trauma patients (trauma surgery,
ER at a trauma center, anesthesia at a trauma center).
3.7.2.2.10. (Added) IDMTs that have attended paramedic school are considered to have current
trauma skills for 2 years after course completion however if they are deployed they should attend
C-STARS.
3.7.2.2.11. (Added) Requests to complete other courses to fulfill the Trauma Related CME
training requirement must be forwarded to HQ ACC/SGN for technicians or HQ ACC/SGP for
FSs for approval.
3.7.3. (Added) Casualty Evacuation (CASEVAC) Training. This training will meet the patient
movement training requirement.
3.7.3.1. (Added) Training will be accomplished at the unit level using approved patient
movement checklist.
NOTE: ACC CSARME personnel will attend the AFSOC CASEVAC course at Hurlburt Field
as training allocations are available. Requests for course allocations will be coordinated through
HQ ACC/SGSM.
3.7.3.2. (Added) Army MEDEVAC Training at Ft. Rucker, AL can be accomplished instead of
the CASEVAC course at Hurlburt Field, FL. Request should be made directly through Army
channels and coordinated with HQ ACC SGN/SGP approval.
3.7.3.3. (Added) Patient movement currency should be accomplished by completing a
minimum of one in-flight patient movement mission or one in-flight patient movement exercise
quarterly in conjunction with PJ training missions. At no time is the CSARME patient
movement training to take precedence over PJ patient movement training.
3.7.4. (Added) Survival Training.
3.7.4.1. (Added) Formal Aircrew Survival training at the United States Air Force School of
Aerospace Medicine or Fairchild AFB.
NOTE: Other AFSC specific survival training requirements should be coordinated through
assigned line units.
3.7.4.2. (Added) All SME/CSARME technicians will complete AF SERE 100 training except
personnel who have completed SV-80A and maintain SV-80A currency.
3.7.4.3. (Added) Additional Training Requirements. All SME/CSARME personnel will meet
additional training requirements associated with mobility and the core training requirements
indicated in AFI 41-106.
3.7.5. (Added) Readiness Verification Skills. All personnel must be current in their AFSC
readiness verification skills with emphasis on field emergency medical skills.
 14                                                        AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


3.7.6. (Added) Flying Duty. All personnel required to perform flying duty on a frequent or
recurring basis must ensure all flying training requirements are maintained (e.g. egress, survival,
crew resource management, altitude chamber, helicopter underwater egress, etc.). This training
will be documented and maintained per local operations group policies and will be monitored by
the unit training manager.
3.7.7. (Added) OSM Medical Planners Training.
3.7.7.1. (Added) Required training courses include the Medical Readiness Planners Course and
Medical Logistics Symposium.
3.7.7.2. (Added) Optional training courses include the Contingency Wartime Planners Course,
Joint Medical Planners Course, Joint Operations Medical Managers Course, Combat Casualty
Care Course and Dynamics of International Terrorism course.
3.8.      (Added) EMT-Paramedic (EMT-P) Treatment Protocols for SME/CSARME
IDMTs. AFSOC Handbook 48-1, EMT-P Protocols for Air Force Special Operations Medical
Technicians, is approved as the ACLS medication formulary and protocol handbook for Air
Force Special Operations/Search and Rescue medical technicians, specifically AFSC 4N0X1C,
assigned to operational support and rescue units. The scope of practice for CSARME IDMTs
performing EMT-I/P duties is limited to these protocols. Proposed changes to these protocols
will be coordinated through HQ ACC/SGN to HQ AFSOC/SGO.

                                       Chapter 4 (Added)

           OPERATIONAL SUPPORT MEDICAL (OSM) FLIGHT CONCEPT


4.1. (Added) OSM Flight Overview.
4.1.1. (Added) The OSM flight concept is specifically organized, trained and equipped to
support the unique CSAR flying mission in addition to the needs of the in-garrison medical team.
The primary role of the OSM flight is to establish a comprehensive deployment medical plan,
medical training program and operational medical capability to support deployed CSAR forces.
4.1.2. (Added) OSM flights centrally manage the medical assets assigned to their respective
operations group. They provide oversight of personnel and training requirements, War Reserve
Material (WRM) assets, SORTS, Air Expeditionary Force Reporting Tool, and other reporting
requirements. OSM flights focus on operational medicine i.e., deployed medical support, home-
station flight medicine for the flying community and their dependents, and operational planning
processes. The OSM will work closely with the local base medical group to support PHA,
fitness, aviation psychology, immunizations, employment surveillance, and health
promotion/prevention programs and processes.
4.2. (Added) OSM Flight Commander Responsibilities.
4.2.1. (Added) The senior assigned flight surgeon for each OSM will serve as the flight
commander and medical director for the rescue group or squadron(s). The medical director acts
as the senior medical advisor to leadership and oversees all aspects of operational medicine -
training/certification, deployment, preparation, contingency planning and medical logistics. As
the OSM flight commander, they will manage a combination of flight surgeons, IDMTs, MSCs
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                                   15


and medical logisticians to meet the operational medical needs of CSAR operations. As medical
director, they are the medical authority for EMT-P certifications for all assigned personnel
(PJ/IDMT).
4.2.2. (Added) The flight commander or designated representative will develop a periodic (e.g.
monthly) schedule for all medical personnel assigned. After required operational duties are
accounted for, the schedule will be provided to the SGP or designee Medicine to allow for
appropriate scheduling of clinical, administrative, operational support activities and training
responsibilities within the MTF.
4.3. (Added) OSM Flight Surgeon Responsibilities.
4.3.1. (Added) Assigned FSs primary mission is medical coverage in support of CSAR
operations in mature and bare-base environments and home station activities. They assist with
planning and coordinating patient movement missions from combat zones or point of injury to
higher echelons of care. In-garrison squadron activities include (but are not limited to) directing
flight clinical doctrine and operations, medical training, aircraft mishap investigation, and
physiological incident response and reporting.
4.3.2. (Added) FSs are responsible for oversight of medical training of PJs and IDMTs, the
maintenance of their EMT-P certifications, and oversight of any medical intervention performed.
Because all assigned PJs and IDMTs require paramedic qualification, they ultimately provide
medical care under the license of the senior FS, who is their endorsing medical officer. PJs and
IDMTs work directly under the supervision of the deployed flight surgeon while deployed. To
ensure accountability, units FSs perform regular medical exercises to verify PJ and IDMT
medical proficiency.
4.3.3. (Added) FSs also support the overall base medical support plan by providing acute and
routine medical and administrative support to base active duty and family members via the host
medical treatment facility. A formal MOA with the local MTF that outlines local clinic support
expectations and other support requirements is highly recommended.
4.3.4. (Added) Assigned FS, as rated aircrew members, must complete the minimum number of
flying hours IAW current AFIs. The flying hour requirement should be met through meaningful
training sorties that develop operational capability (aircraft configuration, patient movement,
transload operations, and airborne medical control) whenever possible.
4.3.5. (Added) Additional duties might include WRM assemblage oversight and management,
on-scene Drop Zone medical coverage and coordination during parachute operations, medical
block training, SERE support training. Under certain circumstances, FS monitor and oversee
group PIMR requirements in conjunction with unit IDMTs.
4.4. (Added) OSM Medical Planner Responsibilities.
4.4.1. (Added) The Medical Service Corps (MSC) conducts detailed mission analysis and
develops medical personnel and equipment packages supporting all deliberate, crisis action and
exercise scenarios. The assigned MSC must continuously monitor steady-state operations
providing medical planning, policy guidance and execution support for all deployed personnel.
4.4.2. (Added) The MSC manages all assigned WRM projects ensuring doc statement taskings
are fully mission capable. Additional administrative support includes the planning and executing
of allotted O&M and training budgets in support of all assigned medical personnel and PJs.
 16                                                         AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


4.4.3. (Added) The assigned MSC must possess the R (medical planner) prefix. A top-secret
clearance is highly recommended and at least one flight member should possess a top-secret
clearance.
4.5. (Added) OSM Independent Duty Medical Technicians (IDMT) Responsibilities.
4.5.1. (Added) The IDMT provides medical coverage in support of CSAR personnel in mature
and bare-base environments. The IDMT might assist with the planning and coordination of
patient movement missions from combat zones or point of injury to higher echelons of care.
4.5.2. (Added) The IDMT must work in concert with the assigned FS providing in-garrison
acute and routine medical and administrative support. The IDMT assists the FS with group
vaccination programs, medical briefings and, when required, aircraft mishap investigation, and
physiological incident response, investigation, and reporting. The IDMT serves as FS force
multipliers in assisting with situational medical exercises and training for all assigned IDMTs
and PJs.
4.5.3. (Added) The IDMT has numerous mission critical, non-traditional roles within CSAR;
and should not be considered a traditional IDMT. When not performing training at the local
HMTF or assisting the FS, the IDMT will be located within the unit conducting additional
training; i.e. ground training, flight training, combat survival training, etc. Other frequent duties
include on-scene DZ medical coverage and coordination during parachute operations, assistance
with WRM assemblages, medical block training, SERE training support, and monitoring and/or
oversight of group PIMR requirements.
4.5.4. (Added) The IDMT is not on official flying status but may serve a mission essential
function and may fly on non-interference aeronautical orders signed by the respective unit
commander IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation Management; AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist
Service Aeronautical Ratings and Badges; and ACC supplements. Non-interference AO’s
require a current AF Form 1042 (medical clearance to fly), Medical Recommendations for Flying
or Special Operational Duty, and AF Form 702 (proof of hyperbaric chamber qualification),
Individual Physiological Training Record. Non-interference AO’s are given at the discretion of
the unit commander. The goal of the IDMT is to train/support assigned pararescuemen in the
aeromedical environment.
4.6. (Added) OSM Medical Material Craftsman Responsibilities.
4.6.1. (Added) Medical material craftsmen oversee the day-to-day management of all OSM
medical and PJ WRM assemblages and equipment ensuring they are ready to deploy at
moment’s notice. They process medical supply and equipment packages returning from
deployments or contingencies ensuring they are properly reconstituted and accounted for to assist
with funding requirements.
4.6.2. (Added) They conduct frequent interfaces with the DMLSS system ordering medical
supplies in support of day-to-day operations and training.
4.6.3. (Added) Logisticians provide the oversight, ordering, storage, and dispersal of controlled
medications IAW published guidance.
4.6.4. (Added) Logistician must work closely with the base MTF to ensure the maintenance of
calibrated medical equipment by Bioenviromental Medical Equipment Technicians.
4.7. (Added) Adopted Forms. AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                  17


AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder
AF Form 702, Individual Physiological Training Record
AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendations for Flying or Special Operational Duty
DD Form 2766, Adult Preventive and Chronic Care Flowsheet
Standard Form 600, Chronological Record of Medical Care




                                         ROGER S. GOETZ, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                         Deputy Command Surgeon
 18                                                     AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 7 March 2007
AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service Aeronautical Ratings and Badges, 25 September
2007
AFI 16-1202 Volume 1, Pararescue and Combat Rescue Officer Training, 29 March 2007
AFI 36-2856, Medical Service Awards, 10 August 2006
AFI 41-106, Unit Level Management of Medical Readiness Programs, 14 April 2008
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFI 44-103, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program, 1 May 2005
AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program, 1 July 2000
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 24 September 2007
AFMAN 44-158, Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Medical and Dental
Treatment Protocols, 1 December 1999
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Operations, 19 August 2005
AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health
or Military Significance, 1 March 2005
AFI 48-123 Volume 3, Medical Examination and Standards Volume 3--Flying and Special
Operational Duty, 5 June 2006
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health
(AFSOSH) Program, 1 June 1996
AFSOC Handbook 48-1, EMT I/P Protocols for Air Force Special Operations Medical
Technicians, 1 July 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACLS—-Advanced Cardiac Life Support
ATLS—-Advanced Trauma Life Support
AFCITA—-Air Force Complete Immunization Tracking Application
AFSC—-Air Force Specialty Code
CASEVAC—Casualty Evacuation
CSH—-Combat Army Surgical Hospital
CCATT—-Critical Care Aeromedical Transport Team
CME—-Continuing Medical Education
CONOPS—-Concept of Operations
AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010                                                       19


CSAR—-Combat Search and Rescue
CSARME—-Combat Search and Rescue Medical Element
DMLLS—-Defense Medical Logistic System
EMEDS—-Expeditionary Medical Support
ETCA—-Education & Training Course Announcements
FAM—-Functional Area Manager
FHM—-Force Health Management
FHPPP—-Force Health Protection Prescription Products
HCP—-Health Care Provider (physicians, physician’s assistants, nurse practitioners, and
independent duty medical technicians)
HMTF—-Host Medical Treatment Facility
HQ ACC/SG—-ACC Surgeon General
HQ ACC/SGN—-ACC Nursing Division
HQ ACC/SGP—-ACC Aerospace Medicine Division
HQ ACC/SGPF—-ACC Flight Medicine Branch
HQ ACC/SGPM—-ACC Public Health Branch
HQ ACC/SGSM—-ACC SG Manpower and Force Management Branch
HQ AFSOC/SGO—-Surgeon General Operations Division
IAW—-In Accordance With
ICTB—-Interfacility Credentials Transfer Brief
ICP—-Infection Control Program
IDMT—-Independent Duty Medical Technician
IDO—-Installation Deployment Officer
MC4—-Medical Communications for Combat Casualty Care
MEDEX—-Medical Exercise
METL—-Mission Essential Task List
MTF—-Medical Treatment Facility
NREMT—-Nationally Registered Emergency Medical Technician
PB—-Pyridostimine Bromide
PERSCO—-Personnel Support of Contingency Operations
PIMR—-Preventative Health Assessment and Individual Medical Readiness
PRU—-Personnel Readiness Unit
PPE—-Personal Protective Equipment
 20                                               AFI48-149_ACCSUP 29 JUNE 2010


PJ—-Pararescueman
PJ MOAB—-Pararescue Medical Operations Advisory Board
PPE—-Personal Protective Equipment
SERE—-Survival, Evasion, and Recovery
SGP—-Chief of Aerospace Medicine
SORTS—-Status of Resources and Training System
SSN—-Social Security Number
UDM—-Unit Deployment Managers
USAFSAM—-United States Air Force School of Aerospace
UTC—Unit Type Code
