BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                        HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                   Supplement

                                                                             7 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                               Medical Command

                                                                           FAMILY ADVOCACY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 75 MDOS/SGOW                                                       Certified by: 75 MDG/CC
                                                                        (Col Donald C. Hickman)
                                                                                         Pages: 12


This publication establishes the Hill AFB Family Advocacy Program (FAP), in accordance with
the AFI 40-301. It has been established to help strengthen and support the active duty members
of Hill AFB and their family members by providing services and resources that focus on various
forms of maltreatment. Stronger families mean that members will most likely perform their
duties with greater strength, deploy with confidence, and sustain efforts to support the AF
mission. It mandates reporting of incidents of family maltreatment by all base organizational
units and government employees, and explains the responsibilities and procedures for local
implementation of the FAP. This supplement applies to all military and civilian personnel and
their dependents entitled to receive medical care in a military facility as specified in AFI 41-115,
Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services System. This
publication requires collecting and maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 10 USC 8013; Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG Q, Family Advocacy
Program Record, applies. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.
 2                                           AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


1. RESPONSIBILITIES.
1.3. 75th Air Base Wing Commander (75 ABW/CC):
1.3.1. Maintains overall responsibility for the implementation, operation and effectiveness of the
FAP.
1.3.2. Establishes the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC)
1.3.3. Ensures the FAC is composed of representatives from the following organizations or duty
sections: Commander of 75 ABW or designated senior representative; Medical Treatment
Facility (MTF) Commander or Deputy Commander; Family Advocacy Officer (FAO) or
designee; Family Advocacy Outreach Manager (FAOM) or Family Advocacy Intervention
Specialist (FAIS) in the absence of a FAOM; 75 ABW/OO-ALC Command Chief Master
Sergeant; Airman & Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) Director or designee; Staff Judge
Advocate (OO-ALC/JA) or designee; Force Support Squadron Chief or Deputy Chief;
Commander of 75th Security Forces (SFS) or designee; Air Force Office of Special
Investigations Detachment 113 (AFOSI); Family Member Support Flight Chief or designee;
Wing Chaplain or designee; and representatives from other base agencies as deemed necessary.
The specific responsibilities of each FAC member are outlined in AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy.
1.3.3.1. (Added) Appoints 75th Medical Group Commander (75 MDG/CC) to administer the
base FAP and to serve as the FAC Chairperson.
1.3.4. The Air Base Wing Vice Commander (75 ABW/CV):
1.3.4.1. (Added) Chairs the Central Registry Board (CRB).
1.3.4.2. (Added) Meets with the FAO and 75 MDG/CC to discuss recommendations as to
whether the Incident Status Determination Review (ISDR) request meets criteria for approval.
Decides whether to approve or disapprove the ISDR.
1.4. Family Advocacy Committee (FAC):
1.4.1. Meets at least quarterly. Additional meetings may be held at the call of the Chairperson.
1.4.2. Approves nominations for membership on the Central Registry Board (CRB), Child
Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT), and High Risk for Violence Response Team
(HRVRT).
1.4.3. Ensures the implementation of the local FAP according to Department of Defense (DoD)
Instructions, Air Force Instruction, and FAP standards. A detailed list of responsibilities can be
found in AFI 40-301, paragraph 1.5.3.
1.4.4. Receives annual training on committee responsibilities and overall FAP mission.
1.4.5. Promotes and supports prevention of family maltreatment and addresses or elevates
barriers and other FAP issues as warranted.
1.5. The 75 Medical Group Commander/CC:
1.5.1. Chairs the FAC IAW the Headquarters Air Force Medical Support Agency (HQ AFMSA)
directives.
1.5.2. Reviews ISDR with the FAO. Makes recommendations to the 75 ABW/CV as to whether
the request meets criteria for appeal.
AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                            3


1.5.3. Ensures evaluation and care in cases of alleged sexual maltreatment is provided IAW
Medical Group Operating Instruction (MGI) 44-41, Identification and Reporting of Suspected
Child, Spouse, and Elder Maltreatment Cases.
1.5.4. Reports all cases of physical violence or child neglect to the 75th Security Forces Control
Center (75 SFS/LED).
1.5.5. (Added) Ensures the FAO/designee is notified immediately upon receipt of initial reports
of child or spouse maltreatment to include emotional, physical, sexual, and neglect. The
FAO/designee will also be contacted when a death occurs and family maltreatment is suspected.
During duty hours, the FAO will be contacted. After hours, the 75 MDOS/SGOWM Mental
Health Clinic (MHC) Provider on-call will be contacted through the 75th Air Base Wing
Command Post (75 ABW/CP) via 801-777-3007.
1.6. FAO/designee:
1.6.1. Directs and manages the Hill AFB FAP according to HQ AFMSA directives.
1.6.2. Develops installation and medical group procedures for the identification, assessment and
treatment of suspected spouse and child maltreatment.
1.6.3. (Added) Activates and chairs the CSMRT following receipt of an allegation of child
sexual maltreatment.
1.6.4. (Added) Activates and chairs the HRVRT in the event that members of a family unit may
be in imminent danger of being harmed by other family members. For the purposes of the
HRVRT, family members include active duty members, spouses, children and stepchildren,
former spouse, and/or former step-parents. Additionally, activates the HRVRT if FAP personnel
may be in danger of being harmed by either a current or former FAP client.
1.6.5. (Added) Ensures that the following occur when a child maltreatment incident is alleged to
have occurred in a DoD sanctioned activity:
1.6.5.1. (Added) Notifies 75 ABW/CC and 75 MDG/CC immediately.
1.6.5.2. (Added) Notifies HQ AFMOA/SGOF and the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)
Behavioral Health Consultant IAW AF FAP Standards.
1.6.6. (Added) Notifies the AFOSI/Det 113, 75 SFS Investigations, OO-ALC/JA,
AFMOA/SGOF, and the AMFC Behavioral Health Consultant in the event of a sudden or
unexplained child death involving the child/stepchild of an active duty member. This
notification will occur whether the active duty member lives on or off base.
1.6.7. (Added) Notifies AFOSI/Det 113, 75 SFS Investigations, OO-ALC/JA, AFMOA/SGOF
and the AFMC Behavioral Health Consultant in the event of a sudden, unexpected or suspicious
death of either an active duty member or spouse, regardless of whether or not there is an open
FAP case. This notification will occur whether the active duty member lives on or off base.
1.6.8. (Added) Reviews all ISDR requests with the 75 MDG/CC and makes recommendations to
the 75 ABW/CV to approve or deny the request.
1.6.9. (Added) Reviews the 75 SFS blotter on a daily basis for incidents of suspected spouse
and/or child maltreatment and neglect.
 4                                            AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


1.6.10. (Added) Upon receipt of a child maltreatment referral, notifies the Department of Child
and Family Services (DCFS).
1.6.11. (Added) Assesses the level of risk throughout all phases of FAP involvement to ensure
victim and offender safety. FAP cases identified as high risk will be placed on the MH Clinic
High Risk Log and will be briefed during Multidisciplinary Treatment Team meetings. High
risk cases will be reviewed at least monthly during the Clinical Case Staffing (CCS). Once a
FAP case is deemed high risk, the FAO/designee and FATM will thoroughly review the case to
assess the need to activate the HRVRT. The FAO/designee will notify his/her chain of command
and the MTF/CC whenever the HRVRT is activated. The FAO/designee will be directly
involved in case management in all high risk cases not requiring activation of the HRVRT.
Detailed safety plans will be developed and include notification of 75 SFS. The FAO/designee
and/or FATM will assess the need for emergency shelter, etc.
1.6.12. (Added) Notifies the following agencies within 24 hours IAW FAP standards when a
death occurs and family maltreatment is suspected: 75 ABW/CC, AFOSI/Det 113, OO-ALC/JA,
AFMC FAP/HQ, the MTF/CC, and DCFS. Request an OSI case number be assigned. FAO will
coordinate with 75 ABW/PA when necessary.
1.6.13. (Added) Activates the CSMRT in cases where the alleged victim is under age 18.
1.6.14. (Added) Notifies the following agencies within 24 hours IAW FAP standards when there
is an allegation of child sexual maltreatment in a DoD-sanctioned activity: 75 ABW/CC,
AFOSI/Det 113, OO-ALC/JA, AFMC FAP/HQ, AF FAP/HQ, the MTF/CC, and DCFS.
1.6.15. (Added) Emergency Removal of Children on Hill Air Force Base: In the event an initial
assessment of an allegation finds a child or children to be in danger of further maltreatment or
where life-threatening maltreatment has occurred, the appropriate law enforcement agency will
be notified through the 75 SFS. Law enforcement will then contact the DCFS to complete an
assessment and arrange for temporary shelter and care. In most circumstances, law enforcement
agencies have the authority to remove children pursuant to a valid court order or under
emergency conditions. FAP does not have authority to remove children from a home (see FAP
Standard M-16).
1.6.16. (Added) When allegations of child neglect due to dangerous/unsanitary living conditions
in base housing are referred to the MH Clinic, the FAO/designee will refer to FAP Standards
regarding the response to a referral for alleged family maltreatment. The FAO’s/designee’s
specific response to the allegations will include the coordination of case management for the
referral with the DCFS, the member’s Commander/First Sergeant, and the base housing
authority. 75 MDG Public Health will be notified for incidents involving dirty houses, but only
when the responding parties deem the living conditions to be a public health hazard. The
Commander/First Sergeant will collaborate with the base housing authority to ensure that the
house is cleaned and any damage to the property is fixed in order to remedy any dangerous or
unsanitary living conditions. The 75 SF Investigations or AFOSI/Det 113 as applicable will take
color photographs of the living conditions prior to any cleaning/fixing, which will be used to
document the FA record and assist the CRB. DCFS will be notified of the child neglect
allegations, and they will follow their protocol for investigating and coordinating child safety as
laid out in the Memorandum of Understanding. MH personnel will visit the home only after an
initial intake assessment has been conducted, the case meets criteria for neglect (exposure to
physical hazards) as determined by the CRB, and the family gives approval for visitation.
AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                          5


1.6.17. (Added) When allegations of child neglect due to dangerous/unsanitary living conditions
in off-base housing are referred to the FAP, the FAO/designee will follow FAP Standards and
AFI 40-301, regarding the response to a referral for alleged family maltreatment. The
FAO/designees’ specific response to the allegations will include coordination with the DCFS for
case management and safety planning, as laid out in the Memorandum of Understanding.
1.7. Squadron Commanders and First Sergeants (or service equivalents):
1.7.1. Immediately reports all suspected and identified incidents of family maltreatment to the
FAP. Emergencies after duty hours will be reported to the 75 SFS or to local law enforcement
agencies. Unit Commanders and First Sergeants will follow up with FAP the following day to
brief the situation and initiate a referral.
1.7.2. Assists the FAO/designee and the FATM in ensuring protection for victims of suspected
family violence as necessary during assessment and treatment, including arranging temporary
alternate living arrangements for some family members, and military protective orders.
1.7.3. Notifies the FAP immediately upon receipt of a referral if the active duty member
involved is scheduled to deploy, permanent change of station, or go temporary duty elsewhere.
1.7.4. Assists the FATM and/or FAO/designee in implementing treatment plan
recommendations. This includes supporting the family and military sponsor in participation, in
treatment and/or educational services designed to prevent further domestic violence. It may also
include allowing the active duty member to be excused from duty to keep FAP appointments and
attend classes and/or groups.
1.7.5. (Added) Attends FAP orientation training within ninety (90) days of assuming respective
position. Additionally attends annual FA training including the same year in which the
orientation training is provided.
1.7.6. (Added) Attends the Central Registry Board (CRB) prepared to discuss allegations
involving unit personnel. The Squadron Commander and First Sergeant are allowed one vote.
Squadron Commanders and First Sergeants must complete CRB training from the FAOM before
being allowed to vote at the CRB.
1.7.7. (Added) Ensures the FAO is involved in the risk assessment of alleged offenders in
spouse and child maltreatment cases. Given that some alleged offenders might become acutely
suicidal or homicidal if they view their legal or familial situation as being hopeless, it is
important to involve the FAO in the risk assessment process throughout the legal proceedings.
Where applicable, the Commander and FAO may coordinate with the MH Clinic regarding
entering the alleged offender in the Limited Privilege Suicide Prevention Program (LPSP).
1.8. The 75th ABW Chaplain:
1.8.1. Provides supportive counseling to families involved in domestic violence and assists in
crisis intervention as requested by the FAO, law enforcement, or unit personnel.
1.8.2. Attends annual FA training on identification and prevention of family maltreatment and
skills for working with victims and offenders alike.
1.9. The OO-ALC Staff Judge Advocate (OO-ALC/JA):
1.9.1. Provides legal guidance to the FAC, FAO, unit leadership, medical personnel, and
investigative agencies on matters of family maltreatment.
 6                                           AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


1.10. The 75th Security Forces Commander (or designee):
1.10.1. Reports all allegations/suspicions of family maltreatment to FA.
1.10.2. Ensures SFS staff responsible for responding to domestic incident completes annual
training provided by FAP staff on the identification and reporting procedures for suspected
family maltreatment.
1.10.3. Contacts MH on-call provider after duty hours via Command Post for consultation in
dealing with emergency abuse and neglect situations.
1.10.4. When notified by clinic personnel of suspected family violence, obtains necessary
information from the referent to make appropriate notifications.
1.10.5. Documents an entry in the 75 SFS blotter, completes an incident/complaint report, and
provides copies of all reports to appropriate agencies, including the FAP.
1.10.6. Notifies the 75 MDG regarding any suspected victim of family maltreatment that
requires medical intervention.
1.10.7. Documents all cases of alleged spouse or child maltreatment.
1.10.8. (Added) Notifies the FAO/designee immediately upon receipt of initial reports of child
and/or spouse maltreatment including sexual maltreatment, bodily harm or other physical
maltreatment, emotional maltreatment or neglect. The FAO/designee will also be contacted
when a death occurs and family maltreatment is suspected. During duty hours, the
FAO/designee will be contacted. After hours, the MH provider on-call will be contacted through
the Command Post.
1.10.9. (Added) Notifies the FAO/designee, as needed, upon receipt of initial reports of
maltreatment of elderly dependents including sexual maltreatment, bodily harm or other physical
maltreatment, emotional maltreatment or neglect. Elderly maltreatment cases fall outside the
jurisdiction of the FAO/designee, and a maltreatment case will not be opened. In these
situations, however, the FAO/designee will refer the case to the Adult Protective Services Unit of
DCFS to ensure the safety of the alleged victim is maintained and to coordinate needed services.
1.11. The Air Force Office of Special Investigations, Detachment 113 (AFOSI):
1.11.1. Notifies the FAO/designee immediately upon receipt of initial reports of child or spouse
maltreatment to include physical, sexual and neglect. The FAO/designee will also be contacted
when a death occurs and family maltreatment is suspected. During duty hours, the
FAO/designee will be contacted. After hours, the MH provider on call will be contacted through
the 75th Air Base Wing Command Post (75 ABW/CP) via 801-777-3007.
1.11.2. Notifies the FAO/designee upon suspicion of potential threat of harm by an individual
involved in Mental Health care.
1.13. The 75th ABW Public Affairs Office (75 ABW/PA) (if photography capability not
available from SFS or OSI).
1.13.1. Provides a photographer when requested by either the investigating agency or medical
authority.
1.13.2. Takes color photographs (prints) of alleged victims’ injuries, alleged crime scene, and
other areas requested by the investigating agency.
AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                            7


1.13.3. Ensures the requesting official is notified upon completion and that the official picks up
completed work.
1.17. (Added) The 75th Medical Group Personnel:
1.17.1. (Added) Attends annual training provided by FAP staff on the identification and
reporting procedures for suspected family maltreatment.
1.17.2. (Added) Notifies the FAP of any case of suspected family maltreatment. After duty
hours or for emergency situations individuals must contact Security Forces or local law
enforcement. The only exception would be if the active duty member was sexually assaulted by
his/her spouse and requesting restricted reporting.
1.17.3. (Added) Immediately notifies DCFS, local law enforcement, SFS Investigations, FAP,
OO-ALC/JA and AFOSI/Det 113 if a child is in imminent danger of being harmed.
1.17.4. (Added) Notifies DCFS, the 75 MDG/CC and OO-ALC/JA when hospitalization of a
child is recommended by a health care provider but is against the wishes of the child’s parent(s).
1.17.5. (Added) Notifies AFOSI/Det 113, SFS Investigations, OO-ALC/JA and FAP in cases of
sudden or unexplained child deaths involving the child/stepchild of an active duty member.
These procedures will occur whether the active duty member lives on or off base.
2. PROGRAM STRUCTURE AND ADMINISTRATION OVERVIEW
2.2. Hill AFB FAP Components:
2.2.1. The Family Advocacy Prevention/Outreach Program. Refer to AFI 40-301 and USAF
Family Advocacy Program Standards for the components of the Outreach Program.
2.2.3. The New Parent Support Program (NPSP) provides infant care instruction, parenting
education, family skills training, and marital/family support for families with children under the
age of three.
2.2.5. Maltreatment Intervention provides and/or coordinates identification, assessment,
intervention, and case management services for victims/offenders of spouse and child abuse.
2.2.7. (Added) FAP services will be open to all active duty military personnel and their families
assigned to Hill AFB (host and tenant units) regardless of branch of service.
4.3. Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT):
4.3.1. Members are appointed by their Commander and approved by the FAC. Membership
includes the FAO/designee and representative from the AFOSI/Det 113 and OO-ALC/JA. The
CSMRT is activated immediately and manages the initial response to allegations of child sexual
maltreatment. The goal is to minimize trauma to the victim and family and to ensure no one
individual or agency makes decisions regarding these incidents independent of the concerns of
other agencies involved.
4.3.2. (Added) The CSMRT will meet either telephonically or in person, within 24 hours of
activation by the FAO/designee, to coordinate the initial investigation, biopsychosocial
assessment, and intervention plan for both the alleged offender(s) and the alleged victim(s). The
initial meeting will:
4.3.2.1. (Added) Reviews the roles and responsibilities of the members.
 8                                            AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


4.3.2.2. (Added) Reviews the allegations.
4.3.2.3. (Added) Coordinates a course of action amongst all parties and develop a strategy for
interviewing the alleged victim(s), including location and personnel to conduct the interview.
4.3.2.4. (Added) Addresses the initial risk assessment and safety plan(s) for both the alleged
victim(s) and the alleged offender(s). The safety plan will be individualized and may include
such steps as obtaining emergency housing, removing the child (children) from the home and/or
removing the alleged offender from the home.
4.3.2.5. (Added) Coordinates intervention with non-accused parent to minimize the immediate
negative impact of the disclosure and minimize risk to all parties while preserving the integrity
of the investigation.
4.3.3. (Added) When there is an allegation of child sexual maltreatment in a DoD-sanctioned
activity, the CSMRT will coordinate with that organization/activity. The 75 ABW/CC and 75
MDG/CC will be notified immediately. The AFOSI/Det 113, OO-ALC/JA, AFMC FAP
Headquarters, AF FAP Headquarters, and DCFS will be notified immediately when such a
referral is received.
4.3.4. (Added) When multiple potential victims are identified, the CSMRT and the FAC will
consider recommending that the 75 ABW request deployment of the Family Advocacy
Command Assistance Team (FACAT). The request will be made to the AFMSA/SGOF
telephonically and with subsequent written requests. AFMSA/SGOF will notify the DoD FAP
Manager, who in turn deploys the FACAT.
4.4. High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT):
4.4.1. The HRVRT will be activated in the following situations:
4.4.1.1. (Added) Members of a family unit may be in imminent danger of being harmed by other
family members. For the purpose of the HRVRT, family members include active duty, spouse,
children and step-children, ex-spouses, ex-step-parents, or intimate partners.
4.4.1.2. (Added) MH Clinic staff members may be in imminent danger of being harmed by a
current or former Family Advocacy client.
4.4.1.3. (Added) In cases of non-familial sexual maltreatment, either the alleged offender(s) or
the alleged victim(s) may be in imminent danger of being harmed.
4.4.4. (Added) The HRVRT will meet either telephonically or in person, within 24 hours, to
assess the level of danger and to develop and implement a course of action to manage the risk of
violence. The threatened individual(s) will be involved in the safety planning process. The
safety plan will be individualized. The FAO/designee will report the HRVRT findings, plans
and activities to the FAC chairperson and to the CCS.
4.7. FAP responsibilities in regards to reported sexual assault procedures:
4.7.2.2. If a victim requests restricted reporting for domestic abuse the FAP provider will:
4.7.2.2.1. (Added) Immediately contacts the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) so
that the SARC may explain both the restricted and unrestricted reporting options to the victim.
4.7.2.2.2. (Added) Conducts an immediate safety assessment for the victim.
AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                            9


4.7.2.2.3. (Added) Makes the determination whether the imminent harm exception applies for
domestic abuse victims.
4.7.2.2.4. (Added) Advises the victim on available victim advocacy, support and clinical
services, as well as coordinates other services requested by the victim.
4.7.2.2.5. (Added) If an adult victim presents at a military treatment facility and requests
restricted reporting, the SARC will be notified immediately. SARC or Victim Advocates who
receive domestic abuse referrals will contact FAP immediately. FAP and SARC will arrange
procedures at the installation level to ensure that the SARC has the opportunity to meet with all
victims who request restricted reporting to:
4.7.2.2.6. (Added) Explain options available to the victim.
4.7.2.2.7. (Added) Determine the victim’s reporting preference.
4.7.2.3. Eligibility Criteria:
4.7.2.3.1. (Added) In order to qualify for restricted reporting of domestic abuse, the requestor
must be an adult (a service member or a person who is not a service member who has either
attained the age of 18 years of age or is married), must be eligible to receive military medical
treatment, and must be a victim of domestic abuse as defined below:
4.7.2.3.2. (Added) Domestic Abuse is defined as domestic violence or a pattern of behavior
resulting in emotional/psychological abuse, economic control, and/or interference with personal
liberty that is directed toward a person of the opposite sex who is: (a) a current or former
spouse; (b) a person with whom the abuser shares a child in common; or (c) a current or former
intimate partner with whom the abuser shares or has shared a common domicile.
4.7.3. Exceptions to confidentiality related to restricted reporting:
4.7.3.1. When a victim elects Restricted Reporting, the prohibition on disclosing covered
communications to the following persons or entities will be suspended when disclosure would be
for the following reasons:
4.7.3.1.1. Disclosure of information is allowed when a written authorization of disclosure is
signed by the victim.
4.7.3.1.2. Command officials or law enforcement must be notified when there is a serious or
imminent threat of harm to the health or safety of the victim or another person. Because of the
potential for violence to escalate in domestic violence situations, the threat of imminent harm is
particularly important to consider. Questions related to state mandated reporting of domestic
abuse should be referred to the OO-ALC/JA.
4.7.3.3. FAP and any other agency authorized by law to receive reports of child abuse and
neglect cannot use restricted reporting when, as a result of disclosure or a physical examination,
the victim advocate or healthcare provider (to include FAP staff) has a reasonable belief that
child abuse has occurred. However, disclosure will be limited only to information related to the
alleged child abuse/neglect.
4.7.3.4. Information may be released to disability retirement boards and officials when
disclosure by a healthcare provider is required for fitness for duty determinations related to
disability retirement. However, disclosure is limited to only the information that is necessary to
process the disability retirement determination.
 10                                          AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


4.7.3.5. Disclosure may be made to supervisors of the victim advocate or healthcare provider
when it is required for the supervision of direct victim treatment or services.
4.7.3.6. Disclosure will be made to military or civilian courts of competent jurisdiction when a
military, federal or state judge issues a subpoena for the covered communications to be presented
to the court or to other officials or entities when a military, federal or state judge orders such
disclosure.
4.7.3.7. Information will be disclosed to officials or entities when required by federal or state
statute or applicable United States international agreement.
4.7.4. (Added) MH Clinic Procedures:
4.7.4.1. (Added) Log incident into FASOR as a Restricted Report. No notifications will be
made (other than to the SARC).
4.7.4.2. (Added) Maintain documentation in a FAP maltreatment restricted reporting record,
which is kept separate from all other maltreatment records under double lock and key.
4.7.4.3. (Added) Ensure that restricted report incidents are never on the CRB agenda.
4.7.4.4. (Added) Never document any information related to a restricted report in the outpatient
medical record.
4.7.5. (Added) Disclosure: Mental Health providers and staff will follow Family Advocacy
Program Standard M-121 with regard to disclosure of all restricted reported maltreatment cases.




                                             SARAH E. ZABEL, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                         11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
MGI 44-41, Identification and Reporting of Suspected Child, Spouse, and Elder Maltreatment
Cases, 10 December 2008
AF Family Advocacy Program Standards Installation Supplement to AFI 40-30, 1 October 2009
Memorandum of Understanding between Hill AFB and Utah Department of Child and Family
Services, Northern Region, 6 June 2011
DoD Memo Dated 22 Jan 2006 from the Deputy Secretary of Defense Titled “Restricted
Reporting Policy for Incidents of Domestic Violence.”
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
ABW/CC—Air Base Wing Commander
ABW/CV—Air Base Wing Vice Commander
ABW/PA—Air Base Wing Public Affairs

ABW/CP—Air Base Wing Command Post
A&FRC—Airman and Family Readiness Center
AF—Air Force
AF FAP HQ—Air Force Family Advocacy Program Headquarters
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
CCM—Command Chief Master Sergeant
CCS—Clinical Case Staffing
CRB—Central Registry Board
CSMRT— Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
DoD—Department of Defense
FAC—Family Advocacy Committee
FACAT—Family Advocacy Command Assistance Team
 12                                       AFI40-301_HILLAFBSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
FASOR—Family Advocacy System of Records
FATM—Family Advocacy Treatment Manager
USAF—United States Air Force
HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team
IAW—In Accordance With
ISDR—Incident Status Determination Review
MDOS/SGOWF—Medical Operations Squadron Mental Health Clinic Family Advocacy
MGI—Medical Group Operating Instruction
MHC—Mental Health Clinic
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MTF CC—Medical Treatment Facility Commander
OO—ALC/JA —Ogden Air Logistics Center Office of Staff Judge Advocate
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSI—Office of Special Investigations
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SFS/LED—Security Forces Squadron Control Center
