BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
MOODY AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                  MOODY AIR FORCE BASE

                                                                                   Supplement

                                                                            13 AUGUST 2009
                                                             Certified Current, 13 March 2012
                                                                            Medical Command

                                                                        FAMILY ADVOCACY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 23 MDOS/SGOW                              Certified by: 23 MDG/CC (Col Loraine H. Anderson)
Supersedes: AFI 40-301, MAFB Sup 1,                                                    Pages: 3
            1 April 2005


AFI 40-301, 19 January 2005, is supplemented as follows: This supplement establishes the
Moody AFB, 23rd Medical Group (23 MDG) Family Advocacy Program (FAP). It explains
policies and procedures IAW AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, for identification, treatment, and
prevention of family maltreatment. It requires that all suspected family maltreatment at Moody
Air Force Base be referred to 23 MDOS/SGOW FAP office at 257-4805. This supplement
addresses responsibilities of base agencies integral to FAP operations and describes procedures
for the management of the FAP. It applies to all active duty Air Force members, their family
members, and to all Air Force organizations assigned or tenant units attached to the 23rd Wing,
Moody Air Force Base, Valdosta, Georgia. All personnel will ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.
Recommendations for changes or questions about this publication should be referred to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) via electronic mail or memorandum.

Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to 23 MDOS/SGOW, 3278
Mitchell Boulevard, Moody AFB, GA 31699.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes references to the 347th to the 23rd Wing, MDG, MDOS and elaborates on
local Wing policy. It further updates the Incident Status Determination Review (ISDR) process.
 2                                         AFI 40-301_MOODYAFBSUP 13 AUGUST 2009


1. Responsibilities:
1.4.3. (Added) Ensures establishment of the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC), which is a
sub-committee of the Community Action Information Board (CAIB), composed of the following
members: 23rd Wing Commander (or designee), 93 AGOW Commander (or designee), 23rd
Medical Group Commander (FAC Chair), Family Advocacy Officer (FAO), Family Advocacy
Outreach Manager (FAOM), Family Advocacy Nurse (FAN), Family Advocacy Treatment
Managers (FATM), Family Advocacy Program Assistants (FAPA), Airman and Family Service
Flight Chief, Staff Judge Advocate (or designee), 23rd Security Forces Squadron Commander (or
designee), AFOSI Detachment 211 Commander (or designee), Wing Chaplain (or designee), and
Command Chief Master Sergeant. The FAC may invite other members at the discretion of the
chairperson.
1.5.3. (Added) The FAC meets bi-annual per approval through ACC/AGOF.
1.5.3.4.1. (Added) Periodically reviews the Georgia Lack of Supervision Standards (formerly
Moody AFB Home Alone Guidelines).
1.5.3.9.1. (Added) Ensures FAP staff work with unit Commanders/First Sergeants on all
circumstances involving potential risk and the safety planning of family members. Safety factors
are a primary concern when dealing with maltreatment circumstances and all parties involved
should assess for risk of harm to self and others, intimidation, or threatening behaviors.
1.5.3.12.1. (Added) Ensures that events involving death due to maltreatment and incidents of
child maltreatment in DoD-sanctioned activities are coordinated with OSI and the FAP office for
timely HQ/AFMOA notification, appropriate service delivery, and criminal investigation.
1.5.3.13.1. (Added) Addresses any conflict between agencies if service delivery becomes
problematic. Advocates that sponsor and family members eligible for FAP services have the
opportunity to receive services despite involvement in legal or authoritative agencies.
1.5.3.7. (Added) Ensures written Memoranda of Understanding exist between installation and
local child protective services as well as local domestic violence shelter and that they are
reviewed bi-annually. The local child protective services are Berrien, Brooks, Clinch, Cook,
Echols, Lanier, and Lowndes Counties. The local domestic violence shelter is The Haven.
2. Procedures:
2.1.1. (Added) Per AFI 40-301, all active duty members and civilian employees of the Air
Force are mandated reporters of suspected maltreatment. Reports of suspected maltreatment will
be made by contacting the FAP at 257-4805. Referral sources may remain anonymous, but
reporters are encouraged to provide as much detailed and accurate information regarding the
suspected maltreatment as possible.
2.2.1.1. (Added) The New Parent Support Program (NPSP) is a home-based voluntary
prevention program for military families. NPSP services are provided primarily by the FAN to
expecting parents or families with children up to the 3rd (third) birthday. (Added) Any other
duties requested of the FAN should be at the discretion of the FAO and should be centered in
providing in-home services according to HQ AFMOA/SG300 guidelines.
AFI 40-301_MOODYAFBSUP 13 AUGUST 2009                                                          3


2.2.2.1. (Added) FAP will ensure timely evaluation of all maltreatment referrals. An intake
assessment of both the alleged victim and offender will be completed within 3 days of receiving
a referral meeting criteria for opening a FAP case. This may occur sooner depending on the type
and severity of maltreatment.
2.2.2.2. (Added) An initial risk (safety) assessment will occur immediately upon receipt of a
referral of alleged maltreatment. This assessment will include the severity of maltreatment,
whether the referral constitutes a reasonable suspicion of maltreatment, risk for further
maltreatment to the victim, and risk for self-harm of victims and offenders.
2.2.2.3. (Added) When the removal of a child from the home is recommended, the local
Division of Family and Children Services has jurisdiction over protective custody matters.
Whenever possible, the FAO or on-call Behavioral Health Flight provider, and sponsor’s
Commander/First Sergeant will work with the family to voluntarily allow a friend or unit
member to care for the child pending further assessment.
2.2.2.4. (Added) Administrative action taken by Commanders and/or First Sergeants with
members involved in FAP maltreatment services is at the discretion of unit leadership and not as
a result of receiving FAP services. FAP staff will inform Commanders/First Sergeants when
cases meeting criteria are not satisfactorily progressing due to sponsor’s or family member’s
non-compliance with treatment. If after Commander’s involvement, the case does not progress
satisfactorily then the case will be closed-unresolved.
2.2.2.5. (Added) FAP personnel will serve as consultants during circumstances involving
alleged maltreatment in a DoD-sanctioned activity. FAP providers do not conduct investigative
interviews with extra-familial (non-family) members. (Added) When appropriate, FAP staff can
provide supportive services for victims and family members.
2.2.2.6. (Added) The Incident Status Determination Review (ISDR) process is established to
provide FAP clients with recourse if they disagree with the Central Registry Board’s (CRB)
decision. This review process enables clients to have the case reviewed if additional information
is found and/or CRB procedures were not adequately followed. Request and coordination for
reconsideration will be made in accordance with FAP standards.
4. Maltreatment Intervention:
4.2.4.1. (Added) Incidents of domestic violence or neglect should be briefed to offending
member’s Commander, First Sergeant, and if the situation is of a more serious nature, the FAO
or on-call Mental Health provider for consultation in dealing with alleged abusive or negligent
families.
4.2.4.2. (Added) It is the FAO’s responsibility, in conjunction with the Behavioral Health
Flight Commander, to ensure that current notification matrix for duty and after-duty hours is
posted with the Law Enforcement Desk at all times.




                                            GARY W. HENDERSON, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
