BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 44-120
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              3 JANUARY 2011
                                                             Incorporating Change 1, 6 June 2012
                                                                434TH AIR REFUELING WING
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                  29 MARCH 2013

                                                                                            Medical

                                                    MILITARY DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION
                                                                          PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMOA/SGHW                                                               Certified by: AF/SG3
                                                                             (Col James D. Collier)
Supersedes:    AFI44-120, 1 July 2000                                                     Pages: 94
                                            (434ARW)
OPR: 434 ARW/CVK                                                        Certified by: 434 ARW/CC
                                                                      (Colonel Donald R. Buckley)
                                                                                           Pages:2


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical Operations,
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 1010.1, Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing
Program, and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1010.16, Technical Procedures for the
Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program, and prescribes the Air Force Drug Testing
Program. It assigns responsibility for carrying out the program at installation level. This
Instruction applies to all active duty Air Force members, Air Force Reserve members, applicants
for the Air Force Academy, Advanced Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC), regular Armed
Forces, appointment or enlistment (or re-enlistment if discharged more than 6 months earlier)
into Active or Reserve Components, and Air National Guard (ANG) members on AGR (Active
Guard Reserve) status, Title 10 status (when activated longer than 30 days), or on Personnel
Reliability Program (PRP) status. The ANG will comply with the current Memorandum of
Agreement between the Air Force and the National Guard Bureau. For guidance not addressed
in the current MOA, AFI 44-120 applies. Failure to comply with the mandatory provisions of
paragraphs 1.1.5, 1.1.6, 4.6.13.1, 4.6.13.2, 4.6.13.3, or 9.1.2.4 of this Air Force Instruction (AFI)
 2                                               AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


by military personnel is a violation of Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation, Uniform
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).

This Instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.            Send comments and suggested
improvements using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through
channels, to AFMOA/SGHW, 3515 General McMullen Road, Bldg 171, Ste 400, San Antonio
TX 78226.

(434ARW) This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical
Operations, Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 1010.1, Military Personnel Drug Abuse
Testing Program, and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1010.16, Technical Procedures
for the Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program, and prescribes the Air Force Drug
Testing Program. It assigns responsibility for carrying out the program by the 434 th Air
Refueling Wing (ARW). This instruction applies to all active duty Air Force members, Air
Force Reserve members, applicants for the Air Force Academy, Advanced Reserve Officers’
Training Corps (ROTC), regular Armed Forces, appointment or enlistment (or re-enlistment if
discharged more than 6 months earlier) into Active or Reserve Components This instruction
requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.
Authority to collect and maintain records prescribed in this Air Force Instructions (AFI) are
outlined in Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013 and EO, 9397. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition        Schedule       (RDS)         located       at      https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacture,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force. This is the initial publication of 434th Air Refueling Wing (ARW) Supplement to
AFI44-120.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change deletes reference to the obsolete name Armed Forces Institute of Pathology,
adds guidance for drug testing processes at Joint Bases, clarifies the requirement for 100% end
strength testing, updates procedures for drug testing at Geographically Separated Units (GSUs),
updates MAJCOM responsibilities for ensuring positive results are entered on the Drug Testing
Portal by installation DDRPMs, updates processes for tracking untestable specimen rates,
clarifies that backup support to maintain collection operations is mandatory, updates membership
requirements for the Cross Functional Oversight Committee (CFOC), updates guidance on
Medical Review Officer (MRO) responsibilities, removes alignment of the installation Drug
Demand Reduction Program Manager (DDRPM) under the installation commander to be
consistent with other parts of this Instruction and other Air Force (AF) guidance, removes
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                                                                                3


requirement for AF Drug Testing Program Manager (AFDTPM) to review MRO findings prior
to DDRPM making notification of positive results, adds guidance for drug testing Service
Members who are approved for telework, moves guidance from AFI 44-159 (scheduled to be
rescinded) to this Instruction regarding Drug Demand Reduction (DDR) outreach and education
activities and Civil Air Patrol, and allows for use of alternative DoD drug testing laboratories
when approved by the AFDTPM).

This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical Operations,
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 1010.1, Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing
Program, and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1010.16, Technical Procedures for the
Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program, and prescribes the AF Drug Testing Program.
It assigns responsibility for carrying out the program at installation level. This Instruction applies
to all active duty (AD) AF members, Air Force Reserve members, applicants for the Air Force
Academy, Advanced Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC), regular Armed Forces,
appointment or enlistment (or re-enlistment if discharged more than six months earlier) into
Active or Reserve Components, and Air National Guard (ANG) members on Active Guard
Reserve (AGR) status, Title 10 status (when activated longer than 30 days), or on Personnel
Reliability Program (PRP) status. The ANG will comply with the any ANG Regulation,
Instruction or memorandum of agreement (MOA) between the AF and the National Guard
Bureau (NGB) that modifies guidance in this Instruction. For guidance not addressed in the
current ANG guidance or MOA, AFI 44-120 applies. Failure to comply with the mandatory
provisions of paragraphs 1.1.5, 1.1.6, 4.6.13.1, 4.6.13.2, 4.6.13.3, or 9.1.2.4 of this Air Force
Instruction (AFI) by military personnel is a violation of Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or
Regulation, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).

SECTION A—PROGRAM GOALS AND REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            5
       1.      The Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP) directly impacts mission
               readiness. ................................................................................................................          5
       2.      Goals and Objectives of the Drug Abuse Testing Program. ..................................                                           6
       3.      Levels and Frequency of Testing. ..........................................................................                          7

SECTION B—RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                          9
       4.      Responsibilities for the Drug Testing Program. .....................................................                                 9

SECTION C—CHAIN OF CUSTODY PROCEDURES                                                                                                              28
       5.      Chain of Custody for Collecting and Transporting Urine Specimens. ..................                                                28

SECTION D—FORM COMPLETION AND SPECIMEN PACKAGING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                      33
       6.      Completion of the DD Form 2624, Specimen Custody Document - Drug Testing.
               .................................................................................................................................   33
       7.      Packaging and Shipping of Specimens. .................................................................                              36
       8.      Acceptable Modes of Transportation. ....................................................................                            37
 4                                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


SECTION E—PACKAGING AND SHIPPING OF SPECIMENS COLLECTED IN SINGLE
           TEST KITS (STKs) AND COLLECTION BY GEOGRAPHICALLY
           SEPARATED UNITS                                                                                                        38
      9.    Collection Procedures for Geographically Separated Units (GSUs). ....................                                 38
      10.   Completion of the Chain of Custody Form, DD Form 2624, for STK. .................                                     38
      11.   Packaging and Shipment of STK Specimens. ........................................................                     39

SECTION F—DRUG URINALYSIS TESTING FOR NEW ACCESSIONS                                                                              40
      12.   Personnel to be Tested. ..........................................................................................    40

SECTION G—CHAIN OF CUSTODY WITHIN THE DRUG TESTING LABORATORY                                                                     41
      13.   Drug Testing Laboratory Chain of Custody Procedures. .......................................                          41

SECTION H—DRUG ABUSE TESTING PROGRAM PROCEDURE                                                                                    43
      14.   Drug Detection Levels and Reporting Procedures. ................................................                      43

SECTION I—DRUG TESTING LABORATORY PROCEDURES                                                                                      45
      15.   The Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory shall establish internal procedures,
            approved by SAF/MR and AFMOA/SGHW. ........................................................                           45

SECTION J—LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                 46
      16.   The certified drug testing laboratory shall abide by the administrative and
            technical requirements of DoDI 1010. ...................................................................              46

SECTION K—DRUG TESTING SUPPLIES                                                                                                   46
      17.   Supplies to be used in conjunction with the Drug Demand Reduction Program
            (DDRP) are as follows: ..........................................................................................     46

SECTION L—DRUG ABUSE TESTING REPORT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                  47
      18.   Drug Testing Metrics. ............................................................................................    47

SECTION M—USE OF URINALYSIS RESULTS                                                                                               48
      19.   Commanders’ Options. ..........................................................................................       48
Table 1.    Actions Authorized by Positive Drug Test Results. ..............................................                      48

SECTION N—INABILITY TO PROVIDE A URINE SPECIMEN                                                                                   49
      20.   Shy Bladder or Situational Anxiety. ......................................................................            49

SECTION O—DEMAND REDUCTION OUTREACH ACTIVITIES AND USE OF
           APPROPRIATED FUNDS                                                                                                     52
      21.   Financial Management Activities. .........................................................................            52

SECTION P—AIR NATIONAL GUARD (ANG) PROGRAM AND POLICIES                                                                           53
      22.   General Information. ..............................................................................................   53
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                                                                  5


SECTION Q—FORMS USED BY THE DDRP.                                                                                                    53
      23.     Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................   54

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       55

Attachment 2—SAMPLE FORMAT – INSTALLATION LEVEL TRAINING MANUAL                                                                      64

Attachment 3—SAMPLE COLLECTION SITE CHECKLIST                                                                                        65

Attachment 4—SAMPLE LETTER – DRUG TESTING OBSERVER’S BRIEFING                                                                        67

Attachment 5—SAMPLE LETTER – COMMANDER’S NOTIFICATION OF
             SELECTION TO PROVIDE URINE SPECIMEN                                                                                     69

Attachment 6—SAMPLE LETTER – REQUESTING STERIOD TESTING                                                                              70

Attachment 7—ORDERING BOTTLE LABELS                                                                                                  71

Attachment 8—DRUG URINALYSIS SPECIMEN PACKAGING/SHIPPING
             CHECKLIST                                                                                                               72

Attachment 9—DOD DISCREPANCY CODES                                                                                                   73

Attachment 10—SAMPLE DD FORM 2624, SPECIMEN CUSTODY DOCUMENT DRUG
             TESTING                                                                                                                 75

Attachment 11—SPECIMEN PACKAGING (BOX OF 12)                                                                                         77

Attachment 12—SINGLE TEST KIT (STK) PACKAGING                                                                                        84

Attachment 13—SAMPLE LETTER – CERTIFICATION STATEMENT FOR
             INDIVIDUAL                                                                                                              89

Attachment 14—SAMPLE LETTER DDRPM UNTESTABLE DISCREPANCY REPORT                                                                      90

Attachment 15—GUIDELINES FOR FORENSIC DOCUMENTATION                                                                                  91

Attachment 16—GUIDELINES FOR DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM
             (DDRP) FACILITIES                                                                                                       94


Section A—PROGRAM GOALS AND REQUIREMENTS

1. The Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP) directly impacts mission readiness. The
success of this long-standing program can be traced directly to strong command support at
all levels.
   1.1. Illicit Drug Use. The Air Force does not tolerate the illegal or improper use of drugs by
   Air Force personnel. Such use:
      1.1.1. Is a serious breach of discipline.
      1.1.2. Is not compatible with service in the Air Force.
 6                                               AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


        1.1.3. Automatically places the member's continued service in jeopardy.
        1.1.4. Can lead to criminal prosecution resulting in a punitive discharge or administrative
        actions, including separation or discharge under other than honorable conditions.
        1.1.5. Studies have shown that products made with hemp seed and hemp seed oil may
        contain varying levels of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), an active ingredient of marijuana
        which is detectable under the Air Force Drug Testing Program. In order to ensure
        military readiness, the ingestion of products containing or products derived from hemp
        seed or hemp seed oil is prohibited. Failure to comply with the mandatory provisions of
        this paragraph by military personnel is a violation of Article 92, UCMJ.
        1.1.6. In order to ensure military readiness; safeguard the health and wellness of the
        force; and maintain good order and discipline in the service, the knowing use of any
        intoxicating substance, other than the lawful use of alcohol or tobacco products, that is
        inhaled, injected, consumed, or introduced into the body in any manner to alter mood or
        function is prohibited. These substances include, but are not limited to, controlled
        substance analogues (e.g., designer drugs such as "spice" that are not otherwise controlled
        substances); inhalants, propellants, solvents, household chemicals, and other substances
        used for "huffing"; prescription or over-the-counter medications when used in a manner
        contrary to their intended medical purpose or in excess of the prescribed dosage; and
        naturally occurring intoxicating substances (e.g., Salvia divinorum). The possession of
        any intoxicating substance described in this paragraph, if done with the intent to use in a
        manner that would alter mood or function, is also prohibited. Failure to comply with the
        prohibitions contained in this paragraph is a violation of Article 92, UCMJ.
2. Goals and Objectives of the Drug Abuse Testing Program.
     2.1. Enhance mission readiness and foster a drug free environment through a comprehensive
     program of education, prevention, deterrence and community outreach in support of the
     President’s National Drug Control Strategy.
        2.1.1. Community outreach is defined as on and off base prevention, drug
        education/awareness and deterrence activities targeted to Department of Defense (DoD)
        family members, retirees, civilians and contractors.
     2.2. Maintain the health and wellness of a fit and ready fighting force as well as a drug-free
     Air Force community.
     2.3. Deter military members, including those members on initial entry on active duty after
     enlistment or appointment, from using illegal drugs and abusing controlled substances.
     2.4. Assist commanders in assessing the security, military fitness, readiness, and good order
     and discipline of their commands.
     2.5. Detect and identify those individuals who use and abuse illegal drugs and other
     controlled substances.
     2.6. Provide a basis for action against a service member who tests positive for illicit drug
     use.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                           7


   2.7. Ensure that urine specimens collected as part of the drug abuse testing program are
   supported by a legally defensible chain of custody procedure at the collection site, during
   transport, and at the drug testing laboratory.
   2.8. Ensure that all AF military specimens are tested by a DoD certified drug testing
   laboratory. Re-tests may be sent to a DoD-certified laboratory, the Armed Forces Medical
   Examiner System (AFMES) or a Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
   Administration (SAMHSA)-certified laboratory.
   2.9. Ensure Air Force personnel recognize that the wrongful use of anabolic steroids,
   controlled substances, and other substances such as inhalants, prescription drugs, and over-
   the-counter medications by Air Force military members is an offense under the UCMJ.
   2.10. Ensure that AF members serving in Joint-Service commands, operations, and schools
   are tested according to the commanding service requirements. Host commanders may, at
   their discretion, test any and all Temporary Duty (TDY) personnel assigned to their units
   IAW the procedures outlined in this Instruction. Urinalysis collection of other Service
   personnel may be performed under the AF Drug Testing Program, provided the commanding
   Service establishes either a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or a Memorandum of
   Agreement (MOA) to perform such testing. Absent the establishment of an MOU or MOA,
   testing of other Service personnel will be the responsibility of the respective Service.
      2.10.1. IAW Department of Defense Supplemental Guidance for Implementing and
      Operating a Joint Base, the supporting Component at joint bases will manage the drug
      testing program for all military personnel assigned to the joint base and any affiliated
      geographically separate units and detachments, in accordance with each supported
      Component's respective policies and procedures for selection, collection, packaging,
      shipping, and testing (including utilizing supported component personnel as needed to
      comply with those policies and procedures).
   2.11. Foreign/International students will be tested using the same standard as U.S. military
   members only when authorized by international agreement or other legal authority.
3. Levels and Frequency of Testing.
   3.1. AF DDRPs will ensure 100 percent of AF end strength population is tested annually.
   For example, an installation with an end-strength of 5,000 activity duty personnel must
   collect and ship a total of 5,000 specimens per year. This can be accomplished through
   random selection of active duty personnel using the Air Force Drug Testing Program
   (AFDTP) software or through a combination of random selection and unit sweeps/gate
   sweeps.
      3.1.1. If a combination of random selection and unit sweeps/gate checks is used, random
      selection using the AFDTP software must be at a level commensurate with guidelines
      established or agreed upon by DoD, Drug Enforcement Policy and Support and Secretary
      of the Air Force (SECAF). This allows for Air Force “Smart Testing” to be used.
      “Smart Testing” is the random selection of members of the ranks of E-1 to E-4, O-1, and
      O-2 at a rate of one test per member per year. All other members are selected at a rate of
      65 percent tested per year. In order to ensure sufficient numbers are selected, the AFDTP
      software selection rate should be set at a selection rate no less than 6% per month for
      Service Members outside the E-1 to E-4, O-1, and O-2 rank group. Since “Smart
8                                               AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


       Testing” will yield less than the mandated 100 percent of end strength, it is imperative
       that commanders conduct other forms of testing, such as gate checks and unit sweeps, to
       ensure the installation achieves its mandated goal of 100 percent of AF end strength.
       3.1.2. Alternatively, if the DDRP intends to meet the mandated goal though random
       selection alone, the AFDTS software selection rate can be set at a selection rate of 9%
       per month, for an annual selection rate of 108%. This will eliminate the necessity to
       conduct other forms of testing to meet the mandated goal.
    3.2. All new accessions (officer and enlisted personnel) will be tested, as defined in Section
    F of this Instruction.
    3.3. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) members will be tested utilizing available
    Reserve Component resources and constraints on training time. Reserve minimum rates of
    random testing must be as close as possible to rates established for the active force as
    determined by Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
    (SAF/MR). Reserve component personnel on extended active duty (Guard in Federal status
    or active Reserve personnel) will be tested at the same rate as the active duty component.
    Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) are the responsibility of the Active Duty.
    Activated and mobilized reservists are the responsibility of the gaining Major Command
    (MAJCOM).
    3.4. A combination of random and other forms of inspection testing (e.g. unit/gate sweeps)
    shall be performed no less than eight days per month (four days at GSUs). Computer
    generated random testing days or commander (computer code: CO) selected testing days for
    Random Selection Testing must occur on at least six days per month (three days at GSUs).
       3.4.1. The DTPAM at a GSU can run local drug testing software to select testing days
       and personnel for testing. Alternatively, personnel assigned to GSUs can be included in
       the drug testing software of the host-base DDRP. The latter option is preferable at small
       GSUs to prevent personnel from being selected more frequently than personnel assigned
       to larger facilities.
           3.4.1.1. When the host base software is used to select GSU personnel for testing, the
           DDRPM will pre-designate at the beginning of the month which host-base testing
           days will include the GSU (for example, the first, third, fourth and seventh random
           testing days will include the GSU). The selected schedule will not be shared with the
           GSU; the DTPAM at the GSU will be notified only on the day of testing.
           3.4.1.2. Names of GSU personnel selected by the host base on days that are not
           designated for testing at the GSU will be held by host-base DDRP and not
           communicated to the trusted agent or DTPAM at the GSU until the next GSU testing
           day. If the host base software does not select personnel from a specific GSU to meet
           the minimum requirement of four testing days, this should be documented in an MFR
           by the host base and the GSU will not be required to test four days (so long as all
           assigned personnel are in the selection pool and are vulnerable to selected each time
           the software selects names).
       3.4.2. Daily random testing is strongly encouraged.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                            9


   3.5. AFRC will perform random and other forms of inspection testing at a frequency deemed
   appropriate by the reserve wing commander to meet SAF/MR’s established rates. The
   reserve wing commander is responsible for ensuring randomization and level of testing is
   met. Monthly testing is highly encouraged. While the minimum rate of testing outlined in
   this paragraph does not strictly apply to Reserve Component units, every effort to achieve an
   equivalent rate of testing should be made.
      3.5.1. (Added-434ARW) Random testing will be conducted at a 25% annual rate for
      Reservists assigned and 100% annual rate for AGR’s assigned. Quota will be based on
      number of personnel assigned as of 30 September of each year for the next fiscal year. If
      HQ AFRC increases random testing rates above 25%, HQ AFRC rates will be used.
   3.6. Field testing (rapid screening tests) is not authorized.
   3.7. All requests for waivers to any portion of this AFI, must be submitted to SAF/MR
   through the MAJCOM/Commander (CC) (or Vice Commander (CV)) and AFMOA/SGHW.
   3.8. Untestable Specimen Rate. The AF standard is that no more than one percent of
   collected specimens shall be untestable in a month. If the rate of untestable specimens
   exceeds one percent in a month, installation commanders should take appropriate action IAW
   paragraph 4.6.1.4. Untestable discrepancies at GSUs will not be counted against the
   untestable rate at the host installation.

Section B—RESPONSIBILITIES

4. Responsibilities for the Drug Testing Program.
   4.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) is
   responsible for providing guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to the
   Air Force drug testing program formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies,
   programs, and budgets.
   4.2. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
   for the implementation of policy and guidance on AF drug testing. Ensures that the program
   meets the requirements outlined in this Instruction and any additional requirements
   established by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, SAF/MR, SECAF,
   and Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD (HA)).
   4.3. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1) acts as an Office of
   Collateral Responsibility (OCR) for military drug testing, focusing on personnel actions
   (retention, separation, Permanent Change of Station (PCS), TDY, etc.) for military personnel
   involved in, or identified for illegal drug use.
   4.4. Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA).
      4.4.1. ADAPT/DDR Branch
          4.4.1.1. Oversees the Air Force DDRP to include drug testing, prevention, education,
          and outreach programs designed to reduce potential for use of illegal and/or abuse of
          controlled substances among Air Force military members.
      4.4.1.2. Coordinates with Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial
      Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) for budget planning and execution.
10                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


        4.4.1.3. Coordinates with SAF/MR on matters concerning Air Force drug testing and
        implements established Air Force policy.
        4.4.1.4. Oversees operations of the Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory (AFDTL) and
        ensures compliance with policy established by higher headquarters.
     4.4.2. ADAPT/DDR Branch Chief, AFMOA/SGHW.
        4.4.2.1. Oversees the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT)
        Program, including programs for assessing and treating individuals identified for
        substance abuse.
     4.4.3. Air Force Drug Testing Program Manager.
        4.4.3.1. Serves as the OPR for all drug testing issues.
        4.4.3.2. Develops, implements, and manages Air Force drug testing program
        operations to support established guidance and procedures.
        4.4.3.3. Manages programming and execution of the Air Force drug testing program
        budget.
        4.4.3.4. Coordinates with HAF offices involved in drug testing/demand reduction
        programs.
        4.4.3.5. Communicates with other Air Force, DoD, and civilian agencies having
        collateral responsibilities and interests.
        4.4.3.6. Provides implementing and operational guidance to MAJCOMs.
        4.4.3.7. Coordinates, facilitates, and attends conferences and other professional
        forums that address demand reduction issues and determines appropriate Air Force
        representation at these events.
        4.4.3.8. Develops procedures for managing and documenting drug testing activities.
        4.4.3.9. Responds to drug testing program related issues, Air Force suggestions,
        Congressional and high-level inquiries, and Freedom of Information Act requests.
        4.4.3.10. Establishes and aggregates biometric data on the testing program.
        4.4.3.11. Identifies and assesses drug abuse trends and ensures Quality Assurance
        (QA) inspections of the military drug testing laboratory are conducted at least three
        times annually. The QA inspection shall assess the performance of the laboratory and
        its adherence to the requirements as outlined in DoDI 1010.16.
        4.4.3.12. Monitors, and when appropriate, participates in laboratory inspections.
        4.4.3.13. Evaluates performance on external proficiency programs conducted by the
        AFIP/AFMES to ensure continuous accuracy in test results.
        4.4.3.14. Provides guidance for all testing situations not covered by this Instruction.
        4.4.3.15. Reviews AFDTL operating instructions (OIs) and any changes deemed
        necessary by the AFDTL.
        4.4.3.16. Serves as the Air Force voting member on the DoD Biochemical Testing
        Advisory Board (BTAB).
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                             11


          4.4.3.17. Ensures execution of an effective QA program at the AFDTL. Monitors the
          internal and external quality control (QC) programs to ensure test results are
          scientifically sound.
          4.4.3.18. Serves as the Air Force technical representative for developing
          specifications and awarding contracts at the DoD and AF levels.
          4.4.3.19. Establishes testability status of discrepancy codes in coordination with the
          DoD BTAB.
          4.4.3.20. Reviews and approves AFDTL inspection reports.
          4.4.3.21. Coordinates with AFIP/AFMES to ensure the completion of DoD re-
          certification inspections of the AFDTL occurs every two years, as required by DoD.
          4.4.3.22. Reviews Medical Review Officer (MRO) interpretation in DoD Portal or
          appoints designee to complete this function.
      4.4.4. Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory (AFDTL).
          4.4.4.1. Supports DoD and Air Force objectives to provide a work place free of illicit
          drug use and provide a mission-ready fighting force at all times.
          4.4.4.2. Receives, processes, maintains, and reports results of drug urinalysis
          specimens in support of the Air Force and other DoD DDRPs.
          4.4.4.3. Ensures the control and security of all specimens while they remain in
          possession of the laboratory.
          4.4.4.4. Ensures accurate and timely processing and reporting of results, both
          positive and negative.
          4.4.4.5. Ensures each test result report and urinalysis report undergoes appropriate
          reviews of analytical data, chain of custody compliance, and cross-referencing of
          specimen identification numbers.
          4.4.4.6. Ensures results are not reported until certified by a Laboratory Certifying
          Official (LCO).
          4.4.4.7. Ensures release of information or analytical results complies with the Air
          Force and DoD guidance.
          4.4.4.8. Ensures competency of laboratory certifying officials/expert witness
          personnel to certify positive and negative results, provides consultation services to
          installation legal officials and health officers on drug testing procedures and policies,
          and ensures expert witness competency to provide testimony at Air Force
          administrative boards and courts-martial.
4.5. Judge Advocate General (AF/JA).
   4.5.1. Assists SAF/MR, AF/SG, AFMOA, and MAJCOM/FOAs/DRUs in managing legal
   aspects of the drug testing program.
   4.5.2. Provides advice regarding legal requirements.
   4.5.3. Provides a legal advisor to the Air Force Drug Testing Program who performs the
   following functions:
12                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


     4.5.3.1. Serves as advisor to the Air Force Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment
     Program Manager and the Air Force Drug Testing Program Manager on all legal issues
     related to the Air Force Drug Testing Program.
     4.5.3.2. Monitors, and when appropriate, participates in all laboratory inspections.
     4.5.3.3. Advises AFDTL on compliance with all applicable guidance to maintain
     forensic integrity of the drug testing program.
     4.5.3.4. Works with representatives of ASD (HA), AFIP/AFMES, AF/SG, and Staff
     Judge Advocates (SJAs) at all command levels to ensure compliance with applicable law
     and policy and forensic integrity of the drug testing program.
  4.5.4. Ensures adequate facilities and equipment to support the legal advisor to the AFDTL.
  4.5.5. Provides a legal advisor to the AFDTL who performs the following functions:
     4.5.5.1. Serves as advisor to the AFDTL on all legal issues related to drug testing at the
     AFDTL.
     4.5.5.2. Provides legal advice concerning urine testing discrepancy resolution.
     4.5.5.3. Manages and facilitates litigation support.
     4.5.5.4. Assists DoD trial counsel in producing materials needed to fulfill the United
     States’ discovery obligations.
     4.5.5.5. Interfaces between the AFDTL and the legal community, commanders, and law
     enforcement.
     4.5.5.6. Receives copies of the completed Staff Judge Advocate assessments from each
     installation within five working days of completion of the documentation IAW paragraph
     4.6.12.1 below.
4.6. MAJCOMs.
  4.6.1. The Command SG is the OPR for implementation of guidance over the command-
  level drug testing program and appoints a command level Drug Demand Reduction Program
  Manager (DDRPM).
     4.6.1.1. The command level DDRPM assists and serves as the primary focal point for
     installation level DDRPM and Drug Testing Program Administrative Managers
     (DTPAMs) in administering the drug testing program.
     4.6.1.2. MAJCOM DDRPMs will ensure that each installation has in place a mechanism
     to provide adequate training of personnel assigned to the installation-level DDRPM and
     DTPAM functions.
     4.6.1.3. MAJCOM DDRPMs will ensure that each installation-level DDRPM conforms
     to the guidelines established in the Air Force Drug Testing Instructional Guide.
     Information and training should be tailored to fit the needs of each installation. Training
     manuals will be updated annually and must be reviewed and approved by the MAJCOM
     DDRPM prior to implementation.
             4.6.1.3.1. MAJCOM DDRPMs will ensure that installation DDRPMs enter
             positive results on the Drug Testing Portal in a timely manner following MRO
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                              13


              review. The AFDTL will provide MAJCOMs with a list of delinquent results on
              a quarterly basis to facilitate follow-up.
          4.6.1.4. MAJCOM DDRPMs must track all installations with untestable specimen
          rates exceeding one percent in a given month and ensure that the installation in
          question develops an action plan identifying specific steps to reduce the untestable
          error rate, as well as a reasonable timetable for resolution. Untestable discrepancies
          at GSUs will not be counted against the untestable rate at the host installation. On a
          quarterly and yearly basis, MAJCOM DDRPMs will forward the information to
          AFMOA/SGHW identifying the installation(s) and the corrective actions
          implemented to reduce or eliminate excessive untestable specimen rates.
      4.6.1.5. MAJCOM DDRPMs are responsible for assessing drug abuse trends and
      maintaining statistical data for installations in their command.
  4.6.2. The MAJCOM SJA is the MAJCOM OCR assisting the Command SG in managing
  the legal aspects of the MAJCOM drug testing program.
  4.6.3. Installation.
  4.6.4. Installation Commander.
      4.6.4.1. Ensures the drug testing program is conducted IAW this Instruction and all other
      applicable guidance.
              4.6.4.1.1. (Added-434ARW) The drug testing program of the 434 ARW will be
              conducted on behalf of the installation commander as required by applicable
              directives and public law
      4.6.4.2. Ensures testing level and type of test is appropriate to the local drug threat and is
      consistent with Air Force guidance. Inspection random testing shall be the predominant
      type of test used in non-deployed settings. Commanders should also consider using other
      types of additional inspections such as unit sweeps and gate sweeps. Commanders may
      establish testing levels in excess of the Air Force minimum requirements but must ensure
      staffing to support additional testing levels.
      4.6.4.3. May test any and all TDY Air Force personnel assigned to their units IAW the
      procedures outlined in this Instruction. Frequency of testing for TDY personnel will be
      determined by the level of perceived threat and shall be established by the installation
      commander following consultation with the SJA and DDRPM.
      4.6.4.4. On a case-by-case basis, may postpone notification/testing of an individual after
      coordination with the SJA.
          4.6.4.5. Ensures effective cross-functional oversight of the installation drug testing
          program by appointing an installation-level CFOC. The committee will be chaired by
          the Installation/CC or Installation/CV, and convene no less than quarterly to assess
          the status and effectiveness of drug testing program operations. Committee
          membership must include as a minimum the following: the Medical Treatment
          Facility (MTF) commander (except for ANG units; can be delegated to the deputy
          MTF commander at medical wings), Group Commanders or suitable designees as
          determined by each Group Commander, Air Force Office of Special Investigations
          (AFOSI) (except for ANG units), Security Forces (SF) (installations with a Joint
14                                           AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


         Drug Enforcement Team (JDET) may provide a single team member to represent
         both AFOSI and SF), SJA, Command Chief, a representative from the First
         Sergeant’s council, and the installation DDRPM. The intent of group commander
         representation at the CFOC is to ensure senior leaders are informed of the current
         local drug threat and are active participants in drug deterrence activities. However,
         full participation in the CFOC by all group commanders or equivalents may be
         unrealistic at joint bases, installations with multiple wings, and installations with
         more than five units led by group commander equivalents. At these installations, the
         CFOC chair will determine which group commanders will attend. At a minimum,
         four group commanders, including the MTF Commander, will be designated to
         attend. Nevertheless, all group commanders and equivalents are encouraged to
         participate to enhance the effectiveness of drug demand reduction efforts.
         4.6.4.5.1. Additional members may include: the ADAPT Program Manager,
         Squadron Commander representatives, and others as deemed appropriate by the
         Installation Commander. AFRC and ANG will meet at least annually or more
         frequently if deemed appropriate.
     4.6.4.6. Provides adequate and appropriate facilities dedicated for full-time use by the
     DDRPM and the DTPAM to include: a secured, private work area sufficient for the
     performance of administrative functions, the safeguarding of files and supplies to carry
     out and maintain the integrity of the drug testing program, and appropriate urine
     collection facilities. (See Attachment 16 for facility guidelines.)
            4.6.4.6.1. Ensures adequacy of personnel resources to meet program
            administration requirements (e.g., DTPAM(s), observers, collection personnel).
            This must include backup support to maintain DDRP collection operations when
            regular DDRP personnel are absent.
            4.6.4.6.1.1. Appoints in writing a DDRPM.
            4.6.4.6.1.2. Appoints in writing a DTPAM. Commanders can resource this
            position as they see fit with the exception that medical personnel cannot be
            exclusively used. Medical personnel can be used on an equitable basis with other
            units to support the program. Additionally, commanders can use O&M funding
            for a full-time position.
            4.6.4.6.1.3. If the testing population size and workload of the installation
            warrants additional program resources (including backup support when the
            DTPAM is unavailable), appoints in writing an assistant(s) to the DTPAM to
            serve for a minimum period of three (3) consecutive months. Strongly
            recommend the assistant to the DTPAM should be appointed to serve a minimum
            of twelve (12) consecutive months to enhance and maintain a high level of
            program integrity.
            4.6.4.6.1.4. AFRC units should assign DDRPMs/DTPAMs for a minimum of 18
            months.
  4.6.5. Functions of the Cross Functional Oversight Committee (CFOC).
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                           15


     4.6.5.1. The CFOC will advise the Installation Commander and provide
     recommendations to improve the efficiency of the drug testing program. The CFOC will
     monitor and evaluate:
        4.6.5.1.1. The installation drug testing program’s ability to meet the drug testing
        program goals as outlined in Paragraph 1. Particular attention should be given to the
        quality of compliance with guidelines for specimen collection, packaging, and
        shipment.
        4.6.5.1.2. Commanders’ and supervisors’ understanding and support for the goals of
        the drug testing program, its readiness and health implications, as well as its
        effectiveness in ensuring a drug-free workplace.
        4.6.5.1.3. Compliance with the required testing and the type of test appropriate to the
        local threat.
        4.6.5.1.4. Testing of personnel assigned to the installation regardless of grade, status,
        or position, including tenant units.
        4.6.5.1.5. Commanders’ and supervisors’ understanding of the random selection
        process and range of appropriate responses to military members who fail to go for
        testing or refuse to provide a specimen.
        4.6.5.1.6. Commanders’ referral to ADAPT Program and drug testing for incidents of
        known or suspected substance abuse or indication of deterioration of duty
        performance, behavioral changes such as aggressiveness, destruction of
        government/personal property, failure to obey orders, or other abnormalities deemed
        unusual or suspicious in nature IAW AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse
        Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program.
        4.6.5.1.7. Compliance with established procedures to test individuals who receive
        support from an installation but physically reside with a GSU.
            4.6.5.1.7.1. Numbered Air Forces (NAFs) will ensure the parent wing or host
            Reserve Medical Unit (RMU) provides support to their assigned GSUs and
            complies with required drug testing procedures.
  4.6.6. The MTF or RMU Commander.
     4.6.6.1. Serves as the installation OPR for DDRP and ensures appropriate supervision of
     the DDRPM .
     4.6.6.2. Forwards all DDRP correspondence received from higher headquarters and
     AFMOA/SGHW to the installation DDRPM.
     4.6.6.3. Appoints in writing qualified licensed physicians to serve as primary and
     alternate MRO for the military drug testing program.
  4.6.7. Medical Review Officer (MRO).
     4.6.7.1. Is responsible for reviewing test-positive messages and reports from the AFDTL.
        4.6.7.1.1. Must be a physician who has appropriate medical training to interpret and
        evaluate an individual’s positive test result based on review of information in the
        member’s medical record. Must be knowledgeable in the medical use of prescription
 16                                                 AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


            drugs and the pharmacology and toxicology of prescription and illicit drugs. Only
            individuals holding either a Doctor of Medicine (MD) or a Doctor of Osteopathy
            (DO) degree may serve as MROs.
        4.6.7.2. Must determine whether the member’s positive drug test could be caused by
        prescribed medication or other natural or synthetic substances to which the member has
        been exposed. The MRO will review the member’s medical, pharmacy, and dental
        records as well as any other documents deemed appropriate in assessing a positive test
        result.
                4.6.7.2.1. Because a positive result(s) may be caused by legitimate use of a valid
                medication prescription, the following urinalysis drug test results require review
                by the MRO:
a. Amphetamines (d-methamphetamine and d-amphetamine).
b. Opiates (codeine, morphine).
c. Steroids (all steroids analyzed through the University of California Los Angeles laboratory).
d. Synthetic opiates (oxycodone, oxymorphone, hydrocodone, and hydromorphone).
e. Benzodiazepines.
f. Any positive reported for any Schedule II to V drug prescription if requested by an appropriate
authority or if the drug has been added to the drug program testing panel.
                4.6.7.2.2. The drugs in a through e below do not require review by an MRO and
                are sent directly to unit commanders for action. A review may still be requested in
                special circumstances.
a. 6-monoacetylmorphine (6-MAM) – heroin metabolite.
b. Benzoylecgonine – cocaine metabolite.
c. Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) –
amphetamine and methamphetamine designer drugs (see glossary).
d. Phencyclidine (PCP).
e. Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) – marijuana parent compound.
        4.6.7.3. Must not interview or otherwise communicate with the individual in question.
            4.6.7.4. Should consult with a forensic toxicologist at the AFDTL on an as needed
            basis regarding drug testing results.
        4.6.7.5. Receives all positive drug reports from the DDRPM/DTPAM and provides a
        review to the DDRPM/DTPAM preferably within one duty day of receipt, not to exceed
        two duty days. If the positive drug report is deemed to be the result of lawful drug use,
        the MRO will include the name of the lawful drug used, the amount prescribed/used, the
        directions/circumstances for use, and the date of prescription/use in his or her report to
        the DDRPM/DTPAM.
        4.6.7.6. Is not involved in making determinations of chain of custody issues (i.e.,
        specimen authenticity and integrity).
        4.6.7.7. Must complete AFMOA-approved MRO training within four months of
        appointment as MRO.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                           17


  4.6.8. The Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager (DDRPM).
     4.6.8.1. Must be an individual possessing unquestionable integrity and trustworthiness
     and meet the following criteria:
        4.6.8.1.1. If active duty, no Unfavorable Information File (AFI 36-2907 Unfavorable
        Information File (UIF) Program).
        4.6.8.1.2. Individuals are ineligible to serve as DDRPMs if they have a record of
        conviction by courts-martial or civilian criminal court. Additionally, the individuals
        are ineligible if they have received non-judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ,
        or a Letter of Reprimand or similar administrative action (Letter of Admonishment,
        Letter of Counseling) for misconduct involving dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse
        (including use, possession, or distribution). Prior to assigning an individual to serve
        as a DDRPM, the unit commander will review the individual’s Personnel Information
        File - PIF (military) or personnel record (civilian).
        4.6.8.1.3. Commanders, on a case-by-case basis, make the determination on whether
        conduct is dishonest and/or fraudulent. Commanders will receive advice from the
        servicing SJA in situations in which it is unclear as to whether past misconduct is
        disqualifying.
        4.6.8.1.4. No pending UCMJ action (court-martial, Article 15), pending civilian
        criminal action, or pending administrative action (Separation, Letter of
        Reprimand/Counseling/Admonishment for dishonesty, fraud, or other integrity
        offenses).
        4.6.8.1.5. No medical or mental health condition which will preclude him/her from
        responsibly performing his/her assigned duties as a DDRPM.
        4.6.8.1.6. Finally, the individual will be asked to certify, and will sign a statement
        certifying, no record of conviction for any offense or history of past misconduct
        involving dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse (including use, possession, or distribution).
     4.6.8.2. Is responsible for the management of all aspects of the DDRP to include budget,
     military/civilian drug urinalysis testing programs, and drug prevention programs.
        4.6.8.2.1. Budget management will include, but is not limited to, conducting and
        analyzing annual resource requirements, planning and submitting an annual budget,
        as well as ensuring proper expenditure of funds.
     4.6.8.3. Acts as the focal point for installation-level drug testing, drug
     prevention/education issues, and serves as the subject matter expert on illicit drug use for
     the on-base and off-base communities.
     4.6.8.4. Briefs unit commanders, first sergeants, and supervisors on the drug testing
     program.
        4.6.8.5. Is responsible for base drug demand reduction outreach and education
        activities. These include all activities aimed at active duty and targeted populations
        (i.e., dependents, DoD civilian employees, retirees, and school-age children) and may
        include but are not limited to Red Ribbon Campaign, Civil Air Patrol Outreach
        Programs, Drug Education For Youth (DEFY), Drug Abuse Resistance Education
18                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


        (DARE), Community Anti-Drug Coalitions, Military Youth and Teen Programs,
        Family Community Center (FCC), Community Health Fairs, Base Sponsored
        Community Activities, Chaplain Activities, Parent Groups, and Mentoring Programs
        as resources permit.
        4.6.8.5.1. AFRC outreach activities may include the above programs as applicable
        and should be targeted at service members and DoD civilians. Military and DoD
        civilian dependents should be included as time permits.
            4.6.8.5.1.1. AFRC will provide one outreach activity annually that may include
            but is not limited to those activities listed in paragraph 4.6.8.5. that pertain
            directly to the Air Force Reserve personnel, their family members, and DoD
            civilian employees.
                4.6.8.5.1.1.1. Local DDRPMs are responsible for reporting the results of the
                outreach activity to the AFRC DDRPM within 45 days of activity completion.
                Outreach activity participation is one key element in the AFRC DDRP Annual
                Award criteria.
     4.6.8.6. Participates in the base Integrated Delivery System (IDS), Community Action
     Information Board (CAIB), Culture of Responsible Choices (CoRC), CFOC, or other
     similarly structured base and local community prevention coalitions.
     4.6.8.7. Works closely with the ADAPT Program Manager (PM) in the development of
     substance abuse prevention education modules targeted towards active duty personnel.
        4.6.8.8. Provides oversight for all aspects of the drug testing programs to comply
        with established guidance. Directly supervises personnel assigned to the drug testing
        program.
     4.6.8.9. Ensures the DTPAMs (including GSU DTPAMs) are adequately trained and
     competent to perform associated duties. The DDRPM documents and certifies training
     for all DTPAMs who participate in the installation’s DDRP.
     4.6.8.10. Ensures trusted agents and observers have documented training.
     4.6.8.11. Ensures Commanders and First Sergeants are briefed on their responsibilities
     within 30 days of assumption of duty.
     4.6.8.12. Ensures a combination of random and other forms of inspection testing (e.g.
     unit/gate sweeps) are performed no less than eight days per month (four days at GSUs).
     Random testing must occur on at least six days per month (three days at GSUs). Daily
     random testing is strongly encouraged. Ensures the DTPAM utilizes the Air Force Drug
     Testing Program software for inspection (random) testing and CO Selected Random
     Selection Testing. Failure to use the Air Force Drug Testing Software will not affect the
     validity of results. Exemptions from the use of this software must be approved in writing
     by AFMOA/SGHW. Air Reserve Components are not required to strictly adhere to the
     requirements of this paragraph, but shall tailor their programs to mirror these practices as
     closely as feasible. AFRC units should refer to Chapter 2 for additional guidance.
     Deviations from these procedures must be approved by AFMOA/SGHW and, when
     appropriate, SAF/MR.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                            19


       4.6.8.13. Maintains a current contact listing of all unit Commanders, First Sergeants,
       trusted agents, and legal office personnel.
       4.6.8.14. Safeguards the sensitive medical information that testing may generate IAW
       AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
       4.6.8.15. Ensures the MRO is notified in writing within one duty day when positive drug
       test results are received, or in the case of Air Force Reserve Component units, as soon as
       practicable, not to exceed 7 days.
          4.6.8.16. Inputs the MRO interpretation/findings into the DoD portal and ensures
          notification, verbally and/or in writing, to the member's Commander/First Sergeant,
          AFOSI/Security Forces, ADAPT Program Manager, and installation SJA of all drug
          positive results that are not medically excused/explained by the MRO, and samples
          determined by the AFDTL to be either adulterated or not consistent with human
          urine. The installation CFOC may determine notification sequence. All other requests
          for drug testing data should be submitted to AFMOA/SGHW. AFRC units should
          request additional drug testing data from AFRC/SGPD.
          4.6.8.16.1. AFRC notification of MRO confirmed positive drug testing results will be
          made by the RMU based AFRC guidance.
       4.6.8.17. Maintains appropriate statistical data as required by higher headquarters and
       this AFI (). Provides statistical updates no less than quarterly to the installation-level
       CFOC (annually for Reserve Component).
              4.6.8.17.1. In conjunction with the DTPAM, monitors the monthly rate of
              untestable specimens (fatal discrepancies) and non-fatal discrepancies
              (Attachment 9). Takes appropriate action to ensure less than one percent of
              specimens are untestable. Installations exceeding the one percent untestable level
              must develop an action plan identifying specific steps to reduce the untestable
              error rate and a timetable for resolution. This action plan must be forwarded to the
              MAJCOM DDRPM for review. Action plans should also be made available for
              review by the installation level CFOC (See Attachment 14.). Untestable
              discrepancies at GSUs will not count against the untestable rate at the host
              installation; however, the host installation DDRP is responsible for the action plan
              and training of collection personnel at the GSUs.
              4.6.8.17.2. Specimens reported to be untestable by the lab with the following
              discrepancy codes may be contested through the MAJCOM program manager;
              those that are approved may be categorized as “Caused by Other:”
BC - Bottle leaked in shipment, quantity not sufficient to test
BU - Bottle empty
BY - Bottle discrepancy – Not tested (depending on the lab’s explanation)
SC - Specimen quantity not sufficient to test
SE - Specimen volume <30ml
SY - Specimen discrepancy – not tested (depending on the lab’s explanation)
GP - Form or other document contains service member’s name/signature
GY - Form discrepancy – Not tested
 20                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


PB - Package – Broken seal
PY - Package – Discrepancy – Not tested (depending on lab’s explanation)
LQ - Label has service member’s name/signature
LY - Label discrepancy – Not tested (depending on lab’s explanation)
          4.6.8.18. Uses the Air Force Drug Testing software to track individual(s) unavailable
          for testing due to leave, pass, TDY, quarters, flying status, crew-rest, missile duty, or
          non-duty status. The DDRPM will coordinate with commanders to ensure these
          individuals will report to the testing location within two hours of notification upon
          their return to duty. Members who are flying at the time of notification must be
          tested as soon as reasonably possible following completion of the flying mission.
          Any member who is randomly selected more than once during a single period of
          absence will be required to provide only one specimen for testing upon their return.
       4.6.8.19. Ensures that, prior to the actual collection process, observers read, understand,
       sign, and date a “Drug Testing Observer’s Briefing” acknowledging their acceptance and
       understanding of their responsibilities and the consequences of their actions for not
       performing their duties IAW established guidelines, as well as physically review the
       process involved in observation and collection. These signed briefing forms must be
       maintained as part of the drug urinalysis testing file IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management
       of Records. This briefing remains current for the observer for a maximum of five
       calendar days, after which the briefing must be re-accomplished. Attachment 4 of this
       AFI provides a sample observer briefing letter.
       4.6.8.20. Encourages attendance at professional conferences (e.g. Community Anti-Drug
       Coalitions of America (CADCA), Centers for the Application of Prevention
       Technologies (CAPTs), Society for Prevention Research, Society for Chemical
       Dependency, Center for Substance Abuse Prevention (CSAP)), online training, seminars,
       correspondence or other training as appropriate. Note: Certification and/or licensure is
       not a required qualification for this position. Continuing education opportunities must be
       structured to support the critical function areas of prevention, education, and outreach.
   4.6.9. The Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager (DTPAM).
       4.6.9.1. Coordinates drug testing activities with the DDRPM and other agencies as
       applicable.
          4.6.9.1.1. Must be an individual possessing            unquestionable    integrity and
          trustworthiness and meet the following criteria:
              4.6.9.1.1.1. No UIF (AFI 36-2907).
                  4.6.9.1.1.1.1. Individuals are ineligible to serve as DTPAMs if they have a
                  record of conviction by courts-martial or civilian criminal court. Additionally,
                  the individuals are ineligible if they have received non-judicial punishment
                  under Article 15, UCMJ, or a Letter of Reprimand or similar administrative
                  action (Letter of Admonishment, Letter of Counseling) for misconduct
                  involving dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse (including use, possession or
                  distribution). Prior to assigning an individual to serve as a DTPAM, the unit
                  commander will review the individual’s Personal Information File - PIF
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          21


                (military) or personnel record (civilian).
                4.6.9.1.1.1.2. Commanders, on a case-by-case basis, make the determination
                on whether conduct is dishonest and/or fraudulent. Commanders will receive
                advice from the servicing SJA in situations in which it is unclear as to whether
                past misconduct is disqualifying.
            4.6.9.1.1.2. No pending UCMJ action (court-martial, Article 15), pending civilian
            criminal action, or pending administrative action (Separation or Letter(s) of
            Reprimand/Counseling/ Admonishment for dishonesty, fraud, or other integrity
            offenses).
            4.6.9.1.1.3. No medical or mental health condition which will preclude him/her
            from responsibly performing his/her assigned duties as a DTPAM.
            4.6.9.1.1.4. The individual will be asked to sign a statement certifying there is no
            record of conviction for any offense or history of past misconduct involving
            dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse (including use, possession, or distribution), and
            no medical or mental health condition which will preclude them from responsibly
            performing their assigned duties as DTPAMs.
     4.6.9.2. Ensures specimens are collected, packaged, and transported to the drug testing
     laboratory according to the forensic requirements of this Instruction and any guidance
     established by AFMOA/SGHW. Attachment 3 of this AFI provides a sample checklist
     which may be used at the collection site.
        4.6.9.2.1. Makes notifications for specimen collection to trusted agents, (e.g.,
        Commanders, First Sergeants, or other designated individual) by confidential means.
        4.6.9.2.2. In the event the DTPAM is randomly selected to provide a drug testing
        specimen, the DTPAM may not handle, prepare paperwork, or package and ship
        his/her own specimen for testing. Arrangements must be made to ensure that all
        aspects of packaging and shipment of the box containing the specimen of the
        DTPAM are performed by an alternate DTPAM (or the DDRPM) who is thoroughly
        knowledgeable and competent to perform this task and who is properly appointed. In
        those situations where the DDRPM and DTPAM functions are being performed by a
        military member, arrangements must be made to ensure that an alternate properly
        trained DTPAM prepares the paperwork, packages, and ships the specimens.
     4.6.9.3. In conjunction with the DDRPM, monitors the rate of untestable specimens and
     takes appropriate action to ensure less than one percent of specimens are untestable.
     4.6.9.4. Verifies results are received for every specimen sent for testing, tracks
     outstanding results, and performs follow-up with the testing laboratory to resolve issues
     of turnaround times, outstanding results, and untestable specimens. Communicates
     findings and proposed resolutions to untestable discrepancies to the DDRPM.
     4.6.9.5. Safeguards the sensitive medical information that testing may generate IAW AFI
     33-332.
  4.6.10. AFRC units
22                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


     4.6.10.1. Will conduct testing monthly random during the Unit Training Assembly
     (UTA) and/or during the member’s annual tour. Monthly testing is recommended but not
     required as long as the annual quota is met and program maintains a deterrent effect. It is
     suggested that drug testing of Active Reserves be conducted during the month in order to
     reduce the demands on limited time available during training assemblies and to enhance
     the deterrent effect.
     4.6.10.2. Selection of members for testing may be accomplished prior to the day of
     testing and selection rosters must be placed in secure storage with limited access.
     Notification of selection for testing will not be made until the day of testing. Once
     notified, individuals must report for testing within two hours. Individuals who are shift
     workers or on scheduled days off will be tested within two hours of reporting for duty
     during the next drug testing period.
     4.6.10.3. In AFRC units with one allocated manpower position dedicated to drug testing,
     that individual will serve as both the DDRPM and DTPAM.
  4.6.11. Group, Squadron, and Detachment Commander.
     4.6.11.1. Commanders have the authority to order drug testing IAW guidelines in this
     AFI for sweep testing, probable cause testing, and commander directed testing.
     4.6.11.2. Ensures that all unit military members regardless of rank or status, are subject
     to inspection testing. Commanders are responsible for issuing written notification letters
     to members and for ensuring that notification letters are appropriately acknowledged
     (date and time of acknowledgment, as well as the member's signature are evident) and a
     copy of such notification and acknowledgement letters are maintained within the unit
     IAW AFM 33-363 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil). Attachment 5 of this AFI
     provides a sample notification letter to provide a urine sample. Specimen collection is to
     be conducted on the day of selection. Once notified, members must report to the testing
     location within two hours. Exceptions: a. Commanders will permit personnel who must
     travel to the collection site more than two hours if required by distance and/or traffic or
     weather conditions. Any such time extension must be noted in the Notification of
     Selection to Provide a Urine Sample. b. Personnel who are shift workers or who routinely
     work alternative duty weeks with “weekends” during the regular duty week must report
     to the testing location within two hours of notification, as soon as possible upon returning
     to duty, preferably the same day the member returns to duty. Commanders and/or First
     Sergeants will coordinate such activities with the collector to ensure the member reports
     for testing, within two hours of notification, as soon as possible upon returning to duty,
     preferably the same day the member returns to duty. Commanders must not notify
     members of their selection sooner than one hour prior to the available testing period.
        4.6.11.2.1. Commanders who choose to appoint a designee (such as a deputy
        commander) for issuing and ensuring member notification should consult with the
        servicing SJA. Designations must be made in writing.
     4.6.11.3. Will ensure that members who are on leave, pass, TDY, quarters, flying status,
     crew-rest, missile duty, or non-duty status report to the testing location IAW the above
     paragraph 4.6.11. 2. within two hours of notification, as soon as possible upon returning
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          23


     to duty, preferably the same day the member returns to duty. Commanders or designee
     will coordinate such activities with the collector to ensure testing of these individuals.
        4.6.11.3.1. Commanders or designee will coordinate with the collector to ensure
        testing of shift working individuals. Commanders must not notify members of their
        selection sooner than one hour prior to the scheduled collection time.
        4.6.11.3.2. AFRC (to include IMAs). Members who are on leave, pass, TDY,
        quarters, flying status, crew-rest, missile duty, or non-duty status, or who did not
        attend training where their names were randomly selected for drug testing, will report
        for testing during the next training/drug testing period. Commanders must not notify
        members of their selection sooner than two hours prior to the scheduled collection
        time.
            4.6.11.3.3. Commanders, at their discretion, may give Service Members who are
            approved for teleworking the option to select an alternate site for drug testing.
            While most teleworking Service Members will be able to present for drug testing
            at the installation DDRP, some may telework at a location which is a significant
            distance from the installation and an alternate DDRP location may be closer.
            When the Service Member chooses an alternate site, their name will be removed
            from the installation DDRP drug testing software and added to the selection pool
            at the alternate location. When selected for testing, the Service Member will
            report to the selected DDRP location regardless of whether they are teleworking
            or working at the traditional duty location. Alternatively, teleworking Service
            Members may also be given the option to be included in the selection pool at both
            the installation DDRP and an alternate DDRP. When this option is selected, the
            selected Service Member will report to the DDRP location that made the
            selection. If the Service Member is teleworking when selected by the assigned
            base DDRP, he or she will not be notified until the next work day at the
            traditional workplace.     If the Service Member is working at the traditional
            workplace when selected by the alternate DDRP, he or she will not be notified
            until the next telework day. The choice to be included in the selection pool at two
            locations can significantly reduce travel time for some teleworkers; however,
            individuals choosing this option must be informed of the fact that their chances of
            being selected will increase two fold. Those not wanting to subject themselves to
            increased testing should decline this option.
                4.6.11.3.3.1. Service Members who are given the option to select an alternate
                drug testing site will be given a window of time annually to change their
                selection. The time period designated for changes to be made will be
                determined locally by each DDRPM. If they discontinue approved telework
                status, however, the installation DDRP will be notified and the member’s
                name will be added to the installation selection pool and removed from the
                alternate site’s pool.
                4.6.11.3.3.2. If the alternate location is operated by another military Service,
                a memorandum of agreement (MOA) will be signed between the squadron or
                higher level commander and the equivalent commander at the alternate
                location. A single MOA can cover multiple Service members. If an MOA
24                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


                cannot be completed, the service member will not have the option to move to
                the alternate DDRP.
     4.6.11.4. Take appropriate administrative or UCMJ action against personnel who fail to
     report for testing without a valid reason (leave, pass, TDY, quarters, flying status, crew-
     rest, missile duty, or non-duty status). All actions taken by commanders must be
     coordinated with the SJA to ensure the integrity of the program.
     4.6.11.5. May order Commander-directed testing.          Any Commander-directed drug
     testing must first be coordinated with the SJA.
     4.6.11.6. Will appoint in writing a Trusted Agent who performs the following duties:
        4.6.11.6.1. Receives  and    maintains    rosters  (IAW     AFMAN        33-363,
        (https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm) of individuals selected for
        urinalysis testing.
        4.6.11.6.2. Notifies individuals selected for urinalysis testing no earlier than one hour
        prior to the scheduled starting collection time and no later than one hour prior to the
        scheduled end of collection time. For GSU members, the one hour period may be
        extended by the commander.
        4.6.11.6.3. Returns the Commander’s Notification Letter to the collector with
        annotations of those members notified; those not notified; and/or those on leave, pass,
        TDY, quarters, flying status, crew-rest, missile duty, or non-duty status, (with return
        dates)/ by the time specified by the collector.
     4.6.11.7. Trusted Agent must be an individual possessing unquestionable integrity and
     trustworthiness, and meeting the following criteria:
        4.6.11.7.1. No UIF (AFI 36-2907).
        4.6.11.7.2. Individuals are ineligible to serve as Trusted Agents if they have a recent
        record (within five years) of conviction by courts-martial or civilian criminal court for
        matters not involving dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse. Additionally, the individuals
        are ineligible if they have a record of conviction by courts-martial or civilian court or
        have received non-judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, or a Letter of
        Reprimand or similar administrative action (Letter of Admonishment, Letter of
        Counseling) for misconduct involving dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse (including
        use, possession, or distribution). Prior to assigning an individual to serve as a Trusted
        Agent, the unit commander will review the individual’s PIF or equivalent personnel
        record. Normally, misconduct, including drug abuse, that occurred prior to entering
        active duty service in the Air Force should not be considered a bar to service as a
        Trusted Agent.
            4.6.11.7.2.1. Commanders, on a case-by-case basis, make determinations as to
            whether or not conduct is/was dishonest and/or fraudulent, and may make
            exceptions to the rule articulated in paragraph 4.6.11.7.2 Commanders will
            receive advice from the servicing SJA in situations in which it unclear as to
            whether past misconduct is disqualifying.
        4.6.11.7.3. No pending UCMJ action (courts-martial, Article 15), pending civilian
        criminal action, or pending administrative action (Separation or Letter(s) of
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          25


        Reprimand/Counseling/ Admonishment for dishonesty, fraud, or other integrity
        offenses).
        4.6.11.7.4. No medical or mental health conditions which will prevent them from
        performing their assigned duties as a Trusted Agent.
     4.6.11.8. Provide observers who meet the following criteria:
        4.6.11.8.1. Not selected for testing in the same session as the one in which they are
        observers.
        4.6.11.8.2. Must be an individual possessing unquestionable integrity and
        trustworthiness and meet the following criteria:
            4.6.11.8.2.1. No UIF (AFI 36-2907).
            4.6.11.8.2.2. Individuals are ineligible to serve as observers if they have a recent
            record (within five years) of conviction by courts-martial or civilian criminal
            court for matters not involving dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse. Additionally, the
            individuals are ineligible if they have a record of conviction by courts-martial or
            civilian court or have received non-judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ,
            or a Letter of Reprimand or similar administrative action (Letter of
            Admonishment, Letter of Counseling) for misconduct involving dishonesty,
            fraud, or drug abuse (including use, possession, or distribution). Prior to
            assigning an individual to serve as an observer, the unit commander will review
            the individual’s PIF or equivalent personnel record. Normally, misconduct,
            including drug abuse that occurred prior to entering active duty service in the Air
            Force should not be considered a bar to service as an observer.
                4.6.11.8.2.2.1. Commanders, on a case-by-case basis, make determinations as
                to whether or not conduct is/was dishonest and/or fraudulent, and may make
                exceptions to the rule articulated in paragraph 4.6.11.8.2.2. Commanders will
                receive advice from the servicing SJA in situations in which it unclear as to
                whether past misconduct is disqualifying.
            4.6.11.8.2.3. No pending UCMJ action (courts-martial, Article 15), pending
            civilian criminal action, or pending administrative action (Separation or Letter(s)
            of Reprimand/Counseling/ Admonishment for dishonesty, fraud, or other integrity
            offenses).
        4.6.11.8.3. Not within six months of either separation or retirement from active duty,
        or in the case of the ANG and Air Force Reserve, one year of either separation or
        transfer from an active participation status.
        4.6.11.8.4. No medical or mental health conditions which will prevent them from
        performing their assigned duties as observers.
        4.6.11.8.5. Commissioned officers or noncommissioned officers (NCOs) are to be
        used as observers. In the event of the unavailability of officers or NCOs to perform
        observer duties, personnel in the grade of Senior Airman may be used, but only with
        the concurrence of the servicing SJA.
        4.6.11.8.6. Not assigned to work in any legal office.
26                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


         4.6.11.9. Unless approved by AFMOA/SGHW, all drug testing managers, collectors,
         and observers will be active duty or reserve component AF personnel or AF civilian
         employees. At joint installations, other Services’ military and civilian employees
         may serve in these roles to facilitate drug testing of AF personnel.
  4.6.12. The Staff Judge Advocate (SJA).
     4.6.12.1. Performs and documents periodic (no less than quarterly) assessments of the
     drug testing program using DoDDs and DoDIs, AFIs, and/or appropriate checklists
     derived from these publications or other applicable publications and shall document the
     results within five duty days from the date of the completion of the assessment. Copies
     of the completed assessments will be sent to the AFDTL’s legal advisor within five
     working days of completion of the documentation. Ensures that all phases of installation
     level drug testing program (i.e. member selection, notification, sample collection, storage,
     packaging, and shipping) are forensically sound. Recommends and ensures
     implementation of corrective actions to the DDRPM when necessary. Any observations
     which negatively impact on the integrity of the program must be communicated through
     appropriate channels to the MAJCOM SJA representative; Office of the Judge Advocate
     General, Administrative Law Division (AF/JA); and AFMOA/SGHW. The local SJA
     will be responsible for performing (no less than annually) an audit of collection
     procedures at GSUs. AFRC and ANG perform and document periodic assessments no
     less than annually.
     4.6.12.2. Advises Commanders, the DDRPM, DTPAM, and other installation officials
     and agencies regarding legal aspects of the drug testing program.
     4.6.12.3. Advises and coordinates on all requests for urinalysis drug testing other than
     routine random inspection testing.
     4.6.12.4. Evaluates requests by service members for independent retest.
     4.6.12.5. Requests in writing to the appropriate drug testing laboratory an extension to
     retain a positive specimen for administrative or UCMJ actions that will extend beyond
     one year. The originating agency must specify a defined period of time (e.g., six
     months). A request for “indefinite retention” will not be honored by the laboratory. At
     the end of this extension period, the SJA must advise the laboratory every 60 calendar
     days of the need for further retention. The local SJA is responsible for notifying the drug
     testing laboratory when further retention of the specimen is no longer necessary.
     4.6.12.6. Will provide, in coordination with the DDRPM, training sessions (as deemed
     appropriate by the SJA and DDRPM) for observers on the collection and observation
     processes for the drug urinalysis program.
  4.6.13. Air Force Members.
     4.6.13.1. When notified of random selection to provide a urine specimen, the selected
     military member must acknowledge receipt of the written notification by endorsing with
     his/her signature.
     4.6.13.2. Military members selected for random drug testing must report to the
     designated testing site within the time period provided in the written notification with
     their military identification (ID) cards and the signed written notifications.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                         27


     4.6.13.3. The selected military member must remain at the testing site until he or she has
     provided an adequate urine specimen (minimum of 30 milliliters in one uninterrupted
     collection) and applicable documentation has been completed. Once this has been
     accomplished, the individual may be released by testing site personnel. The only
     exceptions to the requirements of this paragraph are those military members meeting the
     criteria listed in .
     4.6.14. Civil Air Patrol (CAP).
        4.6.14.1. CAP-USAF.
            4.6.14.1.1. Serves as a liaison to the CAP. Coordinates and approves briefings on
            the CAP Demand Reduction Program (DRP) by the CAP Chief, Demand
            Reduction to DoD and other Federal agencies.
            4.6.14.1.2. Provides guidance and oversight to the CAP DRP.
            4.6.14.1.3. Reviews and approves CAP-CORP Demand Reduction Budget.
            4.6.14.1.4. Regularly reviews program status and reprograms funds in a timely
            manner.
            4.6.14.1.5. Maintains program accountability in accordance with DoD Directives
            and AFMOA/SGHW guidance, and AFI 65-601V1, Budgetary Guidance and
            Procedures.
            4.6.14.1.6. All DRP funding and policy issues involving CAP must be
            coordinated in advance with HQ CAP-USAF.
            4.6.14.1.7. Ensures expenditures of DRP “fenced” funds meet all appropriate
            budget code limitations. All resources, equipment and materials purchased with
            DRP funds are subject to audit.
            4.6.14.1.8. Ensures proper coordination with finance, administrative grants, and
            contracting offices.
        4.6.14.2. CAP National Headquarters.
            4.6.14.2.1. Sponsors, endorses and supports DRP activities.
            4.6.14.2.2. Reviews annual funding, projections, cost analysis, and efficient use
            of funds for travel, outreach, education, and training purposes. Initiates
            appropriate paperwork to accomplish budgeting tasks.
            4.6.14.2.3. Chief, Drug Demand Reduction (CAP/DOD).
                4.6.14.2.3.1. Ensures all aspects of the DRP comply with established DoD
                and Air Force Directives, Instructions, and guidelines. Establishes and
                maintains administrative files and complete records of all official DRP
                transactions and activities. Supervises and performs duties consistent with the
                DRP.
                4.6.14.2.3.2. Properly manages all areas of budgeting for the CAP’s DRP,
                including but not limited to: conducting and analyzing annual resource
                requirements, planning and submitting an annual budget and ensuring proper
 28                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


                 expenditure of funds.
                 4.6.14.2.3.3. Conducts and analyzes annual program evaluations in
                 accordance with AFMOA/SGHW guidance to identify funded and unfunded
                 requirements.
                 4.6.14.2.3.4. Briefs DoD and Federal agencies on the CAP DRP.
                 4.6.14.2.3.5. Establishes policy and procedures for CAP DRP as specified in
                 CAP Pamphlet (CAPP) 55, Civil Air Patrol Drug Demand Reduction
                 Program.
                 4.6.14.2.3.6. Develops plans, policies, goals, and objectives for DRP IAW
                 established guidelines.
                 4.6.14.2.3.7. Community Outreach. Outreach activities are the responsibility
                 of the Demand Reduction (DR) Program. These include all activities aimed at
                 non-active duty populations (i.e., dependents, retirees, and school-age
                 children) and include programs such as Red Ribbon, D.A.R.E., and Drug
                 Education For Youth (D.E.F.Y.).
                 4.6.14.2.3.8. Develops plans and implements education and prevention
                 activities.
                   4.6.14.2.3.8.1. Promotes CAP as a positive community service lifestyle.
                   4.6.14.2.3.8.2. Encourages youth to remain in school.
                   4.6.14.2.3.8.3. Focuses on drug abuse education, prevention and awareness.
                   4.6.14.2.3.8.4. Provides positive activities as an alternative to drugs, gangs
                   and violence.

Section C—CHAIN OF CUSTODY PROCEDURES

5. Chain of Custody for Collecting and Transporting Urine Specimens.
   5.1. Required Specimen Bottle Information.
      5.1.1. The DTPAM ensures that the urine specimen bottle label contains the following
      information legibly annotated (Recommend that bottle labels be annotated with a
      ballpoint pen to avoid problems with ink smearing from felt-tip and similar pens.):
          5.1.1.1. Collection month, day, and year.
          5.1.1.2. Installation Identification Number (BIDN), ensuring the proper prefix
          correctly identifies the status of the member (e.g., F- Air Force active duty, R – Air
          Force Reserve, G – Air National Guard).
          5.1.1.3. All digits of submitting member’s social security number (SSN).
          5.1.1.4. The member’s initials (and date, when applicable) certifying the authenticity
          of the specimen, correctness of bottle information, and witnessing the application of
          the tamper evident tape.
          5.1.1.5. The observer’s initials (and the date of observation, when applicable).
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          29


         5.1.1.6. No portion of the member’s name (including signature) shall appear on the
         label.
  5.2. Required Ledger (Register) Information.
     5.2.1. The DTPAM maintains the urinalysis ledger or register. Recommend that ledger
     documents be annotated with a ballpoint pen ((where not typed) to avoid problems with
     ink smearing from felt-tip and similar pens.) The ledger or register documents each
     member submitting a urine specimen with the following minimum identifying
     information:
         5.2.1.1. Month, day, year.
         5.2.1.2. BIDN, batch number, specimen number.
         5.2.1.3. All digits of the member’s SSN.
         5.2.1.4. Member’s rank.
         5.2.1.5. Signature, initials, and printed name of the member.
         5.2.1.6. The time at which the member provided the specimen to the DTPAM.
         5.2.1.7. Signature, initials, and printed name of the observer.
         5.2.1.8. Test basis code.
  5.3. DTPAM/Collector will:
     5.3.1. Visually inspect specimen bottles and ensure they are clean, free of debris, and not
     damaged.
         5.3.1.1. Maintain drug testing supplies in a limited access, secure area. Names of
         individuals having access to this area must be clearly posted and access to all others
         will be denied.
     5.3.2. Check the member’s military ID card and document the information required in
     paragraph 5.2 The DTPAM/Collector will maintain possession of the member’s military
     ID card until the collection process is completed.
     5.3.3. Designate for the member providing a specimen an observer who is of the same
     gender and has not been chosen to provide a sample during the same collection time.
     Observers must be briefed on-site prior to the collection process about their duties and
     responsibilities, as described in paragraph 5.4 This briefing remains current for the
     observer for a maximum of five calendar days, after which the briefing must be
     reaccomplished. This briefing must consist of a verbal explanation as well as a written
     statement signed and dated by the observer acknowledging their acceptance and
     understanding of their responsibilities and the consequences of their actions for not
     performing their duties IAW established guidelines. Attachment 4 of this AFI provides
     a sample observer briefing letter.
     5.3.4. Hand the specimen bottle to the individual providing the specimen. Have the
     individual inspect the bottle in the presence of the DTPAM/Collector and observer,
     making sure that it is not damaged and is clean and free of any debris. Instruct the
     individual to carry the specimen bottle so that it is in view of the observer at all times.
30                                           AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


        5.3.4.1. Optional use of the individually packaged sterile specimen container cup is
        authorized for collecting urine specimens by female members only. (4 ¾ oz, NSN
        6530-00-837-7472 or NSN 6530-01-048-0855 or equivalent). Immediately after
        collection in the wide mouth collection cup, the urine must be poured into the
        specimen bottle and tightly capped by the person submitting the specimen. This must
        be performed under direct observation and supervision of the observer to preclude
        adulteration, contamination, or break in the chain of custody.
     5.3.5. Direct the individual providing the specimen to remove bulky outer garments (e.g.,
     Airman Battle Uniform / Battle Dress Uniform (ABU/BDU) blouse) if direct observation
     by the observer may be impeded. Direct the individual to remove all genital body
     piercing jewelry. The donor must wash his or her hands (with water only) after removal
     of any genital body piercing jewelry. No hats, purses, bags, briefcases, or other baggage
     may be brought into the collection room.
     5.3.6. Receive the urine specimen bottle from the member, visually check for
     contamination and adulteration, and ensure the urine volume is a minimum of 30
     milliliters.
        5.3.6.1. A specimen which appears contaminated or adulterated must be brought to
        the attention of the DTPAM/Collector or DDRPM who will immediately contact the
        SJA for guidance. If contamination or adulteration is suspected, take custody of the
        suspected sample and note such custody on the DD Form 2624, Specimen Custody
        Document - Drug Testing. Maintain custody of the suspected sample in secure
        storage and release only as directed by SJA. Direct the member to remain in the area
        until he/she can provide an acceptable sample in a different specimen bottle that
        complies with all chain of custody requirements.
        5.3.6.2. If there is inadequate volume, have the member who provided the specimen,
        under direct observation, discard the specimen and return the empty bottle to the
        DTPAM/Collector. The DTPAM/Collector will void the label on the bottle, and in
        the ledger or register annotate “Quantity Not Sufficient” or “QNS.” The
        DTPAM/Collector will deface and discard the label as well as the bottle. In the case
        of voided specimens, the information on the label and ledger or register must be re-
        accomplished. If using automated labels, annotate the ledger or register including
        “QNS” and time, and reprint a new label for the member. The member must remain
        in the collection facility until a 30 milliliter volume of urine can be produced at one
        time.
     5.3.7. If the individual provides an adequate volume of specimen, then, in the presence
     of the member, apply tamper evident tape (conforming to the shape of the bottle to
     minimize tearing) extending from approximately halfway down and over the gummed
     label (not covering any identifying information), across the bottle cap, and to an
     approximate midpoint on the other side of the specimen bottle, touching the label.
     5.3.8. Have the member confirm that the SSN and other identifying information on the
     specimen bottle is correct, that the member witnessed the application of the tamper
     evident tape, and that the specimen in the bottle is that of the member. Then have the
     member initial (and date, when applicable) the bottle label. Have the member initial and
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                            31


     sign (payroll signature) by his or her printed name in the ledger after verifying that the
     SSN annotated on the bottle label matches the entries in the ledger or register.
     5.3.9. Have the observer initial (and date, when applicable) the bottle label on the line
     marked “OB INIT” to certify the integrity of the collection process and that the urine is
     that of the member.
     5.3.10. Have the observer print his or her name where designated in the ledger, initial,
     and sign his or her signature next to the member’s entry.
     5.3.11. If the tape is broken during initial sealing in the presence of the member, or is
     later broken during subsequent repackaging, reseal the bottle with tamper evident tape.
     Do not place the tape directly over the original tape – the reapplication should be slightly
     offset of the original taping, following the procedures in paragraph 5.3.7
         5.3.11.1. When tamper evident tape is reapplied, prepare a memorandum for record
         (MFR) describing the circumstance under which the tape was broken and by whom
         the tape was reapplied, and attach it to the DD Form 2624, Specimen Custody
         Document - Drug Testing.
     5.3.12. If a second label needs to be placed over an existing label (e.g. label torn, writing
     smeared), prepare a MFR describing the circumstance under which the label needed to be
     replaced and by whom the label was reapplied, and attach it to the DD Form 2624,
     Specimen Custody Document - Drug Testing. Do not place the label directly over the
     original label – the reapplication should be slightly offset of the original label. Ensure
     tamper evident tape covers the second label.
     5.3.13. Place the specimen bottle(s) in a specimen box for sealing and shipment to the
     drug testing lab. (GSUs will send specimens to the DDRPM if required by the DDRPM.)
     5.3.14. Any unusual or suspicious activity observed during the collection process must
     be reported to the collector. The collector will make appropriate contact with the SJA
     and law enforcement personnel and will document the unusual or suspicious activity in a
     memorandum for record.
  5.4. The observer must:
     5.4.1. Be available for urinalysis drug testing whenever designated or ordered to perform
     observer duties.
     5.4.2. Direct the member to rinse his/her hands with only water and dry them prior to
     providing a specimen. Members may be allowed to wash their hands with soap and water
     after providing a sample and securing the lid on the bottle.
     5.4.3. Directly observe the urine leaving the member’s body and entering the specimen
     bottle.
         5.4.3.1. If a female member chooses to use the optional wide-mouth specimen
         container cup, the observer must directly observe the following: the member
         providing the specimen, pouring the specimen into an approved specimen bottle, and
         securing the lid tightly to the bottle.
     5.4.4. Ensure that the member providing the specimen secures the lid tightly on the bottle
     and that it is not reopened by the member or anyone else at the collection site. Maintain
32                                               AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


     the bottle in line of sight at all times. Members may be allowed to clean their hands after
     providing a sample and securing the lid on the bottle.
         5.4.4.1. Ensure the specimen bottle is returned to the DTPAM immediately after the
         urine collection or any attempted urine collection that does not result in the required
         minimum 30 milliliters of urine during one attempt.
             5.4.4.1.1. If less than the required 30 milliliters of urine is collected, the observer
             must escort the member to the DTPAM who will verify the insufficient volume.
             The DTPAM, upon verification of insufficient volume, will direct the member to
             discard the specimen. The observer must witness the discarding of the specimen
             by the member. The bottle will be returned to the DTPAM who will comply with
             paragraph 5.3.6.2 and dispose of the bottle IAW Occupational Safety and Health
             Administration (OSHA) guidelines.
     5.4.5. Initial (and date, if applicable) the bottle label.
     5.4.6. Sign, initial, and print his or her name in the ledger. This certifies that the
     observer directly witnessed the member urinating into the specimen bottle. If a wide
     mouth cup is used for females, the observer is certifying that she directly witnessed the
     member urinating into the wide-mouth cup and transferring the urine into the specimen
     bottle.
     5.4.7. If an error is made in the documentation associated with a urine specimen, see
     paragraph 6.2 and refer to Attachment 15 for guidance on forensic documentation and
     acceptable methods for correcting errors on forensic documentation.
  5.5. Public Health Measures.
     5.5.1. DDRPMs should consult with their installation Public Health offices to establish
     local procedures for allowing members to clean their hands after providing a urine
     sample. For example:
     5.5.2. Other measures of hand cleaning, e.g., skin-approved wipe (disinfectant or plain
     (e.g., baby wipe) ) or alcohol-based sanitizer, may be used as well as washing with soap
     and water after the specimen has been collected and the lid secured on the bottle. This
     could be in the bathroom if soap dispensers are not available but should be provided in
     the area where the specimens are taped and initialed, since there may be residual urine on
     the cup/hands or from common-use pens.
     5.5.3. If a common pen is used, it could be wiped off with a wipe after each person uses
     it. Otherwise, everyone could be required to use their own personal pens. Alternatively,
     wipes could be made available if someone wants to wipe the pen down (this would be
     wipes put next to the pen on the table top, not wipes kept in another location that must be
     retrieved).
     5.5.4. Collectors should wear disposable gloves when handling specimen containers,
     which may have been contaminated with urine and merely dried off with a paper towel.
         5.5.4.1. (Added-434ARW) During the collection process, personnel will comply
         with infectious control guidelines delineated in AFI 44-108 and AMDS operating
         instructions.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          33


   5.6. Special Considerations.
      5.6.1. Specimens that are solely for clinical diagnosis (i.e., medical evaluations, ADAPT
      Program enrollment, aircraft incidents/accidents) should not be submitted to the drug
      testing laboratory. Specimens obtained as a result of aircraft incidents/accidents must be
      collected by the MTF laboratory and submitted to the AFIP/AFMES. See AFPAM 91-
      211, USAF Guide to Aviation Safety Investigation, paragraph A4.7.6 All others as
      defined for clinical diagnosis may be processed locally.
          5.6.1.1. Collection, packaging, and shipping of specimens for all aircraft mishaps
          and/or fatalities involving active duty members is the responsibility of Flight
          Medicine. See AFPAM 91-211, USAF Guide To Aviation Safety Investigation,
          paragraphs 4.9.2.2 and A4.7.6 DDRPMs and/or DTPAMs may provide assistance
          upon request.
      5.6.2. DDRPMs, DTPAMs, and observers will not participate in any collection in which
      they provided specimens. Collection of urine specimens from these personnel may be
      conducted in a special, separate collection session so that the tested DDRPMs, DTPAMs,
      or observers can participate in collection sessions involving the general population.
      DDRPMs, DTPAMs, and observers, who are military members or civilian employees in
      Testing Designated Positions, must be included in a random drug testing program, but
      collections and mailing must be completed by other qualified individuals. In special
      circumstances, the DDRPM should consult the local SJA who will assist in developing
      and documenting a process that minimizes opportunities for anyone to influence the
      collection and shipment of his/her urine specimen.
      5.6.3. If a specimen is certified positive and the member has departed due to
      PCS/Permanent Change of Assignment (PCA), the losing unit commander will notify the
      gaining unit commander by message and send a copy of the message to the gaining
      MTF/CC.
   5.7. After Hours Collection. The DDRPM, in consultation with the SJA, will establish
   procedures to periodically collect and secure specimens outside normal duty hours, including
   weekends and holidays.

Section D—FORM COMPLETION AND SPECIMEN PACKAGING REQUIREMENTS

6. Completion of the DD Form 2624, Specimen Custody Document - Drug Testing.
   6.1. Complete DD Form 2624 IAW Attachment 10 of this AFI.
      6.1.1. Fill out, sign, and date a DD Form 2624 for every shipping box or mailer sent to
      the AFDTL. The following information must be recorded on the DD Form 2624:
Block 1. Enter submitting unit name and address.
Block 2. Enter DDRPM or Designee’s name and phone number.
Block 3. Enter Installation Identification Number.
Block 4. Leave blank.
Block 5. Enter Batch Number.
Block 6. Enter date collected.
Block A. Enter Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory.
 34                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


Blocks B, C, D, E, F, G, H (1), H (2) and H (3). Leave blank.

For each specimen shipped, enter the following information:
Block 7. Specimen number.
Block 8. Member’s complete SSN.
Block 9. Test basis (See Paragraph 6.1.2.9.).
Block 10. Test information. Entry only required if additional testing requested. See instructions
on reverse side of DD Form 2624.
Block 11. Leave blank.
Block 12. Chain of Custody. Every time the custody of a sample is transferred, an entry must be
made.
a. Enter date (YYMMDD).
b. Enter signature and printed name.
c. Enter the signature and printed name of the individual who received the specimens or “Secure
Storage”. The final line should either indicate the mode of shipment or be left blank.
d. Enter the purpose for change of custody, such as “Secure Specimens,” “Prepare to Ship,” or
“Ship to AFDTL via (insert mode of shipment).” The final entry should indicate shipment to the
drug testing laboratory. When specimens are packaged and returned to storage awaiting
shipment, documentation must be retained locally to indicate mode of shipment, releaser, date of
release, and to whom sample(s) released.
       6.1.2. Use the barcode program to computer generate the DD Form 2624 and barcoded
       specimen identification. Computer generated DD Form 2624 must be a single-paged,
       double-sided document. To ensure forensic integrity and chain of custody accountability,
       double-paged, single-side reproduction of the DD Form 2624 will not be used. If a
       barcode DD Form 2624 computer program is not available, then complete the DD Form
       2624 using the computer programs Pure Edge, or Fillable Adobe PDF; using typewritten
       entries on a printed version of the form; or by making handwritten entries on a printed
       version of the form. If handwritten, entries must be legible and the use of any ink other
       than black is strongly recommended.
           6.1.2.1. Block 1. Submitting Unit. Complete the mailing address. APO’s and FPO’s
           should identify the country.
           6.1.2.2. Block 2. Additional Service Information. Annotate the name, rank, and DSN
           number of the installation DTPAM.
           6.1.2.3. Block 3. Installation Identification Number. Annotate the installation
           number (e.g., F123, R123, G123) that appears on the specimen bottle label.
           6.1.2.4. Block 4. Unit Identification Code. Leave blank.
           6.1.2.5. Block 5. Document/Batch Number. Annotate the batch number (e.g., 001,
           002, 003) that appears on the specimen bottle label. Use a separate DD Form 2624
           for different batch numbers.
           6.1.2.6. Block 6. Date Specimen Collected. Enter the date of specimen collection
           using the format YYYYMMDD. Use a separate DD Form 2624 for each collection
           day when shipping specimens collected on different days.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          35


         6.1.2.7. Block 7. Specimen Number. Annotate the specimen number (e.g., 001, 002)
         that appears on the specimen bottle label. Nothing else is to be entered into this
         block.
         6.1.2.8. Block 8. Complete SSN. Enter the complete nine-digit SSN.
         6.1.2.9. Block 9. Testing Basis. Use one of the following codes: IO (inspection
         testing); PO (probable cause); VO (consent testing); RO (rehabilitation); CO
         (commander directed); MO (medical); NO (new entrant); IR (random sample); IU
         (unit sweep); and OO (other). Consult the servicing SJA’s office if there are any
         questions regarding test basis.
         6.1.2.10. Block 10. Test Information. Complete this block only if anything other
         than routine testing is to be performed. Special testing codes: F, full panel (specimen
         requires testing for the presence of all drugs); O, other drugs (specimen requires
         testing for the presence of a particular drug); S, steroid.
         6.1.2.11. Block 11. Prescreen. Leave blank.
         6.1.2.12. Block 12. Chain of custody. Complete block 12a, 12b, 12c, and 12d.
         Account for specimen transfer and storage within the unit and record shipment to the
         drug testing laboratory IAW paragraph 6.1.1 Shipping date and releaser’s signature
         must be originals and not photocopies. The use of an ink color other than black for
         signatures is strongly recommended.
            6.1.2.12.1. The use of signature stamps on the DD Form 2624 is prohibited and
            will be considered an untestable discrepancy.
         6.1.2.13. Block A. Laboratory Conducting Drug Testing.           Indicate the mailing
         address of the laboratory performing the drug testing.
         6.1.2.14. Blocks B through H. Reserved for use by the drug testing laboratory. Do
         not make any annotations in these blocks.
         6.1.2.15. Maintain a photocopy of the completed DD Form 2624 for retention in drug
         testing files.
         6.1.2.16. Package and ship specimens to the drug testing laboratory within 2 working
         days of the collection date. Specimens not mailed within two working days will
         require a MFR explaining the reason for the delay. The MFR must be forwarded to
         the servicing SJA, and a copy of the MFR must be retained on file. Secure specimens
         not mailed on the same day as collection must be placed in a secured storage area
         with access limited to the trusted agents of the drug testing program (i.e., the DTPAM
         and the DDRPM). The chain of custody (block 12) must clearly reflect any changes
         in custody of the specimens.)
  6.2. Forensic Corrections to All Collections Documents. Do not write over information. Do
  not use correction fluid or typewriter correction ribbon. Refer to Attachment 15 for
  acceptable methods of documenting and correcting errors.
  6.3. Bar-Code Labels.
     6.3.1. Whenever possible, use bar-code printed identifiers corresponding to the
     individual’s SSN on both the specimen bottle and the DD Form 2624.
 36                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


      6.3.2. The bar coded label must also have the corresponding information printed in a
      format that can be read without a bar-code reader. Additional identifying information,
      date collected, or other numbers required may be recorded on the bottle or bottle label as
      long as it does not interfere with reading of the bar-code labels.
7. Packaging and Shipping of Specimens.
   7.1. Attachment 11 provides a step-by-step pictorial guide on the packaging of specimens.
   The photos are illustrative only; refer to the text in paragraphs 7.3 through 7.12 for packaging
   requirements.
   7.2. Use appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and comply with applicable
   OSHA regulations.
   7.3. Place the specimen bottles (maximum of 12) into the specimen box ensuring that the
   tamper evident tape is intact. Only box (NSN 6640-00-165-5778) may be used. Re-used
   boxes may not be used. Single test kits (STK) are the only alternative to NSN 6640-00-165-
   5778.
      7.3.1. When using the STK: Open the STK sealed box in the presence of the member.
      Annotate the member's SSN (as it appears on their military ID card) and the collection
      date on a blank bottle label provided, and affix the label to the empty specimen bottle
      provided with the STK. (Labels produced with the automated Air Force Drug Testing
      Program software are printed with the individual’s SSN already on it). See paragraphs 10
      and 11 for STK completion, packaging and shipping.
   7.4. After ensuring that the specimens listed on the DD Form 2624 match the bottles that are
   in the box, date and sign block 12.
   7.5. Place the DD Form 2624 and any MFRs inside the specimen box in a sealed leak proof
   plastic bag to prevent loss or damage of the documents. If these documents are sent
   separately they will not be accepted.
      7.5.1. The use of signature stamps or signature replacements (e.g.: “//SIGNED//”) on
      MFRs is prohibited.
   7.6. Place a sufficient amount of flat absorbent pads (NSN: 6530-01-304-9754 or equivalent)
   inside the box to absorb leakage and prevent damage.
   7.7. Do not use confetti-type or popcorn shipping fillers. Individual specimen bottles are not
   to be placed inside plastic or white shipping bags.
   7.8. Seal all openings and edges of the specimen box with adhesive tape (e.g., masking tape,
   nylon strapping tape, or package sealing tape). One piece of tape must be applied around the
   center opening of the box so that it covers the opening flap on the top and bottom of the box
   and completely encircles the box. Additionally, tape must encircle each end of the box that
   has an opening so that the edges are completely covered and sealed.
   7.9. Packager (collector) must sign his or her payroll signature across the tape once on the
   top and once on the bottom of the box. The payroll signature must cross from the tape to the
   box in at least one location on each the top and bottom. The manufacturer’s tape on a
   specimen box is considered part of the box. The manufacturer’s tape is not considered part
   of the tape that must be placed completely around the box.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                             37


   7.10. Place the sealed box in a leak preventive mailing pouch (NSN: 6530-01-304-9762 or
   equivalent) to absorb leakage and prevent damage to other packages during shipment.
   7.11. If an individual box of twelve specimens (sealed in a leak-preventive mailing pouch) is
   to be shipped, wrap in postal mailing paper with all sides, edges, and flaps sealed and plainly
   mark the outside of the mailing package, “Chain of Custody” to alert the drug testing
   laboratory that chain of custody specimens are in the package. The DTPAM should consult
   the guidelines of the shipper prior to shipping urine specimens.
      7.11.1. DTPAMs may ship several specimen boxes within a larger secondary outer
      shipping box. To reduce the potential for untestable specimens, the properly sealed,
      pouched box of twelve specimens with all sides, edges, and flaps secured with an
      adhesive tape (properly signed and dated) must be placed in a second container. The
      larger secondary outer shipping box must be securely sealed and have the “TO” and
      “FROM” addresses as well as the statement “Chain of Custody.”
   7.12. Address the package to: HQ, Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory, AFMOA/SGBD,
   2480 Ladd Street, Bldg 3750, Lackland AFB, TX 78236-5310. Specimens can be shipped to
   an alternate DoD drug testing lab if approved in writing by the AF Drug Testing Program
   Manager at AFMOA/SGBD.
   7.13. Specimens should be shipped the same day as collected. If it is not possible to ship the
   specimens the same day as collected, the sealed specimen box or shipping box should be
   placed in secured storage under chain of custody. The chain of custody must be annotated
   and documented until the specimen or shipping box is sealed. A log should be kept locally
   that clearly tracks when specimen packages are placed in the control of the shipping agency
   or company. Specimens not mailed within two working days will require a MFR explaining
   the reason for the delay. The MFR must be forwarded to the servicing SJA, and a copy of
   the MFR must be retained on file.
   7.14. Attachment 8 of this AFI provides a sample checklist, which may be used in the
   packaging and shipment of specimens.
8. Acceptable Modes of Transportation.
   8.1. The DTPAM will ensure that specimens are shipped using one of the following
   transportation modes.
      8.1.1. United States Postal Service (USPS) first class, certified, registered mail, signature
      confirmation, or use of a commercial service having the capability to track shipments.
      8.1.2. Hand delivery under chain of custody.
      8.1.3. US flag commercial air freight, air express, or air freight forwarder. Use of a
      commercial service having the capability to track shipments is highly recommended.
      8.1.4. Defense Transportation System.
      8.1.5. Foreign flag air carrier when none of the above can satisfy the movement
      requirement.
   8.2. Whatever carrier is selected for shipping, the DDRPM/DTPAM must ensure that the
   shipping requirements and rules of that carrier are met.
 38                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


Section E—PACKAGING AND SHIPPING OF SPECIMENS COLLECTED IN SINGLE
TEST KITS (STKs) AND COLLECTION BY GEOGRAPHICALLY SEPARATED UNITS

9. Collection Procedures for Geographically Separated Units (GSUs).
   9.1. These Instructions must be followed in order to ensure the integrity of the drug testing
   program at GSUs is maintained, and the program remains an effective deterrent to illegal
   drug use. DDRPMs have discretion to work out the most practical method to accomplish
   specimen collection. GSU commanders will ensure drug testing procedures are followed
   IAW this Instruction and GSU DTPAMs must work with the host installation DDRP staff to
   ensure proper collection and shipment of specimens are accomplished.
      9.1.1. Commanders or their GSU DTPAM will be responsible for the notification,
      collection, and shipment of samples. Commanders must select only individuals
      possessing unquestionable integrity and trustworthiness as GSU DTPAMs to administer
      the notification, observation, collection, packaging, and shipment processes.
      9.1.2. The GSU DTPAM must:
          9.1.2.1. Be appointed in writing by the GSU commander.
          9.1.2.2. Receive and open the drug testing package from the host installation. The
          drug testing package contains the desired list of personnel selected for drug testing.
          9.1.2.3. Notify the member as soon as reasonably possible. Notification must be the
          same as those procedures previously outlined, (i.e., signed commander’s letter, dated,
          and endorsed by the member upon receipt). Attachment 5 of this AFI provides a
          sample commander’s notification letter.
          9.1.2.4. Ensure that all members who are selected for testing report to the collection
          site IAW paragraphs 4.6.13.1., 4.6.13.2. and 4.6.13.3., with a valid military ID card.
          9.1.2.5. Maintain a drug urinalysis testing log and all pertinent documentation
          associated with the drug testing program.
      9.1.3. Once the member reports to the testing site, the GSU DTPAM will:
          9.1.3.1. Check the member’s military ID card.
          9.1.3.2. Annotate the date and time the member reported for testing on the
          notification letter.
          9.1.3.3. Document the urine drug testing log with the individual’s name, rank, SSN,
          unit, date, and time of collection, along with the sample accession number
          (Installation Identification Number).
          9.1.3.4. GSUs may use either NSN 6640-00-165-5778 (12 specimen box) or STKs.
          9.1.3.5. Ask the member to verify identifying data by initialing and signing the drug
          testing log.
          9.1.3.6. Ensure that the specimen is collected IAW the guidelines established in this
          AFI, paragraph 5.
10. Completion of the Chain of Custody Form, DD Form 2624, for STK.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                            39


   10.1. A separate DD Form 2624 must be used for each STK.
   10.2. The DD Form 2624 must be completed with the following information:
      10.2.1. Blocks A, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 9 must be completed by the host installation.
      10.2.2. Blocks 6, 7, 8, and 12 must be completed by the trusted agent or GSU DTPAM.
      10.2.3. The last person to handle the specimen will complete blocks 12a, 12b, and 12c.
      10.2.4. The means of shipment must be entered in block 12d. Use the same guidance as
      outlined in Section D, paragraph 8.
      10.2.5. A copy of the completed DD Form 2624 must be faxed to the host installation
      DDRPM. The GSU will maintain for their records a copy of the completed DD Form
      2624.
      10.2.6. The original completed DD Form 2624 and any MFRs must be placed in a sealed
      leak-proof plastic bag inside the box containing the specimen. If these documents are
      sent separately they will not be accepted.
      10.2.7. Forensic Corrections to All Collections Documents. Do not write over
      information. Do not use correction fluid or typewriter correction ribbon. Refer to
      Attachment 15 for acceptable methods of documenting and correcting errors.
11. Packaging and Shipment of STK Specimens.
   11.1. Attachment 12 provides a step-by-step pictorial guide on the packaging of specimens.
   The photos are illustrative only, refer to the text in paragraphs 11.1.1 through 11.1.1.2.1 for
   packaging requirements. The DTPAM/GSU DTPAM must:
      11.1.1. Place the specimen bottle and absorbent pad in the specimen bag provided in the
      STK and place the specimen in the STK box. Place the plastic bag containing the DD
      Form 2624 and any MFRs in the STK box. Only box (Item # CUC-1, UI Case) may be
      used. Re-used boxes may not be used.
          11.1.1.1. Seal the mailer box by applying adhesive tape one time completely around
          the sides of the box so the tape overlaps.
          11.1.1.2. Sign, using payroll signature, and date the kit box seal provided with the
          test kit prior to applying it to the mailer box.
              11.1.1.2.1. The mailer box must be sealed using the kit box seal. Apply the
              signed and dated seal to the mailer box ensuring a portion of the date and
              signature is across the open edge of the box. If the kit box seal does not adhere,
              use any effective glue to attach the kit box seal.
   11.2. It is highly recommended that STKs be mailed separately. However, if the STKs are
   mailed in a single shipment, the secondary (outer) container must be sealed IAW the
   guidelines established in Section D, paragraph 8. The individual test kits must be prepared
   and sealed as outlined above in paragraph 11.1.1.1 Do not use confetti-type or popcorn
   shipping fillers.
      11.2.1. To eliminate a potential challenge to the chain of custody of the specimens, the
      STK or shipping box containing several STKs should be mailed or shipped immediately
 40                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


      after it is prepared for shipment. If this is not possible, the sealed STK or shipping box
      should be placed in secured storage under chain of custody. The chain of custody must
      be maintained and documented until the sealed STK or shipping box is dispatched.
   11.3. For GSU testing:
      11.3.1. The GSU DTPAM will mail all urine specimens collected for drug testing
      directly to the AFDTL unless the servicing DDRPM requires the GSU to send samples to
      the servicing installation DDR office for QC review of samples.
          11.3.1.1. In cases of QC checks performed by servicing DDR Office, the chain of
          custody must remain intact and documented. The original chain of custody from the
          GSU must be annotated by the individual who opens and performs the quality review
          and ships the specimen(s) to the lab. A memorandum should accompany the
          specimen to the lab indicating the sample was received at the installation for quality
          review. The sample should not be shipped in the same box it was received and may
          be shipped in a new container or with the installation shipment of specimens.
          11.3.1.2. A sample that has discrepancies will be reviewed by the local SJA and SJA
          will make a determination of action to include possible re-collection of the untestable
          sample. The DDRPM will ensure the GSU DTPAM understands the discrepancy to
          preclude re-occurrence.
      11.3.2. In all cases, the GSU DTPAM must ensure that the specimens are mailed within
      two duty days of collection using one of the transportation modes outlined in Section D
      paragraph 8. Specimens not mailed within two working days will require a MFR
      explaining the reason for the delay. The MFR must be forwarded to the servicing SJA
      and a copy kept on file. In cases of quality review the DDRPM must ensure that the
      specimens are mailed within two duty days of receipt of samples for QC using one of the
      transportation modes outlined in paragraph 8. Specimens not mailed within two working
      days will require a MFR to the SJA explaining the reason for the delay.

Section F—DRUG URINALYSIS TESTING FOR NEW ACCESSIONS

12. Personnel to be Tested.
   12.1. All new accessions into the United States Air Force will be tested. The following
   individuals are required to be tested:
      12.1.1. New enlisted entrants into the Air Force to include officer candidates undergoing
      initial training in an enlisted status.
      12.1.2. Cadets entering the United States Air Force Academy or those entering the
      ROTC.
      12.1.3. Other individuals to whom a commission may be offered following completion
      of a commissioning program.
      12.1.4. Regular and Reserve officers appointed from civilian life.
      12.1.5. Prior service applicants for enlistment in the active component with a break in
      service of more than six months.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                             41


      12.1.6. Reserve officers entering active duty after an educational delay following
      completion of ROTC studies and appointment.
      12.1.7. Foreign and international students entering the United States Air Force Academy
      will be tested IAW host country agreements.
   12.2. Timing of Testing.
      12.2.1. Individuals listed above who are required to undergo testing must be tested
      within 72 hours after initial entry on active duty (IEAD). IEAD is the member’s first
      period of full-time duty in the active military service of the United States following
      enlistment or appointment.
      12.2.2. Enlisted members must be tested at the Basic Military Training School (BMTS).
      12.2.3. Officers and officer candidates not covered under paragraphs 12.1.2 and 12.1.3.
      must undergo testing during the officer basic courses. If an officer’s IEAD does not
      occur at the basic course, testing must be conducted at the officer’s permanent duty
      station.
      12.2.4. Individuals covered under paragraph 12.1.2. must undergo testing and be
      evaluated during the physical examination given to the applicant before appointment as a
      cadet.
      12.2.5. Individuals covered under paragraphs 12.1.4., 12.1.5., and 12.1.6. must be tested
      within 48 hours following entry at accession locations specified by the Air Force (e.g.,
      first duty station).
   12.3. Drug Testing Policy.
      12.3.1. All new entrants shall be tested for the same drugs as those on active duty. The
      analysis will be conducted in a DoD certified forensic drug testing laboratory using
      procedures established by the ASD (HA) as contained in DoDI 1010.16.
      12.3.2. New accessions (i.e., those individuals on their IEAD) must also present a valid
      photo ID such as a driver’s license, state ID card, or college ID card. The individual’s
      SSN must be verified through possession of a Social Security Card. Those individuals
      lacking a valid photo ID card will be required to obtain a military ID card prior to testing.
      Such individuals will not be excluded from providing a specimen for urinalysis testing.

Section G—CHAIN OF CUSTODY WITHIN THE DRUG TESTING LABORATORY

13. Drug Testing Laboratory Chain of Custody Procedures.
   13.1. Chain of Custody Requirements During Analysis.
      13.1.1. The drug laboratory establishes written internal chain of custody procedures.
      13.1.2. The drug testing laboratory receives the chain of custody shipment of specimens.
      13.1.3. Employees are trained and certified to perform duties in the Specimen Control
      Section of the Drug Testing Laboratory:
42                                         AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


     13.1.3.1. Visually inspect each shipment box to determine if the box was sealed IAW
     paragraphs 7.8, 7.9, and 11 of this Instruction, or if the box appears to have been
     opened or tampered with while in transit.
     13.1.3.2. Open the sealed box or mailer and inventory the bottles to ensure specimen
     integrity, locate the DD Form 2624, sign and date the DD Form 2624, annotate the
     mode of transportation by which the specimens were received at the laboratory, and
     describe the condition of the seals on the shipping package in the “remarks” block of
     DD Form 2624 or complete an MFR if appropriate.
     13.1.3.3. Inspect each bottle and closely examine the tamper evident tape to
     determine if it is intact. If the tape on a bottle is broken on receipt, the sample is not
     tested unless the discrepancy is explained as required in Section C, paragraph
     5.3.11.1 A notation is made by the drug testing lab personnel on the DD Form 2624
     to identify those bottles that arrived at the laboratory with the tamper evident tape
     broken.
     13.1.3.4. Inspect each bottle to ensure that it contains a minimum of 30 milliliters of
     urine, and is not adulterated. Volumes below 30 milliliters may not be tested.
        13.1.3.4.1. Annotate DD Form 2624 to reflect the discrepancy, and ensure
        submitting unit is informed of the discrepancy. A discrepancy letter should be
        sent to the submitting unit for any discrepancy which is not self explanatory or
        needs explanation.
        13.1.3.4.2. Consult the laboratory legal advisor concerning urine testing
        discrepancy resolution. Ask the laboratory legal advisor to recommend to the
        laboratory commander resolution if there is a question regarding chain of custody
        or integrity of the specimen.
     13.1.3.5. Assign laboratory specimen accession numbers, and label each original
     specimen bottle and the cap of the bottle to ensure proper identification.
     13.1.3.6. Keep original specimen bottles secured in a controlled access area at all
     times until destruction is authorized.
     13.1.3.7. Prepare portions (aliquots) of each specimen for screen testing and if
     necessary, rescreen and confirmation testing, and maintain a chain of custody on
     aliquots using appropriate chain of custody documents.
     13.1.3.8. Until specimen analysis is completed, laboratory personnel processing the
     specimen or the aliquot taken from it will ensure that the appropriate chain of custody
     document is properly signed, dated, and annotated when the sample is received or
     released during analysis. The individual maintaining custody of the sample or aliquot
     must safeguard the sample or aliquot at all times.
        13.1.3.8.1. Once a specimen has been tested and identified as negative by either
        screen, rescreen, or confirmation testing for all drug classes requested, the
        specimen is released from the chain of custody and destroyed, unless the
        specimen is to be used for method development or research purposes. In this
        event, after annotation of destruction on chain of custody, all identifying
        information will be removed.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          43


   13.2. Laboratory Chain of Custody Requirements After Analysis.
      13.2.1. After specimen analysis is completed, the individual designated by the
      Commander, Drug Testing Laboratory:
          13.2.1.1. Certifies the results on the DD Form 2624 and reports results to the
          originating agency.
          13.2.1.2. Reports as negative any specimen that fails to meet or exceed the
          established DoD minimum concentration for determination as positive for a drug on
          either the initial screening test, rescreening test, or confirmatory test.
          13.2.1.3. Ensures for specimens confirmed positive that all results of testing
          conducted in the laboratory, including applicable printouts, tracings, and chain of
          custody documents, remain on file secured in the drug laboratory or in a secured
          storage area.
          13.2.1.4. Stores specimens confirmed positive in a frozen state in a secure area under
          proper chain of custody document.
             13.2.1.4.1. Keeps a military member’s frozen specimen and that of a military
             accession applicant for one calendar year, at the end of which time it is destroyed
             unless the originating agency has requested that it be retained or the specimen is
             to be used for method development or research purposes.
             13.2.1.4.2. If the originating agency requests retention for a longer period, the
             laboratory will maintain the specimen for the requested period. The originating
             agency must specify a defined period of time (e.g., six months). A request for
             “indefinite retention” will not be honored by the laboratory. At the end of this
             additional retention period, the laboratory will destroy the sample IAW paragraph
             13.2.1.4.1 unless the originating agency requests a further retention. When this
             occurs, the requesting agency must advise the laboratory every 60 calendar days
             of the need for further retention. The SJA from the originating agency notifies the
             drug testing laboratory legal advisor when further retention of the specimen is not
             necessary.
             13.2.1.4.3. The individual who destroys a stored specimen annotates, signs, and
             dates the appropriate chain of custody document.

Section H—DRUG ABUSE TESTING PROGRAM PROCEDURE

14. Drug Detection Levels and Reporting Procedures.
   14.1. The drug testing laboratory will screen specimens by using an immunoassay (IA)
   process, or other methodologies as approved by ASD (HA) and AFMOA/SGHW for a
   particular drug, and cut-off levels established by ASD (HA).
   14.2. Laboratory confirmation will be performed by using gas chromatography/mass
   spectrometry (GC/MS), or other methodologies as approved by ASD (HA) and
   AFMOA/SGHW for a particular drug.
44                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


  14.3. Drug test results certified as positive (i.e. containing drug or drug metabolite) must be
  reported within an average of six working days of receipt of the specimen within the drug
  testing laboratory.
  14.4. Requests For Retest.
     14.4.1. All requests for retests must be made in writing or be sent by electronic message
     to the laboratory where the original sample is stored. The following information is
     required:
         14.4.1.1. Purpose of the retest.
         14.4.1.2. The unique BIDN for each specimen.
         14.4.1.3. Laboratory accession number.
         14.4.1.4. SSN of the service member.
         14.4.1.5. Name and telephone number of a point of contact at the requesting
         installation.
     14.4.2. Retests are performed using the procedures determined by the drug testing
     laboratory where the original sample is stored. The AFDTL, a DoD drug testing lab, or a
     contract laboratory will retest specimens:
         14.4.2.1. On request of the submitting command.
         14.4.2.2. On request of an administrative board under rules applicable to the board.
         14.4.2.3. On order of a military judge under rules applicable to courts-martial.
     14.4.3. On request by a service member, or a defense counsel representing the service
     member, at an independent laboratory of his or her choice, the AFDTL, a DoD drug
     testing lab, or a contract laboratory certified by DoD or the SAMSHA will send a portion
     of the service member’s sample to the designated laboratory, provided there is sufficient
     specimen remaining. (The service member bears the expense of the retest, to include the
     cost of shipping). Proof of payment to the independent laboratory must be provided
     before the specimen will be released for testing by the AFDTL.
         14.4.3.1. Any request for a retest by a service member of a sample analyzed at the
         AFDTL or a DoD drug testing lab must be made in writing or sent by electronic
         message to the laboratory where the original sample is stored. The request must
         contain the same information as stated above. The request is provided to the
         commander initiating disciplinary or administrative action and to the commander’s
         SJA.
         14.4.3.2. The service member must have the laboratory where he or she wishes the
         sample analyzed send confirmation to the AFDTL that the service member has
         contacted the laboratory and contracted to have the sample tested there.
         14.4.3.3. Once the AFDTL has received the request and written confirmation, a
         portion of the service member’s sample is shipped under chain of custody via
         overnight mail to the designated laboratory. The location of a retest, except for
         independent retests at the request of a service member, is at the discretion of the DTL
         where the original specimen is stored.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                             45


   14.5. Steroid Testing.
      14.5.1. Prior to collecting the specimen for steroid testing, a written, signed request must
      be submitted to the AFDTL describing the number of specimens, the period during which
      the specimen is to be collected, and the gender of the donors. Attachment 6 of this AFI
      provides a sample format of the request letter. Failure to coordinate prior to collection
      may result in the specimen not being tested for the special steroid test.
      14.5.2. Specimens collected solely for steroid testing must contain at least 60 milliliters
      of urine. Specimens collected solely for steroid testing must be collected, shipped, and
      processed separately and differently from those requiring routine testing.
      14.5.3. If routine drug testing is required in addition to steroid testing, an additional 30
      milliliter specimen must be collected in a separate bottle. The specimen intended for
      routine drug testing must be collected and shipped as described in .
      14.5.4. Upon receipt of the approval letter, ship the specimen as outlined in the letter.
      Use a separate DD Form 2624 for shipping specimens to be tested for the presence of
      steroids. Do not list specimens requiring steroid testing on the same DD Form 2624 as
      those specimens requiring routine testing.
   14.6. Special Testing. Testing for the presence of drug or drug metabolites other than those
   routinely tested by the AFDTL may be requested by the DDRPM to AFMES through the Air
   Force Drug Testing Program Manager or lab legal advisor. Failure to coordinate prior to
   collection may result in the specimen not being tested for the special test. Specimens will be
   collected with their own chain-of-custody and mailed directly to AFMES. If the standard
   panel is also desired, that should be so indicated on the memorandum to AFMES. The
   AFDTL should only receive specimens for the standard panel and/or steroids.

Section I—DRUG TESTING LABORATORY PROCEDURES

15. The Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory shall establish internal procedures, approved
by SAF/MR and AFMOA/SGHW.
   15.1. Procedures shall be documented in unit Operating Instructions (OI) and shall address
   the following:
      15.1.1. Facility security requirements and laboratory personnel security measures.
      15.1.2. Data security and laboratory information management security measures.
      15.1.3. Specimen receipt and intra-laboratory chain of custody procedures.
      15.1.4. Forensic testing procedures for conducting            initial   screens,   rescreens,
      confirmatory tests, and retests for each drug analyzed.
      15.1.5. An internal QC and QA program.
      15.1.6. Administrative processes.
      15.1.7. Participation in the AFIP/AFMES external QC program.
   15.2. The OIs developed by the AFDTL shall be kept current and reviewed annually by the
   laboratory director.
 46                                              AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


   15.3. As sections are replaced, historical records of procedures and the dates used shall be
   maintained in accordance with appropriate laboratory records management plan.

Section J—LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS

16. The certified drug testing laboratory shall abide by the administrative and technical
requirements of DoDI 1010. 16, and additional administrative or technical guidance
required by ASD (HA), AFIP/AFMES, and/or AFMOA/SGHW to include:
   16.1. Maintaining an OI manual for the drug testing technical procedures.
   16.2. Maintaining intact chain of custody during the processing of specimens or aliquots of
   the specimen used in testing from receipt to disposal of the specimen.
   16.3. Maintaining a tracking record and chain of custody when processing aliquots of the
   specimen for shipment to another laboratory for testing.
   16.4. Establishing and maintaining a forensically secure information management system of
   limited access, sequential processing of testing requirements, audit trails of data access, edits,
   deletions, or data changes.
   16.5. Documenting qualifications and training of laboratory personnel.
   16.6. Keeping maintenance and repair records for each instrument used in testing.
   16.7. Validating analytical methods used for each drug.
   16.8. Participating, satisfactorily, in a certification round of AFIP/AFMES proficiency
   sample analysis for each drug group being routinely tested and maintaining satisfactory
   performance in ongoing AFIP/AFMES proficiency (open) and blind QC sample programs.
   16.9. Maintaining an internal QC program consisting of at least five percent controls and
   standards, including blind positives and negatives in screening and blind negatives in
   confirmation.
   16.10. Maintaining an internal QA program that includes monitoring the timeliness and
   effectiveness of discrepancy resolution and health of overall performance of drug testing
   processes as compared to scientific and forensic requirements.
   16.11. Establishing procedures to ensure timely responses to discovery requests and other
   inquiries from authorities.
   16.12. Maintaining DoD certification and participating satisfactorily in an ongoing DoD
   inspection process.

Section K—DRUG TESTING SUPPLIES

17. Supplies to be used in conjunction with the Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP)
are as follows:
   17.1. Bottle, urine specimen, shipping 120S, NSN 6640-00-165-5778 (standard mouth), (or
   other as stipulated by HQ USAF or DoD); NSN 6530-00-837-7472 or NSN 6530-01-048-
   0855 (wide mouth).
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                         47


   17.2. Envelope (pouch), mailing, plain white, 4 1/8 x 9 ¾ inches, NSN 6530-01-304-9762 or
   equivalent.
   17.3. Label, pressure sensitive. Attachment 7 of this AFI provides a sample request letter
   for ordering bottle labels from the drug testing lab.
   17.4. Paper, craft untreated, wrapping, NSN 8135-00-290-3407 (24 inches) or equivalent;
   NSN 8135-00-160-7764 (36 inches) or equivalent.
   17.5. Absorbent pad, NSN 6530-01-304-9754 or equivalent.
   17.6. Tape, tamper evident.
   17.7. Sealable leak-proof plastic bags, NSN 8510-00-837-7755 or equivalent.
   17.8. One-inch wide strapping tape, NSN 7510-00-582-4772 or equivalent.
   17.9. Brown postal mailing tape, NSN 7530-00-079-7905 or equivalent.
   17.10. DoD-certified Drug Testing Program Software.
   17.11. Single Test Kits (STKs). STKs may be purchased from Tri-Tech Incorporated, 4019
   Executive Park Blvd, S.E., Southport, N.C., 28461, 1-800-438-7884, fax: 910-457-0094.
   Item number CUC-1, Single Bottle Urine Specimen Collection Kit. 100 kits per case.
   17.12. Bluing agent for toilet. Used to prevent specimen dilution for individuals having a
   medically documented verified shy bladder or situational anxiety, or physical abnormalities
   that inhibit or preclude on-demand observed urine collection.
   17.13. Self-Adhesive Temperature Strip – Code: 855, UI ea
 Source: AlcoPro Drug & Alcohol Testing Products
 (800)227-9890
 http://www.alcopro.com/
   17.14. NSN for Specimen box - 6640-00-165-5778 (standard mouth) boxes and bottles are
   normally bought as a unit. Extra boxes without bottles may also be ordered:
 Source: Alpha Points Association for the Blind
 7501 Prospect
 Kansas City, MO 64132

Section L—DRUG ABUSE TESTING REPORT REQUIREMENTS

18. Drug Testing Metrics.
   18.1. Each DDRPM must use appropriate metrics to monitor performance of the military
   drug testing program. These metrics must be provided to the appropriate installation or wing
   commander on a quarterly basis at the CFOC meeting. Demographic data for metrics
   (obtained from the drug testing laboratory, Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) or
   higher headquarters) may be made available upon request through the MAJCOM DDRPM to
   the Air Force Drug Testing Program Manager.
   18.2. Program quarterly performance metrics must include:
      18.2.1. Number of testing days per each month during the quarter.
 48                                                AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


        18.2.2. Number of individuals selected for testing per each month during the quarter.
        18.2.3. Number of individuals selected that were actually tested per each month during
        the quarter.
        18.2.4. Number of individuals on the pending roster.
        18.2.5. Number of individuals selected and notified for testing but failed to show without
        justification (No-Show).
        18.2.6. Number of individuals identified as “No Contact” by the Trusted Agents. (“No
        Contact” means the trusted agent diligently attempted to contact the selected individual,
        without success, and the individual was not on leave, pass, TDY, quarters, flying status,
        crew-rest, missile duty, or non-duty status,)
        18.2.7. Number reporting to the testing facility outside the two-hour window of
        notification.
        18.2.8. Percentage of specimens deemed untestable by the drug testing laboratory per
        each month during the quarter.
        18.2.9. Number of individuals tested positive by individual drug category (THC, COC,
        AMP, and any other drugs listed by DoD).
        18.2.10. Any data describing special testing and/or steroid testing.

Section M—USE OF URINALYSIS RESULTS

19. Commanders’ Options. See Table 1
    19.1. Commanders must consult with the local SJA prior to initiating any disciplinary or
    adverse actions based on the results of Air Force drug testing.

Table 1. Actions Authorized by Positive Drug Test Results.
Basis for Test                 UCMJ Use      Affects Discharge        Administrative Actions
                                             Characterization         (See Note 1)

Inspection - Military          Yes           Yes                      Yes
Rules of      Evidence
(MRE) 313, (See Note 2)

Voluntary       Consent -      Yes           Yes                      Yes
MRE 314(e)
Probable Cause - MRE           Yes           Yes                      Yes
315-316 (See Note 3)
Commander Directed -           No            No                       Yes
(See Note 4)
Self Identification, Initial   No            No                       Yes
Testing (See Note 5)
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                           49


Valid Medical Purpose        Yes              Yes                       Yes
MRE 312(f) (See Note
6)
NOTES
1. Administrative actions include, but are not limited to, letters of admonishment,
counseling and reprimands, denial of re-enlistment, removal from Personal Reliability
Program (PRP), removal from duties involving firearms, removal from flying status or
sensitive duties, suspension of security clearance, and removal of restricted area badges. If
there are any questions regarding actions authorized for positive drug test results, consult
the local servicing SJA.
2. Inspections under Military Rules of Evidence (MRE) 313(b) include inspections under
the installation’s random urinalysis drug testing program and unit or gate sweeps.
3. Probable cause tests are authorized searches and seizures ordered by a military
magistrate or appropriate commander (See MRE 315 and 316).
4. Absent probable cause, commander directed results may not be used for disciplinary
action under the UCMJ or to characterize an administrative separation. EXCEPTION:
Commander directed results may be offered for impeachment purposes or in rebuttal in any
proceeding in which a service member first introduces evidence in a proceeding to infer or
support a claim of non-use of drugs.
5. Members may not be disciplined under the UCMJ when they legitimately self-identify
for drug abuse and enter the ADAPT Program. In the interests of unit safety and security,
commanders may initiate non-adverse administrative actions such as removal from flying
status, removal from the PRP, removal of restricted area badges, etc. Urinalysis tests of
individuals following entry into the ADAPT Program are for valid medical purposes.
Individuals in the ADAPT Program may also be disciplined under the UCMJ when
independent evidence of drug use is obtained.
6. Urine specimens obtained from an examination for a valid medical purpose may be used for
any purpose.


Section N—INABILITY TO PROVIDE A URINE SPECIMEN

20. Shy Bladder or Situational Anxiety.
   20.1. Unsupported assertions of “situational anxiety” (shy bladder) or dehydration are not
   considered valid reasons for an individual’s failure to provide an adequate amount of urine
   when sufficient time has elapsed and fluid volume has been ingested and shall be regarded as
   a refusal to take a test.
   20.2. If an individual claims to have a “shy bladder” the DDRPM must notify the
   individual’s unit commander who in turn must make arrangements to have the individual
   evaluated as soon as practical by a physician, to determine whether the inability to provide a
   specimen is based on valid medical reasons or constitutes a constructive refusal.
   20.3. The examining physician shall determine, using their best medical judgment, whether a
   medical condition has, or with a high degree of probability, could preclude the individual
   from providing an adequate amount of urine.
50                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


  20.4. Individuals should be given reasonable time to provide a urine sample. Reasonable
  time is no more than three hours. If after a reasonable time, a person cannot provide, or
  refuses to provide, a sample, the commander must consider taking disciplinary action for
  failure to obey a lawful order. If the member fails to provide a specimen following continued
  order(s) to do so, additional and escalating disciplinary action should be considered in
  consultation with the servicing SJA. Under no circumstances will an otherwise healthy
  person, unable or unwilling to provide a sample, be catheterized solely for the purpose of
  obtaining a urine sample. Only when a person is catheterized for legitimate medical reasons
  can a sample of urine be drawn in this manner and tested IAW this AFI.
  20.5. For individuals having a medically documented history of shy bladder or situational
  anxiety, or individuals documented to have medically verified physical abnormalities that
  inhibit or preclude observed collection, a urine specimen may be collected following the
  procedures outlined below. Collections made under this provision will be performed after
  receipt of advice from the servicing SJA. The military member must provide supportive
  medical documentation, which will be verified by the DDRPM prior to collection. This
  medical documentation should contain a statement regarding the length of time the situation
  is expected to last. Collections performed under this provision will not be conducted based
  on verbal claims made by the military member selected to submit to testing.
     20.5.1. The following procedures apply only to those individuals having a medically
     documented verified shy bladder or situational anxiety, or physical abnormalities that
     inhibit or preclude on-demand observed urine collection.
         20.5.1.1. The individual will provide medically verifiable information documenting
         the presence of a shy bladder or situational anxiety, or of physical abnormalities that
         inhibit or preclude observed urine collection.
         20.5.1.2. The DDRPM will verify that the information provided is correct by
         contacting the appropriate medical authorities in the servicing MTF to validate the
         claim.
         20.5.1.3. The DDRPM will consult with, and obtain the advice of, the servicing SJA
         prior to allowing the collection of a urine specimen from a military member by means
         other than direct observation of the flow of urine from the body to the specimen
         container.
         20.5.1.4. Following consultation with the servicing SJA and obtaining medical
         validation, the DDRPM will instruct the DTPAM to proceed with the collection
         process.
             20.5.1.4.1. The individual claiming shy bladder, situational anxiety, or physical
             abnormality will, in addition to providing medical documentation of the claim, be
             required to read, sign, and date a document (Attachment 13) stating the
             information and documentation provided to the DTPAM is true and accurate.
             This document must contain an expiration date after which it will cease to be in
             effect.
             20.5.1.4.2. The DTPAM will inform the individual that failure to read and sign
             the statement (Attachment 13) will exclude them from alternative testing and
             require them to comply with the normal, observed testing procedure. The
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                           51


          individual must also be informed that failure to sign the alternative procedure
          statement or failure to comply with the normal observed testing may be
          considered a refusal to test, which can result in disciplinary action under the
          UCMJ and/or administrative action.
          20.5.1.4.3. The individual will present the appropriate ID as required in this AFI.
          20.5.1.4.4. The DTPAM will check the member’s military ID card and document
          the information required in paragraph 5.2. The DTPAM will maintain possession
          of the member’s military ID card until the collection process is completed.
          20.5.1.4.5. The DTPAM will designate an escort to accompany the individual
          providing the specimen. The escort will possess the same qualifications as a drug
          testing program observer identified in paragraph 4.6.11.8; he or she will possess
          unquestionable integrity and trustworthiness. The escort will not directly observe
          the individual providing the urine specimen. The escort will ensure that the
          collection environment is secure and prevent anyone from tampering with, or
          adulterating the provided specimen. The escort’s duties include inspecting the
          restroom stall and removing any debris or articles that could be used to
          contaminate or introduce an impure or untestable specimen. The escort will add a
          bluing agent to the toilet water. These steps will be taken prior to allowing the
          donor access to the restroom stall area and providing the specimen. The escort
          will be of the same gender as the testing subject and will not have been chosen to
          provide a specimen during the same collection period.
          20.5.1.4.6. The DTPAM will hand the specimen container to the individual
          providing the test specimen, instructing the individual to inspect the container and
          verify it is clean and free of any debris or foreign matter. The DTPAM will
          instruct the individual not to insert his/her finger(s) into the bottle. The individual
          will be instructed to carry the bottle in view of the escort. Requirements specified
          in paragraph 5.3.4.1 apply.
          20.5.1.4.7. The DTPAM will instruct the individual to remove bulky outer
          garments (e.g., ABU/BDU blouse) if direct observation by the observer may be
          impeded and remove genital piercing jewelry. The individual will be required to
          remove the contents of all their pockets. The contents will be examined by the
          DTPAM to ensure that there are no items present that may in any way contribute
          to a possible tampered or adulterated specimen. Only suspect items (e.g., rubber
          tubing, syringes, intravenous bags) will be maintained by the DTPAM until such
          time that the collection is complete. All other items will be immediately returned
          to the individual prior to collection of the specimen.
          20.5.1.4.8. The DTPAM will ensure that the individual is escorted to the
          restroom, and the escort will direct the individual to wash his/her hands only with
          water and then dry them prior to providing a specimen. The escort will observe
          the washing and drying process.
          20.5.1.4.9. The escort will direct the individual into a stall, ensuring that a bluing
          agent has been added to the toilet water. The individual will be allowed to
          provide a specimen while the escort remains outside of the stall.
 52                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


              20.5.1.4.10. Once the specimen has been provided, the individual will secure the
              lid tightly on the bottle and deliver it to the DTPAM or DDRPM. The escort will
              examine the stall and ensure that the toilet containing the bluing agent is flushed.
              Any unusual circumstances or findings, which may lead the escort to believe that
              the specimen has been tampered with or adulterated, must be brought to the
              immediate attention of the DTPAM who in turn will immediately notify the
              DDRPM for action The unusual circumstances or findings will be documented in
              a memorandum for record. The escort will ensure that the specimen bottle is
              returned to the DTPAM immediately after the urine collection or any attempted
              urine collection that does not result in the required minimum 30 milliliters of
              urine during one attempt. Requirements outlined in paragraphs 5.3.6 to 5.3.13
              and paragraphs 5.4.4 to 5.4.5 apply.
              20.5.1.4.11. If the collection is successful, the DTPAM will affix a temperature
              label to the bottle and annotate the specimen temperature and collection
              procedures in a MFR. The DTPAM, escort, and individual tested will sign and
              date the MFR. The MFR will be maintained as a permanent part of the collection
              file(s) and a copy will be forwarded to the individual’s unit commander.

Section O—DEMAND REDUCTION OUTREACH ACTIVITIES AND USE OF
APPROPRIATED FUNDS

21. Financial Management Activities.
   21.1. DDRPMs prepare and submit both Budget and Financial Plans for their DDRP as
   required locally, but no later than 15 Aug of the current year, for the upcoming fiscal year.
   Financial Plans will outline the DDRP requirements and plan of execution by month, quarter,
   and year.
      21.1.1. Budgets will be prepared IAW the DoD Financial Management Regulation
      (DoDFMR); AFI 65-601 V1, Budget and Guidance Procedures; and annual execution
      guidance provided by DASD/CN; Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget, Directorate of
      Budget Operations (SAF/FMBO); and AFMOA. Work in conjunction with MAJCOM
      resource management personnel to ensure all budgetary documents are processed
      correctly.
          21.1.1.1. Review annual funding, projects, cost analysis, and efficient use of funds
          for travel, outreach, education, and training purposes. Initiate appropriate paperwork
          to accomplish budgeting tasks. All counternarcotics programs are funded through
          Central Transfer Account from DASD/CN. An A40 limitation is placed on these
          funds, which means funds cannot be added to or subtracted from the amount provided
          by SAF/FMBO. This also means funds may not be reprogrammed out of the program
          for non-counternarcotics purposes, nor executed for non-counternarcotic activities.
          21.1.1.2. Provide monthly obligation data, to include medical supply transactions,
          from Defense Medical Logistics Supply System (DMLSS) to MAJCOM's resource
          management personnel in order to consolidate and forward to SAF/FMBOO no later
          than (NLT) the 20th of each month. Also, notify resource management personnel of
          any vacant counternarcotics civilian personnel positions for MAJCOM Financial
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          53


           Management (FM) to provide full time equivalent (FTE) quarterly report to
           SAF/FMBO.
           21.1.1.3. Regularly review program status and reprogram funds in a timely manner.
           DASD/CN requires approval on all moves between DDRP cost centers (Program
           Element Code (PEC) 88789F). Requests for reprogramming must be submitted by
           MAJCOM, through AFMOA/SGHW and SAF/FMBOO, to DASD/CN for approval.
           Once approved, funds may be moved between Drug Demand Reduction projects, as
           requirements dictate, to facilitate full execution of funds.
              21.1.1.3.1. Responsibility Center/Cost Center (RCCC) XX5950 and other
              RCCCs go with Project Code (PC) 8460 (Dem Redux - Collection Costs); include
              Civilian Pay in this data retrieval. (SG will use RCCC B00164).
              21.1.1.3.2. RCCC XX5949 goes with PC 8464 (Dem Redux – Prevention,
              Education and Outreach) (SG will use RCCC B0016C).
              21.1.1.3.3. Operating Agency Code (OAC) 15 Operating Budget Account
              Number (OBAN) BH goes with PC 8470 (Drug Lab) .
           21.1.1.4. Maintain program accountability IAW DoDDs and AFMOA/SGHW and/or
           MAJCOM guidance to include establishing and maintaining administrative files,
           complete records of all official DDRP transactions (including medical supplies in the
           Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support) and activities IAW AFI 65-601 V1 and
           the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in AFRIMS at
           https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
           21.1.1.5. Ensure expenditures of DDRP fenced funds meet all appropriate budget
           code limitations. All resources, equipment, medical supplies and materials purchased
           with DDRP funds are audited annually.
           21.1.1.6. Ensure proper coordination with MAJCOM FM and contracting offices.
       21.1.2. AFRC only: Coordinate with SAF/FMBO for budget planning and execution of
       the AFRC DDRP.
   21.2. DDRPMs ensure proper expenditure of funds for outreach activities in strict
   accordance with AFI 65-601V1, paragraph 4.29, Awards and Gifts. Special attention should
   be given to section 4L, Awards, Awards Ceremonies and Gifts.

Section P—AIR NATIONAL GUARD (ANG) PROGRAM AND POLICIES

22. General Information. In a memorandum dated 11 April 2005, the CSAF approved the
integration of the Army and Air National Guard Substance Abuse Prevention Programs. The
new joint Substance Abuse Program has responsibility over all aspects of the National Guard’s
substance abuse prevention efforts to include anti-drug education and drug testing. As such, all
Air National Guard members and units will comply with the guidance established in the current
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the Air Force and the National Guard Bureau. For
guidance not addressed in the current MOA, this Instruction applies.

Section Q—FORMS USED BY THE DDRP.
 54                                        AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


23. Adopted Forms: DD Form 2825, Internal Receipt, (replaces AF Form 12), DD Form 1149,
Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document (replaces DD Form 1384); DD Form 2624,
Specimen Custody Document – Drug Testing; AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication.




                                        CHARLES B. GREEN
                                        Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                        Surgeon General
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                       55


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program,29 Jan 2004
AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program, 17 Jun 2005
AFI 44-121, Alcohol And Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program, 11 April
2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPAM 91-211, USAF Guide to Aviation Safety Investigation, 23 Jul 2001, IC2 4 Nov 2008.
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 01 Sep 1999
Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation, Uniform Code of Military Justice
ASD(SO/LIC) Memorandum, October 1, 2003
DoDD 1010.1, Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program, Dec 9, 1994
DoDI 1010.16, Technical Procedures for the Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program,
Dec 9, 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABU—Airman Battle Uniform
AF/A1D—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Force Management Directorate
AFDTL—Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIP—Armed Forces Institute of Pathology
AF/JA—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Judge Advocate
AF/JAA—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Judge Advocate, Administrative Law Division
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMES—Armed Forces Medical Examiner System
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AF/SG—United States Air Force, Surgeon General
AFMOA/SGHW—Air Force Medical Operations Agency/Mental Health Division
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMP—D-AMP and D-methamphetamine
ADAPT—Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
 56                                         AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
(Added-434ARW) ARW—-Air Refueling Wing
ASD (HA)—Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs
BDU—Battle Dress Uniform
BIDN—Installation Identification Number
BMTS—Basic Military Training School
BTAB—DoD level Biochemical Testing Advisory Board
CADCA—Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America
CAIB—Community Action Information Board
CAPT—Centers for the Application of Prevention Technologies
CC—Command/Commander
CO—Command Directed Testing
CoRC—Culture of Responsible Choices
CFOC—Cross Functional Oversight Committee
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
COC—Cocaine metabolite (benzoylecgonine)
CONUS—Continental United States
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CSAP—Center for Substance Abuse Prevention
DASD/CN—Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Counternarcotics
DEFY—Drug Education For Youth
DMDC—Defense Manpower Data Center
DMLSS—Defense Medical Logistics Supply System
DO—Doctor of Osteopathy
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DDR—Drug Demand Reduction
DDRPM—Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DTPAM—Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013             57


FM—Financial Management
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FTE—Full Time Equivalent
GC/MS—Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HA—Health Affairs
HAWC—Health and Wellness Clinic
HHS—Department of Health and Human Service
HSI—Health Services Inspection
HQ—Headquarters
HQ USAF—Headquarters, United States Air Force
IA—Immunoassay
IAW—In Accordance With
IEAD—Initial Entry on Active Duty
ID—Identification
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
IO—Inspection Testing
IR—Random Testing
IU—Unit Sweep Testing
JA—Judge Advocate
JDET—Joint Drug Enforcement Team
LAN—Laboratory Accession Number
LCO—Laboratory Certifying Official
LOR—Letter of Reprimand
MAJCOM—Major Command
MD—Doctor of Medicine
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MO—Medical Drug Testing
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MRO—Medical Review Officer
 58                                       AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


MRE—Military Rule of Evidence
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
NLT—No Later Than
NO—New Entrant Drug Testing
NSN—National Stock Number
NG—J3-SAP—National Guard Bureau’s Counterdrug Substance Abuse Prevention Section
OAC—Operating Agency Code
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OI—Operating Instruction
OO—Other Drug Testing
OPI—Opiates (morphine, codeine)
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
OXY—Oxycodone, oxymorphone
PAD—Program Action Directive
PC—Project Code
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCP—Phencyclidine
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PEC—Program Element Code
PIF—Personnel Information File
PM—Program Manager
PO—Probable Cause Testing
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
PRP—Personnel Reliability Program
QA—Quality Assurance
QC—Quality Control
QNS—Quantity Not Sufficient
RCCC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                         59


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMU—Reserve Medical Unit
RO—Rehabilitation Testing
ROTC—Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/FM—Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and
Comptroller
SAF/FMBO—Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget, Directorate of Budget Operations
SAF/MR—Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
SAMHSA—Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
SF—Security Forces
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SSN—Social Security Number
STK—Single Test Kit
TDY—Temporary Duty
THC—Tetrahydrocannabinol
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
USPS—United States Postal Service
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
VO—Consent Testing

Terms
Accession Applicant Testing—Test all applicants for appointment in the Active and Reserve
Components, enlistment in the regular Armed Forces, enlistment in the Reserve or
Federally recognized units of the National Guard, re—enlistment in the Active or Reserve
Components or National Guard after a period of more than 6 months from date of discharge, and
applicants for the Service Academies as well as Scholarship or Advanced Course Reserve
Officer’s Training Corps (ROTCs). When separate instructions exist for the accession testing
program, providing different requirements and/or procedures than this Instruction, the separate
Instruction will control.
Adhesive Tape—Includes: masking tape, gummed paper tape, strapping tape, package sealing
tape.
Collector—General designation referring to the DTPAM.
 60                                                AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


Command—Directed Testing—Appropriate where the member displays aberrant, bizarre, or
unlawful behavior or where the commander suspects or has reason to believe drugs may be
present, but probable cause does not exist. Results obtained through commander directed testing
can be used as a basis for administrative discharge action (honorable discharge only) or to
support administrative actions such as letters of reprimand, promotion propriety actions.
Test results may be used as a basis for initiating administrative actions, to include
discharge. Test results, however, cannot be used to take UCMJ action (court—martial,
Article 15) or to adversely characterize administrative discharges.
Community Outreach—Defined as on and off base prevention, drug education/awareness and
deterrence activities targeted to DoD family members, retirees, civilians and contractors.
Consent Testing—Prior to a probable cause or commander-directed urinalysis test, first ask the
member if he or she will consent to a urinalysis test. Commanders are not required to give
Article 31, UCMJ, rights prior to asking for consent; however, evidence that a member was read
these rights may be used to help demonstrate the member’s consent was voluntary. Results may
be used for UCMJ or administrative actions, including adverse characterization of administrative
discharges. Consent is not valid if it is mere acquiescence to authority. See Military Rule of
Evidence (MRE) 314(e). While not required, it is best to obtain the member’s consent in writing.
Drug—Any controlled substance included in Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V in 21 U.S.C. 812,
including anabolic or androgenic steroids, or any intoxicating substance other than alcohol, that
is inhaled, injected, consumed, or introduced into the body in any manner to alter mood or
function. Studies have shown that products made with hemp seed oil may contain varying levels
of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), an active ingredient of marijuana, which is detectable under the
Air Force Drug Testing Program. In order to ensure military readiness, the ingestion of hemp
seed oil or products made with hemp seed oil is prohibited. Failure to comply with the
prohibition on the ingestion of hemp seed oil or products made with hemp seed oil is a violation
of Article 92, UCMJ.
Drug Abuse—The wrongful use, possession, distribution, or introduction onto a military
installation, or other property or facility under military supervision, of a controlled substance,
prescription medication, over-the-counter medication, or intoxicating substance (other than
alcohol) .
―Wrongful means without legal justification or excuse, and includes use contrary
to the directions of the manufacturer or prescribing healthcare provider, and use of any intoxicating
substance not intended for human ingestion. (For purposes of this Instruction, drug abuse also
includes inhalant abuse (sometimes referred to as ―huffing) and steroid usage other than that
specifically prescribed by a competent medical authority.) Violators are subject to punitive action
under the UCMJ and/or adverse administrative actions.
Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager (DDRPM)—Individual hired or appointed by the
installation commander or equivalent to be responsible for oversight of the military and civilian
drug testing programs and drug outreach, education, and prevention. Also responsible for
training and certifying assigned DTPAMs for specimen collection.
(434ARW) Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager (DDRPM)—Individual responsible
for oversight of the installation’s military/civilian drug testing program.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                           61


Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager (DTPAM)—Individual hired or appointed
by the installation commander or equivalent to administer collection, processing, and shipping of
specimens and safeguarding of applicable information pertaining to the drug testing program.
(434ARW) Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager (DTPAM)—an individual hired
or appointed by the Installation Commander to administer collection, processing and
shipping of specimens and safeguarding of applicable information pertaining to the drug
testing program.
Field Testing—Any drug urinalysis testing which is performed outside of the Air Force drug
testing laboratory, a DoD certified drug testing laboratory, or a Department of Health and Human
 62                                              AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


Service (HHS) drug testing laboratory, employing methodology which is defined as a ―rapid
screening test.‖
Geographically Separated Unit (GSU)—Units that physically reside outside of the host unit.
GSU DTPAM—An individual appointed by the senior officer at a GSU entrusted to safeguard
and manage the collection and shipping aspects of the drug urinalysis program.
Inspection Testing—Random inspection testing is the best deterrent presently available against
drug abuse. Urine specimens may be ordered as part of an inspection under Military Rule of
Evidence (MRE) 313(b). Inspections may be conducted to determine: if the command is
functioning properly; if proper standards of readiness are maintained; and if personnel are
present, fit and ready for duty. Individual members may not be singled out. An entire unit or a
part of the unit may be inspected or may be an installation-wide random selection process.
Results may be used for UCMJ or administrative actions, including adverse characterizations of
administrative discharges.
Operating Instruction (OI)—Technical and policy procedures generated and used by the drug
testing laboratory governing specific aspects of specimen analysis.
Medical Testing—A urine specimen collected as part of a patient’s routine or emergency
medical treatment, including routine physical examinations, may be subjected to urinalysis drug
testing. Results may be used for UCMJ or administrative actions, including adverse
characterization of administrative discharges.
Negative Urine Specimen—Any specimen the drug testing laboratory reports as negative for
illegal drugs.
Observer—A service member assigned duty to observe the collection of urine specimens from
service members. See detailed description of duties and qualification at paragraph 5.4
Outreach Program—Informational activities designed to heighten awareness of negative
affects of drug abuse.
Positive Urine Specimen—Any specimen the drug testing laboratory certifies as positive for
one or more drugs or drug metabolites on the DD Form 2624, Specimen Custody Document –
Drug Testing.
Probable Cause—Requires a search and seizure authorization from the appropriate commander
to seize a urine specimen. Probable cause exists when there is a reasonable belief that drugs will
be found in the system of the member to be tested. See MRE 315(f) and consult with the SJA
regarding procedures for determining whether there is probable cause. Results may be used for
UCMJ or to characterize administrative discharges.
Rehabilitation Urine Testing—Rehabilitation testing is a form of commander-directed testing.
A member in drug rehabilitation will be urine tested on a no-notice basis. The unit commander
may discontinue rehabilitation urine testing once a courts-martial or separation action is initiated
on a member in rehabilitation.
Secure Storage—Secure storage is an area used to store all materials and specimens that hold
the potential of being useful as evidence in a court proceeding or administrative hearing. Its level
of security must be on par with evidence storage security used by law enforcement. At a
minimum, a secure storage area must be maintained with access limited and controlled by
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                                   63


appropriate procedures and the two layers of locks or other devices to prevent unauthorized access.
Shy Bladder—A medical condition that, with a high degree of probability, could preclude an
individual from providing an adequate amount of urine.
Smart Testing—The random selection of members of the ranks of E-1 to E-4, O-1, and O-2 at a
rate of one test per member per year.
Trusted Agent—An individual appointed by unit commanders to receive and maintain rosters of
individuals (notification letter from the collector) selected for urinalysis testing. The Trusted
Agent is responsible for notifying, via commander’s order, individuals selected for urinalysis
testing and identifying those individuals unavailable for testing. See detailed description of
duties and qualifications at paragraph 4.4.11.6
 64                                              AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


                                          Attachment 2
         SAMPLE FORMAT – INSTALLATION LEVEL TRAINING MANUAL

Sample Format – Installation Level Training Manual
1. An identifiable mission statement.
2. Detailed job description that clearly defines areas of responsibilities.
3. Detailed training plan for orientation of new personnel to the functional roles and
responsibilities of the Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager and the Drug Testing Program
Administrative Manager positions. The training plan must include a systematic process ensuring
appropriate review and comprehension of supportive program documentation.
4. Appropriate documents essential for providing program continuity to include but not limited
to:
a. AFI 44-120, Drug Abuse Testing Program
b. DoDD 1010.1, Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program
c. DoDI 1010.16, Technical Procedures for the Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing
Program
d. DoDD 1010.4, Drug and Alcohol Abuse by DoD Personnel
e. DoDD 1010.9, DoD Civilian Employee Drug Abuse Testing Program
f. Standard Operating Procedures Manual for Processing and Testing Urine Specimens at
Department of Defense Certified Forensic Drug Testing Laboratories
g. Air Force Civilian Drug Testing Plan
h. Guidance memoranda from Higher Headquarters relevant to the Drug Demand Reduction
Program
i. MAJCOM, installation or unit supplements to AFI 44-120
j. AFPAM 91-211, USAF Guide to Aviation Safety Investigation
5. Maintenance of appropriate statistics as defined in AFI 44-120
6. Copies of quarterly SJA assessments
7. Copies of HSI/AAAHC/JCAHO evaluations
8. Copies of relevant briefings, talking papers, etc.
9. Initial and quarterly completion of interactive training
10. Action plans and timetables for resolution of problems identified by either statistical analysis
or program review processes.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                                65


                                           Attachment 3
                        SAMPLE COLLECTION SITE CHECKLIST

Sample Collection Site Checklist

1. Verify the identification of each individual through a valid military identification (ID) card.
Maintain possession of the individual’s military card until the collection process is completed.
(Ref. para 5.3.2.)
2. Enter the following information in the urine drug testing ledger or register: Month, day, and
year of collection; BIDN, batch number, and specimen number; the individual’s complete social
security number (SSN); the individual’s rank; individual’s initials and printed name; time the
member provided his/her specimen. (Ref. para 5.2.1.1. to 5.2.1.6.)
3. Ensure that specimen bottles are clean and do not have holes. If a pre-printed bottle label is
not available, ensure the following information is annotated on the bottle: collection month, day,
and year; BIDN; and the individual’s complete SSN. (Ref. para. 5.3.1. and 5.1.1.1. to 5.1.1.3.)
4. Have the individual initial and sign (payroll signature) by their printed name in the ledger
after verifying that the SSN annotated on the bottle label matches the entries in the ledger or
register. (Ref. para. 5.2.1.5.)
5. Hand the empty specimen bottle to the individual. Have the individual inspect the bottle in
the presence of the designated same-gendered observer to make sure it is clean and free of
debris. Instruct the individual to carry the specimen bottle so that it is in the view of the observer
at all times. (Ref. Para. 5.3.4.) For GSUs, break the seal of the STK in the presence of the
individual. (Ref. para.7.3.1.).
6. Direct the individual providing the specimen to remove bulky outer garments (e.g.,
ABU/BDU blouse), if direct observation by the observer may be impeded. Also, have the donor
remove any genital piercing jewelry and thereafter wash hands with water only. (Ref. para.
5.3.5.)
7. After the individual and observer return, receive the urine specimen from the individual,
visually check for adulteration, and ensure the urine volume is a minimum of 30 milliliters. (If
contamination or adulteration is suspected, or the individual provides insufficient quantity, direct
the individual to remain in the area until an acceptable sample is collected). In the event the
individual provides an insufficient volume, the DTPAM will void the bottle (with the label) and
the entry in the ledger or register. The DTPAM will annotate the logbook as “Quantity Not
Sufficient” or “QNS.” The DTPAM in turn will direct the individual to discard the specimen.
The observer must witness the discarding of the specimen by the individual. The bottle will be
returned to the DTPAM who will dispose of it IAW Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) guidelines. (Ref. para. 5.3.6., 5.3.6.2 and 5.4.4.1.1.)
8. If sufficient volume is collected, the DTPAM will in the presence of the individual apply
tamper-resistant tape (conforming to the shape of the bottle to minimize tearing) extending from
approximately halfway down and over the gummed label (not obliterating any identifying
information), across the bottle cap, and to an approximate midpoint on the other side of the
specimen bottle. (Ref. para. 5.3.7.)
9. Have the individual initial and date the bottle label to certify the SSN and other identifying
information on the specimen bottle is correct, that the member witnessed the application of the
tamper-resistant tape, and that the specimen in the bottle is the individual’s. (Ref. para. 5.3.8.)
 66                                              AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


10. Have the observer date and initial the bottle label on the line marked “OB INIT” to certify
the integrity of the collection process and that the urine is the individual’s. (Ref. para. 5.3.9.)
11. Have the observer print his/her name where designated in the ledger, initial, and sign his/her
payroll signature next to the individual’s entry. (Ref. para. 5.3.10.)
12. Maintain line-of-sight custody of collected specimens during the collection process or place
the specimen in secured storage with proper chain of custody entries (on DD Form 2624). (Ref.
para. 6.1.2.12).
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                           67


                                         Attachment 4
            SAMPLE LETTER – DRUG TESTING OBSERVER’S BRIEFING

Sample Letter – Drug Testing Observer’s Briefing

1. You must be of the same sex as the member being observed and you must not be scheduled to
provide a sample on the same date that you are to observe specimen collection (Ref: AFI 44-
120).
2. You may not be an observer if you have an unfavorable information file or if an action under
the UCMJ or an adverse administrative action is pending against you. Nor may you be an
observer if you have a recent record (within five years) of conviction by courts-martial or
civilian criminal court for matters not involving dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse. Additionally,
you are ineligible if you have a record of conviction by courts-martial or civilian court or have
received non-judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, or a Letter of Reprimand or similar
administrative action (Letter of Admonishment, Letter of Counseling) for misconduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, or drug abuse (including use, possession, or distribution).
3. You may not be an observer if you are within six (6) months of either separation or retirement
from active duty. In the case of the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve members, you
may not be an observer if you are within one (1) year of either separation or transfer from an
active participation status.
4. You may not be an observer if you are on a medical profile that will prevent you from
performing your assigned duties as an observer.
5. You must observe the member receive the empty specimen bottle from the drug testing
monitor and you must enter the rest room with the member. You must direct the member to
wash his/her hands with only water then dry them prior to providing a specimen (they may wash
their hands with soap and water after providing a sample and securing the lid on the bottle). You
must observe the member urinating directly into the labeled specimen bottle and capping it. If a
female chooses to use the optional wide-mouthed sterile collection cup, you must directly
observe the member providing the specimen, pouring the urine into the labeled specimen bottle
and capping it. As an observer, you are required by AFI 44-120, to ensure that the specimen
provided is not contaminated or altered in any way.
6. You will stay with the member until ready to exit the bathroom. Neither the member nor the
specimen bottle can be out of your sight at any time. You will observe the member carry the
specimen bottle out of the bathroom and hand it to the drug testing monitor. You will observe
the member initial and date the specimen bottle label. You will then initial and date the bottle
label. NOTE: DO NOT HANDLE THE SAMPLE AT ANY TIME UNTIL IT IS TIME TO
INITIAL THE LABEL.
7. You will print your name where designated in the ledger. Initial and sign your payroll
signature next to the member’s entry.
8. You will observe the drug testing monitor apply the tamper-proof tape to the bottle and print
and sign your name and initials on the log.
9. You will report all incidents of suspected abuse, adulteration, or unusual behavior, by the
member being tested to the DTPAM or DDRPM, and the legal office immediately. You will be
required to document your report in a memorandum for record.
 68                                           AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


10. Provide your signature and other information below acknowledging that you have read and
understand your duties as an observer and may be called upon to testify as a witness in legal
proceedings.

DATE PRINTED
NAME             RANK            SSN           SIGNATURE              INITIALS
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                             69


                                          Attachment 5
     SAMPLE LETTER – COMMANDER’S NOTIFICATION OF SELECTION TO
                      PROVIDE URINE SPECIMEN

Sample Letter – Commander’s Notification of Selection to Provide Urine Specimen
[DATE]
MEMORANDUM FOR [RANK, FIRST NAME, LAST NAME]

FROM: **/CC

SUBJECT: Notification of Selection to Provide a Urine Specimen – Inspection Testing

1. You have been selected to provide a urine specimen for drug testing purposes. Compliance
with AFI 44-120 paragraphs 4.4.11. through 4.4.11.3. requires that you:
a. Report to (building, room, time, and date for test)
b. Surrender your military identification (ID) card upon arrival at the testing location and remain
at the testing location until you have provided your urine specimen. When your ID card has been
returned, you have been given permission to leave.
c. Remove bulky outer garments (e.g., ABU/BDU blouse) to prevent direct observation by the
observer from being impeded.
d. Remove all genital body piercing jewelry.
e. Wash your hands (with water only) after removal of any genital body piercing jewelry.
f. No hats, purses, bags, briefcases, or other baggage may be brought into the collection room.
g. Be observed urinating directly into the bottle, or other receptacle, provided to you for
collecting the urine specimen.
h. Avoid contaminating the specimen. Fill the bottle, or other receptacle provided to you, with a
minimum of 30 milliliters of your urine.

2. Failure to comply with these instructions in any way may result in disciplinary action against
you under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). You will acknowledge that you have
read this notification and understand it by signing below.

RICHARD J. ANYBODY, Col, USAF
Commander

1st Ind, (Rank, First Name, Last Name)
TO: **/CC
I have read and understand this notification. I further understand that failure to comply with this
notification in way may result in disciplinary action under the UCMJ.

Date/Time Notified: ___________________________

________________________________
(First Name, Last Name, Rank)
 70                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


                                        Attachment 6
                SAMPLE LETTER – REQUESTING STERIOD TESTING

Sample Letter – Requesting Steroid Testing
DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR AFMOA/SGHW

FROM: (REQUESTING UNITS’ COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS)

SUBJECT: Request for Steroid Testing

1. Request approval to be granted for the testing of [specify number] specimens for the presence
of steroids.

2. [Provide justification to include the member’s SSN and gender.]

3. [Indicate POC and phone number.]


Signature Block of DDRPM

PERSONAL DATA – PROTECTED UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974 (5 USC,
552a). FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                    71


                                           Attachment 7
                                ORDERING BOTTLE LABELS

Ordering Bottle Labels

Order Form required for ordering bottle labels via fax or e-mail:

Installation ID # __________________________________________
Beginning Batch-Specimen # ____________________________
Ending Batch-Specimen # _______________________________
Note: Use even one hundred numbers for the ending numbers, i.e., 100, 200, 300, etc.
Active Duty Units: Labels ordered should last at least 6 months.
Reserve Units: Labels ordered should last 1 year.

Ship bottle labels to us by: ____________________________
(DD MM YY)
Name/Grade of person making this order: ______________________________
Organization: _____________________________________________________________
Address: __________________________________________________________________
City/State/AFB/Zip Code + 4: ________________________________________________
DSN #/Commercial #: _______________________________________________________

Send the completed form to: HQAFMOADTL@US.AF.MIL or call 210-292-3309.


The address for the Web Reporting Portal is: https://iftdtl.amedd.army.mil/


                            NOTE: SEND ORDERS 6 WEEKS IN ADVANCE
 72                                               AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


                                           Attachment 8
        DRUG URINALYSIS SPECIMEN PACKAGING/SHIPPING CHECKLIST

Drug Urinalysis Specimen Packaging/Shipping Checklist
1. Place the specimen bottles into the unused specimen box (NSN 6640-00-165-5778) ensuring that
the tamper-proof tape is intact.
2. Complete and sign the DD Form 2624 ensuring that the specimens listed on the form match the
bottles that are in the box.
3. Place the DD Form 2624 and any Memorandum for Records (MFRs) inside a sealed leak-proof
plastic bag within the box.
4. In order to absorb leakage and prevent damage, place a sufficient amount of flat absorbent pads
(NSN 6530-01-304-9754 or equivalent) in the box prior to sealing.
5. Seal all sides, edges, and flaps of the box with adhesive tape. Apply one piece of tape around the
center opening of the box so that it covers the opening flap on the top and bottom of the box and
completely encircles the box. Tape must also encircle each end of the box that has an opening so that
the edges are completely covered and sealed.
6. Sign payroll signature across the tape once on the top and once on the bottom of the box. The
payroll signature must cross from the tape to the box in at least one location on each the top and
bottom. The manufacturer’s tape on a specimen box is considered part of the box. The
manufacturer’s tape is not considered part of the tape that must be placed completely around the box.
7. Place the sealed box in a leak preventive mailing pouch (NSN 6530-01-304-9762 or equivalent).
The sealed pouch must be wrapped in postal mailing paper if not placed in a second container.
8. Address the package to:
HQ, Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory, AFMOA/SGBD
2480 Ladd Street, Bldg 3750
Lackland AFB, TX 78236-5310
9. Ship the package within two duty days of collection date. (Failure to ship within two duty days
will not result in an untestable discrepancy; however, proper chain of custody must be maintained).
Specimens not mailed within two working days will require a MFR explaining the reason for the
delay. The MFR must be forwarded to the servicing SJA, and a copy of the MFR must be retained on
file.
                         10. Mail in accordance with paragraph 8 of AFI 44-120.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                        73


                                         Attachment 9
                              DOD DISCREPANCY CODES

DoD Discrepancy Codes
CODE                                             CODE DESCRIPTION

Bottle

BA              Bottle / container unauthorized
BK              Bottle / bottles leaked in shipment
BC              Bottle leaked in shipment, quantity not sufficient to test
BD              Bottle - broken seal
BE              Bottle - no seal
BF              Bottle - two seals, no explanation
BU              Bottle empty
BZ              Bottle discrepancy - TESTED
BY              Bottle discrepancy - NOT TESTED

Specimen

SA              Specimen appears to be adulterated - NOT TESTED
SB              Specimen appears to be adulterated - TESTED
SC              Specimen quantity not sufficient to test
SE              Specimen volume < 30 mL
SZ              Specimen discrepancy - TESTED
SY              Specimen discrepancy - NOT TESTED

Custody Form

FA              Form - UIC or installation/area code discrepant* / does not match bottle
FE              Form - submitting unit address / service info missing
FH              Form - date specimen collected discrepant* / does not match bottle
FJ              Form test basis / information (block 10) discrepant*
FK              Form type incorrect
FL              Form not received
FM              Form received separately from bottle
FN              Form chain of custody entries (Blocks 12a-d) discrepant*
GG              Form listed specimen, no bottle received
FP              Form did not list specimen, bottle received
FR              Form on two pieces of paper - no linking identifiers
FT              Form - SSN discrepant*
FY              Form - means of shipment discrepant*
GC              Form - specimen number discrepant*
GP              Form or other document contains service member's name / signature
GR              Form marked void for received specimen
GZ              Form discrepancy - TESTED
GY              Form discrepancy - NOT TESTED
74                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013




Package

PA            Package - no seal
PB            Package - broken seal
PD            Package missing signature/date
PZ            Package discrepancy - TESTED
PY            Package discrepancy - NOT TESTED

Label

LA            Label missing/blank
LD            Label over label
LE            Label - UIC or installation/area code discrepant*
LF            Label - collection date discrepant*
LJ            Label - member initials discrepant*
LL            Label - collector or observer's initials discrepant*
LN            Label - SSN does not match form
LQ            Label has service member's name/signature
LT            Label - specimen number does not match form
LU            Label - batch / specimen number discrepant*
LX            Label - SSN discrepant*
LZ            Label discrepancy - TESTED
LY            Label discrepancy - NOT TESTED

Other

OZ            Laboratory technical discrepancy - TESTED
OY            Laboratory technical discrepancy - NOT TESTED


*DISCREPANT   *Incorrect, Incomplete, Illegible, Missing, Overwritten, Not Original Or Not
=             Forensically Corrected
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                             75


                                   Attachment 10
  SAMPLE DD FORM 2624, SPECIMEN CUSTODY DOCUMENT DRUG TESTING

Sample DD Form 2624, Specimen Custody Document - Drug




Testing
76   AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                              77


                                         Attachment 11
                           SPECIMEN PACKAGING (BOX OF 12)

SPECIMEN PACKAGING (BOX OF 12)

NOTE: These guide photos relate to Section D, paragraphs 7.3. through 7.12.

Figure 11-1. Specimen Packaging.




Place the specimen bottles (maximum of 12) into the specimen box ensuring that the tamper
evident tape is intact. Place the completed DD Form 2624 and any MFRs inside the specimen
box in a sealed leak-proof plastic bag. Ensure that the specimens listed on the DD Form 2624
match the bottles that are in the box. Place a sufficient amount of flat absorbent pads inside the
box to absorb leakage and prevent damage. (Not shown in photo.)

Figure 11-2. Specimen Packaging
 78                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013




One piece of tape must be applied around the center opening of the box so that it covers the
opening flap on the top and bottom of the box and completely encircles the box.

Figure 11-3a. Specimen Packaging




Tape must encircle each end of the box that has an opening so that the edges are completely
covered.

Figure 11-3b. Specimen Packaging
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                           79




Tape must encircle each end of the box that has an opening so that the edges are completely
covered.

Figure 11-4. Specimen Packaging




Taping complete with all openings and edges of the box sealed.
 80                                          AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013




Figures 11-5a-d. Packager (collector) must sign his or her payroll signature across the tape
once on the top and once on the bottom of the box. The payroll signature must cross from
the tape to the box in at least one location on each the top and bottom. The manufacturer’s
tape on a specimen box is considered part of the box. The manufacturer’s tape is not
considered part of the tape that must be placed completely around the box. Some
examples:

Figure 11-5a.




Figure 11-5b.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013   81




Figure 11-5c.




Figure 11-5d.
 82                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013




Figure 11-6.




Place the sealed box in a leak preventive mailing pouch.

Figure 11-7
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                       83




Completed standard specimen package. Consult the shipping carrier for shipping requirements
and guidelines before shipping.
 84                                           AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 12
                         SINGLE TEST KIT (STK) PACKAGING

SINGLE TEST KIT (STK) PACKAGING


NOTE: These guide photos relate to Section E, paragraphs 11.1.1. through 11.1.1.2.1.

Figure 12-1. STK box unopened prior to collection.




STK box unopened prior to collection

Figure 12-2.




STK contents and tape.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                               85



Figure 12-3.




Place collected specimen and absorbent in the specimen bad provided in the STK.
 86                                            AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013




Figure 12-4.




Place specimen bag with bottle and absorbent in the STK box. Place the plastic bag containing
the DD form 2624 and any MFR’s in the STK box.


Figure 12-5.




                                



                                        

                                




Apply tape one time completely around the sides of the box so tape overlaps.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                               87


Figure 12-6.




Taping Complete.


Figure 12-7.




Sign, with payroll signature, and date the kit box seal provided with the test kit prior to applying
it to the mailer box.


Figure 12-8.
 88                                              AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013




Apply the provided kit box seal to the mailer box ensuring a portion of the date and signature is
across the open edge of the box.


Figure 12-9.




Taping complete with kit box seal correctly attached.
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                             89


                                         Attachment 13
       SAMPLE LETTER – CERTIFICATION STATEMENT FOR INDIVIDUAL

Sample Letter - Certification Statement For Individual
Declaring Shy Bladder or Situational Anxiety

I, _____________________, ________________, ___________________, hereby state
        (Printed Name)          (Unit)                  (SSN)
that I have been clinically evaluated and it has been medically determined that I have a condition
known as “shy bladder.” I have provided to you the appropriate medical documentation
certifying this condition, as well as the name and phone number of the medical professional who
examined me. I request a waiver to the direct observation requirement of AFI 44-120, Drug
Abuse Testing Program, and agree to abide by the requirements for alternative urine collection
testing as set forth in Section N of AFI 44-120. I understand my request can be granted only for
the present ordered test. Further, I understand that I must again furnish all required medical
documentation should I be selected in the future for Drug Abuse Program testing. Additionally,
I understand that my request for waiver may be denied based on insufficient documentation or by
the inability of the testing monitor (collector) to validate or substantiate my claim.
I hereby affirm that this is a true and accurate statement (to the best of my knowledge) of my
present medical condition, and that I have provided the required documentation of my condition
to the installation testing monitor (collector). I understand that I am subject to the Uniform Code
of Military Justice (UCMJ) and any violations I commit may result in punitive actions taken
against me through my chain of command.

This letter expires on: ____________.

PERSONAL DATA – PROTECTED UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974 (5 USC,
552a)

___________________________________________                                 ___________
Signature of the Individual Requesting Waiver                               Date



___________________________________________                                 ___________
Signature of the Unit Commander (or Acting Commander)                       Date
Or Unit First Sergeant



____________________________________________                                ___________
Signature of Collector                                              Date
 90                                                                     AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


                                                             Attachment 14
                SAMPLE LETTER DDRPM UNTESTABLE DISCREPANCY REPORT

Sample Letter - DDRPM Untestable Discrepancy Report
[Date]

MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/SG
ATTN: [MAJCOM DDRPM]

FROM: [Installation Demand Reduction office symbol]

SUBJECT: Untestable Specimen Action Plan


1. The purpose of this letter is to update you on our recent untestable discrepancy and corrective actions.

2. Installation X recently received twelve untestables on 6 May 2004 from Brooks Lab. The specimen numbers
were: F5310000000, F5310000000, F531000000, F5310000000, F5310000000, F5310000000, F5310000000,
F531000000, F5310000000, F5310000000, F5310000000, and F531000000. The untestable discrepancy code was
PA. The photocopy received from Brooks indicates an obvious straight cut on the seal of the box. Since we double
tape, this cut could not have been made by tearing open the box. Sample F531000000 was identified SC (quantity
not sufficient).

      CODE        PROBLEM                                   CAUSE                            SOLUTION
                                                                                             All samples receive two person QC (2 Times)
                                                                                             prior to leaving the installation. . I personally
                                                                                             QC'd these particular samples. These samples
                  Package was received unsealed or with a                                    were intact when they left this facility. This site
      PA (12)     broken seal.                              Damage during shipment           will continue to a double 2-person QC.

                                                                                             We currently utilize a specimen bottle containing
                  Specimen received with insufficient                                        30 ML to ensure level is accurate. We will utilize
      SC (1)      Quantity                                  Unknown / Possible evaporation   the 45 ML as the guide from now on.

3. The MAJCOM/SGOC has authority to remove untestable discrepancies from the installation untestable statistics.
[Installation Demand Reduction office symbol] requests MAJCOM/SGOC remove the 12 (PA) untestables from our
untestable statistics based on the premise we have no control over samples once they leave our facility. We will
retest members based on the factor that the samples were not tested at the Brooks facility. The one sample of
Insufficient Quantity should remain an untestable due to our error. Please initial your decision and send to Fax:
DSN 975-0999.

APPROVE REMOVAL ________

DISAPPROVE REMOVAL ________

4. Should you have any questions, please contact me at DSN 975-5000.


[DDRPM NAME]
Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager

cc: AFMOA/SGHW
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                             91


                                         Attachment 15
                    GUIDELINES FOR FORENSIC DOCUMENTATION

Guidelines for Forensic Documentation

FORENSIC DOCUMENTATION

1. Overview. All documents created during urine specimen collection testing are considered
forensic documents. Chain-of-custody (CoC) documentation provides a legal record of all
personnel who handled the specimen from the time of collection until the specimen is destroyed.
This set of guidelines provides procedures for correcting forensic documents and guidelines for
preserving and disposing of these documents.

2. External/Collection Chain-Of-Custody. The external chain-of-custody document is the DD
Form 2624. The DD Form 2624 documents custody from the time of urine collection and
shipment to receipt at the laboratory. The external chain-of-custody contains specimen
identification information, social security number, submitting unit identification, date of
collection and type of collection. Changes in custody are documented using the “z” type format.
The “z” type format requires a “Received By” and “Released By” annotation for each transfer of
custody. The reason for the change of custody or action performed is documented in the
“Purpose of Change/Remarks” column.

3. Forensic Corrections. Forensic documents are subject to errors like any other document.
However, procedures used to correct errors on forensic documents are different than normal
documents. Corrections to forensic documents must be clear, concise, and consistent. Forensic
corrections should document the nature of the correction, not eliminate evidence that an error or
omission occurred. To accomplish this, corrections should be made so that the original entry is
preserved, that the correct data is readily apparent, and that the identity of the individual who
made the correction and the date of the correction are clear. In some cases a memorandum for
record (MFR) may be necessary to clarify any uncertainty relating to the correction.

a. Strike out corrections. Correction fluid (whiteout), erasures, or write-overs are not acceptable
methods for correcting forensic documents.

(1) Draw a single line through the incorrect data and record the correct information as close as
possible to the incorrect entry (typically above or beside the line in question). If multiple lines
need to be corrected, draw the strike out line in a manner such that it is continuous. A diagonal
line from one end of the correction to the other end may be used. A continuous line employing a
curve from one line to the next is also acceptable.

(2) Initial and date the correction.

(3) This type of correction can be used for incorrect entries, illegible entries, and other similar
types of minor errors. Corrections to chain-of-custody entries not made by the end of the same
shift of the following business day may require an MFR.
 92                                               AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


b. Omission corrections. Forensic documents that are missing a required entry require a special
type of forensic correction. It is important to provide the correct information and reflect that the
entry was made after the fact.

(1) Verify that the task was originally completed correctly and that only the required entry was
missing. Make the appropriate entry as it would have been made originally (e.g., name stamps,
dates, entries in the remarks column, etc).

(2) Draw a circle around the entry and add your initials and the date of the correction.

c. Corrections to forensic corrections. Occasionally an error is made while making a forensic
correction. Use the same techniques described above to correct the error.

(1) Correct a forensic correction only once. If on the correction to a forensic correction an
additional error is made, do not attempt to correct it again. In these cases an MFR should be
written describing what the correct information was supposed to be.

d. Corrections performed after the fact or by other individuals. The person who made the
original entry should make forensic corrections on errors or omissions. Corrections made after
the fact by the person who made the original entry do not require a MFR if the situation can be
readily interpreted from the available documentation. If it is impossible or impractical for that
individual to make the correction, a supervisor/production leader or LCO can make the
correction if the nature of the error and the appropriate correction are clear and unmistakable
(e.g. can be verified from the document itself). Simple corrections that satisfy these
requirements do not require an MFR.

e. Corrections best made by MFR. If the nature of the error and the appropriate correction is not
clear or easily understood, an MFR is the best tool to use to provide a more thorough
explanation. The individual involved in the original error, the supervisor/production leader, or
an LCO making the forensic correction can write the MFR. MFRs are normally the best tool to
use when the nature of the error and/or the forensic correction is such that it could raise questions
about the reliability of the procedures employed.

4. Memorandum For Record (MFR).

a. A MFR is an official record prepared to document and clarify situations, irregularities, or
deviations from the standard operating procedures that based on the document and corrections
alone would not be apparent or explainable. MFRs are written or adopted as true and accurate by
the person who signs the MFR. A MFR becomes a permanent part of the original documentation
and will be included in any urinalysis report for affected specimens.

b. MFRs should be clear, concise, typewritten, and reflect the same care in preparation that is
typically applied to all other activities within the laboratory. Elements of a helpful MFR include:

(1) Which sample or samples were affected?
AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013                                                          93


(2) What happened? Be concise, thorough and to-the-point.

(3) When did the incident happen? Include the date of the incident and the date the MFR was
prepared.

(4) Where did the incident happen? Where refers to the section of the laboratory or room
number.

(5)              How was the problem resolved?

(6) Who was involved?

  c.     MFRs must be signed in writing. Use of signature stamps or signature replacements
                           (e.g.: “//SIGNED//”) is prohibited.
 94                                             AFI44-120_434ARWSUP_I 29 MARCH 2013


                                         Attachment 16
 GUIDELINES FOR DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM (DDRP) FACILITIES

Guidelines for Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP) Facilities

1. Overview. The installation commander or equivalent must ensure the Drug Demand
Reduction Program is given adequate, appropriate, and dedicated space for collection operations,
administration, storage of supplies and secure storage of specimens. Adequate space enables
efficient collection operations, improves the forensic soundness of specimen collection and
shipment, and builds confidence in the Program by service members. These factors enhance the
program’s effectiveness at deterring drug abuse.

2. Space Requirements. These guidelines are based on a tested population of approximately
2,000. Actual space required will need to be adjusted based upon the actual population at
specific installations. The Installation Civil Engineer should be able to assist in developing a
more fine-tuned standard.

a. Two Administrative Offices. DDRPM Office: Approx 120 SF; DTPAM Office: Approx
120 SF. These offices need to be secure for computer equipment, fax machine, and sensitivity of
drug testing related data, information, and files.

b. Drug Testing Waiting Space: Approx 300-400 SF. Needs to be relatively close to the
offices and restrooms with enough space to accommodate at least 50 people. This space can
double as Outreach Space for monthly DEFY meetings.

c. Secure Storage Space: Approx 100 SF. It is essential for the drug testing program to have
secure storage space for drug testing supplies. Secure storage is an area used to store all
materials and specimens that hold the potential of being used as evidence in a court proceeding
or administrative hearing. Its level of security must be on par with evidence storage security
used by law enforcement. At a minimum, a secure storage area must be maintained with access
limited and controlled by appropriate procedures and the two layers of locks or other devices to
prevent unauthorized access. Storage space required for drug abuse prevention supplies,
outreach-related materials, and administrative office supplies is also needed.

d. Restrooms: Male: 3 urinals, 1 stall; Female: 2 stalls. Restrooms need adequate space
between urinals allowing donors and required observers to be in the restrooms simultaneously to
facilitate collections. If there are no secured restrooms, these restrooms would need to be closed
off for public use during testing times. Automatic flushers, water faucets, and towel dispensers
(or air dryers) would facilitate cleanliness and program integrity.

e. Training/Briefing Room: Approx 240 SF. Need space to hold drug testing related trainings
such as Trusted Agent, Observer, and Drug Free Workplace Briefings/Training, and outreach
training such as DEFY mentor trainings, meetings, and drug prevention coalition.

f. Parking: Relatively close to the building for approx 20 vehicles.
