BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 48-102
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               19 AUGUST 2014

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                       MEDICAL ENTOMOLOGY PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMSA/SG3P                                                             Certified by: AF/SG3
                                                                     (Brig Gen Charles E. Potter)
Supersedes:    AFI48-102, 11 September 2013                                             Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine
Enterprise, and interfaces with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention,
and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health or Military Significance, and assigns
responsibilities for the prevention of vector-borne diseases and management of medically
important pests through the application of integrated pest management (IPM) practices. In
accordance with (IAW) DoD Instruction 4150.07, DoD Pest Management Program, this AFI
applies to all Regular Air Force (RegAF) and Selected Reserve members of the Air Force (AF),
including participating inactive ready reserve, and to all Air National Guard (ANG) units on
property supported with Federally appropriated funds under a cooperative agreement and who
are performing training subject to Federal approval under chapter 1 of Title 32 United States
Code Section 113. Outside the continental United States (OCONUS), this instruction applies
where consistent with applicable international agreements, status of forces agreements, final
governing standards (FGS) issued for the host nations, or, where no such FGS have been issued,
the criteria in the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance document. This publication
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.
The authorities to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 37
USC § 301a and Executive Order 9397 (SSN), as amended by Executive order 13478,
Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security
Numbers, November 18, 2008. Forms affected by the Privacy Act must have an appropriate
Privacy Act statement. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
 2                                                                AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014


Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval
authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updates on pest management and further emphasize use of integrated pest management
(IPM) programs to prevent or manage pest and disease vectors of medical importance. This
revision includes instructions for identifying Tier waiver authorities as approved by the Inspector
General Advisory Board (IGAB). Administrative changes have also been incorporated.
AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                         3



                                            Chapter 1

                       PROGRAM OVERVIEW AND OBJECTIVES

1.1. Overview. AF medical entomology programs are essential to prevent pest and disease
vectors of medical importance from adversely affecting military operations in peacetime and
during contingency operations. This publication establishes guidance and procedures for the
identification and elimination of the threat and transmission of diseases from pests, and specifies
the responsibilities of Public Health and other organizations under this program, and the basic
knowledge needed to execute the program responsibilities. This instruction augments AFI 32-
1053, Integrated Pest Management Program.
1.2. Objectives. The objectives of the AF medical entomology program are to prevent pest and
disease vectors of medical importance from adversely affecting military operations and the
health and well-being of military personnel, and promote and support the following:
   1.2.1. Military readiness.
   1.2.2. Installation program planning.
   1.2.3. IPM.
 4                                                                 AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014


                                            Chapter 2

                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG).
     2.1.1. Provides policy and resource guidance on the surveillance, prevention, and reporting
     of vector-borne diseases of medical importance.
     2.1.2. Maintains a medical entomology program that includes consultation, training, and
     surveillance, to support IPM for the prevention and management of vectors and pests of
     medical importance.
     2.1.3. Provides two field grade military entomologists to the Armed Forces Pest
     Management Board (AFPMB) staff IAW DoDI 4150.07.
     2.1.4. Appoints voting members to represent the AF/SG on the AFPMB Council IAW DoDI
     4150.07.
2.2. Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC). Coordinates with Air Force Medical Support
Agency (AFMSA) Public Health Branch (SG3PM) and Bioenvironmental Engineering Branch
(SG3PB) on aspects of the pest management program that present potential occupational and
environmental health hazards. Note: ANG/A7AN provides comparable services for ANG
installations.
2.3. Air Force Medical Support Agency, Aerospace Medicine Policy and Operations
Division (AFMSA/SG3P).
     2.3.1. Establishes Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) policies and guidance for the
     surveillance, prevention, and reporting of vector-borne diseases of medical importance.
     2.3.2. Represents AF/SG on issues of surveillance, prevention, and reporting of vector-borne
     diseases and conditions of public health or military significance, or delegates representation
     for AF/SG involvement, including collaborative research, with other DoD or Federal
     agencies and organizations.
     2.3.3. Coordinates with major commands (MAJCOM), Department of Defense (DoD), and
     other Federal, state, and international organizations on requirements for developing vector,
     medical pest and vector-borne disease surveillance and suppression programs. Note: This
     includes the aerial application of pesticides IAW AFI 32-1074, Aerial Application of
     Pesticides.
     2.3.4. Provides consultation to the AFCEC and other civil engineer staffs to implement IPM
     for management of vectors, medically important pests and vector-borne diseases.
     2.3.5. Reviews periodic reports of vector-borne disease surveillance, prevention, and control
     programs and makes recommendations to AF/SG for improvement.
2.4. Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA). Provides guidance on the execution
of policies and guidance for the surveillance, prevention, and reporting of vector-borne diseases
of medical importance.
2.5. Major Command/Direct Reporting Unit (MAJCOM/DRU) Public Health.
AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                     5


   2.5.1. Coordinates with a medical entomology consultant to determine medical entomology
   requirements necessary to support contingency operations or unique wing/base level medical
   entomology concerns. Note: If necessary, the MAJCOM Public Health Officer (PHO) can
   request deployment of a Medical Entomologist to provide professional expertise on the
   biology, surveillance, identification, and management of vectors and medically important
   pests.
   2.5.2. Coordinates with the MAJCOM Pest Management Consultant (PMC) on the
   management of vectors, medically important pests and vector-borne diseases of medical
   importance in the application of IPM techniques.
2.6. MAJCOM Pest Management Consultant.
   2.6.1. Coordinates with the MAJCOM PHO on requirements to support contingency
   operations IAW AFI 32-1053.
   2.6.2. Provides consultation to base/wing level staff in medical entomology and pest
   management.
   2.6.3. Reviews and approves installation pest management plans, pesticide requests, contract
   performance work statements, aerial spray projects, and facility design and/or upgrades IAW
   AFI 32-1053.
2.7. United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM).
   2.7.1. Serves as the AF point of contact for DoD medical entomology research,
   development, testing, and evaluation.
   2.7.2. Provides consultation, training and base/wing level staff assistance in medical
   entomology and pest management for both fixed and deployed AF installations. Note: United
   States Air Forces in Europe Civil Engineer Directorate Environmental Division
   (USAFE/A7CV) provides additional medical entomology and pest management consultation
   for all USAFE installations.
       2.7.2.1. Public Health (PH) and Preventive Medicine Department (USAFSAM/PH)
       provides global support to all AF installations outside of the Western Pacific.
       2.7.2.2. USAFSAM Detachment 3 provides support to all AF installations, missions, and
       operations within the Western Pacific.
   2.7.3. Evaluates new techniques for surveillance, identification, pathogen screening,
   insecticide resistance, and managing vectors, medically important pests and vector-borne
   diseases.
   2.7.4. Develops and conducts training for AF training and education programs to include
   medical and civil engineer personnel on the biology, identification, surveillance, and
   management of vectors and pests of medical importance. Note: This may also include
   medical entomology support for medical readiness training.
   2.7.5. Identifies and assists in resolving pest management and pesticide problems involving
   environmental or occupational health concerns.
   2.7.6. Provides representation to the AFPMB if directed by AF/SG.
2.8. Installation Responsibilities.
6                                                                  AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014


    2.8.1. Installation Commander.
       2.8.1.1. Ensures installation personnel are protected from vector-borne diseases and pests
       of medical importance by enforcing adherence to non-prescription public health
       countermeasures (e.g. insect repellant and other personal protective equipment) when
       appropriate to minimize the risk of vector-borne disease. (T-0).
       2.8.1.2. Ensures Foreign Clearance Program, Defense Travel Regulations, and US
       Department of Agriculture (USDA) Customs and Border Clearance Program
       requirements are followed when applicable to prevent the transmission or introduction of
       foreign agricultural pests and/or disease vectors (e.g. safeguarding or disposal of in-flight
       meals, disposal of aircraft garbage, and aircraft or cargo disinsection, if necessary). (T-
       0).
    2.8.2. Civil Engineering.
       2.8.2.1. Plans and executes vector and medical pest management using IPM techniques
       IAW DoDI 4150.07 and AFI 32-1053. (T-0).
       2.8.2.2. Coordinates Installation Pest Management Plan with Bioenvironmental
       Engineering and PH at least every five years and before it is sent to MAJCOM/CE for
       approval. (T-2).
       2.8.2.3. Coordinates with PH prior to applying pesticides in food preparation and
       consumption facilities, medical facilities, and child development centers to ensure pest
       management operations are based on appropriate surveillance data. (T-2).
       2.8.2.4. Provides (CONUS only) bulk trash disposal according to US Department of
       Agriculture guidelines, for aircraft arriving from outside CONUS to prevent the
       introduction of foreign agricultural pests and/or disease vectors. (T-0).
    2.8.3. Public Health.
       2.8.3.1. Establishes a risk-based program to evaluate community and location-specific
       medically important pests and vector-borne diseases, incorporating local, civilian health
       department data to supplement installation data, as necessary. (T-2).
       2.8.3.2. Assists in contingency site selection to minimize vector-borne disease potential
       in order to promote the management and control of vector-borne disease. (T-2).
       2.8.3.3. Educates deploying personnel on the endemic threat of vector-borne disease
       emphasizing the importance of prevention in the application of personal protective
       measures (e.g. chemoprophylaxis, insect repellant, bed nets and other non-prescription
       personal protective equipment). (T-0).
       2.8.3.4. Develops a vector surveillance plan, if indicated by installation and local health
       department data, to periodically evaluate health threat and efficacy of controls. (T-1).
           2.8.3.4.1. This plan will be submitted to the Aerospace Medicine Council (AMC) for
           approval and serves the dual role of maintaining baseline data on vectors and
           medically important pests while maintaining war readiness core competency skills.
           Vector surveillance plan must be approved every two (2) years or at a frequency
           determined by the AMC. (T-2).
AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                         7


           2.8.3.4.2. When surveillance data is missing or incomplete, coordinates with a
           medical entomology consultant to determine the need for/scope of vector surveillance
           plan. (T-2).
       2.8.3.5. Collaborates with installation Pest Management regarding need for control
       measures and monitors the effectiveness of those measures when vectors or medically
       important pests pose a public health threat, interfere with duty performance, or affect
       unit morale. (T-2).
       2.8.3.6. Consults with Federal, state, local health authorities and USAFSAM on common
       vectors and pests of medical importance. AF involvement should be proportionate to the
       military interest. Integrate installation surveillance data with civilian programs, whenever
       possible. Note: In overseas areas, provide and obtain comparable assistance when
       requested by the appropriate host nation/foreign medical authority. (T-2).
       2.8.3.7. Assists base agencies to meet customs inspection program requirements when
       requested. (T-2). Note: The USDA is the office of primary responsibility for the
       Customs and Border Clearance Program. Public Health acts as consultant to the USDA
       and base organizations such as the Security Forces, Civil Engineering, Base Operations
       and the Installation Commander Guidance can be found in Defense Transportation
       Regulation (DTR) 4500.9-R, Part V, Department of Defense Customs and Border
       Clearance Policies and Procedures, AFI 16-606, Foreign Clearance Program and the
       DoD Foreign Clearance Guide. (T-0).
       2.8.3.8. Provides information to installation health care providers on prevention and
       control of vector-borne diseases in the local area. Information shall include an overview
       of location-specific disease threats at the time of provider in-processing, as well as time
       sensitive disease specific alerts (T-3).
       2.8.3.9. Participates in planning for emergency vector or medical pest management using
       aerial application of pesticides IAW AFI 32-1074. Ensures that pre- and post-treatment
       surveys are accomplished to evaluate mission effectiveness. (T-2).
   2.8.4. Bioenvironmental Engineering.
       2.8.4.1. Provides technical information to Civil Engineering on the safe storage and use
       of pesticides. (T-2).
       2.8.4.2. Monitors the potential occupational health and environmental impact of
       pesticide application, including aerial spraying. (T-0).
2.9. Deployed Commanders. Ensure personnel are protected from vector-borne diseases and
pests of medical importance by enforcing adherence to non-prescription public health
countermeasures (e.g. insect repellant, permethrin-treated bed nets, and other personal protective
equipment) when appropriate to minimize the risk of vector-borne disease. (T-0).




                                             THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                             Surgeon General
 8                                                              AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 4150.07, DOD Pest Management Program, 29 May 2008
DTR 4500.9-R, Part V, Department of Defense Customs and Border Clearance Policies and
Procedures, 14 March 2014
DoD Foreign Clearance Guide: https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil
AFI 16-606, Foreign Clearance Program, 21 January 2011
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFI 32-1074, Aerial Application of Pesticides, 27 August 2009
AFI 32-1053 Integrated Pest Management Program, 23 June 2009
AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health
or Military Significance, 1 March 2005
Armed Forces Pest Management Board publications: http://www.afpmb.org/publications.htm
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center
AFHSC—Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPMB—Armed Forces Pest Management Board
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Aerospace Medicine Council
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                    9


BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
CE—Civil Engineering
DOD—Department of Defense
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
FGS—Final Governing Standards
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
IAW—In Accordance With
IGAB—Inspector General Advisory Board
IPM—Integrated Pest Management
MAJCOM—major command
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NCMI—National Center for Medical Intelligence
OCONUS—Outside the continental United States
PH—Public Health
PHO—Public Health Officer
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SG—Surgeon General
USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
USAFSAM/PH—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine/Public Health and
Preventive Medicine Department
USDA—United States Department of Agriculture
WHO—World Health Organization

Terms
DoD Repellent System—Use of DEET-based repellent on exposed skin, permethrin treatment
of uniforms and proper wearing of uniform to minimize exposure to vectors and medically
important pests. The system is described in Technical Guide 36, Personal Protective Measures
against Insects and Arthropods of Military Significance, published by the AFPMB.
Economic Pests—Animals or plants that do not pose a human medical threat, but do pose a
threat to agriculture, marine, or terrestrial environments.
Integrated Pest Management—A pest management strategy that focuses on long-term
prevention or suppression of pest problems through a combination of techniques such as
monitoring for pest presence, establishing treatment threshold levels, using non-chemical
practices to make the habitat less conducive to pest development, improving sanitation, and
employing mechanical and physical controls. Pesticides that pose the least possible hazard and
 10                                                              AFI48-102 19 AUGUST 2014


are effective in a manner that minimizes risks to people, property, and the environment, are used
only after careful monitoring indicates they are needed according to pre-established guidelines
and treatment thresholds.
Medical Entomology—The study of vectors and medically important pests emphasizing
prevention and management.
Medical Entomology Consultant—Individual with training in the ecology and control of
vectors and medically important pests and DoD certification in medical entomology.
Medically Important Pests—Animals or plants that do not directly transmit a disease pathogen
but are medically important because of biting, stinging, or other annoyance including secondary
skin infection.
Pesticides—Chemicals used to kill pests, including disease vectors, intermediate hosts, and
reservoirs. These include insecticides, acaricides, moluscicides, rodenticides, herbicides,
fungicides, and other toxicants.
Vectors—Animals such as mosquitoes, biting flies, filth flies, flesh flies, lice, kissing bugs,
fleas, mites, ticks, snails, rodents, bats, etc. capable of inoculating or transferring disease
pathogens to humans or domestic animals.
