BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)                                       MAXWELL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement

                                                                            8 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                               Medical Command

                                                                          FAMILY ADVOCACY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.af.mil/e-publishing for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 MDOS/SGOMH                                                      Certified by: 42 MDG/CC
Supersedes: MAXWELLAFBI 40-301,                                                (Col Diana Atwell)
            27 July 2006                                                                  Pages: 8


AFI 40-301 is supplemented as follows. This supplement implements AFI 40-301, Family
Advocacy, for identification, protection, treatment and prevention of family maltreatment. It
establishes the Maxwell AFB Family Advocacy Program (FAP). It explains policies and
procedures in accordance with AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, DoD Directive 6400.1,
Family Advocacy Program, and Air Force Family Advocacy Program Standards. It assigns
responsibilities and explains procedures for the management of the FAP. This supplement
mandates reporting of all incidents of family maltreatment by all base organizational units, active
duty, civilian and contract members. This supplement applies to all active duty, civilian and
contract members assigned to Maxwell AFB. This supplemtnt requires collecting and
maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013 and
E.O. 9397; System of Records Notice F044 AF SG Q, Family Advocacy Program Record,
applies. The Health Insurance and Portability and Accountability Act applies. Maintain all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them in accordance
with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of
command.
 2                                  AFI40-301_MAXWELLAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document resends MAXWELLAFBI 40-301, Family Advocacy Program, and implements
AFI 40-301, MAXWELLAFBSUP, Family Advocacy. In addition, this document has
undergone substantial changes and should be thoroughly reviewed.
1.3.2.1. (Added) The Commander, 42d Medical Group (42 MDG/CC) will administer and
monitor the Maxwell AFB FAP.
1.3.3.1. (Added) Ensures a waiver is in place, approved by MAJCOM (AETC/SGPK) and AF
FAP (AFMOA/SGHW) for the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) Chair to be someone other
than the MTF Commander. If this occurs, the waiver is good for 2 years and must again be
requested for approval at the end of the 2-year period.
1.3.4.1. (Added) Ensures a key member of the ABW senior staff is appointed in writing to serve
on the FAC if that person is not serving as the FAC chair.
1.3.5.1. (Added) After the FAC minutes have been signed by the chair person, those minutes
will be routed to the ABW/CC for review and coordination on the ESSS to ensure wing
leadership is aware of Family Advocacy Program information.
1.3.15.1. (Added) Supports orientation annual training of all squadron commanders and first
sergeants IAW DoD training metric and AF FAP. Ensures FAP personnel have access to
squadron commanders (or their equivalents), the unit first sergeant, acting first sergeant or
additional duty first sergeants to receive orientation training, within 90 days of assuming
command, and to attend annual CC/CCF training as scheduled and marketed by FAP personnel
via wing stand-up and/or the wing calendar. By supporting FAP training requirements wing
leadership is also endorsing vigorous reporting from all levels of leadership of suspected child
and adult partner maltreatment, including unmarried intimates, to the FAP for intervention,
assessment and treatment.
1.4.1.1. (Added) The FAP will make necessary notifications to Squadron CC/CCF, SFS
Investigations, OSI and Department of Human Resources (DHR) for reports that involve
children. Notifications will be made by FAP in child maltreatment reports and in unrestricted
adult partner maltreatment reports.
1.4.3.1. (Added) When the FAP receives an allegation of child sexual maltreatment to a military
beneficiary by a family member, the Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT) will
be convened. This team may be convened telephonically or in person. If the incident occurred
off-base, the appropriate DHR can be included in the CSMRT. The purpose of the CSMRT is to
determine jurisdiction of the case, who will conduct the interviews and scheduling of medical
examinations. Members of the CSMRT will be trained on their roles and the purpose of the team
at the time the team is convened. The Family Advocacy Officer (FAO) will provide information
about the training to the Family Advocacy Outreach Manager (FAOM) so that the training can
be documented in the Outreach Program Automated Log (OPAL). The FAO will brief the FAC
on number of times the CSMRT was convened per quarter.
1.4.4.1. (Added) When the FAP becomes aware of an imminent risk of harm, the FAO will
convene the High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT). A safety plan will be developed
by the team that will address the safety of the victim, family members, squadron leadership,
FAP/Mental Health staff and alleged offender. This plan will be briefed to MDG/CC and
AFI40-301_MAXWELLAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                      3


ABW/CC. Members of the HRVRT will be trained on their roles and the purpose of the team at
the time the team is convened. The FAO will provide information about the training to the
FAOM so that the training can be documented in the Outreach Program Automated Log
(OPAL). The FAO will brief the FAC on number of times the HRVRT was convened per
quarter.
1.4.5.1. (Added) When the FAP becomes aware of a death due to maltreatment the FAO or
his/her representative will immediately notify the MDG/CC, ABW/CC and the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations (AFOSI) to receive an AFOSI case number. The high interest
worksheet available on Family Advocacy System of Records (FASOR), will be sent by
encrypted email to AFMOA/SGOW and the AETC/SGPK within 24 hours. Telephone
verification of receipt of the email will be made to both during the same or next duty day.
Updated monitoring reports will be submitted to both AFMOA/SGOW and the MAJCOM as
significant developments occur or when a final legal disposition is made. The FAO will brief the
FAC on number of high interest cases per quarter.
1.4.5.2. (Added) When the FAP becomes aware of an allegation of child sexual abuse,
involving more than one victim, in a DoD sanctioned activity (Child and Youth Centers, Family
Child Care providers, Maxwell Elementary School), the FAO will immediately notify the
AFOSI, MDG/CC and the ABW/CC. The CSMRT will convene and meet with the MDG/CC
and ABW/CC to determine if Maxwell AFB has the necessary resources to respond to the
potential number of victims. Consideration should be given to request the DoD Family
Advocacy Command Assistance Team (FACAT). If the FACAT is activated, the FAO will
follow procedures outlined in AF FAP Standard, M-20, 1 Oct 09.
1.4.8. Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) membership will comply with AFI 40-301.
ABW/CC will ensure a key member of the ABW senior staff; i.e., 42 ABW/CV or 42 MSG/CC,
is appointed in writing to serve on the FAC if that person is not serving as the FAC chair.
ABW/CC will appoint in writing the ABW senior staff member and the ABW Command Chief
as a member of the FAC. If the FAC is chaired by someone other than the MTF/CC there will be
a waiver approved by AETC/SGPK and AFMOA/SGHW. The waiver is good for 2 years and
must again be requested for approval at the end of the 2-year period. The FAC may invite other
guests to attend as “invited guests” or request they are appointed as members; i.e., a
representative from the First Sergeant Council has been appointed as a member of the FAC.
1.4.9. The FAC has requested a waiver to meet bi-annually. An approved waiver, granted for 2
years, from AETC/SGPK and AFMOA/SGHW must be on file. Should the FAC desire to
continue bi-annual meetings, the waiver request will be made 30 days prior to the end of the 2-
year period.
1.5.2.1. The FAC remains a separate meeting due to specific membership, requirements to have
a quorum and to convene and vote on various agenda items.
1.5.2.4. MTF/CC will coordinate with SFS/CC to ensure FAP receives electronic SFS Blotter on
a daily basis through the 42 MDOS/SGOMH (MH Flight Commander) or directly. This will
expedite FAP awareness and ability to conduct timely assessments of family maltreatment.
 4                                   AFI40-301_MAXWELLAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011


1.5.3.4.1. (Added) The Family Advocacy Nurse (FAN), New Parent Support Program (NPSP)
will receive at least monthly written notification of all positive pregnancy results for MTF
beneficiaries. The FAN will also receive monthly a listing from MTF Case Management Center
(RMC) a listing of all obstetric and pediatric patients (3 years and younger) referred to off-base
providers.
1.5.3.5. When the nurse manager on any of the MTF medical teams or in Women’s Health
notifies a new mother about her positive pregnancy results, that patient will be referred to the
42 MDOS/SGOMH (FAP) to receive information about the NPSP and complete the Family
Needs Screener. The newly pregnant person will also be signed up for the next available Baby
and You Orientation. The FAN will also network with pediatric nurses and the Educational
Development Interventions Services (EDIS) program manager regarding families with children 3
years and younger who may be interested in the NPSP.
1.5.4.1. The FAP will have an appointment letter on file for a primary and alternate
representative to attend the Integrated Delivery System (IDS). The Family Advocacy Outreach
Manager will be the primary representative and the Family Advocacy Intervention Specialist will
be the alternate representative, ensuring FAP is represented and participating fully with the IDS.
1.6.1.8.1. (Added) When the FAP becomes aware of a death due to maltreatment, the FAO or
his/her representative will immediately notify the Mental Health (MH) Flight Commander, the
MDG/CC, ABW/CC and AFOSI to receive an AFOSI case number. The FAP will keep the
chain of command appraised of any significant developments in the case.
1.6.1.9.1. (Added) When the FAP receives an allegation of child maltreatment during normal
duty hours, the FAP will contact AFOSI and the Department of Human Resources (DHR) intake
section in the appropriate county. The FAP and DHR will attempt to interview the child
victim(s) and family members as a team so that the interviews will be conducted one time. If the
on-call MH provider receives a report of alleged child maltreatment after hours and the child is
safe, has at least one protective parent who agrees to protect the child, the MH provider will
ensure the FAP receives the referral at the beginning of the duty day. If the MH provider feels
the child is in imminent danger and may need to be removed from the home, the on-call MH
provider will contact the on-call DHR worker (DHR on-call roster located in MH on-call binder).
The on-call MH provider should also contact the FAO to inform the FAP of the situation.
1.6.1.13. (Added) Background Checks: The FAP screens or assigns a designee to screen the
electronic medical record (AHLTA) and FAP Central Registry for all applicants being
considered for employment or volunteer work with children or youth. Signed releases of
information must accompany all requests for background checks. The FAP may provide
consultation but has no decision-making regarding hiring of employees, approval of Family
Child Care (FCC) providers or volunteer suitability.
1.6.1.13.1. (Added) Background checks will be accomplished on all Child Development Center
(CDC) and Youth Services work applicants as well as all base chapel volunteers and civilian
staff. Findings of substantiated or “met criteria” child maltreatment will be released. The nature
or severity of the child maltreatment will not be released.
AFI40-301_MAXWELLAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                         5


1.6.1.13.2. (Added) Background checks will be accomplished on all FCC applicants and all of
their family members over the age of 12 who reside in the home. Findings of substantiated or
“met criteria” child and adult partner maltreatment will be released. The nature or severity of the
maltreatment will not be released.
1.6.13.3. (Added) All civilian employment applicants who will have frequent and ongoing
contact with children and youth during the course of their employment will receive a FAP
background check. Findings of substantiated or “met criteria” child maltreatment will be
released. The nature or severity of the maltreatment will not be released.
1.6.1.13.4. (Added) FAP staff will not screen mental health or Alcohol and Drug Abuse
Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) records for background checks. A mental health technician
assigned to FAP or any element of the Mental Health Flight (MHF) will screen Mental Health
Clinic and ADAPT records for referenced background checks. Screening in no way assures that
the applicant has not received mental health or other services from a non-military provider. (AF
FAP Standard A-15, 1 Oct 09).
1.7.1. New squadron commanders and first sergeants (diamonds, acting and/or additional duty)
should contact 42 MDOS/SGOMH (Outreach Manager) to schedule their desk-side orientation
training within 90 days of assuming their squadron duties. Squadron commanders and first
sergeants (diamonds, acting and/or additional duty) are required to attend annual FAP training
which will be advertised via wing stand-up, the wing calendar and by verbal and e-invite from
the FAOM.
1.7.5. (Added) In consultation with the FAO and IAW Air Force FAP Standard, M-1A, para M-
1A-4a, will direct suspected active duty offenders to FAP intervention and treatment services
when there is moderate to high risk and low motivation.
1.8.2. The FAOM and wing chaplain will ensure annual training is conducted for chaplains,
chapel staff and volunteers to ensure awareness of dynamics of domestic abuse/violence within
relationship and the reporting process for family maltreatment.
1.8.3. Ensures all civilian chapel staff and volunteers working directly with children/youth
receive a background check including screening of electronic medical records (AHLTA), FAP
Central Registry and Family Advocacy System of Records (FASOR) records. A signed release
of information will accompany all requests for background checks. Findings of substantiated or
“met criteria” child maltreatment will be released. The nature or severity of the maltreatment
will not be released.
1.10.2. The Security Forces Squadron (SFS) investigation personnel (S2I) will work with other
military and civilian law enforcement agencies in an attempt to obtain police report. If possible,
S2I will obtain photos, status/location of victim, status/location of offender, court date if any,
conditions of release if any. This information will be made available to the FAP and will be
summarized at the Central Registry Board (CRB) by SFS Investigative personnel with photos
available for the CRB members to review.
1.10.3.1. (Added) The SFS Training Monitor will work with the FAP to schedule annual
training for SFS personnel with a goal of training no less than 80% of the available squadron
personnel to include, active duty military, GS civilians and contract personnel. Specifically,
personnel who are more likely than not to respond to a domestic abuse/violence or child
endangerment call must receive the annual FAP training.
 6                                    AFI40-301_MAXWELLAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011


1.10.4.1. (Added) When SFS receives notification during the normal duty day (0700 – 1630) of
a domestic abuse/violence event to include child maltreatment, they will notify the AFOSI and
the FAP @ 953-5430/7736 with pertinent information; e.g., name, SSN, DOB, Squadron,
location, and type of event/injuries. When SFS receives notification after hours they will notify
the ABW Command Post who will notify the MH on-call provider. The MH on-call provider
will take the aforementioned pertinent information and insure the FAP is notified at the
beginning of the duty day. If after hours assistance is needed to ensure the victim is safe, the
MH on-call provider may contact the unit first sergeant/squadron commander through the
Maxwell Command Post @ 953-7474 and/or the on-call Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate @
334-430-8457.
1.10.6.1. (Added) When the FAP receives an allegation of possible child maltreatment
(physical, emotional or neglect) in a DoD sanctioned setting (Child and Youth Centers, Family
Child Care providers, Maxwell Elementary School), the FAP will notify DHR, SFS and OSI to
determine who will conduct the investigation. FAP will not open this as a maltreatment case as
the alleged offender is extrafamilial; FAP will notify the victim’s family about the allegation and
the notifications made. The FAP will attempt to provide case status updates to the victims’
family regarding the status of the investigation. The FAP may provide FAST counseling
services upon request.
1.11.1.1. (Added) The AFOSI agents serving on the CRB are non-voting members but do count
as part of meeting quorum.
1.11.5.1. (Added) Coordinates with FAP, through the CSMRT, the forensic interview process
for child victims of severe physical or sexual abuse. These children, who are military
dependents, may be referred to the Child Protect Agency for forensic interviews. The AFOSI
coordination, referral, and observation of interviews is important in monitoring cases where there
is DoD interest. The AFOSI will also provide FAP updates on adult partner maltreatment cases
being investigated by AFOSI or cases that AFOSI is monitoring due to possible DoD interest.
1.12.2. The 42 FSS/CC will ensure that all personnel (active duty, GS civilians and contract
personnel) who work directly with children/youth receive FAP training. New employees should
be trained on identifying and reporting when they are hired and annually thereafter. Contact 42
MDOS/SGOMH (Family Advocacy Outreach Manager) to schedule training.
1.12.5.1. (Added) Will ensure installation records check (IRC) for all applicants for Non-
appropriate Funds (NAF) and volunteer positions working with or near children in a DoD
sanctioned activity will complete and sign Release of Information for background checks.
Findings of substantiated or “met criteria” child maltreatment will be released. The nature or
severity of the child maltreatment will not be released. The FAP may provide consultation but
has no decision-making regarding hiring of employees or volunteer suitability. (AF FAP
Standard A-15, 1 Oct 09)
1.12.5.2. (Added) Background checks will be accomplished on all FCC applicants and all of
their family members who reside in the home. The FAO or designee will not approve or
disapprove the application but will note positive history of child maltreatment to FCC licensure
based on record review. (AF FAP Standard A-15, 1 Oct 09)
AFI40-301_MAXWELLAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                     7


1.12.5.3. (Added) All civilian employment applicants who will have frequent and ongoing
contact with children during the course of their employment will receive a FAP background
check. Findings of substantiated or “met criteria” child maltreatment will be released. The
nature or severity of the maltreatment will not be released. (AF FAP Standard A-15, 1 Oct 09)
1.12.5.4. (Added) The FAP staff will not participate as a voting member of the FCC panel but
may serve as a consultant in Family Advocacy matters. (AF FAP Program Standard A-15, 1 Oct
09)
3.2.2.1. (Added) Helping agencies will devote attention to reducing the circumstances known to
contribute to family maltreatment. These include financial hardship, relationship satisfaction,
parenting, job stress, minimal education/awareness about maltreatment and alternatives to
violence, social isolation and stress.
3.3.1.1. (Added) Programs will be developed and maintained in a coordinated manner involving
the sharing of resources among all helping agencies and mission partners. The IDS agencies are
encouraged to support prevention classes/offerings through any resources available, e.g.,
classroom space, volunteers, photocopying, etc.
3.3.1.2. (Added) Integrated Delivery System (IDS): The IDS will ensure program goals are
developed to reduce the factors known to contribute to family maltreatment. Members of IDS
will work cooperatively to share information and services with the community, and will
participate in base-wide events designed to support family maltreatment prevention efforts.
3.3.2.1. (Added) The FAOM will provide annual Family Violence Education and Prevention
Training to required leadership and specific agencies. This training will be conducted in a
manner that meets DoD, AF and AFMOA standards as outlined in AF FAP Standard P-6. It is
recommended that all agency training be accomplished during the first 6 months of the FY.
3.4.3.1.1. (Added) The Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) will ensure information about
prevention services is made available to eligible beneficiaries, and will provide referrals for
families with known risk factors (special needs family member, social isolation, lack of
education about maltreatment prevention, etc.) to FAP prevention programs, to include referrals
of young and expectant parents to the NPSP.
3.4.3.1.2. (Added) Squadron commanders and first sergeants will disseminate information
about prevention programs to their unit members and include prevention information in staff
briefings, in commander’s calls or other forums when possible. Will allow use of duty time for
participation in prevention programs where no significant mission impact would occur. Will
foster volunteerism in prevention efforts, and will refer high-risk families to the FAP for
discussion of services available before maltreatment occurs.
4.3.1. Membership of the CSMRT is IAW AFI 40-301 and AF FAP Standard M-2, as follows:
FAO and/or FA Intervention Specialist, SJA, and OSI. Members will be appointed in writing by
their commander and approved by the FAC. Notification of the squadron commander and/or
first sergeant or the representative from the respective county Department of Human Resources
(Autauga, Elmore and Montgomery) will occur after the CSMRT convenes.
4.3.1.1. If any member of the CSMRT has not been trained, the FAO or FAIS will conduct on-
the spot training. This training can be conducted for all team members which will serve as a
refresher training of the goals and purpose of the CSMRT. The CSMRT can be activated
 8                                    AFI40-301_MAXWELLAFBSUP 8 SEPTEMBER 2011


telephonically or in person IAW AF FAP Standard M-2. The FAO will brief the FAC at each
scheduled meeting the number of times the CSMRT was convened and the status of CSMRT
training.
4.3.1.2.1. (Added) Often times child sexual maltreatment reports result in prosecution of the
alleged offender. For this reason, OSI and local law enforcement may be the lead agency in
developing the CSMRT’s course of action. FAP may be asked to defer initial contact with the
alleged offender and/or non-offending parent until OSI and/or local law enforcement have
conducted their interviews. OSI will keep the FAO apprised of the status of those interviews.
FAO/FAIS will need to make contact with the non-offending guardian and child victim to
accomplish a safety assessment and establish a safety plan. FAP will coordinate this contact
with OSI. FAP, OSI and SFS are partners in these investigations and each agency must be
allowed to perform their required duties.
4.4.1.1. (Added) When the FAO becomes aware of a potential threat of harm to an individual or
to a FAP staff member, the FAO will activate the HRVRT. The HRVRT will assess the level of
danger and develop and implement a course of action to manage the risk of violence involving
FAP clients to include family members and FAP staff. The goal of the HRVRT is to use a
coordinated community response to decrease the risk of violence.
4.4.1.2. (Added) The threatened adult will be invited to participate in the HRVRT. If the
threatened individual is active duty and the FAO believes the individual is at imminent risk of
harm or death, the FAP provider will recommend the victim’s commander mandate his/her
attendance at the HRVRT. Victims who actively participate in safety planning are more likely to
execute the plan when necessary.
4.4.2. The composition of the HRVRT will include the FAO (HRVRT Chairperson), FAIS,
sponsor’s squadron commander (if both victim and alleged offender are active duty, a
representative from each squadron will attend the HRVRT), SFS Operational Flight Commander,
SJA, MHC provider, AFOSI and representative(s) from other agencies having legal,
investigative, or protective responsibilities, as appropriate.
4.4.3. If any member of the HRVRT has not been trained, the FAO or FAIS will conduct on-the
spot training. This training can be conducted for all team members which will serve as a
refresher training of the goals and purpose of the HRVRT. FAO will brief the FAC at each
scheduled meeting the number of times the HRVRT was convened, incident status determination
and the status of HRVRT training.
4.4.3.4. (Added) When the HRVRT convenes, the individuals will be placed on the MH High
Interest list and will be monitored weekly. When these clients have demonstrated a period of
stability or the risk for violence has decreased they will continue to be monitored for a period of
30 days.




                                             BRIAN M. KILLOUGH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 42d Air Base Wing
