BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 48-116
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                17 MARCH 2004
                                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 48-116
                                                    SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          Supplement
                                                                          11 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                                    FOOD SAFETY PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/SGOP (Col Arne Hasselquist)                                         Certified by: AF/SGO
                                                                             (MG Joseph Kelley)
Supersedes:    AFI48-116, 19 July 1994                                                   Pages: 10
                                 (SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB)
OPR: 4 AMDS/SGGM                                                         Certified by: 4 MDG/CC
                                                                         (Col Leslie M. Claravall)
Supersedes:    AFI48-116_                                                                 Pages:2
               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP,
               14 October 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program. It provides guidance for
all Air Force food facilities and medical food and sanitation inspection offices in preventing
food-borne illnesses. This instruction should be used with the most recent edition of the US
Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Food Code
(with AF changes). Comments and suggested improvements should be forwarded on the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ AFMSA/SGPP, 110 Luke
Avenue, Suite 405, Bolling AFB DC 20332-7050. Attachment 1 is a glossary of references,
abbreviations, and acronyms. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil

(SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB) AFI 48-116 is supplemented as follows: This instruction
prescribes the general policies and procedures that all food facilities should follow during
 2                     AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013


refrigeration outages and provides guidance to organizations requesting to operate a temporary
food facility. The primary objective of the Medical food inspection program is to protect the
health of Seymour Johnson personnel by preventing foodborne illness. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision provides for the use of the continuously updated approved food sources and current
electronic listing of DoD reporting methods for foodborne illnesses. This instruction adopts
major portions of the most recent edition of the, FDA Food Code with AF changes, hereafter
referred to as the “Food Code”. This instruction also addresses food security issues.

Responsibilities:

(SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB) This document has been substantially revised and must be
completely reviewed. Major changes include: removed paragraph 1.3.1.2; removed paragraph
1.5.8; added 1.7.14.1; removed 1.7.15; added 1.7.19.2, added 1.7.19.3, added 1.7.19.4.
1. 1. Commanders:
        1.1.1. Establish an effective food safety program and ensure compliance with the Food
        Code.
        1.1.2. Ensure food and water safety are included in mission threat briefings for deploying
        personnel.
        1.1.3. Ensure receipt, shipment, and storage points are protected from intentional
        contamination as part of installation vulnerability assessments and response plans.
     1.2. Force Protection Working Group/Threat Working Groups:
        1.2.1. Review base food security measures and implement risk management procedures
        to reduce vulnerabilities.
     1.3. Procurement/Contracting Offices:
        1.3.1. Purchase foods from approved sources in collaboration with Public Health.
        Approved sources must conform to the following criteria:
           1.3.1.1. Listed in the Directory of Sanitarily Approved Food Establishments for
           Armed Forces Procurement (Directory), published by the US Army Veterinary
           Corps, unless exempt in accordance with VETCOM Circular 40-1. This circular also
           describes procedures for requesting an initial sanitation audit of new vendors.
           1.3.1.2. Listed as a locally approved establishment as described in section 1.7.25 of
           this instruction.
AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013                                           3


        1.3.1.3. Federally Approved Sources (e.g. CONUS commercial grocery store chains)
        may also serve as procurement sources for the covered or coded products as listed in
        VETCOM Circular 40-1.
  1.4. Civil Engineering:
     1.4.1. Coordinate site selection and construction for field contingency food services with
     Public Health.
     1.4.2. Coordinate new food facility designs and food facility remodeling plans with
     Public Health to ensure facilities are designed to meet food safety and sanitation
     standards appropriate to their intended use.
  1.5. Facility Supervisors/Managers:
     1.5.1. Ensure foods are procured from approved sources in collaboration with the
     Procurement/Contracting office and the Public Health Office.
     1.5.2. Inspect potentially hazardous food upon receipt for wholesomeness, age at time of
     delivery, packaging integrity, source approval, and sanitary condition of delivery
     vehicles.
     1.5.3. Ensure food handlers are trained on identifying unwholesome foods and their
     proper disposition.
     1.5.4. Integrate food safety procedures into all aspects of food service operations in
     accordance with the Food Code.
     1.5.5. Conduct initial food safety and security training for all food handlers prior to
     employment, as well as formal, continuous, on-the-job training throughout their
     employment. Training must include recognition of health conditions affecting safe food
     handling, and proper procedures for excluding employees when these conditions are
     present. Coordinate training requirements with Public Health.
     1.5.6. Monitor the effectiveness of food safety/security training programs using a Hazard
     Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) methodology, or equivalent system that has
     been coordinated with Public Health.
     1.5.7. Assure employees are free of apparent health conditions that would preclude them
     from safely handling food.
     1.5.8. Reject foods that are unfit for their intended purpose (i.e. retail sale due to low
     customer appeal) and that are unwholesome. Contact Public Health concerning
     wholesomeness issues.
     1.5.9. Use integrated pest management procedures to control pests and to minimize the
     use of chemical pesticides.
     1.5.10. Ensure food service equipment meets or exceeds National Sanitation Foundation
     standards.
     1.5.11. Investigate and follow up on ALFOODACT messages.
     1.5.12. Ensure all vending machines are approved by the National Sanitation Foundation,
     or meet National Automatic Merchandising Association Standards. Assure Public Health
4                     AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013


       involvement when planning to install vending machines with potentially hazardous foods,
       or if they presently exist.
    1.6. Aerospace Medicine Council (AMC) or Equivalent Medical Treatment Facility
    Council:
       1.6.1. Establish the frequency of food facility sanitary inspections for the installation.
       1.6.2. Establish the frequency of inspection for locally approved sources
       1.6.3. Establish the frequency and procedures for assuring food safety on military aircraft
       that serve potentially hazardous foods. Note: This applies to aircraft that serve food not
       prepared in the in-flight kitchens.
    1.7. Public Health:
       1.7.1. Is the “regulatory authority” in the conduction of the food safety program as
       prescribed in the Food Code.
       1.7.2. Provide an annual update on the status of the base food safety program to the
       Medical Treatment Facility Commander, the Services Squadron Commander, the Mission
       Support Group Commander, and the Installation Commander. Provide a weekly update
       at deployed locations.
       1.7.3. Provide definitive medical recommendations on approved food sources to
       procurement offices.
       1.7.4. Communicate/collaborate with local, state, and federal food safety officials on
       current food safety issues.
       1.7.5. Train and provide consultative services to food facility managers concerning
       wholesomeness, condition, packaging integrity, source approval, sanitary condition of
       delivery vehicles, and proper storage of foods at delivery to ensure suitability for
       intended purposes. Conduct receipt inspections when requested by the facility managers
       to prevent major financial losses to the government.
       1.7.6. Provide medical expertise on food safety and security while in-garrison and at
       deployed locations.
       1.7.7. Review and provide medically specific recommendations prior to construction and
       major remodeling of food facilities, both in-garrison and at deployed locations.
       1.7.8. Provide or approve initial food safety and security training for food service
       employees.
       1.7.9. Provide annual food safety and security training for food service supervisors. The
       training must include the importance of complying with the Food Code to ensure the safe
       receipt, storage, preparation, and service of foods. Training should also highlight the
       unique aspects of a military population and impact food handling can have on readiness.
       1.7.10. Report nonconforming food inspection results on DD Form 1232, Quality
       Assurance Representative’s Correspondence. Annotate the form with “The food items
       listed are unfit for human consumption” or “unfit for intended use”. Clearly state the
       details regarding the unfit conditions. For DeCA facilities, annotate nonconforming
       results on DeCA Form 10-21, Product Inspection Report.
AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013                                           5


     1.7.11. Investigate infested subsistence according to MIL STD 904, Guidelines for
     Detection, Evaluation, and Prevention of Pest Infestation of Subsistence.
     1.7.12. Inspect stored operational rations for line units IAW the DSCP Handbook
     4155.2, Inspection of Composite Operational Rations.
     1.7.13. Conduct surveillance inspections (for rations other than operational rations) in
     accordance with the Joint Surveillance Inspection Manual. The frequency of such
     inspections should be based on amounts of rations stored and mission requirements.
     1.7.14. Determine wholesomeness for foods exposed to refrigeration failure in
     accordance with the Guide to the Salvage of Chilled/Frozen Foods Exposed to
     Refrigeration Failure.
        1.7.14.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB) Facility supervisors must contact
        the Public Health Flight when a refrigeration and/or freezer failure occurs. The
        Public Health Flight will inspect all affected items and provide guidance on
        appropriate disposition.
     1.7.15. Reject or condemn unfit or unwholesome foods. A Public Health Officer or a
     medical officer must sign the loss certificate if the loss exceeds $1000 per incident.
     Qualified Public Health technicians (Craftsman or higher) may sign certificates for losses
     not exceeding $1000 per incident.
        1.7.15.1. Provide feedback to the responsible commander on how to prevent future
        losses during storage.
     1.7.16. Use the following prescribed forms as certificates of unfitness:
        1.7.16.1. For AAFES: AF Form 3516, Food Service Inventory Transfer
        1.7.16.2. For DeCA: DeCA Form 70-51, Tally In/Tally Out Sheet
        1.7.16.3. For other government owned food: DD Form 708, Salvage Operations
     1.7.17. Consult with facilities, threat working groups and force protection working
     groups on food security reviews and food security issues.
        1.7.17.1. Provide expertise in defining critical points in food systems from source
        through distribution, storage, preparation, and service that must be protected from
        intentional contamination utilizing an Operational Risk Management approach.
     1.7.18. Inspect base food facilities to verify compliance with the Food Code and
     document inspections using the AF Form 977, Food Facility Evaluation.
        1.7.18.1. Send unsatisfactory ratings to the Aeromedical commander (or equivalent)
        and to the Medical Group Commander. Determine locally whether reports warrant
        attention above the medical commander. However, the Mission Support Group
        Commander must be informed of chronic and repeat discrepancies, and the Wing
        Commander must be aware of issues that could impact the mission.
        1.7.18.2. Send unsatisfactory reports on contractor-operated, AAFES, or DeCA
        facilities to the contracting authority, HQ AAFES, or HQ DeCA, respectively.
6                 AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013


    1.7.19. Maintain sanitation oversight for temporary food facilities associated with air
    shows, festivals, and similar installation events.
       1.7.19.1. Foods served/sold to the general public must not include home processed
       wild game or other meats, or home-canned/home-jarred foods, or dairy products from
       unapproved sources. All foods served/sold must originate from government-inspected
       facilities.
       1.7.19.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB) Organizations                    operating     a
       temporary food facility (profit or non-profit event serving food to the public) must
       contact the Public Health Flight no later than five duty days prior to the scheduled
       event.
       1.7.19.3. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB) All organizations operating a
       temporary food facility must comply with this instruction. Temporary food facilities
       not serving to the general public (i.e., within organization only) are not required to
       follow these guidelines.
       1.7.19.4. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB) The Public Health Flight will
       ensure all foods served originate from government inspected sources, ensure all
       potentially hazardous items are prepared on-site unless otherwise approved by public
       health, and ensure the event point of contact has received food safety training and will
       educate other personnel operating the temporary food facility.
    1.7.20. Conduct annual in-service training on food-borne illness investigation plans. An
    actual food-borne illness may substitute for training. Training must include all medical
    personnel that would be critical to the proper investigation of a food-borne illness.
    Examples include emergency departments, enlisted and officer nursing staffs assigned to
    primary care management teams, the pro-staff, and laboratory personnel. Training must
    include the following topics:
       1.7.20.1. Roles and responsibilities, procedures for identifying an outbreak, taking a
       history with emphasis on foods consumed, case definitions, collecting appropriate
       laboratory samples, verifying diagnoses, statistical data analysis. Training may be
       incorporated into a larger scale food security exercise to include involvement with
       Security Forces, civilian law enforcement authorities, and local public health
       authorities.
    1.7.21. Investigate and report all food-borne illness outbreaks to MAJCOM/SGP and the
    state health department.
    1.7.22. Use the following forms for food-borne investigations:
       1.7.22.1. AF Form 431, Food Poisoning Outbreak – Individual Case History, to
       record foods consumed during the preceding 72 hours.
       1.7.22.2. AF Form 432, Time Distribution of Persons Affected, to tabulate onset data.
       1.7.22.3. For food-borne illness outbreaks, complete CDC 52.13, Investigation of a
       Foodborne Outbreak, and send to MAJCOM/SGP and in CONUS, Alaska, or
       Hawaii, to the state health department so they may, in turn, report complete state
       information to CDC. Do NOT report foodborne outbreaks directly to CDC.
AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013                                              7


     1.7.23. Report each confirmed case in accordance with current AF reportable event
     guidelines.
     1.7.24. Assistance in any outbreak investigation, including food-borne and water-borne,
     is available from AFIOH/RSRH, Brooks City Base, Texas. Be sure to notify MAJCOM
     medical leadership when this assistance is required or requested.
     1.7.25. Inspect and approve a local food establishment not listed in the Directory of
     Sanitarily Approved Food Establishments for Armed Forces Procurement when requested
     by the installation commander. Use the Food Code (for retail establishments) and/or
     MIL-HDBK 3006, Guidelines for Auditing Food Establishments to inspect and approve
     local food serving establishments and sources. These sources may only provide food to
     the approving base.
        1.7.25.1. The DD Form 2387, Bakery Sanitary Compliance Checklist, may be used
        for bakery inspections.
        1.7.25.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB) The Public Health Flight of the 4th
        Medical Group may approve food facilities (catering establishments and food
        services) not on the Directory of Sanitarily Approved Food Established for Armed
        Forces Procurement, published by the United States Army Veterinary Corps for use
        on Seymour Johnson. The requesting organization must request public health to
        inspect facilities in writing prior to the finalization of any agreement/contract. If
        facility passes inspection satisfactorily, the facility will be placed on locally approved
        food sources list which will be reviewed on an annual basis. These sources may only
        provide food to Seymour Johnson.
     1.7.26. Establish procedures to receive and investigate ALFOODACT messages and
     food recalls from recognized regulatory authorities.
     1.7.27. Determine the appropriateness and interval of aircraft inspections (if such
     missions exist) in consultation with the AMC. Note: This does not include meals from
     flight kitchens.
        1.7.27.1. The HQ Air Mobility Command Force Protection Working Group
        establishes Force Protection procedures for all Air Mobility Command contracts and
        Statements of Work (SOW) including contracts for DOD Contract Airline support
        IAW the Air Mobility Command supplement to AFI 10-245, and Air Force
        Antiterrorism (AT) Standards. The HQ AMC, Command Public Health Officer will
        coordinate with other MAJCOM Public Health leadership to ensure that Food Safety
        and Security processes are adequately evaluated. MAJCOM Public Health Officers at
        the request of HQ AMC may require their base-level Public Health personnel to assist
        in evaluating the processes for AMC aircraft. Base-level Public Health
        Flights/Elements may increase the frequency of these evaluations if Force Protection
        conditions warrant.
  1.8. Prescribed Forms.
     AF Form 431, Food Poisoning Outbreak.
     AF Form 432, Time Distribution of Persons Affected.
     AF Form 977, Food Facility Evaluation.
 8                   AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013


        AF Form 3516, Food Service Inventory Transfer
     1.9. Adopted Forms.
–DeCA Form 70-51, Tally In/Tally Out Sheet
–DeCA Form 10-21, Product Inspection Report
–DD Form 708, Salvage Operations
–DD Form 2387, Bakery Sanitary Compliance Checklist
–DD Form 1232, Quality Assurance Representative’s Correspondence.
–PHS Form 52.12 CDC, Investigation of a Water-borne Outbreak.
–PHS Form 5213 CDC, Investigation of a Food-borne Outbreak




                                          GEORGE PEACH TAYLOR, JR.
                                          Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                          Surgeon General

                                          (SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB)

                                          JEANNIE M. LEAVITT, Col, USAF
                                          Commander, 4th Fighter Wing
AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013                                          9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 37-1, Records Management Programs
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program
AFI 10-245, Air Force Antiterrorism (AT) Standards
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training
AFI 48-101, The Aerospace Medicine Program
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB) AFI 48-118, Food Safety Program, 22 Mar 2004
AFMAN 37-123, Information Management
DoD Directory of Sanitarily Approved Food Establishments for Armed Forces Procurement
DSCP Handbook 4155.2, Inspection of Composite Operational Rations
FDA Food Code (most recent edition with AF changes)
Guide to the Salvage of Chilled/Frozen Foods Exposed to Refrigeration Failure
MIL-HDBK 3006, Guidelines for Auditing Food Establishments
MIL-STD 904, Guidelines .for Detection, Evaluation, and Prevention of Pest Infestation of
Subsistence
VETCOM Circular 40-1

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Regulation
ALFOODACT—The Department of Defense messaging system to identify food recalls
AMC—Aerospace Medicine Council
HACCP—Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points
CDC—Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CONUS—Continental United States
DeCA—Defense Commissary Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
 10               AFI48-116_SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBSUP_I 11 SEPTEMBER 2013


FDA—Food and Drug Administration
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIL—HDBK—Military Handbook
MIL—STD-Military Standard
VETCOM—United States Army Veterinary Command
