Administrative Changes to AFI 41-104, Professional Board and National Certification
Examinations

OPR: AF/SG1

Reference in 2.2.1 to https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx5/AFMedicalCorps/Pages/AFI-41-104-List-of-
Certifying -Agencies.gencies.aspx is hereby changed to
(https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx5/AFMedicalCorps/Pages/AFI-41-104-List-of-Certifying-
Agencies.aspx. 11 June 2014

Reference in 4.3.1. to https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx5/AFMedicalCorps/Pages/AFI-41-104-List-of-
Certifying- Agengcies.aspx) is hereby changed to
https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx5/AFMedicalCorps/Pages/AFI-41-104-List-of-Certifying-
Agencies.aspx. 11 June 2014
BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 41-104
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          18 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                Health Services

                                                 PROFESSIONAL BOARD AND NATIONAL
                                                      CERTIFICATION EXAMINATIONS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/SG1                                                              Certified by: AF/SG1
                                                                   (Maj Gen Dorothy A. Hogg)
Supersedes:   AFI 41-104, 25 May 1994                                                  Pages: 9


This instruction implements AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, and provides
requirements and procedures for applying to take professional board or national certification
examinations. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references, abbreviations, and acronyms. This
AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the OPR for
coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS). This instruction applies to all Air Force military (Active Duty Air Force, Air
Force Reserve serving on extended active duty, Air National Guard, and Aeromedical
Evacuation Squadrons) attached to or assigned to a unit with a medical or aeromedical
evacuation mission.
 2                                                             AFI41-104 18 FEBRUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the second publication of AFI 41-104. It includes updated guidance for reimbursement
for professional board and certification examinations as well as maintenance of certification
requirements.
1. Overview. This AFI describes the approval process and options for taking professional,
board or national certification examinations in the Medical Service. It also describes the criteria
for reimbursement of fees and expenses, and identifies documentation requirements.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Assistant Surgeon General, Medical Force Development (AF/SG1) shall
     establish guidance and procedures which outlines approved Corps-specific board certification
     entities and/or examinations.
     2.2. Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) and Medical Unit Commanders including ANG
     Medical Unit Commanders shall:
        2.2.1. Confirm a healthcare professional’s examination eligibility (ANG and AFRC full-
        time providers only) and completion of all prerequisite requirements before approval of
        reimbursement of examination fees and placement on temporary duty (TDY) status to
        take examinations offered by any organization identified by the annual update of
        Certifying      Agencies        posted        by       SG1         on     the      KX
        (https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx5/AFMedicalCorps/Pages/AFI-41-104-List-of-Certifying
        -Agencies.gencies.aspx). (T-3)
        2.2.2. Approve local MTF funding/reimbursement for examination fees and funded TDY
        for initial examinations (if not previously GME funded). (T-3)
        2.2.3. MTF and medical unit commanders may approve funding/reimbursement for
        subsequent recertification examinations and maintenance of certification (MOC)
        activities required for performance of duty contingent upon the availability of funds. As
        board certification is a quality indicator of excellence within a healthcare organization,
        commanders are highly encouraged to approve such funding/reimbursement requests if
        fiscally possible.
            2.2.3.1. Subsequent recertifications (examinations and MOC activities) should be
            considered for funding/re-imbursement if such MOC activities and examinations have
            been completed when the active duty service member has at least 2 years of active
            duty remaining.
        2.2.4. If an examination is not passed upon first attempt, subsequent attempts by the
        same or different certifying board for the same certification within the same certification
        cycle will not be reimbursed by the AF.
     2.3. The healthcare professional seeking funding or reimbursement for certification
     examination shall:
        2.3.1. Follow instructions for either officers (paragraph 3) or enlisted (paragraph 4) as
        outlined below.
AFI41-104 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                        3


      2.3.2. Provide proof of completion of recertification examination or MOC requirements
      to the MTF and medical unit commander as required for approval of local
      reimbursement.
3. Professional Board Examinations, Certification, Re-Certification and Maintenance of
Certification for Officers
   3.1. Application for a Professional Board Examination or Certification.
      3.1.1. Officers eligible for a professional board or certification examination will engage
      directly with the examining agency to confirm eligibility. (T-3)
      3.1.2. If the exam is available locally (precluding the need for TDY), then it must be
      taken locally.
   3.2. Officers must have a minimum of 2 years of active duty remaining after completing the
   examination or MOC activities to qualify for reimbursement, unless Air Force, DoD or state
   directives, or the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) require
   certification or certification is a requirement of employment or position (e.g. GME Program
   Director/faculty). (T-3)
   3.3. Examination Request Approval
      3.3.1. An officer will submit to his/her commander a letter (with supporting
      correspondence or documentation), in advance of the examination, requesting funding for
      examination fees and, as needed, to be placed on TDY status to take the examination. (T-
      3)
      3.3.2. The commander must give a written reply, which will authorize reimbursement for
      the examination and TDY status to take the examination. (T-3)
   3.4. For officers serving at HQ USAF, MAJCOM, FOA, or a subcommand, the appropriate
   surgeon may approve the request.
   3.5. The Air Force will reimburse once for costs associated with an initial national
   certification examination required for performance of duty. As board certification is a
   quality indicator of excellence within a healthcare organization, commanders are highly
   encouraged to approve such funding/reimbursement requests if fiscally possible.
      3.5.1. MTF and medical unit commanders may approve funding/reimbursement for
      subsequent recertification examinations once per certification/currency cycle.
      3.5.2. The Air Force will not reimburse for costs associated with initial national
      certification examination if said examination is required for commissioning into their
      Corps.
4. National Certifications and Examinations for Enlisted Personnel
   4.1. Application for a National Certification
      4.1.1. Enlisted personnel must contact the examining agency to determine eligibility for
      certification in their field, and to request testing as close as possible to the member’s duty
      location. (T-3)
 4                                                               AFI41-104 18 FEBRUARY 2014


            4.1.1.1. If a graduate from an accredited course, follow existing course guidelines to
            enroll in the examining agency’s database.
            4.1.1.2. In most instances, the Education and Training Officer or Unit Training
            Manager (UTM) is the point of contact to assist with contacting certification agencies
            and to request these examinations at the duty location.
            4.1.1.3. If the exam is available locally, then it must be taken locally.
     4.2. Enlisted members must have a minimum of 2 years of active duty remaining after
     completing the examination to qualify for reimbursement, unless Air Force, DoD or State
     directives require certification. (T-3)
     4.3. Examination Request Approval
        4.3.1. Once the examining agency confirms eligibility, the member will submit a written
        request to his/her commander requesting permission to take the examination given by any
        organization listed in the annual update of Certification Agencies posted by SG1on the
        KX           (https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx5/AFMedicalCorps/Pages/AFI-41-104-List-of-
        Certifying-Agengcies.aspx). (T-3)
        4.3.2. The commander must give a written reply, which will authorize reimbursement for
        the initial examination and authorize TDY status to take the examination. (T-3)
     4.4. For members serving at HQ USAF, MAJCOM, FOA, or a subcommand, the appropriate
     surgeon may approve the request.
     4.5. The Air Force will reimburse once for costs associated with initial national certification
     examination required for performance of duty. (T-3)
        4.5.1. MTF and medical unit commanders may approve funding/reimbursement for
        subsequent recertification examinations if required to perform his/her duty once per
        certification/currency cycle.
        4.5.2. For AFSC 4H0X1, Cardiopulmonary Laboratory, Certification in Respiratory Care
        is mandatory.
5. Special Situations
     5.1. Failed Board Examinations. If the member successfully passes the second attempt,
     reimbursement for travel and examination fees is NOT authorized, if the member received
     reimbursement for the first failed attempt. If the member was in TDY status to take the first
     attempt examination, then the second attempt examination will be permitted as PTDY only,
     unless available in the local area.
     5.2. Recertification and Maintenance of Certification (MOC). Many specialties require
     periodic recertification examinations with annual MOC educational curricula to be completed
     as part of the recertification process during the interval between examinations.
        5.2.1. A member may be reimbursed for the recertification examination and/or MOC
        requirement fees upon providing proof of completion of either requirement. If a separate
        examination fee is required, the local MTF may reimburse members once per currency
        period.
AFI41-104 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                      5


     5.2.2. For specialties which require completion of MOC curricula during the interval
     between examinations, members may apply for local funding to cover the cost of the
     MOC requirements. Should a prepayment option be offered by the certifying board (e.g.,
     paying up front for 10 years of MOC at a discounted rate), members may only be
     reimbursed annually for the cost of the MOC for a single year, with cumulative
     reimbursement for prepaid MOC not to exceed that which was originally prepaid by the
     member. This reimbursement requires that the member has 2 years of active duty
     remaining at the time he/she has completed the MOC activity.
  5.3. ARC members qualify for reimbursement of recertification if they are not serving a
  training obligation, have completed their initial ADSC, are currently serving on an extended
  active duty (EAD) tour, and will have at least 2 years active duty service remaining after they
  complete the professional board examination.
  5.4. Long Course Programs. Travel costs and expenses related to certification,
  recertification, or national licensing agencies not listed in the annual update of Certification
  Agencies, but required as part of a Medical Service officer’s long course program (Education
  and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ ) may be
  reimbursable provided that AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, does not specifically
  prohibit them.
  5.5. Multiple Board Certifications. MTF and medical unit commanders may reimburse for
  more than one certification examination and/or MOC, and are responsible for ensuring the
  certifications are not redundant and apply to performance of duties in the officer’s AFSC.
  5.6. Travel Restrictions. When TDY funds are authorized, members will abide by the Joint
  Federal Travel Regulation.
  5.7. Consecutive professional meetings. Members must obtain prior approval to attend
  professional meetings while on TDY for board or certification examinations or to handle
  delays en route.
  5.8. Membership Fees. Annual or recurring membership fees are the responsibility of
  individual Medical Service members.
  5.9. Required dental assistants. Certain dental board examinations require the candidate to
  furnish a patient and a dental assistant. Officers may receive local funding for these
  personnel, if it is available.
  5.10. Members Serving OCONUS. Members serving Outside the Continental United States
  (OCONUS) may receive funded TDY for Parts I and/or II of professional specialty board or
  certification examinations, if local examination is not available.
     5.10.1. Before a commander approves a return to CONUS for the examination, he/she
     must consider the feasibility of the member taking the examination in an overseas area
     closer than CONUS or of requesting that the senior Air Force functional leader in the
     geographical area coordinate with the responsible agency to administer the examination
     in the overseas area. (T-3)
     5.10.2. OCONUS members must have at least 6 months left to serve in the OCONUS
     assignment. The OCONUS MAJCOM has the authority to waive this requirement to
 6                                                              AFI41-104 18 FEBRUARY 2014


        meet testing schedules for consecutive overseas tours, or to address concerns on a case by
        case basis.
     5.11. Certifications not listed in the annual update of Certifying Agencies
     (https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx5/AFMedicalCorps/Pages/AFI-41-104-List-of-Certifying-
     Agencies.aspx). MTF and medical unit commanders may approve other
     certification/recertification requests not specifically covered in this instruction to meet AF,
     AFSC and/or MTF/medical unit mission requirements pending coordination with the SG
     Consultant. Questions regarding funding parameters or policy on use of MTF or medical unit
     DHP funds will be addressed to AF/SGY.
6. Post-Examination Responsibilities
     6.1. Reimbursement
        6.1.1. For reimbursement of certification/recertification examination or MOC fees, the
        member will file a Standard Form 1164, Claim for Reimbursement for Expenditures on
        Official Business. Member must attach relevant receipts with a copy of the commander’s
        approval for reimbursement letter, and proof of completion of the recertification
        examination or MOC activity. The voucher must be routed through the MTF Resource
        Management Office (they will add the proper fund cite) or Resource Advisor (for non-
        MTF organizations), and submitted to the base Finance Office for payment. In order to
        properly record costs in the accounting system, individuals that traveled TDY will
        separate their examination/certification fees from their travel costs. Individuals will
        consult their Resource Management Offices for guidance on how to allocate the separate
        costs within the Defense Travel System (DTS). If costs cannot be allocated in DTS, then
        individuals will omit the examination/certification fees from the travel voucher (DD
        Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub voucher); and claim those costs on the Standard
        Form 1164. (T-3)
     6.2. Personnel Records Updates
        6.2.1. Officers. The officer will notify his/her commander and commander’s support
        staff (CSS) of the completion of a specialty certification examination. The member will
        provide a copy of the specialty certification notification letter or certificate to the unit
        CSS. The CSS will complete an AF Form 2096, Classification/On-The-Job Training
        Action, requesting the award of the "M" prefix for the AFSC directly related to the field
        in which the officer obtained certification, as identified in Air Force Officer
        Classification Directory (AFOCD). The completed AF Form 2096 is forwarded to the
        Military Personnel Flight (MPF) for final approval, awarding of the "M" prefix, and input
        into the Personnel Data System. (T-3)
            6.2.1.1. The approved professional certifications for which officers may receive
            award of the "M" prefix are listed in the annual update of Certification Agencies
            posted            by           SG1               on           the            KX
            (https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx5/AFMedicalCorps/Pages/AFI-41-104-List-of-
            Certifying-Agencies.aspx).
            6.2.1.2. Individuals with certifications earned and approved under previous policies
            can maintain the “M” prefix for the entire certification period, but must maintain
            active certification in order to retain the “M” prefix.
AFI41-104 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    7


         6.2.1.3. The BSC also awards the "M" prefix for state licensure in professional
         engineering, audiology, and speech pathology.
     6.2.2. Enlisted Personnel. Enlisted personnel must provide a copy of the certification
     documentation from the professional organization to the unit Education and Training
     Office, UTM, and/or Supervisor to update training or personnel records as appropriate.
     (T-3)
     6.2.3. Privileged Providers. Privileged providers will provide a copy of all professional
     certifications achieved to the unit Credentials Monitor for verification and inclusion with
     the provider’s credentialing documents. (T-3)
  6.3. Medical, Dental, Nurse and Biomedical Science Corps Officers Board Certification Pay
     6.3.1. Certain AFSCs designated in AFI 41-109, Special Pay for Health Professionals,
     qualify for board certification pay. For BSC, DC, MC and NC officers to receive board
     certification pay, the officer must send a copy of board certification to HQ
     AFPC/DPANF1 via fax (DSN 665-1277/COMM 210-565-1277), email
     (afpc.dpanf1@us.af.mil), or US Mail to HQ AFPC/DPANF1, 550 C Street W, Suite 25,
     Randolph AFB TX 78150-4727. The request must include officer’s name, rank, duty
     location and SSN. HQ AFPC/DPANF1 will start board certification payment and
     forward certification documentation to be included in the officer's promotion folder and
     ARMS.
         6.3.1.1. All boards for pay purposes must be on the approved list as authorized by
         OSD (HQ).
         6.3.1.2. For any specialty under the Consolidation of Pays authority (37 U.S.C.
         §335), a contract must also be submitted requiring at least one year retainability with
         the aforementioned documentation.




                                           THOMAS W. TRAVIS, Lt Gen, USAF, MC, CFS
                                           Surgeon General
 8                                                        AFI41-104 18 FEBRUARY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, 15 Apr 1994
AFI 41-109, Special Pay for Health Professionals, 27 May 1994
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 Aug 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Air Force Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD), 30 Apr 2011
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
Adopted Forms
AF Form 2096, Classification/On-The-Job Training Action
Standard Form 1164, Claim for Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business
DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub voucher
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFCAT—Air Force Catalog
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ARC—Air Reserve Components
BSC—Biomedical Sciences Corps
CONUS—Continental United States
CRS—Conditional Reserve Status
CSS—Command Support Staff
DC—Dental Corps
DoD—Department of Defense
EAD—Extended Active Duty
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters US Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Medical Corps
MOC—Maintenance of Certification
AFI41-104 18 FEBRUARY 2014                     9


MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NC—Nurse Corps
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
PTDY—Permissive Temporary Duty
TDY—Temporary Duty
UTM—Unit Training Manager
