BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 44-153
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              31 MARCH 2006
                                                                  MOODY AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                              9 AUGUST 2010
                                                               Certified Current, 5 March 2012
                                                                                       Medical

                                                          TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/SGOC                                                              Certified by: AF/SGO
Supersedes: AFI 44-153, 01 Jul 99                                        (MG Charles B. Green)
                                                                                       Pages: 21
                                (MOODYAFB)
OPR: 23 MDOS/SGOW                        Certified by: 23 MDG/CC (Colonel Mark
Supersedes: AFI 44-153, MAFBSUP1, 1                                A. Koppen)
            Feb 2004                                                   Pages:6


This instruction implements AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations. It establishes the requirement for
Traumatic Stress Response (TSR) teams at all active duty Air Force installations, encouraging an
integration of resources and efforts of the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air
National Guard (ANG). It provides guidance to these teams, whose primary function is to consult
with unit leaders and provide initial response when groups or individuals expect to be, or have
been, exposed to potentially traumatic stress. The primary goal of TSR teams is to foster
resiliency in those exposed to potentially traumatic stress. This is accomplished through
preparatory education for those likely to experience potentially traumatic stress, and through
education, screening, psychological first aid, and referral for those exposed to potentially
traumatic stress.

Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847,
Recommendations for Change of Publication, through channels to AFMSA/SGOC, 110 Luke
Avenue, Room 405, Bolling AFB, DC 20032-7050. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123,
(will become AFMAN 33-363) Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
 2                                                         AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010


(MOODYAFB) AFI 44-153, 31 March 2006 is supplemented as follows: This supplement
applies to organizations assigned or attached to the 23rd Wing and assigned to Moody AFB.
This supplement provides additional guidance for the implementation and ongoing operation of
the Moody Air Force Base Traumatic Stress Response (TSR) team. The primary goal of the
team is to foster resiliency in those exposed to potentially traumatic stress in order to prevent or
mitigate permanent disability that could degrade an individual’s ability to successfully
accomplish the mission of the 23rd Wing and 93rd Air Ground Operations Wing (AGOW). This
is accomplished through preparatory education for those likely to experience traumatic stress,
and through education, screening, intervention and referral for those who have already been
exposed. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting
records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to 23 MDOS/SGOW, Moody AFB GA 31699 using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
establishes TSR teams at all active duty Air Force installations. TSR teams (1) serve as trauma
response consultants to unit leaders; (2) prepare personnel likely to be exposed to potentially
traumatic events; and (3) provide screening, education, psychological first aid, and referral for
those exposed to potentially traumatic events. This document also provides revised training
guidance.

(MOODYAFB) Revised to supplement AFI to support addition of the 93 AGOW and to reflect
the assessment of local conditions, high-risk groups, identification of locally trained resources
and the most common response scenarios for Moody AFB.

       1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................   2
       2.      Organizational Responsibilities. ............................................................................         3
       3.      Pre-Exposure Preparation (PEP). ...........................................................................           6
       4.      Enhancing Resilience .............................................................................................    6
       5.      Combat Stress Control (CSC) ................................................................................          7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       9

Attachment 2—TRAINING OUTLINE FOR TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE (TSR) TEAM
             MEMBERS                                                   11


1. General Information. Many types of events have the potential to produce traumatic stress
responses. Most individuals exposed to such events will not experience long-term adverse
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010                                                          3


effects. However, exposure to potentially traumatic events often results in short-term symptoms
(i.e., normal responses to an abnormal event), which may worsen if unaddressed. Therefore it is
Air Force policy to provide TSR services to enhance resilience to potentially traumatic events.
Designated TSR teams, in close coordination with unit leaders, provide TSR services. Pre-
Exposure Preparation (PEP) services are provided to unit and community members whenever
potentially traumatic events are anticipated. Assistance will be available after potentially
traumatic civil and military events.
2. Organizational Responsibilities.
   2.1. Establishment of TSR teams
   2.1. (MOODYAFB) The installation commander will appoint the Behavioral Health Flight
   Commander or other senior mental health (MH) provider as the TSR Team Chief. The 93
   AGOW will be supported by the 23rd Wing’s TSR team.
       2.1.1. The senior wing commander or installation commander at each active duty Air
       Force installation with a medical treatment facility will ensure the establishment of at
       least one TSR, with a privileged Life Skills provider designated as the TSR team chief.
       At geographically separated units and bases without medical treatment facilities, the need
       to provide TSR services can be met by ensuring there is a TSR team available to respond
       as needed. TSR teams will assist individuals and units in preparing for and dealing with
       potentially traumatic events. When forming these teams, commands should consider TSR
       resources available through nearby active and/or AFRC/ANG military installations.
       Installations with more than one resident wing are not required to have more than one
       TSR team.
          2.1.1.1. AFRC and ANG units are encouraged to develop and utilize their own
          resources, when possible. Partnership with the regular component or with other
          military resources is encouraged when necessary.
          2.1.1.2. AFRC unit commanders will request the AFRC TSR team through HQ
          AFRC. AFRC/SG will coordinate and fund TSR response for AFRC events at
          collocated and non-collocated AFRC Wings. AFRC/SG will coordinate with AD TSR
          teams as necessary.
       2.1.2. Local TSR teams will be contacted in the event of a potentially traumatic event.
       When the local command post becomes aware of a potentially traumatic event, it will
       notify the TSR team chief as part of required notification protocol. The wing commander
       is responsible for ensuring an effective notification and activation process.
       2.1.2. (MOODYAFB) The TSR team chief will be contacted in the event of a
       potentially traumatic event. The team chief may be contacted via the Command Post,
       Ambulance Dispatch Center (ADC) or Medical Control Center (MCC). To ensure
       effective communication, the TSR team chief will provide a monthly TSR on-call roster
       to each organization.
       2.1.3. TSR services will be made available in response to all air or ground mishaps that
       involve loss of life or major injury. TSR services may also be provided in response to
       other events at the request of the unit commander. The affected wing commander will
       support or arrange for consultation between the TSR team chief and the affected unit
4                                           AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010


       commander to determine what level of service, if any, is needed. The services provided
       will vary depending on the nature of the mishap and the needs of the squadrons involved
       in the mishap. In general, the commander of any unit that incurs loss of personnel or
       significant injury to personnel as a result of a mishap should consult with a TSR team
       leader to determine whether there is a need for TSR support. Then, if the commander
       subsequently requests service, the nature of those services should be developed by the
       commander in collaboration with the TSR team leader.
           2.1.3.1. All individuals participating in search and rescue activities, as well as
           professional personnel such as forensic pathologists and mortuary personnel should
           have the opportunity to receive TSR services.
    2.2. Team membership and formation. TSR teams will be composed of individuals fulfilling
    the following roles:
       2.2.1. Life Skills – typically a psychiatrist, psychologist, social worker, mental health
       nurse, 7-level mental health technician, or fully-trained 5-level if assigned with one of the
       above. A privileged Life Skills provider serves as the TSR team chief.
       2.2.2. Spiritual support – a chaplain and chaplain assistant;
       2.2.3. Family Support Center- a community readiness consultant (NOTE: Personnel
       from the above areas who may be deployed are highly encouraged to be selected as team
       members, or if not, to participate in TSR training in order that they can apply TSR
       training in deployed situations.)
       2.2.4. These multidisciplinary teams will include, as a minimum, individuals in each of
       the three roles noted, with at least one officer. Identification and training of primary and
       alternate members for each role is required to ensure continuous availability.
       2.2.5. When forming TSR teams on active duty installations, qualified AFRC/ANG
       personnel should be considered as candidates for membership when available.
       2.2.6. The TSR team chief may request additional volunteer personnel, such as non-
       caregiver workforce representatives, to serve as TSR members on either a long-term or
       short-term basis. Long-term team members will participate in all team training, while
       volunteers used for single incidents will receive just-in-time training. The TSR team chief
       must ensure all team augmentees have sufficient training to assist with education,
       screening and referral activities.
       2.2.6. (MOODYAFB) Moody will use short-term volunteers to support TSR activities
       as needed. These volunteers will be invited to TSR training sessions, but only require
       just-in-time training. A list of these volunteers will be maintained by the team chief.
       2.2.7. The wing commander will appoint a privileged Life Skills provider as the TSR
       team chief, who has overall responsibility for TSR training and service implementation.
       The TSR team chief will be identified to the command post by the wing commander to
       ensure required notification in the event of a potentially traumatic event.
       2.2.8. The TSR team chief will coordinate with the Family Support Center and other
       agencies as appropriate to arrange TSR services to family and community members at
       installations impacted by a potentially traumatic event.
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010                                                         5


     2.2.9. All TSR teams will establish standard operating procedures that will include, as a
     minimum, an assessment of local conditions and high-risk groups, a survey of locally
     trained resources, and a plan addressing various response scenarios.
     2.2.9. (MOODYAFB) Moody is at greatest risk for natural disasters such as tornadoes,
     floods and hurricanes. However, the installation should also be prepared for man-made
     events such as terrorism, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield
     Explosive events, hostage situations, suicides, aircraft mishaps and ground and aerial
     combat. Those at greatest risk of traumatic exposure include, but are not limited to, the
     820 SFG, 23 SFS, 23 LRS, 23 CES/ EOD and all emergency response personnel.
     2.2.10. TSR teams will support the Medical Group in developing and executing Medical
     Risk Communication plans for Chemical, Biological, Radiological and High-Yield
     Explosive (CBRNE) events.
  2.3. TSR Team Training Requirements.
     2.3.1. TSR teams will meet at least quarterly to train. Training will focus on preparation
     to respond to real world circumstances which have the potential to produce traumatic
     stress responses, such as pre and post deployment activities, mass violence incidents and
     natural disasters.
     2.3.1. (MOODYAFB) The team chief will ensure that TSR team members are trained
     on a quarterly basis. Training will be conducted IAW AFI 44-153 and will be tracked by
     the team chief or designee. Team members who are absent during quarterly training must
     complete make-up training. The team chief will ensure this make-up training is complete
     and documented. TSR volunteers will be trained as needed.
     2.3.2. TSR teams will coordinate with other base agencies, such as security forces, to
     participate in exercises involving potentially traumatic scenarios.
     2.3.2. (MOODYAFB) The TSR team chief will collaborate with the 23 MDG Exercise
     Evaluation Team and 23rd Wing/XP to develop and implement multi-agency exercise
     response scenarios.
     2.3.3. Formal course attendance that provides certification is not required for TSR team
     members. Rather, team members must be able to apply the principles outlined in
     Attachment 2. The TSR team chief is responsible for ensuring all team members and
     augmentees are knowledgeable with the training material contained in Attachment 2,
     and are able to provide education, screening and referral services as required.
     2.3.4. A complete list of reference material for training is provided in Attachment 1.
     2.3.5. When possible, it is preferable for teams to train and exercise as a unit. TSR team
     chiefs will establish ongoing training and exercise requirements to assure the primary and
     backup team members maintain proficiency and can function effectively as a team.
  2.4. Requesting Deployable Units for TSR
     2.4.1. In the event an installation does not have the necessary local TSR resources to
     manage a traumatic event, the installation commander will request deployable mental
     health and chaplain assets as needed through the responsible MAJCOM, which makes
     necessary arrangements to ensure sufficient TSR resources are available.
 6                                          AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010


        2.4.1. (MOODYAFB) If a mishap or event is too large for local TSR resources to
        manage, a request will be made for additional resources via the ACC Behavioral Health
        Consultant.
3. Pre-Exposure Preparation (PEP).
     3.1. PEP training is a preventive approach that helps individuals and units prepare for
     potentially traumatic events. TSR teams are available to provide pre-exposure consultation to
     units and communities who expect to face trauma.
     3.1. (MOODYAFB) Information on the purpose and benefits of Pre-Exposure Preparation
     (PEP) will be provided to commanders and first sergeants at least annually.
     3.2. PEP focuses on effective approaches to trauma stress management and emphasizes
     resiliency and the normalcy of feeling stress under abnormal circumstances. Material for
     conducting pre-exposure preparation training is contained in Attachment 2.
     3.3. PEP training should be coordinated between unit leaders and the TSR team chief, and
     should only occur when both unit leader and TSR team chief agree such training is necessary.
     PEP training should be tailored to specific unit requirements and should not duplicate
     existing training.
     3.3. (MOODYAFB) PEP training should be offered to ―high risk‖ groups at least annually.
     Training should only occur if agreed upon by the team chief and the ―high risk‖ group’s
     squadron commander. PEP training should be tailored to specific unit requirements
     whenever possible.
4. Enhancing Resilience
     4.1. Airmen are recruited and trained to excel under a variety of stressful conditions. The
     purpose of TSR services is to enhance resilience in individuals and groups who are or may be
     exposed to potentially traumatic events. This objective is accomplished through the
     utilization of TSR teams who (1) Consult with leaders regarding potentially traumatic events;
     (2) Prepare personnel who are likely to be exposed to potentially traumatic events; (3)
     Provide education, screening, psychological first aid, and referral to those exposed to
     potentially traumatic events.
     4.2. To the extent possible with existing resources, all individuals directly involved in a
     potentially traumatic event should be provided the opportunity to access TSR services.
     4.2. (MOODYAFB) Unit leadership should give their personnel an opportunity to access
     TSR services following a potentially traumatic incident. The type and level of intervention
     will be discussed and agreed upon between the unit commander and the TSR team chief.
     Unit commanders can direct personnel to participate in TSR education, such as a general
     briefing, but individuals should only be seen for individual interventions on a voluntary
     basis.
     4.3. Participation in TSR services is voluntary, though unit leaders may require affected
     personnel receive TSR education, at a minimum, in some instances.
     4.4. TSR team services, to include PEP, education, screening and referral, are not medical
     services, and therefore do not involve medical or mental health record documentation.
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010                                                        7


   4.5. Members on Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) status exposed to trauma will be
   referred to competent medical authority (CMA) for evaluation and follow-up as needed and
   will be advised to report any decrement in functioning to their Certifying Official. When
   providing TSR services, TSR team members do not evaluate or report potentially
   disqualifying information for PRP purposes.
   4.6. Following a potentially traumatic event, individuals can seek up to four one- on-one
   meetings with any member of the TSR team. One-on-one meetings are for the purpose of
   education and consultation and not for medical assessment and treatment.
   4.6. (MOODYAFB) Personnel exposed to a potentially traumatic incident may receive up
   to four one-on-one visits for education and consultation with any member of the TSR team to
   include mental health, chapel, Airman & Family Readiness Center or school liaison
   personnel. These visits will not be documented, but personnel at risk of harm to self or
   others will be referred as appropriate.
5. Combat Stress Control (CSC)
   5.1. IAW DoD Directive 6490.5, TSR teams in deployed environments shall be responsible
   for implementing CSC programs, which seek to prevent or minimize adverse effects of
   Combat and Ongoing Operational Stress Reactions (COSR) through primary, secondary and
   tertiary prevention efforts.
      5.1.1. TSR teams shall coordinate with Public Health programs to ensure deployed
      members receive appropriate screening and education after arriving and prior to departing
      from the deployed environment.
      5.1.1. (MOODYAFB) The TSR team will collaborate with Public Health and line
      commanders to ensure TSR services are available to personnel pending or returning from
      deployment to minimize the adverse effects of Combat and Operational Stress Reactions.
      The nature and scope of pre/post deployment services will be determined by the affected
      unit commander after consultation with the TSR team chief.
      5.1.2. TSR teams shall consult with line commanders about surveillance and prevention,
      identification, and management of COSR in units and individuals before and after
      deployments.
      5.1.3. Deployed chaplains and Life Skills personnel shall be responsible for CSC
      programs in deployed locations.
      5.1.4. TSR teams in deployed environments will use Module A2 from the VA/DoD
      Clinical Practice Guideline for the Management of Post-Traumatic Stress to manage
      COSR.




                                           GEORGE PEACH TAYLOR, JR, Lt General,
                                           USAF
                                           MC, CFS Surgeon General

                                           (MOODYAFB)
8   AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010


    GARY W. HENDERSON, Colonel, USAF
    Commander
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010                                                      9


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 6490.5, Combat Stress Control (CSC) Programs
DoD Instruction 5210.42-R, Nuclear Weapon Personnel Reliability Program
AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training
AFI 44-109, Mental Health and Military Law
AFI 34-1101, Assistance to Survivors of Persons Killed in Air Force Aviation Mishaps and
Other Incidents
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
National Institute of Mental Health (2002). Mental Health and Mass Violence: Evidence-Based
Early Psychological Intervention for Victims/Survivors of Mass Violence: A Workshop to Reach
Consensus on Best Practices NIH Publication No. 02-5138, Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government
Printing Office http://www.nimh.nih.gov/research/massviolence.pdf
Iraq War Clinician Guide 2nd Edition. National Center for PTSD, Executive and Resource
Center Division, www.ncptsd.org Phone: (802) 296-5132; Fax: (802) 296-5135
DoD/VA Clinical Practice Guideline for Management of Traumatic Stress: Module A: Acute
Stress Reaction, http://www.oqp.med.va.gov/cpg/PTSD/PTSD_Base.htm
Mental Health Response to Mass Violence and Terrorism: A Training Manual (2004). U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA), Washington DC 20015.
http://www.mentalhealth.samhsa.gov/publications/allpubs/SMA-3959/default.asp
Psychological First Aid, Field Operations Guide, National Center for PTSD
http://www.nctsn.org/nccts/nav.do?pid=ctr_terr_resources_pfa

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component and Air National Guard
CONUS—Continental United States
CPG—clinical practice guideline
CSC—combat stress control
COSR—combat and operational stress reaction
 10                                           AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010


MAJCOM—major command
NIMH—National Mental Health Institute
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PRP—Personal Reliability Program
SIB—safety investigation board
SG—Surgeon General
TSR—traumatic stress response

Terms
Class A Mishap—A mishap resulting in one or more of the following:
        Direct mishap cost totaling $1,000,000 or more.
        A fatality or permanent total disability.
        Destruction of a DoD aircraft.
Traumatic Stress Response—A coordinated response initiated by unit leaders in which TSR
teams engage in the provision of services to individuals and groups who may have or who have
had direct exposure to a potentially traumatic event.
Traumatic Stress Response teams—Designated teams that provide pre-exposure preparation
training, consultation to unit commanders and leaders, screening, psychological first aid,
education and referral in order to foster reliance to potentially traumatic events.
Potentially Traumatic Event—Direct exposure or personal experience of an event that involves
actual or threatened death or serious injury, or other threat to one’s physical integrity; or learning
about unexpected or violent death, serious harm, or threat of death or injury experienced by a
family member or other close associate.
        Traumatic events that are experienced directly include, but are not limited to, military
        combat, violent personal assault (sexual assault, physical attack, robbery, mugging),
        being kidnapped, being taken hostage, terrorist attack, torture, incarceration as a prisoner
        of war or in a concentration camp, natural or manmade disaster, severe automobile
        accidents, or being diagnosed with life-threatening illness. Witnessed events include, but
        are not limited to, observing the serious injury or unnatural death of another person due to
        violent assault, accident, war, or disaster or unexpectedly witnessing a dead body or body
        parts. Events experienced by others that are learned about include, but are not limited to,
        violent personal assault, serious accident, or serious injury experienced by a family
        member or close friend; learning about the sudden, unexpected death of a family member
        or a close friend; or learning that one’s child has a life-threatening disease.
Pre-Exposure Preparation—A preventive approach prior to exposure to a potentially traumatic
event that uses an educational approach to emphasize the typical and normal stress responses and
basic techniques in stress management.
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010                                                            11


                                            Attachment 2
      TRAINING OUTLINE FOR TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE (TSR) TEAM
                              MEMBERS

TSR team chiefs are responsible for ensuring TSR team members have reviewed all information
contained in this attachment. TSR training, which must be accomplished at least quarterly and
documented, will ensure all TSR team members are familiar with the key principles of: PEP,
early interventions after mass violence, and clinical practice guidelines for traumatic stress
management. All team members should be able to provide consultation, education, screening,
psychological first aid and referral in response to potentially traumatic events.
I. PRE-EXPOSURE PREPARATION (PEP)
PEP education is the primary preventive function of TSR teams.
Community education regarding the functions of the TSR teams and PEP should be
accomplished on a regular basis through briefings and articles in base publications. Education
regarding the services of the TSR teams should not wait until a potentially traumatic event is
anticipated or has occurred. Pre-exposure guidance should be offered to all individuals for whom
exposure to a potentially traumatic event is anticipated.
The following information can be shared with units or individuals who may be exposed to
potentially traumatic events, to enhance resilience.
TRAUMA-RELATED STRESS
What to expect when exposed to a potentially traumatic event
Responses to a potentially traumatic event vary from person to person, depending on a number of
factors, including previous life experiences and personal experience of the actual event. Research
has shown most stress-related symptoms, when present, are short-term in duration. However,
sometimes symptoms persist, and should be addressed to prevent long-term problems.
Typical and Normal Stress Responses include:
Feeling keyed up, on edge, and restless; hyper-vigilance; exaggerated startle response; irritability
or outbursts of anger; sadness and crying; fatigue; difficulty concentrating, preoccupation with
the traumatic event; muscle tension; sleep disturbances (difficulty falling or staying asleep, or
restless unsatisfying sleep); appetite disturbances (forgetting to eat or drink)
Keys Concepts to know when dealing with Traumatic Stress:
Trauma-related stress reactions are normal reactions to abnormal situations
Airmen are specially selected and trained to perform under highly stressful circumstances
Coping with and surviving a traumatic event enhances resilience and self-confidence
Effective Coping Strategies for Stress Include:
Talking about feelings of stress with others
Attention to basic needs: sleep, diet, exercise, social, spiritual needs
Helping others who are in need
    12                                         AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010


When and Where to Seek Assistance from Professionals:
Seek immediate referral when the following symptoms are present:
Suicidal or homicidal ideation, intention, or plans; hallucinations or delusions; severe depression;
alcohol or drug abuse
Seek assistance when the following symptoms last for over a month, and/or impact work or
social functioning:
Persistent avoidance of reminders of the trauma and emotional numbing; persistent loss of
interest in friends, family and activities; feelings of detachment from others; restricted range of
affect (e.g., unable to have loving feelings); flashbacks; feeling as if the traumatic event were
recurring; feelings of worthlessness or excessive guilt; depressed mood most of the day, nearly
every day, with persistent crying, feelings of emptiness and sadness.
II.  KEY OPERATING PRINCIPLES OF EARLY INTERVENTION FOLLOWING
MASS VIOLENCE
The following information in paragraphs II and III are adapted from National Institute for Mental
Health (NIMH) Recommendations. These recommendations apply to intervention efforts
following episodes of mass violence.
Training for early interventions should address preparation, planning, education, training, service
provision, and evaluation of efforts to assist those affected by mass violence and disasters. Early
intervention policies should be based on empirically defensible and evidence-based practices. An
ethical duty exists to discourage the use of ineffective or unsafe techniques.
Key Components of Early Intervention
Through exercises and training, TSR members will know how to implement the following key
components in the event of mass exposure to trauma:
         Basic Needs
-        Provide survival, safety, and security
-        Provide food and shelter
-        Orient survivors to the availability of service/support
-        Communicate with family, friends, and community
-        Assess the environment for ongoing threats
Psychological First Aid
-        Protect survivors from further harm
-        Reduce physiological arousal
-        Mobilize support for those who are most distressed
-        Keep families together and facilitate reunions with loved ones
-        Provide information and foster communication and education
-        Use effective risk communication techniques
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010                                                         13


-        Assess the current status of individuals, groups, and/or populations and
institutions/systems. Ask how well needs are being addressed, what the recovery environment
offers, and what additional interventions are needed.
-        No requirement for a formal mental health evaluation unless there is a red flag in the
initial screening, i.e., a red flag in a post-deployment screening
Rescue and Recovery Environmental Observation
-      Observe and listen to those most affected
-      Monitor the environment for toxins and stressors
-      Monitor past and ongoing threats
-      Monitor services that are being provided
-      Monitor media coverage and rumors
Outreach and Information Dissemination
-      Offer information/education and ―therapy by walking around‖
-       Inviting community members to bring in other people that may be affected, but were not
able to be involved in early interventions
-      Use established community structures
-      Distribute flyers; encourage those not initially identified to seek services
-      Host web sites
-      Conduct media interviews and programs and distribute media releases
Technical Assistance, Consultation, and Training
-      Improve capacity of organizations and caregivers to provide what is needed
-      Reestablish community structure
-      Foster family recovery and resilience
-      Safeguard the community
-      Provide assistance, consultation, and training to relevant organizations, other caregivers
and responders, and leaders
Fostering Resilience and Recovery
-      Foster but do not force social interactions
-      Provide coping skills training
-      Provide risk assessment skills training
-     Provide education on stress responses, traumatic reminders, coping, and normal versus
abnormal functioning, risk factors, and services
-      Offer group and family interventions
-      Foster natural social supports
    14                                         AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010


-        Look after the bereaved
-        Repair the organizational fabric
Triage
-        Conduct clinical assessments, using valid and reliable methods
-        Refer when indicated
-        Identify vulnerable, high-risk individuals and groups
-        Provide for emergency hospitalization
Treatment
-        Know when to refer individuals for specialty assistance
III. GUIDANCE FOR TIMING OF EARLY INTERVENTIONS
PHASE:                 Pre-incident Impact              Rescue        Recovery       Return to Life
                                      (0-48 Hours)      (0-1 Week) (1-4 weeks)       (2Weeks-2 years)


GOALS:                 Preparation;   Survival,         Adjustment    Appraisal/     Reintegration
                       Improve        Communication                   Planning
                       coping


BEHAVIOR:              Preparation    Fight/flight,     Resistance    Grief,         Adjustment vs.
                       vs.            freeze,           vs.           reappraisal,
                       Denial         Surrender, etc.   Exhaustion    Intrusive      Phobias, PTSD,
                                                                      memories,
                                                                      Narrative      Avoidance,
                                                                      formation      depression


ROLE OF ALL            Prepare, train Rescue, protect   Orient;       Respond        Continue
                                                        provide       with
HELPERS:               Gain                             For needs     sensitivity    Assistance
                       knowledge


ROLE OF MENTAL Prepare                Basic Needs       Needs         Monitor the Treatment
HEALTH                                                  Assessment Recovery
PROFESSIONALS:                        Establish safety/ Assess        Environment Reduce or
                                                        current
                       Train          security/survival status, how   Observe and    ameliorate
                                                        well
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010                                                                15


PHASE:         Pre-incident Impact                Rescue         Recovery         Return to Life
                                (0-48 Hours)      (0-1 Week) (1-4 weeks)          (2Weeks-2 years)


                                                  needs are      listen for       symptoms or
                                                  being          those
               Gain             Ensure food       addressed      most affected improve
               knowledge
                                and shelter                                       functioning via:
               Collaborate                        What           Monitor the
                                                  additional
                                Facilitate        intervention environment * Individual,
                                                  s are                    family,
               Inform and       communication     needed for     for toxins       and group
               influence        with family,                                      psychotherapy
               policy           friends, and
                                community         * Group        Monitor past *
                                                                 and ongoing Pharmacotherapy
               Set Structures                     * Population threats            * Short-term or
               for rapid
               assistance       Assess the        * Individual                    long-term
                                environment for                  Monitor          hospitalization
                                                                 services
               Provide Pre-     ongoing threat/                  that are being
               Exposure         toxin             Triage         provided
               training
                                                  Clinical
                                Psychological     Assessment Spiritual
                                First Aid                    Support
                                                  Refer when
                                Support and       indicated
                                "presence" for
                                those who are     Identify
                                                  vulnerable,
                                most distressed   high-risk
                                                  individuals
                                                  and groups
                                Keep families
 16                                         AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010


PHASE:                Pre-incident Impact            Rescue       Recovery      Return to Life
                                    (0-48 Hours)     (0-1 Week) (1-4 weeks)     (2Weeks-2 years)


                                    together and
                                    Assess
                                    caregivers


IV. CLINICAL           PRACTICE         GUIDELINES          FOR      TRAUMATIC          STRESS
MANAGEMENT
The following flow charts provide an overview of the Department of Veterans Affairs/
Department of Defense/ (VA/DoD) Clinical Practice Guideline (CPG) on Management of
Traumatic Stress. TSR team members can use this CPG to screen and refer individuals who have
been exposed to potentially traumatic events. The first flow chart depicts a core module that can
be used to screen any individual who has been exposed to a potentially traumatic event. The
remaining charts provide guidance on management of individuals with acute stress reactions,
combat and operational stress reactions, and those who are referred to primary care or Life Skills
for further assessment.
Medical and Life Skills providers are encouraged to review the entire VA/DoD CPG for the
Management of Post-Traumatic Stress (see References section.)
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010   17
18   AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010   19
20   AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010
AFI44-153_MOODYAFBSUP_I 9 AUGUST 2010   21
