BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 44-171
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              18 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                         Medical

                                                             PATIENT CENTERED MEDICAL
                                                               HOMEAND FAMILY HEALTH
                                                                           OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMOA/SGH                                                                Certified by: AF/SG
                                                                        (Lt Gen Charles B. Green)
                                                                                         Pages: 36


This instruction implements AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations and provides guidance and
standards for Air Force Family Health Clinic business practices and support to the Family Health
Teams (FHT). This AFI applies to active duty, Civil Service, Air Reserve Component, contract
personnel and volunteers working in active duty medical treatment facilities. This AFI does not
apply to Air Force Reserve Medical Units, Air National Guard Medical Groups and Aeromedical
Evacuation Squadrons. The AFI integrates the principles of population health into daily
operations in the health care of the FHT’s enrolled population. It partially implements or
supports multiple DOD and Air Force publications including, but not limited to: DODI 6025.20,
Medical Management Programs, AFI 44-102 Medical Care Management, AFI 44-119, Medical
Quality Operations and AFI 46-101 Nursing Services and Operations. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

Application: Family Health Operations (FHO) becomes effective upon the formal
announcement of implementation Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) by MTF, as designated by
AFMOA/CC following appropriate training of MTF staff by implementation team. Non-FHO
MTFs will not implement the FHO Structure prior to formal designation. Non-FHO MTFs are
encouraged, however, to utilize guidance herein to improve processes consistent with current
policy guidance which does not involve personnel or structure changes.

This instruction is a new publication and must be reviewed in its entirety.
 2                                                                                           AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


Submit all supplements to this Air Force Instruction (AFI) to AFMOA to be staffed for approval.
Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through channels, to AFMOA/SGH, 485 Quentin Roosevelt Rd, Bldg 171, Port San
Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78226.



Chapter 1—OVERVIEW                                                                                                                         3
       1.1.   Purpose for Family Health Operations (FHO). ......................................................                           3
       1.2.   Goals of FHO. ........................................................................................................       3
       1.3.   Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................             3
       1.4.   Family Health Clinic Roles and Responsibilities. .................................................                           9
       1.5.   Family Health Clinic Structure. .............................................................................               12

Chapter 2—OPERATIONS                                                                                                                      15
       2.1.   Concept of Operations. ..........................................................................................           15
       2.2.   Clinical Operations. ...............................................................................................        18
       2.3.   Business Operations. ..............................................................................................         24
       2.4.   Deployment Operations. ........................................................................................             26

Chapter 3—OPERATIONAL MEASUREMENTS                                                                                                        28
       3.1.   Operational Metrics. ..............................................................................................         28
       3.2.   Inspections. ............................................................................................................   30

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            31

Attachment 2—CITATIONS USED IN PUBLICATION                                                                                                36
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                     3



                                          Chapter 1

                                        OVERVIEW

1.1. Purpose for Family Health Operations (FHO).
   1.1.1. Deliver highest quality, evidence-based, patient-centered care to enrolled patients
   through team-oriented processes, good access, high continuity, communications, prevention,
   education and coordinated management of disease. Employ this approach to ensure
   operational readiness and operational health of military members.
   1.1.2. Create an innovative, rewarding and productive practice environment that attracts and
   retains highly qualified, top performing medical professionals.
       1.1.2.1. Utilize to maximum effect the skills of all team members with each team led by
       a physician.
       1.1.2.2. Emphasize continuous improvement of team processes centered around the
       principles of the Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH).
       1.1.2.3. Integrate technological tools into team processes to enhance communications
       with patients and provide agile tracking of health parameters for individual patients and
       across the team’s population of patients.
       1.1.2.4. Assure clinical currency and readiness for members of the team.
1.2. Goals of FHO.
   1.2.1. Establish the FHT as the Patient-Centered Medical Home for AF beneficiary enrolled
   family health patients.
   1.2.2. Provide optimal patient-centered care for enrolled patients using evidence-based
   clinical practice grounded in established population health principles.
   1.2.3. Establish standard processes, alignment and roles for FHTs as a foundation for
   continuous improvement focused on the principles of the Patient Centered Medical Home.
1.3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.3.1. AF Surgeon General (AF/SG).
       1.3.1.1. The office of primary responsibility (OPR) for FHO.
       1.3.1.2. Ensures adequate medical resources are planned, programmed and budgeted to
       meet FHO requirements.
   1.3.2. Assistant Surgeon General for Operations (SG3).
       1.3.2.1. OPR for policy and guidance for FHO.
   1.3.3. Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA).
       1.3.3.1. OPR for overall execution of FHO.
       1.3.3.2. Recommends policy in coordination with military treatment facilities (MTFs)
       and higher headquarters.
4                                                                 AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


       1.3.3.3. Develops FHO requirements and business rules; reviews and updates them at
       least annually.
       1.3.3.4. Provides clinical information management (IM) functional requirements to
       Healthcare Informatics Branch (SG6H) for population health management and outcomes
       measurement.
       1.3.3.5. Provides an Applied Clinical Epidemiology (ACE) function to develop and
       deploy decision support techniques and tools utilizing medical informatics platforms in
       cooperation with AF/SG6. The techniques and tools integrate with clinical workflow
       and support quality health care as well as continuous improvement of team processes
          1.3.3.5.1. ACE develops and deploys in cooperation with AF/SG6 techniques and
          tools for communicating information to health care teams and enrolled patients using
          an array of communication tools such as secure digital messaging. This will support
          application of evidence-based best clinical practices by medical home teams, enhance
          the availability of information to patients, and improve the efficiency of
          communications.
       1.3.3.6. Provides clinical analysis support to MTFs for population health outcomes.
    1.3.4. MAJCOM Commander (MAJCOM/SG).
       1.3.4.1. OPR for execution of FHO at the MAJCOM level.
       1.3.4.2. Coordinates with AFMOA and AFMSA on required major policy changes and
       advise MAJCOM/MTFs on issues related to FHO as appropriate.
    1.3.5. Medical Group Commander (MDG/CC).
       1.3.5.1. OPR for FHO at the MTF level.
       1.3.5.2. Ensures that resources allocated by AF/SG are aligned and utilized IAW this
       instruction. Ensures that military nurses and technicians assigned to FHTs are assigned
       for a minimum of 2 years unless prevented by circumstances outside the MDG’s control.
       1.3.5.3. Monitors and enforces compliance with this instruction within the MDG.
    1.3.6. MDOS Commander (MDOS/CC).
       1.3.6.1. Coordinates with Chief of Medical Staff (SGH), Chief Nurse (SGN),
       Administrator (SGA) and Medical Support Squadron Commander (MDSS/CC) to ensure
       appropriate facilities and staffing are applied to FHO efforts.
    1.3.7. MDSS Commander (MDSS/CC).
       1.3.7.1. Coordinates with SGH, SGN, SGA and MDOS/CC to ensure appropriate
       facilities and staffing are applied to FHO efforts and IAW AFMS Flight Path for the AF
       Combat Wing Organization.
    1.3.8. Medical Group Chief of Medical Staff (SGH)
       1.3.8.1. Responsible for clinical leadership of FHO including program development,
       execution, monitoring and evaluation of MTF FHO.
       1.3.8.2. Facilitates continuity of care and staffing. Provides clinical leadership and
       mentorship to clinical staff; practices in the clinical setting when possible, consistent with
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                     5


     current privileges and scope of practice. Sole waiver authority for changing 90
     appointments per week requirement for providers based on local workload issues and
     maturity of medical home providers with regards to continuity greater than 90% no
     longer requiring this level of central booking.
     1.3.8.3. Specifically responsible for approval of provider schedules and templates.
     Oversees, in conjunction with the MDOS/CC, Group Practice Manager (GPM),
     Healthcare Integrator (HCI) and Flight Commander (Flight/CC), FHO procedures
     pertaining to patient continuity and access, including, but not limited to, appointment
     availability and booking protocols.
     1.3.8.4. Coordinates with Chief Nurse (SGN), Administrator (SGA), MDOS/CC and
     MDSS/CC to ensure appropriate facilities and staffing are applied to FHO efforts and
     IAW AFMS Flight Path.
     1.3.8.5. Leads MTF Population Health activities and chairs Population Health Function.
     The SGH ensures enrollment is acuity-based, leveled and matched to individual provider
     capabilities. Directs clinical aspects of medical management.
     1.3.8.6. Responsible for supervision of GPM and Healthcare Integrator (HCI). Oversees
     Medical Management program to include, but not limited to, Disease Management (DM),
     Utilization Management (UM) and Case Management (CM).
     1.3.8.7. Ensures accomplishment of FHT care coordination meetings; assists HCI in
     prioritization of care using available databases.
     1.3.8.8. Leads clinical aspects of medical management meetings.
     1.3.8.9. Responsible for timely development and approval process for CPGs; ensures
     staff are trained on protocol use (and documentation of training completed) and
     appropriately utilized/supervised by provider staff.
     1.3.8.10. Responsible for review of provider-level metrics with the individual providers
     IAW this instruction.
     1.3.8.11. Responsible for oversight in the development and implementation of disease
     management programs and supports the organization in delivering clinically appropriate
     programs.
        1.3.8.11.1. In conjunction with disease managers, reviews and approves the disease
        management plan annually before forwarding to ECOMS for final review/approval.
  1.3.9. Chief Nurse (SGN)
     1.3.9.1. Collaborates with MDOS/CC, Flight/CC and Senior 4N0 Functional Manager
     for the orientation, training and allocation of nursing and medical technician resources in
     accordance with this instruction and AFI 46-101, Nursing Services and Operations.
     Works with squadron commanders, flight/cc, Senior 4N0 Functional Manager and
     Resource Management Office (RMO) to ensure the Unit Manpower Document (UMD)
     and Unit Management Personnel Roster (UMPR) accurately reflect current manning and
     location of nurses and medical technicians in support of FHO structure.
     1.3.9.2. Collaborates with SGH, SGA, MDOS/CC and MDSS/CC to ensure appropriate
     facilities and staffing are applied to FHO efforts.
6                                                               AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


       1.3.9.3. Collaborates with SGH and 4N Functional Manager on development of support
       staff protocols and algorithms (if used). Ensures appropriate Executive Committee of the
       Medical Staff (ECOMS) approval is obtained before use of protocols. Ensures protocols
       meet current nursing standards and scope of care for involved nursing staff and medical
       technicians, with appropriate training and documentation.
       1.3.9.4. Collaborates with SGH to ensure appropriate review and approval of telephone
       triage decision support tools.
       1.3.9.5. Along with the SGH, facilitates selection and implementation of Clinical
       Practice Guidelines (CPGs).
    1.3.10. Medical Group Administrator (SGA).
       1.3.10.1. In coordination with MDOS/CC, responsible for facilities and staffing of
       administrative functions in support of FHO. Leads and tracks contracting efforts for
       hiring of clinic staff supporting FHO.
       1.3.10.2. Responsible for effective facilitation and coordination of MTF patient care
       activities with Managed Care Support Contractor (MCSC) patient care activities in
       support of FHO (examples include discharge planning, referral tracking and network
       urgent care availability in support of continuity).
       1.3.10.3. Works with RMO to ensure the UMD and UMPR accurately reflect current
       authorizations, assigned manning and location of clinic staff in support of FHO structure.
    1.3.11. Senior 4N0 Functional Manager.
       1.3.11.1. Responsible for establishing and maintaining continuity of technician staff in
       support of FHT on daily and long term basis.
       1.3.11.2. In coordination with SGN and Flight/CC, develops UTC assignments for 4N0s.
       1.3.11.3. In coordination with SGN, responsible for development and deployment of
       technician support staff protocols and algorithms IAW AFI 44-102, 44-119 and 46-101 in
       support of FHO.
       1.3.11.4. Provides clinical leadership and mentorship to enlisted members of FHT;
       participates in clinical operations when possible in accordance with his/her scope of care.
       1.3.11.5. Coordinates FHO activities/functions with Senior 4A0 Functional Manager.
    1.3.12. Group Practice Manager (GPM).
       1.3.12.1. Responsible for initial development and ongoing modification of provider
       templates to ensure access and demand management in accordance with this instruction.
       Works closely with providers to ensure ample provider input based on historic and
       projected needs of enrolled population.
       1.3.12.2. Coordinates all MDSS support functions with MDSS leadership to ensure
       proper support is provided to execute the operational mission.
       1.3.12.3. Acts as advisor to appropriate officer and enlisted Corps consultants to assist in
       alignment of resources to assure staffing supports the FHO structure.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                      7


     1.3.12.4. In collaboration with FHT leadership will advise SGA, via the Facility
     Utilization Board (FUB) process, on space requirements to successfully accomplish FHO
     IAW FHO structure.
     1.3.12.5. Responsible for management of acuity-based enrollment under the oversight of
     the SGH and in coordination with clinical leadership and Managed Care as appropriate.
     1.3.12.6. Appointed Access Manager by MDG/CC. Works in collaboration with
     providers and clinic leadership to ensure adequate supply of appointments through
     management of templates, schedules and appointing procedures.
     1.3.12.6. Responsible for developing business rules for use of acute care within the MTF
     and network care to manage excess acute demand as needed (“pop off”). Coordinates
     plan/changes with Managed Care and MDG executive leadership team.
     1.3.12.7. Ensures training of the medical office manager is accomplished. If organized
     in the same rating chain, GPM will also supervise and rate the medical office manager.
         1.3.12.7.1. One 4A0 is earned in the model for all enrolled facilities but an additional
         4A0 is earned for more than 10 providers. MTFs can utilize them as front desk
         receptionists (see duty description in 1.4.6.1.) or as office managers (see duty
         description in 1.4.6.2.) as they see fit.
     1.3.12.8. Supervised and rated by the SGH or Chief GPM.
     1.3.12.9. Emphasis will be placed on GPM role. Additional duties will be limited. GPM
     will remain in the role for two years.
  1.3.13. Health Care Integrator (HCI).
     1.3.13.1. Responsible for the supervision and training of the disease management, case
     management and utilization management nurses.
     1.3.13.2. HCI, as a MDG asset, will assist with FHO as follows:
         1.3.13.2.1. Identifies individual and populations of patients at risk for chronic,
         complex and co-morbid conditions and provides actionable data from various sources
         such as the Military Health System Population Health Portal (MHSPHP) data for use
         by the care coordination team (CM, DM, UM nurses and FHT).
         1.3.13.2.2. Directs, in coordination with the FHT leader and SGH as appropriate,
         DM, CM and UM nurse responsibilities for individual patient care and interaction
         within the medical management team in support of the FHT to which the patient is
         empanelled.
     1.3.13.3. Supervised and rated by the SGH (except in larger facilities where the HCI is
     assigned solely to Family Health Clinic; then they will be supervised and be rated by
     Family Health Flight/CC). If HCI is dual-hatted as SGN, rating will be determined by
     SGN flight path.
     1.3.13.4. Analyzes Military Health System Population Health Portal (MHSPHP) data for
     trends and provides recommendations to PHF for development of comprehensive
     population health needs.
8                                                               AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


       1.3.13.5. Along with provider champion, facilitates implementation of new CPGs within
       the MDG.
       1.3.13.6. Works closely with GPM to facilitate optimal functioning of FHO.
       1.3.13.7. Acts as an advisor to appropriate officer and enlisted corps consultants to
       maximize Population Health and Medical Management efforts.
    1.3.13.8. Additional duties should be limited as mission allows in order to maintain focus on
    HCI role.
    1.3.13.9. One HCI is earned based on every 12,000 enrollees to the facility.
    1.3.14. Disease Management Nurse
       1.3.14.1. Supervised/rated by the HCI.
       1.3.14.2. Develops and executes medical management activities in collaboration with
       HCI, FHT, SGN and SGH. Provides staff training on DM program and process and on
       CPG implementation and maintenance. Uses TRICARE Management Activity (TMA)
       Medical Management Guide as a resource in the performance of these duties.
       1.3.14.3. Identifies, develops and executes appropriate multi-disciplinary disease
       management activities and interventions as part of the MTF’s disease management plan
       that is approved by ECOMS.
       1.3.14.4. Identifies, directs and tracks appropriate patients for entry into approved CPGs
       for management of their specific diseases/conditions.
       1.3.14.5. Educates individuals and groups with chronic conditions IAW CPGs.
       1.3.14.6. Actively participates in team and MTF meetings as required and directed
       pertaining to disease/medical management.
       1.3.14.7. Provides direct patient care in the execution of outpatient care service as
       required.
       1.3.14.8. Prioritizes patient needs.
       1.3.14.9. Tracks health care/DM outcomes of individual patients with chronic care
       conditions.
       1.3.14.10. Certification by the Health Sciences Institute through its Chronic Care
       Professional certification is highly desirable.
    1.3.15. Case Management Nurse.
       1.3.15.1. Supervised/rated by the HCI except in larger facilities that have a Medical
       Management Director. Medical Management Director is not a separate billet on the
       UMD. Where identified, it is an additional duty. At those larger facilities the CM nurse
       will be rated by the Medical Management Director. Identifies individuals with chronic,
       catastrophic, complex, high utilization, high-risk or high-cost health issues who would
       benefit from case management services.
       1.3.15.2. Provides case management and/or care coordination to individual patients IAW
       accepted standards/guidelines. Uses TMA Medical Management Guide as a resource in
       the performance of these duties.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                       9


       1.3.15.3. Develops and executes individualized multi-disciplinary care plan in
       conjunction with patient/family.
       1.3.15.4. Coordinates with MTF and civilian medical resources to assure smooth
       transition, minimizing fragmentation of care.
       1.3.15.5. Actively participates in team and MTF meetings as required and directed
       pertaining to case/medical management to include Care Coordination Team meetings.
       1.3.15.6. Educates staff on CM role.
1.4. Family Health Clinic Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.4.1. Flight/CC.
       1.4.1.1. Responsible for implementation of FHO at the flight level.
       1.4.1.2. Coordinates with SGH, SGN, Senior 4N0 Functional Manager and squadron
       commander(s) to ensure assignment and alignment of clinical staff IAW this instruction.
       1.4.1.3. Ensures flight personnel are adequately trained and supervised to maximize
       clinical currency.
       1.4.1.4. Ensures that encounter coding is accomplished in timely manner IAW current
       standards.
       1.4.1.5. Ensures MEPRS (Defense Medical Human Resources System internet
       [DMHRSi]) coding is completed by all staff and is timely and appropriate IAW current
       standards.
       1.4.1.6. Reviews metrics with clinical staff IAW this instruction.
       1.4.1.7. Continues to maintain their own corps-specific clinical competency and currency
       by performing clinical duties in addition to command responsibilities.
          1.4.1.7.1. For flights equal to or greater than 50 personnel, minimum of 25% of duty
          time will be spent in corps-specific clinical functions.
          1.4.1.7.2. For flights less than 50 personnel, minimum of 50% of duty time will be
          spent in corps-specific clinical functions.
   1.4.2. NCOIC.
       1.4.2.1. Responsible for supervision of enlisted clinical staff and determination of direct
       supervision and rating chain.
       1.4.2.2. Responsible for training and appropriate use of technician protocols within the
       flight; ensures appropriate documentation of training.
       1.4.2.3. Maintains clinical role as medical technician as one of five technicians assigned
       to an FHT at levels similar to Flt/CC as described in 1.4.1.7.1. and 1.4.1.7.2.
       1.4.2.4. Consideration should be given to assigning this individual to a provider with
       decreased patient enrollment such as Flt/CC to allow time for administrative duties.
   1.4.3. Provider
10                                                             AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


     1.4.3.1. The family physician on each FHT will be the clinical team leader. Individual
     will ensure the daily performance of team huddles, periodic team care coordination
     meetings to maximize team communication and prioritize care.
     1.4.3.2. If there is more than one family physician on the FHT, the senior-ranking
     physician will be the clinical team leader.
     1.4.3.3. Team providers will be responsible for the care of their empanelled patients.
     They will work directly with GPM to maximize access to allow for care of their
     empanelled population. Ninety centrally available and unrestricted appointments per
     week is the minimum number of appointments expected for each provider when available
     for entire week in the clinic. Appropriate use of walk-in appointments, group
     appointments, etc. will be utilized to care for empanelled population.
     1.4.3.4. Team providers will work directly with the HCI and disease/case management
     nurses to develop strategies for the care of their patients with more complex disease
     states. They will be involved in care coordination activities (e.g. Care Coordination
     Team) as necessary.
     1.4.3.5. Team providers will manage their FHT population when their partner is out on
     leave or TDY. The GPM will work with teams during these times to manage templates
     to maximize access and distribute acute care IAW this instruction.
  1.4.4. Family Health Team Nurse.
     1.4.4.1. Will have at least three years nursing experience. Less experience may be
     waived by AFMOA/SGN on a case-by-case basis. Ambulatory care certification is
     recommended and preferred. Competency skills for ambulatory practice will be
     documented in Competency Assessment Folder (CAF).
     1.4.4.2. Responsible for nursing care provided to FHT enrolled patients.
     1.4.4.3. Will provide care in accordance with accepted clinical practice guidelines,
     support staff protocols or decision support tools.
        1.4.4.3.1. Clinical practice guidelines will be used for disease management of
        patients with chronic conditions.
        1.4.4.3.2. Locally or centrally-developed support staff protocols or algorithms will be
        used for common, low-acuity diseases/conditions. Protocols that are independent of a
        provider visit will be coordinated between SGN and SGH then reviewed and
        approved initially and thereafter annually by the Executive Committee of the Medical
        Staff (ECOMS). They will contain a training plan, a flow chart of the process
        (including exclusionary criteria), competency verification (for nurses) or AFTR
        documentation (for technicians), an AHLTA template and AHLTA questionnaire or
        SF 600 overprint.
        1.4.4.3.3. Decision support tools (DSTs) will be used for management of symptom-
        based telephone calls. DSTs will be    reviewed and approved initially and
        annually by ECOMS. Training on appropriate use of DSTs will be documented in the
        nurse’s CAF.
     1.4.4.4. Participates in the training of team medical technicians as appropriate.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                      11


     1.4.4.5. Participates in hands-on patient care and counseling as indicated by the specific
     patient encounter.
     1.4.4.6. Participates in all FHT team huddles and other team building/team training as
     directed by team lead.
  1.4.5. Medical Technician (4N0) or Civilian Equivalent.
     1.4.5.1. Participates in patient care encounter in accordance with documented training.
     1.4.5.2. Assists provider by obtaining and documenting clinical information during
     patient encounter. Will utilize AFMOA-approved AHLTA screening/intake workflow
     algorithms as directed.
     1.4.5.3. When trained, may perform and document specific portions of the physical exam
     as well as procedures in accordance with appropriate support staff protocols or algorithms
     as described in section 1.4.4.3.2.
     1.4.5.4. Required, at times, to perform administrative functions including, but not limited
     to, staffing of clinical check-in area, record retrieval, management of equipment and
     supplies, etc., as required.
     1.4.5.5. Assists FHT nurse with functions such as contacting patients with normal lab
     results and other clinical tasks according to support staff protocols. Support staff
     protocols for this purpose will adhere to use of strict scripting and any encounter that
     causes deviation from the script will drive care back to the team nurse or provider.
     1.4.5.6. Will have access to and working knowledge of the PIMR application to support
     FHT Force Health Management.
  1.4.6. Health Services Management Personnel (4A0) or Civilian Equivalent (see roles and
  responsibilities in 1.3.12.7.1).
     1.4.6.1. Front Desk Receptionist (Recommend GS or Contract).
         1.4.6.1.1. Greets the patient.
         1.4.6.1.2. Verifies patient identity and eligibility in Defense Eligibility Enrollment
         Reporting Systems (DEERS).
         1.4.6.1.3. Checks in the patient and enters patient information into the Armed Forces
         Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA).
         1.4.6.1.4. Obtains Third Party Collection Information.
         1.4.6.1.5. Identifies patients on Personnel Reliability Program (PRP).
         1.4.6.1.6. Verifies patient demographics and directs patient to update in DEERS if
         required. Will enter any new contact information (minimum phone number) in the
         COMMENTS section of AHLTA. Note: Demographic information updated
         elsewhere in AHLTA will be overwritten at next CHCS update with DEERS.
         1.4.6.1.7. Determines from patient if visit is injury related; ensure AF Form 1488 is
         completed if visit is injury related.
         1.4.6.1.8. Provides patient with any visit required paperwork and clinic instructions.
 12                                                               AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


          1.4.6.1.9. Routes patient to appropriate location for the visit.
          1.4.6.1.10. Schedules follow-up visit for patient if required.
          1.4.6.1.11. Tracks, or assists with tracking, diagnostic results/route to appropriate
          PCM/Specialist.
          1.4.6.1.12. Assists Office Manager and GPM as needed.
          1.4.6.1.13. Trains, as appropriate and assists Medical Technicians (4N0s) in the
          proper completion and maintenance of paperwork and outpatient medical records.
          1.4.6.1.14. Performs other patient administrative functions consistent with the 4A0
          skill set as appropriate to the Family Health Clinic setting.
      1.4.6.2. Medical Office Manager (recommend military 4A0 (minimum E-5) or GS
      equivalent (minimum GS-7))
          1.4.6.2.1. Assists GPM with identifying and managing patient demand by utilizing
          historical workload data using tools such as Composite Health Care System (CHCS)
          or Template Analysis Tool.
          1.4.6.2.2. Assists GPM in developing and maintaining provider templates.
          1.4.6.2.3. Inputs appointment templates/schedules into CHCS.
          1.4.6.2.4. Coordinates patient referrals with Referral Management Center (RMC) if a
          referral is required. Obtain referral reports from RMC when required and route to
          appropriate PCM. Note: T-cons to the ordering provider are the usual method by
          which RMC notifies providers of results. The Office manager may have to obtain
          paper copies, or route the referral results to the PCM when he or she is not the
          ordering provider.
          1.4.6.2.5. Performs End of Day processing at the end of clinic each day.
          1.4.6.2.6. Orders/restocks office supplies as required.
          1.4.6.2.7. Coordinates required documentation with appropriate clinical and support
          functions.
          1.4.6.2.8. Aids clinical staff in maintenance of preventive health databases for FHTs.
          1.4.6.2.9. Contacts/schedules    patients   requiring     preventive   health   visits   in
          coordination with HCI.
          1.4.6.2.10. Assists RMO in auditing Third Party Collections to ensure maximum
          MTF reimbursement.
          1.4.6.2.11. Supervises, rates and ensures training of the Family Health Clinic front
          desk personnel.
          1.4.6.2.12. Obtaining national Medical Office Specialist Certificate within 12 months
          of assuming duties is highly encouraged.
1.5. Family Health Clinic Structure.
   1.5.1. Family Health Team (FHT).
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                    13


     1.5.1.1. Each FHT will consist of 2 providers (military or civilian), 5 medical technicians
     (4N0 or civilian equivalent) and 1 nurse (46N3 or civilian equivalent). The team lead will
     be a board certified/board eligible family physician and the second provider will be either
     a mid-level provider (Physician Assistant or Family Nurse Practitioner), a general
     medical officer (GMO) or another family physician. If all physician authorizations
     cannot be filled by board certified/board eligible family physicians, the team lead will be
     the provider with the greatest level of clinical experience. Care should be taken to
     balance the military and civilian team to the greatest extent possible.
     1.5.1.2. The FHT physician will provide clinical oversight and precepting for the mid-
     level provider as required. If the physician on the team is a GMO or the team does not
     have a physician assigned for any reason, assignment for clinical oversight/precepting
     will be determined locally and divided amongst the available family physicians.
     1.5.1.3. At smaller facilities with only two providers, both providers will be physicians.
     The Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) and the Family Medicine consultant will make
     every effort to assign board certified (BC) or residency trained board eligible (BE) family
     physicians as available manning allows.
     1.5.1.4. Patients will be enrolled to providers by name; each provider will act as the
     Primary Care Manager (PCM) for his/her panel of patients.
     1.5.1.5. This team structure is not applicable for family medicine residency clinics and
     staffing remains as directed by previous models.
  1.5.2. Family Health Element (FHE).
     1.5.2.1. Each element will consist of 2-4 family health teams.
     1.5.2.2. The element leader will be the most qualified individual within the element as
     determined by the MDOS/CC or designee.
  1.5.3. Family Health Flight (FHF).
     1.5.3.1. The family health flight will be comprised of all family health elements. At
     facilities that have a single FHE or possibly single FHT, FH assets may fall under a larger
     organization within the MDG as directed by the MDG/CC (e.g. Primary Care Flight).
     1.5.3.2. The Flight/CC will be the most qualified individual within the flight as
     determined by the MDOS/CC or designee.
  1.5.4. FHT Support Functions.
     1.5.4.1. Administrative support, Behavioral Health Optimization Program (BHOP), DM,
     CM and utilization management (UM) personnel will be considered integral to the FHT
     in management of Family Health Clinic patients for the purposes of this AFI, regardless
     of supervision.
     1.5.4.2. Administrative support (4A0 or civilian equivalent) authorizations for the
     Family Health Clinic (FHC) are earned as an initial requirement of 1, with an additional
     4A0 (or civilian equivalent) earned for every 10 providers in the FHC.
     1.5.4.3. Disease management nursing authorizations are earned based on disease burden
     for empanelled population to FHC and Internal Medicine Clinic, if present.
14                                                          AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


     1.5.4.4. Case management and utilization management personnel are MDG assets
     utilized by the FHT in the care of empanelled patients. Authorizations earned are not
     specific to FHO and not discussed in this instruction.
  1.5.5. Space requirements.
     1.5.5.1. A minimum of two exam rooms per provider and office space to accommodate
     two providers, a nurse and five Medical Technicians (4N0s) per FHT.
     1.5.5.2. Exam rooms should be configured in standard fashion to enable clinic flexibility
     and maximal use of space by available providers. Exact location of all team members
     will be determined locally, as influenced by space constraints, but will ensure that team
     members are in close proximity.
  1.5.6. Special Missions.
     1.5.6.1. Preventive Health Assessment (PHA).
         1.5.6.1.1. PHA will be managed by Aerospace Medicine IAW AFI 44-170,
         Preventive Health Assessment.
         1.5.6.1.2. The active duty member’s primary assigned provider will continue to be
         responsible for any face-to-face visit required for PHA. The individual performing
         this exam may be modified as mission requirements dictate IAW the PHA AFI and
         PHA business rules.
         1.5.6.1.3. Staffing for the PHA cell will be assigned outside of the family health
         clinic IAW AFI 44-170, Preventive Health Assessment.
     1.5.6.2. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP).
         1.5.6.2.1. PRP clinics, where they exist, will be aligned under Flight Medicine. The
         organizational and structure components of this AFI do not apply to these separate
         PRP clinics.
         1.5.6.2.2. If the MTF does not have a separate PRP clinic, PRP patients may be
         enrolled to Flight Medicine or Family Health as directed by MTF leadership. The
         PRP program will continue to be managed by the SGP IAW the appropriate AFI.
         1.5.6.2.3. If PRP patients are still seen in the family health clinic, enrollment
         distribution of PRP patients will be determined by MDG/CC. Recommendation
         would be to minimize number of providers seeing PRP patients on regular basis
         although all providers will still need to be familiar with PRP and complete MDG
         training requirements. Recommendation also made that at facilities with larger PRP
         missions that Competent Medical Authority (CMA) and alternate CMA are on the
         same FHT when those roles fall to the family health clinic.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                      15


                                          Chapter 2

                                       OPERATIONS

2.1. Concept of Operations.
   2.1.1. All clinics formerly known as Primary Care, Family Practice or Family Medicine will
   now be named Family Health Clinic. This clinic will be focused on care for the empanelled
   population employing evidence-based clinical practice, coordinated team care and
   prevention. In smaller MTFs where the Family Health Clinic falls under a larger primary
   care flight, the name of the flight and any subsequent duty titles will remain unchanged.
      2.1.1.1. The only exception to this will be clinics associated with Family Medicine
      Residency programs. To distinguish between the clinics (if separate in the facility), these
      clinics will be designated the Family Medicine Residency Clinic.
   2.1.2. The Family Medicine Physician will be the FHT Lead.
      2.1.2.1. Initial requirement (“opening cost”) for all facilities will be two physicians with
      the goal to assign two board certified/board eligible family physicians as noted in 1.5.1.2.
   2.1.3. Patient continuity is an essential feature of the Family Health Clinic as the patient-
   centered medical home for its empanelled patients.
      2.1.3.1. Appointing protocols will be built to maximize continuity with patients
      appointed to their primary FHT provider and FHT providers appointed with their
      empanelled population to the maximum extent possible.
      2.1.3.2. The process of cross booking patients to other FHC teams should be minimized
      and done only when there are extended TDYs, deployments or prolonged absences.
      Action plans need to be developed to anticipate short and long term provider and clinic
      support staff shortages, (i.e. TDY, leave, illness and deployments). Identify opportunities
      and implement a process of backfills, (i.e. scheduling of floaters, non-empanelled
      medical officers/providers, IMAs, etc) to maximize patient continuity.
   2.1.4. A minimum of 90 centrally available appointments per week per provider and 360
   centrally available appointments per month per provider will be available 30 calendar days
   out in accordance with ATC Guidelines. For weeks with fewer than 5 duty days (i.e.,
   holiday, family day), the available appointment requirement will be prorated accordingly
   (i.e., 72 appointments if 4 days, 54 appointments if 3 days, etc.).
      2.1.4.1. Centrally available appointments may be booked at all levels to include
      appointing clerks, TRICARE On-Line (TOL) and clinic personnel with emphasis on
      minimal booking accomplished by clinic personnel. Number of appointments available
      on TRICARE-On-Line (TOL) to be in accordance with ATC Guidelines.
      2.1.4.2. Providers will not be expected to maintain this level of access during periods of
      leave/TDY or extended training (e.g. Operational Readiness Exercise [ORE]/Operational
      Readiness Inspection [ORI], Medical Unit Readiness Training [MURT]) involving an
      entire day and the MTF level and provider/MTF level appointment metrics will reflect
      the prorated amount of centrally available appointments based off of available time.
      These periods of absence will be properly annotated within DMHRSi.
16                                                            AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


         2.1.4.2.1. Providers will be expected to maintain this level of access (schedule
         additional centrally available appointments on subsequent days) when appointments
         lost due to events such as staff meetings, training days, etc. less than 1 duty day.
         Every effort should be made to minimize scheduling of these events during clinic
         hours. Clinical absences of one duty day or longer (i.e., leave, TDY) will not be
         “made up” and the required number of available appointments will be prorated
         accordingly (see 2.1.4).
         2.1.4.2.2. Additional appointments needed to maintain above standards may be
         spread over the week or month as determined by population needs for access.
     2.1.4.3. Providers will have the authority, with reasonable lead-time, to adjust their
     schedule/templates as long as access and available appointment standards are maintained.
     Routine schedule adjustments will not result in patient cancellations/rescheduling.
     2.1.4.4. The appointment availability standards will not apply to Family Medicine
     Graduate Medical Education (GME) programs. These programs will continue to adhere
     to standards established by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education
     (ACGME).
     2.1.4.5. Physicians who provide additional services mandated by AFMS guidance (e.g.
     Allergy Extender) for the entire MDG population will have the requirement for centrally
     available appointments prorated accordingly. Consideration should be given to
     decreasing enrollment for these physicians if panel access is adversely affected.
     2.1.4.6. Physicians not involved with residency education but involved with required
     precepting for formal medical education (i.e. medical students, Phase II PA training
     program) will have the requirement for centrally available appointments prorated
     accordingly. Care should be taken to accurately measure the actual time spent precepting
     in the process of this proration.
     2.1.4.7. Providers who have duty limiting conditions that require shortened duty days
     will have available appointment requirement prorated to account for hours available in
     clinic.
  2.1.5. RVU productivity, using enhanced RVUs, will be maintained at the provider and MTF
  level in accordance with current fiscal year Business Plan targets.
     2.1.5.1. RVU monthly goals will not be prorated as the benchmark average takes
     leave/TDY into account.
     2.1.5.2. RVU productivity standards will not apply to Family Medicine Residency
     programs. These programs will continue to adhere to standards established by the
     ACGME.
     2.1.5.3. It must be recognized that appointment availability and RVU production are
     metrics that look at single facets of patient care. Attention must be given to all measures
     of clinic performance.
  2.1.6. Each facility will be responsible for empanelment of 2,500 patients per FHT (two
  providers), normally resulting in a 1,250:1 ratio for each provider.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                    17


     2.1.6.1. Flexibility within actual empanelment to individual providers/teams will be
     allowed as long as the facility maintains an overall average of 2,500 per FHT.
     2.1.6.2. Facilities may consider balancing panels within an FHT based on patient
     acuity/complexity and demand (e.g. family physician 1,150; mid-level provider 1,350), as
     long as the facility total enrollment achieves a ratio of 2,500:1 per FHT assigned,
     averaged across the facility.
     2.1.6.3. Facilities may also consider balancing panels across FHTs based on additional
     duties (e.g. element leader 1,000; other clinic providers 1,300) using the same total
     enrollment requirement.
     2.1.6.4. Family Medicine Residency programs will enroll to maximum of 1,050 patients
     per provider pod (staff physician, PGY-1, PGY-2, PGY-3). Decreased enrollment
     numbers are based on additional requirements for staff (ward attending, precepting,
     procedures) and residents (ward duties, clinical rotations outside family medicine) that
     minimize available clinic time and affect patient access. Balancing of these residency
     panels and actual enrollment numbers will be based on training guidelines established by
     the ACGME.
  2.1.7. Aggressive template management will be used to enable provider-managed time
  providing standards for appointment availability are met for the provider.
     2.1.7.1. Providers will utilize this time for procedures, high-acuity care, walk-in
     appointments (as needed), group medical appointments, etc.
     2.1.7.2. Providers may also use this time for admin functions (Medical Evaluation Board
     (MEB)/Review In-Lieu-Of (RILO), Officer Performance Report (OPR)/Enlisted
     Performance Report (EPR), etc), physical fitness time, personal appointments, etc., as
     required.
     2.1.7.3. At MTFs that offer inpatient care, active duty family physicians will be required
     to perform inpatient duties (OB care is highly encouraged but not required) within the
     scope of their credentials. Inpatient rounding may take place during this provider
     managed time. At locations where a family physician manages the entire inpatient family
     medicine service (i.e. ward attending or modified hospitalist approach) or there is
     significant shared inpatient workload, the requirement for centrally available
     appointments will be prorated accordingly. Care should be taken to accurately measure
     the actual time spent involved in inpatient care in the process of this proration.
  2.1.8. Staff continuity requirements.
     2.1.8.1. The goal for technician support of a provider is that the two assigned technicians
     for that provider will be available and working with that provider on a daily basis. The
     minimum expectation is that continuity will be maintained between a provider and at
     least one of his/her assigned technicians for each clinic session.
     2.1.8.2. Military unique missions will make this goal difficult to attain 100% of the time.
     Metrics will measure the availability of technician support and appropriate thresholds
     will be determined by data from initial test sites.
 18                                                           AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


       2.1.8.3. Medical technicians (4N0) will be assigned to the family health clinic for a
       minimum of 2 years. During that time they should be assigned to the same FHT unless
       mission performance would be adversely affected by keeping them in place.
       2.1.8.4. Nurses will be assigned to the family health clinic for a minimum of 2 years.
       During that time, they should be assigned to the same role/team unless mission demands
       dictate otherwise.
       2.1.8.5. Each FHT will develop strategies to communicate regularly amongst themselves
       (e.g. team huddles) to disseminate info, promote team building, etc. In addition to these
       areas, time will be allotted for process improvement, team training, discussion of team
       roles, etc. This may be done at the FHT level or flight level (e.g. clinic training at
       monthly staff meeting).
   2.1.9. Maximizing communication is crucial. Coordination and cross-talk between MTF
   functional areas within and across squadrons on a regular basis is essential and expected. At
   a minimum, the following cross-talk will occur:
       2.1.9.1. MDOS/CC and MDSS/CC will ensure coordination of resources if/when
       extended hours/weekend clinics are required.
       2.1.9.2. MDOS/MDSS cross-talk will occur regularly to streamline processes that affect
       both squadrons. Issues such as RMC support to FHT in managing administrative referral
       issues and obtaining network lab and consultation results and TRICARE Operations and
       Patient Administration (TOPA) support for the FHT are key examples.
       2.1.9.3. SGN will oversee workload of the FHT, CM and DM nurses based on
       empanelled population health needs and ensure backfill to the FHT during team nurse
       shortages.
       2.1.9.4. FHTs will conduct periodic patient panel review to assess the team’s population
       health efforts. These meetings appropriately include (but not limited to) the FHT, CM
       nurse, DM nurse, HCI and GPM. Including the SGH at small MTFs would be
       appropriate. Meetings topics will include access, team population health performance
       and complex patient management.
2.2. Clinical Operations. This section directs day-to-day operations of the FHT and key
interactions with other MTF functions. The following documents should be readily available to
all stakeholders as the MTF implements this AFI: “A Guide to Population Health”, “Medical
Management Guide”, “The MTF Referral Management Center User’s Guide” and “Air Force
Medical Service Policy on Access to Care.” These references will be considered recommended
reading for MTF Executive Staff, FHT leaders, GPM, HCI and medical management team
members and should be included in their orientation to their FHT role.
   2.2.1. FHT Patient Population.
       2.2.1.1. The cohort of patients that make the FHT their medical home may not match the
       enrollment reflected in the MHSPHP for several reasons related to MHSPHP business
       rules. “Must see” patients such as contractors and Department of Defense Dependent
       Schools (DODDS) teachers will be included OCONUS. Accurate patient registries are
       essential to FHO.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                    19


     2.2.1.2. The HCI, in collaboration with TOPA and the GPM will maintain current patient
     lists using available databases such as MHSPHP, Integrated Clinical Data Base (ICDB)
     and CHCS to define the FHT’s patient populations for the purpose of Medical
     Management and delivery of clinical preventive services (CPS) to medical home patients.
     This will likely mandate the use of locally developed and maintained databases. The HCI
     may also use other systems not identified here, that have yet to be developed, if they are
     approved for use as an AFMS-wide enterprise solution.
     2.2.1.3. Medical Home Patients:         The MTF Executive Committee, based upon
     recommendations of the Population Health Function (PHF), must make the determination
     if there are subsets of enrollees: those who make the MTF their “medical home” (e.g.
     those who choose to obtain family health care from the MTF) vs. those who are
     empanelled to the MTF, but obtain their Family Health care elsewhere. The approach to
     prevention and management of chronic disease differs for these enrollee subsets,
     particularly in CPS management. “Medical home” patients can be proactively managed
     through the FHT and become the most accurate population upon which to measure MTF
     performance. However, the enrollees who do not appear to make the MTF their medical
     home present a significant challenge to the MTF Executive Committee concerning
     continued enrollment and proactive vs. reactive management of their care. The MDG
     Executive Committee Minutes will reflect local policy on this issue at least on an annual
     basis.
  2.2.2. Enrollment (Patients new to the MTF).
     2.2.2.1. TRICARE Prime patients initiate the enrollment process in the MTF. Patient
     transfers can be accomplished in the MTF or online. The actual administrative
     enrollment is done by the TRICARE Service Center (TSC). Normally, the TSC will also
     assign the patient to a PCM based on availability of open panels.
     2.2.2.2. The FHT, TOPA and TSC will collaborate to make the actual provider
     assignment.
     2.2.2.3. Acuity-Based enrollment: The MTF will actively seek to match prospective
     enrollee needs with MTF capacity (balanced patient load, specialty mix, individual
     provider currency). This process must be a collaborative effort between the GPM, TOPA,
     FHT and any specialty clinics that accept PCM enrollment with oversight provided by the
     SGH and medical directors for the involved clinics. The mechanism for MTF input to the
     TSC automatic enrollment-by-name must be coordinated with the Managed Care Support
     Contractor through an MOU where appropriate.
     2.2.2.4. Initial enrollment assessment: The key in this process is a brief Needs
     Assessment done by the MTF for the purpose of appropriate enrollment only. Initial
     screening may require record review, however, the minimum record review requirement
     is a rapid review of the patient’s PIMR or other care summary for level of care required.
     Further review as described below is based on this initial screen. Further review for needs
     assessment for the purpose of developing care plans may be delayed until assignment to a
     PCM is made.
20                                                            AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


     2.2.2.5. The initial medical reviewer will make the determination to schedule an intake
     evaluation/appointment if indicated by the review or if the prospective enrollee is
     requesting early access.
  2.2.3. Care Plan Development for new enrollees to the FHT.
     2.2.3.1. The FHT or medical management team will perform a more comprehensive
     needs assessment of each new enrollee as soon as possible after assignment to the PCM
     only if the patient appears to require UM/DM/CM or other complex care.
     2.2.3.2. Active Duty Service Member (ADSM) needs assessment is initiated by the PHA
     cell through review of the latest PHA. The PHA cell will schedule an appointment with
     the PCM as required.
     2.2.3.3. Comprehensive needs assessment for new non-AD enrollees will be
     accomplished through records review and/or an intake appointment. Early referral to the
     Medical Management Team as soon as these patients are identified as candidates for
     DM/UM/CM intervention is appropriate. Care plans range from simply providing
     Clinical Preventive Services (PHA for ADSMs) to complex care plans requiring
     significant medical management involving DM/UM/CM-directed care involving
     multidisciplinary participation. Care plans do not require separate documentation beyond
     normal AHLTA documentation. Care plan review and updates are required based upon
     acuity and will be accomplished as part of the medical management process, in AHLTA.
  2.2.4. Medical Management (MM) Program.
     2.2.4.1. MM is an integrated managed care model that promotes UM, CM and DM.
     Includes CPG programs as the approach to managing complex patient care by decreasing
     variation in clinical management. MM ties together clinical and business operations in
     the FHT to the MTF business plan.
     2.2.4.2. The MTF Commander will appoint an officer to establish and oversee
     coordinated MM activities. This individual will normally be the SGH, but may be another
     qualified, interested individual from any corps. In all cases, the SGH will provide clinical
     leadership and consultation.
     2.2.4.3. UM is an MTF-wide asset that provides shared support to FHTs.
         2.2.4.3.1. UM, in collaboration with FHT, CM and DM nurses, HCI and GPM
         determine measures to target and manage enrollees and/or processes that relate to
         high-cost, high-volume or problem-prone diagnoses, procedures, services and
         beneficiaries who have demonstrated high utilization rates. PHF and AFMOA
         provide direction and consultation in selecting appropriate measures in relation to the
         strategic plan and meeting the needs of the MTF. The UM uses TMA Medical
         Management Guide in performance of these duties.
         2.2.4.3.2. UM nurses will collaborate with DMs, CMs and the FHT as active
         members of medical management and interdisciplinary care meetings, as required, to
         ensure effective patient utilization of resources.
         2.2.4.3.3. UM will make appropriate recommendations to DMs and CMs for high-
         utilization or high-risk enrollees to be entered into these processes.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                      21


     2.2.4.3.4. TOPA will provide UM and the appropriate FHT with a daily list of
     admissions of active duty enrollees, including those in network and other non-federal
     hospitals. The executive staff will work with the MCSC via specific MOU if necessary,
     to ensure timely notification of admissions and pending discharges.
        2.2.4.3.5. The Referral Management Center (RMC) will function as an integral part
        of UM processes within the MTF.
            2.2.4.3.5.1. The RMC will operate in accordance with the standardized business
            rules for referrals and authorizations, to include, but not limited to for the purpose
            of FHO: referral appointing, consult tracking and obtaining results from referred
            care within 10 business days of the test or consultation.
            2.2.4.3.5.2. The RMC will not assume responsibilities the MCSCs are
            contractually required to provide including but not limited to medical necessity
            reviews, covered benefit reviews, or network appointing.
            2.2.4.3.5.3. The RMC will ensure results of referrals are available to the referring
            provider within 10 business days of the accomplished provider visit. This will be
            in writing via fax, secure e-mail, secure web-based applications or AHLTA. MTF
            executive committee will be actively engaged in solving problems with timely
            resulting of referrals. This may require close collaboration on a one-on-one basis
            with the MCSC and individual providers as necessary. Active engagement by
            MTF professional staff with civilian colleagues such as PCM courtesy privileges
            at local hospitals in addition to MDG/CC and SGH participation in local medical
            societies/functions whenever possible provide huge returns in referral
            management.
            2.2.4.3.5.4. The FHT (PCM) will ensure referrals contain adequate information
            and details for appropriate RMC handling and routing. PCMs will maintain
            awareness of specialty and ancillary services available within the MTF when
            accomplishing referrals to the MCSC network, such that only services not
            available within the MTF are outsourced whenever possible. Awareness of
            specialty and ancillary services will be assisted by a Capability Report provided
            by the RMC. PCMs will establish finite episodes of care within their referrals
            whenever possible. Monitoring these issues is the responsibility of the SGH and
            are key agenda items for the Executive Committee of the Medical/Professional
            Staff meeting.
            2.2.4.3.5.5. Specialty clinics within the MTF will not routinely screen referrals
            for acceptance within the MTF. Access will be made adequate to handle in-house
            referrals under normal circumstances. Chronically inadequate access in a specialty
            clinic requires MTF leadership involvement at all levels to optimize operations.
     2.2.4.4. Disease Management: Disease Managers will be nurses assigned to work under
     the HCI in support of Medical Management for FHTs.
        2.2.4.4.1. The disease manager’s primary responsibility is to develop and execute
        disease management for the FHT and positively impact their empanelled patients’
        disease and chronic condition outcomes in accordance with applicable CPGs when
        available.
22                                                        AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


     2.2.4.4.2. The disease manager’s secondary responsibility is to support the FHT
     nurse providing direct outpatient care, as directed. This care includes nursing
     assessment, planning, implementation and evaluation; tele-health activities;
     medication administration; nursing procedures; staff and patient education and
     training.
     2.2.4.4.3. The disease manager is required to complete all orientation and training
     activities required of the disease management role and responsibilities and those
     required for the clinical nurse role and responsibilities.
     2.2.4.4.4. Division of role responsibilities will be ideally coordinated among the
     disease manager, the FHT and the HCI, but may include SGN and/or SGH input as
     appropriate.
     2.2.4.4.5. The disease manager develops implements and evaluates a disease
     management program according to the disease management steps as described in the
     Medical Management Guide, DoD TMA, current ed. Disease manager nurses will be
     trained upon and use current Information Management/Information Technology
     (IM/IT) tools such as the Complex Patient Management Tool (CPMT), Integrated
     Clinical Database (ICDB) including the Proactive Patient Management module
     (PPM) and spreadsheets such as Excel ® to manage their cohorts.
     2.2.4.4.6. The disease manager documents all patient encounters in accordance with
     DoD, AF and local policies and guidance to include any established AHLTA AIM
     forms/templates, MEPRs and coding guidelines.
     2.2.4.4.7. The disease manager collaborates with the FHT and the CM and UM on all
     aspects of Population Health and Disease Management activities. Assists in the
     development of the MTF Medical Management Plan in support of the Business Plan
     to ensure there is a process in place for collecting disease management data,
     monitoring performance, identifying opportunities for improvement and initiating
     performances improvement programs.
     2.2.4.4.8. The disease manager participates in the orientation, education and training
     of disease management activities for clinical and non-clinical staff. He/she may serve
     on committees, work groups, task forces at the MTF, or as its representative for other
     agency taskings.
     2.2.4.4.9. The disease manager coordinates and participates in interdisciplinary team
     meetings, designated MTF meetings and specific medical management, disease
     management and care coordination meetings. Shares knowledge and experiences
     gained from own clinical nursing practice and education relevant to nursing and
     disease management.
     2.2.4.4.10. The disease manager is empowered and expected to proactively handle
     “first call” questions, symptom and problem-based issues for patients with DM
     protocols, such as requests for medication refills, self care advice, referrals, CPS and
     acute needs relevant to the DM protocol. These calls can provide an opportunity for
     patient status validation, patient education and for coordination with CM or UM as
     necessary.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                    23


  2.2.5. CPGs are essential tools in DM and as such are integral to the DM support of FHO.
     2.2.5.1. The PHF recommends CPGs to the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff
     (ECOMS), which is the approval body, based on the needs of the MTF and UM data (as
     outlined in 2.2.4.3.). Implementation will be documented in MTF Executive Committee
     minutes. AFMOA/SGHC will actively consult in the selection process as requested by
     the MTF.
     2.2.5.2. All AFMS MTFs will select and implement CPGs after a thorough assessment
     and evaluation of their beneficiary population. The assessment includes, but is not
     limited to, age, gender, beneficiary category, risk factors and disease burden. Once
     disease burden is identified, the MTF can select the appropriate CPG.
     2.2.5.3. The disease manager will assist with implementation of locally-approved CPGs.
     DM will work with CPG Champion and CPG Facilitator. CPG Champion will be a
     credentialed provider who is knowledgeable about the disease process and CPG being
     implemented. The CPG Facilitator will be knowledgeable about group dynamics so that
     they can leverage group dynamics to accomplish clinical goals. The CPG Facilitator
     should also be able to pull data required to measure compliance with timelines during
     implementation and outcomes following implementation. ECOMS will approve all
     clinical practice guidelines adapted for MTF use initially and annually.
     2.2.5.4. The disease manager (or individual CPG managers) in collaboration with the
     HCI and FHT will collect and analyze appropriate outcome measures relative to the CPG;
     the PHF will recommend changes to CPGs where appropriate. AFMOA/SGHC will
     provide consultation as needed for data analysis, implementation, sustainment and
     performance measurement of CPGs.
     2.2.5.5. Disease managers will document patient care in BGAZ when seeing patients in
     their DM role. When not working DM role (i.e., backfilling FHT nurse), will document
     patient care and workload in the appropriate MEPRS code.
  2.2.6. CM, like UM, is an MTF-wide activity that provides support to the FHTs based on the
  latter’s enrollment.
     2.2.6.1. CM nurses will collaborate with DMs and FHTs and be active members of inter-
     disciplinary patient care coordination meetings to ensure effective patient case
     management and care coordination is accomplished.
     2.2.6.2. Patients appropriate for Case Management can be identified at any step in the
     care continuum by any member of the healthcare/care coordination team. These patients
     may have acute and/or chronic illnesses, complex trauma care needs, combat stress,
     residuals of traumatic brain injury, community adjustment and social issues, addictions
     and high utilization of healthcare services. For initial case load determination, the
     Complex Patient Management Tool (CPMT) can be used to provide rapid assessment of
     patients with the most apparent need.
     2.2.6.3. The case manager will document and code their services in AHLTA using DoD
     established coding guidelines (reference “Appendix E: Coding Case Management
     Services”) to track CM services. Use of standardized AHLTA templates is highly
     recommended.
 24                                                             AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


      2.2.6.4. Discharge planning will be managed by the discharge planners or case managers,
      or the FHT if there is no CM or DP at the MTF. Patients appropriate for case
      management are often identified at discharge from any inpatient service in the direct care
      system or in the network.
      2.2.6.5. The discharge planner or case manager will begin discharge planning upon
      admission and update the care plan as discharge approaches. The care plan will include
      ancillary services and referral management office as necessary. The first follow-up
      appointment will be given to the hospitalized patient before discharge as an MTF
      standard.
      2.2.6.6. PCMs are highly encouraged to participate in discharge planning by visiting
      hospitalized patients in their panels. SGH at outpatient facilities will pursue avenues such
      as “Courtesy Privileges” at local hospitals to facilitate this process.
2.3. Business Operations.
   2.3.1. Enrollment.
      2.3.1.1. In concert with the FHT, the GPM will work closely with the TOPA flight to
      ensure the right patient is assigned to the right provider based on acuity of the patient and
      skill set of the provider (i.e. chronic pain patient requiring long-term narcotics typically
      best cared for by physician rather than mid-level provider).
      2.3.1.2. During in-processing of new patients, complexity and special patient needs will
      be considered in distribution of patients among providers (acuity balancing, see 2.2.2.2).
      This determination will typically be performed by MTF personnel at venues such as
      Medical Right Start, etc.
      2.3.1.3. TOPA will inform the GPM and the FHT when trends, such as disproportionate
      enrollment to specific provider/FHT, are occurring that may affect access within the
      Family Health Clinic.
   2.3.2. Access Management.
      2.3.2.1. The GPM and FHTs will develop templates that provide a minimum           of    90
      centrally available (bookable) appointments per week per provider when the provider is
      available in clinic the entire week. An entire week is defined as a full five day week, if
      the provider is out for a full day for any reason; the number of appointments will be
      prorated accordingly i.e. 72 appointments if 4 days, etc. Type of appointments available
      will be determined by actual demand of population. Detail codes may be used when
      needed; however, excess use of detail codes may result in restriction of access. Freezing,
      blocking or other similar restrictions on the 90 centrally available appointments per week
      is prohibited but may be used for any appointments over that minimum.
      2.3.2.2. The GPM and FHTs should examine population demand on a quarterly basis at a
      minimum and adjust templates/schedules to match demand.
      2.3.2.3. While efforts will be made to avoid cross-booking, during surge operations and
      extended providers absences i.e. deployments, the remaining providers may need to see
      patients from other FHTs. GPMs will coordinate with staff and adjust templates to
      minimize encroachment on provider managed time for these cross-booked patients.
      Additionally, cross-booking may be required in areas where network acute care is lacking
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                  25


     (e.g., OCONUS) but use should be minimized to exceptional circumstances. When an
     Independent Duty Medical Technician (IDMT) is seeing patients in the FHC, they will be
     considered part of the FHT they are working with. Any patients seen by them will not be
     considered cross-booked.
     2.3.2.4. The GPM will provide clinic staff with projected demand by number/of
     appointment/types of appointments required to meet demand. Providers will review
     population demand and work with GPM to construct templates to meet the demand.
     2.3.2.5. The MTF will strive for first call resolution when feasible. The key element in
     this success is having schedules opened 30-45 days out with maximum bookable
     appointment available.
  2.3.3. Schedules.
     2.3.3.1. All clinics will establish a minimum staffing threshold for the Family Health
     Clinic to meet access requirements. Provider schedules should be made well in advance
     to ensure appointments are loaded in CHCS a minimum of 30 days out. Leaves, TDYs,
     down days and other time off should be approved and will be coordinated to minimize
     impact on access. Schedule changes after appointments have been loaded into CHCS
     should be minimized. The GPM will assist FHT leadership in projecting FHT member
     absences to ensure adequate access.
     2.3.3.2. Time off should be projected as far out as feasible.      MTF leadership will
     establish local policy.
     2.3.3.3. Schedule changes will be approved by the Family Health Flight/CC and
     MDOS/CC as necessary.
     2.3.3.4. Patients affected by facility cancelled appointments will be offered a new
     appointment within access standard based on the date/time of their original request.
  2.3.4. Appointing.
     2.3.4.1. Telephony system phone tree should reflect design of FHO to ensure patient can
     expediently reach PCM booking clerk for their assigned PCM.
     2.3.4.2. Appointment booking guidance will be created to ensure a patient is first booked
     to their PCM. If PCM is not available the patient should be booked to the other provider
     on their FHT. Local policies will dictate additional guidance if neither of the FHT
     providers is available.
  2.3.5. Coding.
     2.3.5.1. Utilize current coding auditors to ensure coding is accurate. Auditors should
     communicate positive and negative trends in data and provide training where required to
     maximize accuracy.
     2.3.5.2. Accurate coding is imperative to drive optimal template and appointing
     management.      Accurate coding will ensure proper staffing, clinical mix and
     supplies/equipment to match the demand of your population. Accurate coding also
     maximizes third party collections efforts.
  2.3.6. MEPRS.
 26                                                               AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


       2.3.6.1. Each FHT will be assigned a unique 4-letter MEPRS (BGAx). Given the finite
       number of available MEPRS codes for use, if the number of teams exceeds the number of
       available MEPRS codes, two FHT’s will be joined under a single MEPRS code.
       2.3.6.2. All personnel assigned to the FHT will use the specific MEPRS code. If work is
       performed on another team that appropriate code will be used.
       2.3.6.3. Cost pooling will only be used for truly “shared” clinic personnel such as 4A
       personnel assigned.
       2.3.6.4. Accuracy of MEPRS data is crucial. Staff needs to record accurate data for
       hours worked in primary clinical MEPRS. All staff is required to use the proper MEPRS
       code for activities performed outside their primary clinical MEPRS (e.g. readiness
       training, fitness time, etc.) and ensure accurate reporting of actual hours for these
       additional activities.
       2.3.6.5. To evaluate the efficiency of time allotted to patient care, all FHT personnel will
       report FHT-related hours in three DMHRSi subtasks: face-to-face patient care, non face-
       to-face patient care and non clinical administrative duties performed within the clinic.
       2.3.6.6. DMHRSi Subtasks Applicable to all FHT MEPRS codes. The following is an
       example of the subtask structure for BGAA. The subtasks will be replicated for each
       FMT MEPRS code.
Task Number: BGAA_DMIS_FF
Task Name: Face-to-Face
Description: Face-to-Face Clinical Care

Task Number: BGAA_DMIS_NF
Task Name: Non Face-to-Face
Description: Non Face-to-Face Clinical Care (Reviewing Labs, Charting, etc.)

Task Number: BGAA_DMIS_NC
Task Name: Non Clinical
Description: Non Clinical Administrative Duties within the Clinic (Flt Meetings, Clinic Mgmt,
etc.)
       2.3.6.7. Actual hours will be reported for each subtask. Hours reported in the Face-to-
       Face subtask will accurately represent appointment schedules. Actual hours will also be
       reported for all other activities that have a unique MEPRS code (refer to your MTF
       MEPRS Program Manager's facility-unique list of available MEPRS codes).
2.4. Deployment Operations.
   2.4.1. Due to the high deployment tempo of family health physicians and mid-level
   providers, especially physician assistants, it is essential that all Family Health Clinic staff be
   aligned appropriately in the proper AEF block. Proper AEF block alignment is the
   responsibility of the MTF and will be worked in close coordination with AF/SG Family
   Medicine Consultant and other functional consultants as needed. Clinics will work with
   MTF readiness staff to ensure assets are evenly spread in accordance with the following
   guidelines.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                     27


     2.4.1.1. The two providers on the FHT will not be aligned in the same AEF block and to
     avoid under lap they should be assigned to a non-contiguous block (e.g. Block 1 and 3 or
     block 2 and 4).
     2.4.1.2. Technicians assigned to a specific provider should be assigned to the same AEF
     block as their provider.
     2.4.1.3. Active duty clinic nurses assigned to an FHT should be assigned to the same
     AEF block as one of the FHT providers.
  2.4.2. Consultant Balanced Deployments (CBD) are integral to the current deployment
  management. To maintain visibility for the AFSC specific consultants, it is the responsibility
  of the individual and/or MTFs to work though their MAJCOM to inform the consultant of
  any unique circumstances (i.e. board exams) which would preclude deploying during a
  specific block in the AEF cycle.
     2.4.2.1. The AF/SG Family Medicine Consultant will actively make recommendations
     regarding the personnel within their control to optimize the placement of the right
     personnel at the right time in the right location in support of deployed operations, as well
     as MTF garrison operations.
     2.4.2.2. Active management and communication with the MAJCOM and consultant is
     essential to minimize the impact of deployment on MTF patient care.
 28                                                            AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


                                          Chapter 3

                            OPERATIONAL MEASUREMENTS

3.1. Operational Metrics.
   3.1.1. Continuity of Care.
      3.1.1.1. Continuity of care is a cornerstone of quality family medicine. It not only
      improves patient outcomes but also patient and provider satisfaction with care.
      3.1.1.2. The percentage of patients seen by a provider and FHT that are empanelled to
      them will be measured. Continuity of care will also be measured from the patient’s
      perspective.
      3.1.1.3. This data will be pushed to the MDG/CC and to the individual providers on a
      monthly basis. This data should be reviewed with clinic staff on a monthly basis with
      POC to be determined by the MDG/CC. Suggested POC is SGH, GPM or Flight/CC.
   3.1.2. Technician Support.
      3.1.2.1. Lack of technician support for providers is consistently felt to be the top
      impediment to delivery of care by family health providers. The FHO model emphasizes
      the availability of the same two assigned technicians to their provider on a consistent
      basis.
      3.1.2.2. Measurement of technician availability will be via the measure of the ratio of
      available full time equivalent (FTE) 4N0s to the providers on the team.
      3.1.2.3. This data will be pushed to MDG/CC on monthly basis and should be reviewed
      with clinic staff on a monthly basis. POC is the Flight/CC.
   3.1.3. Appointment Availability.
      3.1.3.1. Lack of available appointments consistently impedes the ability for patients to
      achieve first call resolution when trying to make an appointment. Additionally, it also
      shifts the burden of booking appointments to other clinical staff, most often the nursing
      staff, which focuses their efforts on clerical tasks rather than currency-based activities.
      3.1.3.2. Providers will make available 90 appointments/week in accordance with ATC
      guidelines when schedules open at the 30-45 day mark. Providers will not be held to this
      standard for periods of leave/TDY.
      3.1.3.3. This data will be pushed to MDG/CC on monthly basis and should be reviewed
      with clinic staff on monthly basis. POC is the GPM.
   3.1.4. Patient Outcome Measures.
      3.1.4.1. While all other measures will ultimately contribute to good patient outcomes, the
      most important current measure of quality patient care is HEDIS derived data.
      3.1.4.2. The currently tracked individual HEDIS measures will be combined into a
      composite score based on national percentile ranks for each of the individual measures
      and presented as individual and composite scores.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                    29


     3.1.4.3. These HEDIS scores will be pushed to the MDG/CC on a monthly basis and will
     be reviewed by the SGH with the providers on a monthly basis. The POC will be
     determined by MDG/CC but HCI is recommended.
  3.1.5. Productivity.
     3.1.5.1. RVU production will continue to be measured and pushed to the MDG/CC. This
     will provide a baseline “snapshot” of productivity but needs to be focused on in context
     of more important measures such as patient outcomes.
     3.1.5.2. Providers will be compared with RVU targets provided by the annual business
     plan.
     3.1.5.3. This data will be pushed to the MDG/CC and should be reviewed on a monthly
     basis with providers. The POC is to be determined by MDG/CC but SGH, Flight/CC or
     GPM is recommended.
  3.1.6. Patient Satisfaction.
     3.1.6.1. Patient satisfaction will continue to be measured via the Service Delivery
     Assessment (SDA).
     3.1.6.2. The MDG/CC will receive SDA reports for all questions and in addition the
     question that pertains most to the FHT “On a scale of 1 to 5 with 1 being “Completely
     Dissatisfied” and 5 being “Completely Satisfied” how would you rate your satisfaction
     with the provider you saw? (Currently Question #5) will be broken down by provider.
         3.1.6.2.1. The results of the SDA for that question will be reviewed with individual
         provider/team on a monthly basis. The POC will be determined by the MDG/CC,
         although the SGH or Flight/CC is recommended.
  3.1.7. Case Mix Index.
     3.1.7.1. Maximizing scope of practice and currency is an important focus of FHO. This
     index will measure a combination of complexity of patients seen (ICD-9 codes),
     procedures accomplished (CPT codes) and the amount of care rendered at each encounter
     (E&M codes).
     3.1.7.2. Many variables that affect this index are outside of the control of the individual
     provider. As such, this measure is seen as a way to look at a provider’s individual
     practice before and after implementation of FHO. No comparison between MTFs or even
     between providers at the same MTF is intended with this measure.
     3.1.7.3. This data will be pushed to the SGH via provider push reports on a monthly
     basis. This data will be reviewed by the SGH with individual providers on a monthly
     basis. Recommended POC is the SGH.
  3.1.8. Network Care.
     3.1.8.1. While the goal of PCMH is to deliver care for all of our empanelled patients’
     needs, there will be times when use of network emergency room or acute/convenience
     care is needed and in fact may be appropriate.
 30                                                        AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


       3.1.8.2. Use of emergency room/acute care/convenience care by empanelled population
       will be measured at the BGA level and will also include measure of urgent care and
       emergency department utilization within the MTF, if applicable.
       3.1.8.3. This data will be pushed to the MDG/CC on a monthly basis and should be
       reviewed with clinic staff on a monthly basis. POC is the GPM.
3.2. Inspections.
   3.2.1. The Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) may perform a Health Services Inspection
   (HSI) of essential components of FHO 90 days after formal implementation of FHO.
   3.2.2. MTFs are not to be inspected on FHO until designated as FHO sites by AFMOA/CC.
   Until such designation, MTFs will continue compliance with current “PCO” HSI checklists.
   3.2.3. AFMOA FHO implementation team will coordinate HSI FHO inspection checklists
   with AFIA prior to formal implementation.
   3.2.4. FHI test MTFs will continue to be inspected according to current HSI checklists;
   discrepancies during interim inspections that appear to be caused by FHI testing will be
   coordinated with AFMOA prior to assessment.




                                         CHARLES B. GREEN,
                                         Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                         Surgeon General
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                    31


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 6025.20, Medical Management Programs, 5 January 2006
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 24 September 2007
AFI 44-170, Preventive Health Assessment, 10 December 2009
AFI 46-101, Nursing Services and Operations
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFPD 46-1, Nursing Services, 1 September 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACGME—American College of Graduate Medical Education
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
ATC—Access to Care
BC—Board Certified
BE—Board Eligible
BGA—MEPRS code indicating Family Health Clinic place of care
BHOP—Behavioral Health Optimization Program
CAF—Competency Assessment Folder
CDM—Constant Deployer Model
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
CM—Case Manager; Case Management
CMA—Certified Medical Assistant
CPG—Clinical Practice Guidelines
CPMT—Complex Patient Management Tool
CPS—Clinical Preventive Services
DEERS—Defense Eligibility Enrollment Reporting System
DM—Disease Manager; Disease Management (Not Diabetes Mellitus in this AFI)
DMHRSi—Defense Medical Human Resources System internet
 32                                                         AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


DODDS—Department of Defense Dependent Schools
DST—Decision Support Tool
ECOMS—Executive Committee of the Medical Staff
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
FHC—Family Health Clinic
FHE—Family Health Element; two to four FHTs
FHF—Family Health Flight
FHI—Family Health Initiative; the development and testing process for FHO concept
FHO—Family Health Operations
FHT—Family Health Team; the basic clinical operating unit in FHO
FUB—Facility Utilization Board
GME—Graduate Medical Education
GMO—General Medical Officer
GPM—Group Practice Manager
HCI—Health Care Integrator
HEDIS—Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set
HSI—Health Services Inspection
ICDB—Integrated Clinical Data Base
IDMT—Independent Duty Medical Technician
MCSC—Managed Care Support Contractor
MDG—Medical Group
MEPRS—Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System
MDOS—Medical Operations Squadron
MDSS—Medical Support Squadron
MEB—Medical Evaluation Board
MHS—Military Health System
MHSPHP—Military Health System Population Health Portal
MM—Medical Management
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
MURT—Medical Unit Readiness Training
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                     33


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility or Officer Performance Report
ORE—Operational Readiness Exercise
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
PCM—Primary Care Manager
PCMH—Patient Centered Medical Home
PCO—Primary Care Optimization
PHA—Periodic Health Assessment
PHF—Population Health Function
PIMR—Preventive Health Assessment and Individual Medical Readiness
POC—Point of contact
PPM—Proactive Patient Management
PRP—Personnel Reliability Program
RILO—Review In Lieu Of (MEB)
RMC—Referral Management Center
RMO—Resource Management Office
RVU—Relative Value Unit
SGA—Medical Group Administrator
SGH—Chief of the Medical Staff
SGN—Chief Nurse
SGP—Chief of Aerospace Medicine
TDY—Temporary Duty
TOL—TRICARE on LINE
TOPA—TRICARE Operations Patient Administration
TSC—TRICARE Service Center
UM—Utilization Management
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
UMPR—Unit Management Personnel Roster

Terms
Administrator (SGA)—Medical Service Corps who defines resources and facility requirements;
secures and manages medical resources and information; limits institutional risk; establishes and
maintains external organizational relationships essential for health care operations.
Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA)—oversees execution of the Air Force
Surgeon General policies supporting Air Force expeditionary capabilities, healthcare operations
 34                                                               AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


and national security strategy. It provides expert consultative leadership support to 75 military
treatment facilities and eight major commands to ensure cost-effective, modern and prevention-
based healthcare.
Chief Nurse (SGN)—The senior nurse at the MTF appointed by the MTF/CC to oversee all
nursing care at the installation.
Chief of the Medical Staff (SGH)—The medical provider at the MTF appointed by the
MTF/CC to oversee all clinical care at the installation.
Case Management—A collaborative process of assessment, planning, facilitation and advocacy
for options and services to meet an individual's health needs through communication and
available resources to promote quality cost-effective outcomes.
Case Mix Index—Measurement of the complexity of patients seen.
Disease Management—A system of coordinated health care interventions and communications
for populations with conditions in which patient self-care efforts are significant. It is the process
of reducing healthcare costs and/or improving quality of life for individuals by preventing or
minimizing the effects of a disease, usually a chronic condition, through integrative care.
Decision Support Tools—Tools that are used by Registered Nurses to facilitate comprehensive
telephonic assessment of patients and placement in appropriate level of care; tools that facilitate
telephone triage of patients.
Family Health Operations—A model for PCMH in the Family Health Clinics in the AFMS.
Family Health Team—A group of staff that is responsible for healthcare of a panel of patients.
Normal team composition consists of two providers, one nurse and five medical technicians
caring for empanelment of 2500 patients.
Family Health Element—Two to four family health teams.
Family Health Flight—All family health elements.
Group Practice Manger (GPM)—Measures/analyzes clinical processes with emphasis on
improving product line performance. Functions as the clinic business manager and MTF access
manager.
Healthcare Informatics Branch—supports Air force General’s requirements for information
technology and management.
Health Care Integrator (HCI)—Leads assigned teams in population health initiatives that
integrate all aspects of care along the health continuum.
Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS)—A tool used by more than 90
percent of America's health plans, including TRICARE, to measure performance on important
dimensions of care and service.
Medical Group (MDG)—The base-level organization responsible for the coordination and
delivery of health care services to eligible beneficiaries.
Medical Management—An integrated managed care model, consisting of case management,
disease management and utilization management.
AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011                                                                      35


Military Treatment Facility (MTF)—A DoD health care provision location, whether clinic or
hospital.
Operational Metrics—Tools to monitor the status /performance of day-to-day operations of the
Family Health Clinic.
Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH)—A health care setting that facilitates partnerships
between individual patients, their personal physicians and when appropriate, the patient’s family.
Care is facilitated by registries, information technology, health information exchange and other
means to assure that patients get the indicated care when and where they need and want it in a
culturally and linguistically appropriate manner.
Referral Management Center—Area of the clinic that functions to specifically appoint, track
and obtain results for care referred outside of the Family Health Clinic.
Utilization Management—The evaluation of the appropriateness, medical need and efficiency
of health care services procedures and facilities according to established criteria.
Unit Manpower Document (UMD)—A planning and programming document depicting the
MTF allocations by job code, grade and location of the “space”.
 36                                                             AFI44-171 18 JANUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 2
                              CITATIONS USED IN PUBLICATION

Table A2.1. Citations Used In Publication.
Reference Citation                Format Used First Time in      Format Used Subsequently in
                                  Text                           Text
AFMS Flight Path for the          AFMS Flight Path for the AF    AFMS Flight Path
USAF Combat Wing                  Combat Wing Organization
Organization—Medical

SGN FY06-1, Nurse                 SGN flight path                SGN flight path
Assignment, Staffing and
Operational Clinical Skills
Sustainment Policy

Appendix E: Coding Case           Appendix E: Coding Case        Appendix E: Coding Case
Management Services               Management Services            Management Services
