BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-102

                                                                           CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                        Supplement
                                                                                           6 APRIL 2007

                                                                                      Medical Command

                                                                 TOBACCO USE IN THE AIR FORCE

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 27 ADOS/SGGZ                                                             Certified by: 27 ADOS/CC
                                                                                                Pages: 2

Air Force Instruction 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 3 Jun 2002, is supplemented as follows. This
supplement applies to all personnel assigned or attached to any unit, providing any service(s) or prod-
uct(s), visiting, living or working on Cannon Air Force Base. Send comments and suggested improve-
ments to this supplement on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels
to 27 ADOS/SGGZ. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this document
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (to be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records,
and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.
1.2.1.1. (Added) Cannon AFB supports the goal for a tobacco-free Air Force and encourages an environ-
ment that enhances healthy lifestyles and is reasonably free from contaminants. All personnel will adhere
to current tobacco use policies. Tobacco use includes smoked (cigars, cigarettes, pipes) and smokeless
(spit/dip, chew, packets, loose tobacco) products.
1.2.1.2. (Added) With the exception of designated tobacco use (DTU) areas, tobacco use is prohibited in
all DoD owned or occupied buildings, recreation areas and installation common areas (to include parking
lots, sidewalks, and other outdoor areas not specifically designated for tobacco use). Tobacco use is pro-
hibited approaching or exiting DTUs. Tobacco use is allowed in government housing and dormitory
rooms designated for tobacco users.
1.2.1.3. (Added) DTUs in outdoor recreation areas will be at least 25 feet from any spectator area or route
of play. To promote a healthy lifestyle and enhance the safety of children, tobacco will not be used in the
common playgrounds in Military Family Housing.
1.2.1.4. (Added) Tobacco users will be responsible to police DTU litter.
1.2.1.5. (Added) If smoke or odor from tobacco seeps into any room, common use, or audience/spectator
area of a recreational area, the rights of the nonsmoker will prevail when voiced.
1.2.2. The intent of this supplement is to give commanders and supervisors maximum flexibility to
enforce this instruction and determine penalties for lack of compliance. Commanders and supervisors are
2                                                     AFI40-102_CANNONAFBSUP 6 APRIL 2007


expected to encourage voluntary participation in the Health and Wellness Center (HAWC) tobacco cessa-
tion program as mission requirements permit.
2.2.3. Tobacco use is prohibited in all Cannon facilities except assigned government housing and desig-
nated dormitory rooms.
2.2.5. Tobacco use is prohibited in government owned, rented, or leased vehicles, aircraft, or sea craft.
Personnel may use tobacco in personal conveyance only.
2.2.12. (Added) All personnel are encouraged to refrain from using tobacco during duty hours at Cannon
AFB.
2.2.12.1. (Added) For the purpose of this instruction, meal periods are not considered ‘duty hours.’
2.2.12.2. (Added) Personnel may use tobacco off-base, after duty hours and at meal periods if in desig-
nated area.
2.6. The HAWC will continue to offer tobacco cessation classes and the 27th Fighter Wing Public Affairs
office, working with the base Community Action Information Board, will implement an aggressive adver-
tising campaign using all available military and civilian news outlets.



                                               SCOTT D. WEST, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
