BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 40-301
325TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)

                                                             TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                        31 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                         Medical Command

                                                         FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the Tyndall Air Force Base
               Publishing site located at https://e-publishing.tyndall.af.mil/ If you lack
               access, contact your base publications manager.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 325 MDOS/SGOHSF                                               Certified by: 325 FW/CC
(Capt Sims-High)                                                         (Brig Gen Browne)
                                                                                    Pages: 4
Supersedes:   AFI 40-301 TYNDALLSUP,
              1 Apr 09


Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) available at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records
managers as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Establishes Tyndall's Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) and appoints all members to include
the 325 MDG/CC or 325 MDG Deputy Commander (325 MDG/CD) as chairperson.

AFI 40-301, 30 November 2009, is supplemented as follows:
1.4.8. Establishes Tyndall's Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) and appoints all members to
include the 325 MDG/CC or 325 MDG Deputy Commander (325 MDG/CD) as chairperson.The
FAC is composed of the following members: Installation Commander (or designates a key
member of the senior staff), 325 MDG/CC (or MDG/CD), Family Advocacy Officer (FAO),
Family Advocacy Treatment Manager (FATM), Family Advocacy Outreach Manager (FAOM),
Family Advocacy Nurse (FAN), Family Advocacy Intervention Specialist (FAIS), Airmen and
 2                                     AFI40-301_TYNDALLAFBSUP 31 OCTOBER 2011


Family Readiness Center (AFRC) Director or designee, Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) or designee,
Installation Chief of Security Forces or designee, Wing Chaplain, Family Member Programs
Flight Chief, and 325 FW Command Chief.
       1.4.10. FAP issues will be presented to the Community Action Information Board
       (CAIB) via the FAC slides. The FAO will attend the CAIB and present the information.
       In the absence of the FAO, the alternate FAO will present the information to the CAIB.
          1.5.2.8. Will provide transportation, medical evaluation and treatment as required
          through the appropriate clinics in the event the case is not within the Florida
          Department of Children and Families jurisdiction. When hospitalization of any child
          is recommended by a credentialed provider, but is against the wishes of the child's
          parents, the provider will notify the 325 MDG/CC and coordinate with SJA
          representative on-call to be present.
          1.5.3.7. Be one of the reviewers for any Incident Status Determination Review along
          with the FAO. Recommendations will be presented to the Central Registry Board
          (CRB) chairperson.
          1.6.1.3. Chairs the HRVRT, CSMRT, and Clinical Case Staffing (CCS) meetings for
          maltreatment, case staffing meetings for the New Parent Support Program (NPSP),
          and the Outreach Prevention Management Council.
       1.6.14. Raises issues to the FAC to facilitate the overall direction of the program to
       include policy, manning, resources, public relations, etc. Be one of the reviewers for any
       Incident Status Determination Review along with the FAC chairperson.
       Recommendations will be presented to the CRB chairperson by the FAC chairperson and
       the FAO.
       1.7.4. All commanders and first sergeants will complete CRB training prior to attending
       a CRB meeting. A certificate of completion will be presented to the FAPA to keep on
       file.
       1.7.5. Assists the FAO in ensuring adequate safeguards are in place to reduce the chance
       of further maltreatment. (For example, ordering the sponsor into the dormitories.).
       1.7.6. Supports the sponsor, as duty requirements allow, to participate in Family
       Advocacy treatment or educational programs.
       1.8.2. Provides volunteer applicant information along with a release of information form
       to the FAP in order to conduct records check on all volunteers wanting to work with
       children.
       1.10.8. Notifies the 325th Fighter Wing Command Post. Notifies 325 FW/PA (Photo
       Lab) for Alert Photographer response.
       1.10.9. Upon receipt of a report of family maltreatment, which in the opinion of the
       Security Forces Control Center requires immediate intervention to prevent bodily harm or
       loss of life, dispatch a law enforcement patrol unit. SFS will immediately notify
       Department of Children and Families (DCF) of any allegations of child maltreatment by
       calling 1-800-962-2873 (1-800-96-ABUSE).
AFI40-301_TYNDALLAFBSUP 31 OCTOBER 2011                                                     3


     1.10.10. Accomplish entry in the Security Forces Blotter and complete Incident Report,
     as necessary. Provide AFOSI with a copy of all reports for follow-up and indexing the
     Defense Central Index of Investigations (DCII). Provides blotter entries to FAP. Blotters
     will be sent to the FAO via email.
     1.11.3. Conducts review of the DCII for all members of families suspected maltreatment.
     Index all appropriate family members into DCII for future information. Provide results
     of DCII reviews to the FAO.
     1.12.5. Will provide release of information forms along with application information to
     FAP to request background check on applicants seeking positions working with children
     and youth.
     1.13.2. Serves as the sole release authority to the news medial and all media inquiries
     will be staffed and responded to by the 325th Fighter Wing Public Affairs Office.
     1.13.3. Arranges for a photographer when requested by a investigator or medical
     authority. Photographer takes digitalized photos and makes proof sheets of the injuries
     on the victim(s) as requested or of allegations of neglect on base. Will print photos of
     injuries up to 8"x10" as required.
  1.14. All suspected child abuse allegations must be reported to the Florida Child Abuse
  Hotline at 1-800-96-ABUSE (1-800-962-2873).
     2.2.2. The installation FAP will collaborate with key community leaders, the IDS, CAIB,
     and other base support agencies that enhance the resilience of AF communities and
     reduce the incidence of family maltreatment. Programs are directed towards community
     organization as well as provision of prevention services. Services include NPSP,
     Outreach, and Secondary Prevention Counseling Services (Family Advocacy Strength-
     based Therapy).
     2.3.2. The FAP Action Plan (FAPAP) will identify community with program results
     supporting activities as identified by the AF or Installation Community Needs
     Assessment. The FAPAP will be reviewed quarterly by the FAP team for updates and
     revisions. The FAOM will ensure that the FAPAP templates are coordinated with the
     IDS prior to approval by the FAC no later than 1 October. The FAPAP will be updated
     every 2 years.
     2.4.2. Supervises all personnel assigned to the FAP which includes the FATM, FAOM,
     FAIS, FAN, Family Advocacy Program Assistant (FAPA), and assigned mental health
     technician(s).
        2.4.2.2. The outreach component is managed by the FAOM.
     3.1.1. (Added) The mission of the Family Advocacy Program is to build healthy Air
     Force communities by developing, implementing and evaluating policies and programs
     designed to prevent, intervene in and treat child and spouse abuse.
        3.1.1.1. Provides primary and secondary prevention services through briefings,
        seminars, classes, support groups, and the use of local media.
4                                   AFI40-301_TYNDALLAFBSUP 31 OCTOBER 2011


       3.4.2.1. The New Parent Support Program provides early intervention programs to
       active duty members of family members who are pregnant or have children under the
       age of three.
       3.4.2.2. All base personnel should notify the NPSP team members, consisting of the
       FAN, FAO, FATM, FAIS, and FAPA, regarding possible families at risk. Families at
       risk are identified as single parents, blended families, death/grieving issues impacting
       families, parents with a history of mental illness diagnosis, complicated pregnancies
       of subsequent children, families of students, families of multiples, parenting deficits,
       child or child behavior problems, and self-referrals.
    4.1.1. The CRB is a multidisciplinary team that manages the assessment of families
    referred for allegations of maltreatment. CRB meets at the call of the vice wing
    commander, but at least monthly.
    4.3.1. The CSMRT team composition includes the FAO, FATM, representatives from
    AFOSI, SJA, SFS, as well as local law enforcement and/or representative from Florida
    DCF if warranted.
    4.4.2. The HRVRT is composed of the following members: FAO, FATM, sponsor's
    squadron commander, Mental Health provider, SFS, AFOSI, SJA, and representatives
    from other agencies having legal, investigative, or protective responsibilities as
    appropriate.
       4.4.3.1. The HRVRT will assess the level of danger, then develop and implement a
       course of action to manage the risk of violence.
       4.4.3.4. The HRVRT will utilize the Mental Health Clinic's mechanism for tracking
       high-risk individuals.
       4.4.3.5. The FAO will be responsible for ensuring notification to team members,
       including the active duty member's chain of command, the FAC chairperson, and
       report at the next FAC.
       4.4.3.6. Ensures preliminary risk, safety, bio-psychosocial assessment of all family
       maltreatment cases.
       4.4.3.7. Implements procedures for ensuring the safety of family maltreatment
       victims.
       4.4.3.8. Reviews referrals of family maltreatment, makes case determinations and
       develops treatment plans as appropriate.
       4.4.3.9. Documents case management team meetings and decisions and refers to
       cases by the case number in any meeting minutes.




                                         JAMES S. BROWNE, Brig Gen, USAF
                                         Commander
