BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 41-126
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  6 MARCH 2014

                                                                                   Health Services

                                                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE/VETERANS
                                                      AFFAIRS HEALTH CARE RESOURCE
                                                                  SHARING PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMSA/SG3S                                                              Certified by: AF/SG3
                                                                      (Brig Gen Charles E. Potter)
Supersedes:    AFI 41-126, 11 May 2011                                                   Pages: 17


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Document 41-1, Health Care Programs and
Resources and DoD Instruction 6010.23, DoD and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Health
Care Resources Sharing Program. It describes roles and responsibilities as well as specific
procedures and activities necessary for Air Force Surgeon General’s Office, Air Force Medical
Support Agency, Air Force Medical Operations Agency and military treatment facilities (MTFs)
to comply with laws, regulations and policies implementing and managing all DoD/VA health
care sharing activities. This Instruction applies only to the active duty Air Force Medical Service
(AFMS) entities such as the Air Force Surgeon General’s Office, Air Force Medical Support
Agency, Air Force Medical Operations Agency, Air Force MTFs and other applicable
organizations. It does not apply to the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, or Civil Air
Patrol. Implementing publications must be sent to the Air Force Medical Support Agency
(AFMSA) DoD/VA Program Office for review and coordination before publishing. Requests for
waivers must be submitted through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Send
comments, identified discrepancies and suggested improvements on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through command channels, to the OPR for the
publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                             AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be read in its entirety. This revision
incorporates changes in Air Force policy and other guidance. Revisions made to sharing
agreement approval process to reflect revised and streamlined requirements. (Chapter 3)
Revisions made to Joint Incentive Fund submission process to reflect new approved processes
and to delete excessive requirements. Added requirements for Joint Venture and Joint Market
Opportunity sites. Added information on dual eligible beneficiaries. Deleted references to
seamless transition activities and visits from Congressional delegates or other government
agencies as the processes are under revision or are covered in other AF policy documents.
(Chapter 3).
AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014                                                                             3



                                            Chapter 1

                                   PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. Overview. In order to prescribe procedures for the development and operation of
Department of Defense (DoD) and Veterans Affairs (VA) Health Care Resource Sharing
agreements as directed by Federal, Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force mandates, this
Instruction assigns responsibilities and prescribes procedures for active duty Air Force Medical
Service (AFMS) implementation.
1.2. Objectives. This document provides guidance and procedures for the AFMS to use in
implementing and managing local or regional sharing agreements with the VA. This guidance
will achieve four major objectives, including:
   1.2.1. The AFMS and the VA, by entering into direct care sharing agreements that are
   mutually beneficial to their Departments, will improve access to care in the federal health
   care system while also saving government dollars. They will also improve the quality,
   efficiency and effectiveness of the health care provided to their respective beneficiaries and
   potentially enhances the clinical currency of AFMS providers.
   1.2.2. All sharing agreements will support the goals and objectives set forth by the AFMS
   Strategic Plan and the DoD/VA Joint Strategic Plan (published annually).
   1.2.3. Ensure sharing agreements shall not adversely affect the readiness or deployment
   capability of AF personnel, the range of services, the quality of care, the established priorities
   for care, or result in delay or denial of services to the primary beneficiaries of the providing
   Department.
   1.2.4. Ensure the smooth transition of patients from active duty to veteran status when they
   are medically discharged/retired/separated where possible.
 4                                                                 AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014


                                           Chapter 2

                             ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
     2.1.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
     (SAF/MR) serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and
     oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans,
     policies, programs and budgets within the AFMS.
2.2. Air Force Surgeon General’s Office.
     2.2.1. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) prepares policy, issues guidance and
     oversees all DoD/VA sharing activities in the AFMS.
     2.2.2. Represents the AFMS as a member of the Health Executive Council (HEC) ensuring
     all DoD/VA policy is consistent with, and does not violate established Air Force policy and
     guidance.
     2.2.3. Ensures appropriate resources are available as determined necessary for the AF
     DoD/VA Health Care Sharing program implementation and operation.
     2.2.4. Designates a Program Manager to oversee the program, coordinate issues and policy
     with all pertinent external agencies.
     2.2.5. Appoints representatives to all HEC Work Groups.
2.3. Air Force Medical Support Agency.
     2.3.1. Establishes an office location for the AF/SG designated Program Manager and any
     resources assigned to the AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing Program within the Air Force
     Medical Support Agency (AFMSA) Medical Support Division.
     2.3.2. Ensures the AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing Program priorities and issues are
     appropriately vetted thru AF/SG3 and AF/SG leadership.
     2.3.3. AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing Program Office.
        2.3.3.1. Implements a formal AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing Program and develops
        guidance for the AFMS. Ensures compliance with the DoD Instruction, public law, and
        other direction provided by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health
        Affairs) (OASD(HA)) and the HEC. Conducts evaluation and assesses program
        performance according to DoD and AF policy and organizational priorities.
        2.3.3.2. Provides operational direction and guidance to the AF/SG and policy
        interpretation to the MAJCOM Command Surgeons Offices, Air Force Medical
        Operations Agency (AFMOA) and all MTF DoD/VA liaisons. Ensures the MAJCOM
        Command Surgeons Offices, AFMOA and MTF DoD/VA liaisons are kept current on all
        DoD/VA health care sharing initiatives and issues.
        2.3.3.3. Coordinates all issues and requirements with the Air Force Surgeon General,
        MAJCOM Command Surgeons Offices, AFMOA, and other AF/SG staff as required.
AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014                                                                          5


      2.3.3.4. Ensures all subject matter experts are engaged in decisions or sharing initiatives.
      Key areas requiring expert review and/or approval for implementation include, but are
      not limited to, information management/information technology development,
      modernization, acquisition, transition, enhancement, implementation or operations and
      support initiatives; Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) issues;
      financial issues, including reimbursement rates; future resource requirements
      determinations; legal; and clinical issues.
      2.3.3.5. Ensures appropriate directorate-level review for all new or amended sharing
      initiatives. At minimum, reviewing directorates should include AF/SG8, AF/SGY,
      AF/SGJ, and AF/SG3. All training initiatives will be coordinated with AF/SG1.
      2.3.3.6. All information technology initiatives will be coordinated with the Governance,
      Customer Relations and Management Division of the Defense Health Agency.
      2.3.3.7. Facilitates resolution of issues arising from sharing agreements that cannot be
      resolved at the MTF. Ensures issues relating to external decisions are elevated to the
      appropriate Defense Health Agency (DHA) and VA office for resolution.
      2.3.3.8. Represents the AF/SG at DoD/VA meetings ensuring AFMS issues are
      appropriately vetted and resolved.
      2.3.3.9. Serves as the AF/SG expert on all DoD/VA program issues. Assesses AFMS
      training requirements and ensures training is conducted based on the assessment.
      2.3.3.10. Provides input to all Government Accountability Office (GAO), Congressional
      representatives, and other federal agency representatives as required on the AF DoD/VA
      Health Care Program. Assists with preparing Congressional testimony for the AF/SG as
      required.
      2.3.3.11. Maintains a database of all DoD/VA health care sharing agreements, guidance,
      performance measures, and other pertinent information.
      2.3.3.12. Ensures all DoD/VA Health Care reporting requirements, as directed by
      external agencies or public law, are completed as required.
   2.3.4. Health Executive Council Work Group Representatives.
      2.3.4.1. Represent the AF/SG on the HEC work group ensuring the AF/SG position is
      considered on any decisions and that all recommendations are thoroughly staffed and
      approved before presenting them to the work group.
      2.3.4.2. Activities include active and informed participation at all meetings, action
      officer for all issues and/or decisions from the work group, and providing executive
      summaries, briefing facers and updates as requested prior to the HEC or as requested by
      the AF/SG or his representative.
2.4. Air Force Medical Operations Agency.
   2.4.1. Provides a DoD/VA Point of Contact (POC) to assist with coordinating appropriate
   review within the organization on DoD/VA sharing issues.
   2.4.2. Ensures attendance at AF DoD/VA meetings and training venues.
 6                                                                  AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014


     2.4.3. Reviews all DoD/VA Health Care Sharing Joint Incentive Fund proposals and sharing
     agreements. Makes recommendations and forwards to the AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing
     Program Office.
     2.4.4. Coordinates all DoD/VA issues with AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing Program
     Office.
2.5. Military Treatment Facility.
     2.5.1. Provides a MTF DoD/VA Program Manager to oversee the DoD/VA sharing program
     at the MTF or, in the event an existing sharing agreement is not established, when there is a
     VA medical facility within one hour drive from the MTF. (T-2) The Program Manager,
     based on the MTF Commander’s assessment, should be of sufficient rank and have the
     authority to ensure implementation of this AFI and AF/SG policies relating to DoD/VA
     sharing. (T-3)
     2.5.2. Ensures all DoD/VA Health Care reporting requirements are submitted in accordance
     with this Instruction. (T-2)
     2.5.3. Implements and ensures compliance with this guidance at the MTF. (T-2) Conducts
     evaluation and assesses program performance according to this Instruction, MAJCOM or
     AFMOA guidance, and organizational priorities. (T-2)
     2.5.4. Ensures all applicable personnel are appropriately trained on the implementation,
     management, and oversight of DoD/VA health care sharing. (T-2)
     2.5.5. Establishes a forum for resolution of issues arising from sharing agreements. (T-2)
     Ensures issues relating to external decisions are elevated to the AF DoD/VA Health Care
     Sharing Program Office for resolution. (T-2)
     2.5.6. Ensures implementation of all operational direction, guidance and policy relating to
     DoD/VA sharing and the appointed MTF DoD/VA Program Manager are current on all
     DoD/VA health care sharing initiatives and issues. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure
     2, para. 4.d.(1))
     2.5.7. Works to establish a collaborative relationship with the VA Medical System in the
     local community and health care market. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 2, para.
     4.d.(3)) Identifies opportunities for DoD/VA health care sharing, conducts business,
     currency, and expeditionary case analyses, negotiates sharing opportunities and implements
     sharing agreements with the VA that are beneficial to both organizations. (T-0, DoDI
     6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 2, para. 4.d.(4))
     2.5.8. Ensures the process for new, renewed, or amended sharing agreements follow the
     procedures outlined in Chapter 3 of this Instruction. (T-2)
     2.5.9. Includes an assessment of opportunities for resource sharing with the VA as part of
     the annual MTF business planning process. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3,
     para. 3.a.)
     2.5.10. Establishes an audit program to ensure reimbursement and billing are appropriate and
     based on current DoD/VA sharing guidance and approved sharing agreements. (T-2)
AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014                                                                         7


                                          Chapter 3

                             GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES

3.1. Local and Regional Sharing Agreements.
   3.1.1. An assessment of opportunities for resource sharing with the VA will be included as
   part of the annual MTF and Regional Business Planning process. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan
   12, Enclosure 3, para. 3.a.) If multiple sharing opportunities exist, developing a master
   sharing agreement versus individual agreements for each service is recommended. It is
   important to note that training affiliation agreements with the VA have different requirements
   and do not fall under this guidance. AFI 41-108, Training Affiliation Agreement Program,
   provides the necessary requirements for developing a training agreement with the VA.
   3.1.2. Informational Requirements for Proposed Agreements.
      3.1.2.1. All new agreements must contain a financial or business case (BCA), currency
      case (CCA), and expeditionary case (ECA) analysis demonstrating the agreement is
      mutually beneficial to both partners. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para.
      3.b.(1)) Amended agreements that alter the financial, currency, and/or readiness case
      must contain an analysis that addresses all changes. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12,
      Enclosure 3, para. 3.b.(1)) The analysis template can be obtained from the AF DoD/VA
      Program Manager. Proposed agreements received without completed analyses will be
      returned without review.
      3.1.2.2. Proposed new or amended sharing agreements must include a VA Form 10-
      1245c, VA/Department of Defense Sharing Agreement, with blocks 2-7 completed. (T-0,
      DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 3.c.(4)) Blocks 9-10 may be used for the
      agreement details or an attached document, such as a Memorandum of Agreement or
      addendum to the VA Form 10-1245c, may be referenced if the space is inadequate.
      3.1.2.3. Sharing agreements should include a permanent business office address and
      specific guidance for claims processing, as appropriate.
      3.1.2.4. Statements addressing the following areas must be included in all sharing
      agreements. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 3.b.) If needed, sample
      statements are available from the AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing Program Office.
          3.1.2.4.1. Statement on availability of funds: This is required for all sharing
          agreements whose duration continues beyond the current fiscal year. (T-0, DoDI
          6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 3.d.(3)) The statement indicates continuation
          is contingent on the availability of funds appropriated for such purposes.
          3.1.2.4.2. Statement on termination rights: All sharing agreements must include a
          provision for termination or modification in the event of war or national emergency.
          (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 3.d.(2)) They must also contain a
          statement that indicates the agreement may be terminated at any time by mutual
          consent of all involved parties or by either party if they provide a 30-day written
          notice to the other party. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 3.d.(2))
8                                                                 AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014


           3.1.2.4.3. Dispute resolution statement: Disputes are to be addressed at the lowest
           possible organizational level prior to engaging higher headquarters. (T-0, DoDI
           6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 3.e.)
           3.1.2.4.4. Access to DoD owned/managed information technology statement: This
           statement is required for all sharing agreements where the use of a DoD information
           technology resource is required or implied. (T-0, DoDI 8500.2, 6 Feb 03, para. 5.12.)
           Access to DoD information technology assets will be accomplished IAW DoDI
           8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation. (T-0, DoDI 8500.2, 6 Feb 03,
           para. 5.12.)
       3.1.2.5. Sharing agreements may be entered into for a minimum of one year and a
       maximum of five years. Agreements may be amended at any time if agreed upon by all
       parties. Agreements may be renewed for up to five year increments indefinitely as long
       as the agreement continues to be relevant and beneficial to all concerned parties. If the
       duration is longer than one year, the sharing agreement must contain a statement that
       continuation beyond the current fiscal year is contingent on the availability of funds
       appropriated for such purposes. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para.
       3.d.(3))
    3.1.3. New Agreement Approval Process.
       3.1.3.1. All informational requirements, as outlined in paragraph 3.1.2. must be
       completed for each new agreement. (T-2) The approval authority for AF health care
       sharing agreements is the Assistant Surgeon General, Policy and Operations.
       3.1.3.2. AF DoD/VA Sharing Program Office will review all sharing agreement
       documentation to ensure the agreement is consistent with all DoD and AF policy and that
       it can be supported fiscally. Documentation requirements are outlined in section 3.1.2.
       and can also be found in the flow chart located on the AFMS Knowledge Exchange (Kx)
       DoD/VA           Health         care        Resource        Sharing      site        at
       https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx3/DoDVASharing.
       3.1.3.3. Once the documents are received by the DoD/VA Program Office, the approval
       process will not exceed 45 days, to include review and coordination by all appropriate
       offices at AFMOA, AFMSA, and AF/SG. If approval to proceed has not been granted by
       the 46th day, the agreement is automatically approved and ready for signature. If the
       documents are returned for changes, the 45-day period will restart once the documents
       are received by the AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing Program Office. Step-by-step
       instructions outlining the entire sharing agreement submission and approval process are
       available      on      the      AFMS        Kx     DoD/VA       Sharing      site    at
       https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx3/DoDVASharing.
    3.1.4. Sharing Agreement Amendment Process. The approval process for new and amended
    agreements is the same. Submission requirements for an amended agreement are as follows:
       3.1.4.1. An amended agreement can be submitted anytime and is required when the
       scope of the sharing arrangement is modified to include any changes to the
       reimbursement methodology or to the services being shared. Amending an agreement
       does not change or reset the end date of the original agreement unless a renewal is
       conducted at the same time.
AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014                                                                         9


       3.1.4.2. A business case analysis is only required when the revised sharing arrangement
       calls for a modification in the reimbursement, resource exchange, and/or cost sharing
       processes.
       3.1.4.3. A currency case analysis is only required when the revised sharing arrangement
       changes the currency impact outlined in the original agreement.
       3.1.4.4. An expeditionary case analysis is only required when the revised sharing
       arrangement changes the expeditionary impact outlined in the original agreement.
   3.1.5. Sharing Agreement Renewal Process.
       3.1.5.1. The process for renewing agreements is available on the AFMS Kx DoD/VA
       Sharing site at https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx3/DoDVASharing. Renewed agreements can
       be disapproved by anyone in the review process if there is significant cause for
       disapproval. Reasons for disapproval may include, but are not limited to, mission
       changes, financial issues, or projected staffing changes.
       3.1.5.2. There is no requirement to complete a financial, currency, or expeditionary case
       analyses for renewed agreements.
       3.1.5.3. Documents will be forwarded to the VA by AFMSA/SG3S. The VA will assign
       a number to the agreement and enter it into the master database. A copy of the numbered
       final agreement will be returned for the sharing agencies files and to DHA.
   3.1.6. Termination of Sharing Agreements. Sharing agreements can be terminated at any
   time with the mutual consent of all parties involved. The agreement may also be terminated
   by either party with 30-days written notice to the other parties. Additional conditions for
   termination must be agreed upon and defined in the sharing agreement.
   3.1.7. Issue/Conflict Resolution.
       3.1.7.1. Disputes arising in the execution of any sharing agreement are to be addressed at
       the lowest possible level. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 3.e.)
       3.1.7.2. If the dispute cannot be resolved within the sharing organizations, the dispute
       may be elevated to the next level in the chain of command.
       3.1.7.3. Policy interpretation issues forwarded to the AF DoD/VA Health Care Sharing
       Program Office for resolution will be addressed to the appropriate POC from both DHA
       and the VA. Those issues requiring policy changes or clarification may require
       significant time for final action. Policy changes require approval by the HEC and must
       be submitted to the council by a subordinate work group.
3.2. Joint Ventures.
   3.2.1. Joint ventures may or may not involve capital planning or coordinated use of planned
   or existing facilities. However, they do have certain characteristics in common that
   distinguish them from standard sharing relationships.
       3.2.1.1. Joint ventures function like strategic alliances between the DoD and VA
       facilities for the purpose of a long-term commitment greater than five years to facilitate
       comprehensive cooperation, shared risk, and mutual benefit.
10                                                                  AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014


     3.2.1.2. Joint ventures also entail connected, integrated, or consolidated medical facility
     missions and operations to the extent that there is regular and ongoing interaction in
     several of the following areas: staffing, clinical workload, business processes,
     management/governance, information management, logistics, education and training,
     and, where applicable, research activities.
  3.2.2. The detailed processes for becoming a joint venture are located on the AFMS
  Knowledge         Exchange        (Kx)     in    the  DoD/VA         Program       location    at
  https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx3/DoDVASharing. For proposed joint ventures, the heads of the
  medical facilities involved will develop a letter of agreement that outlines the basic concept
  and details the benefits of the proposed joint venture. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12,
  Enclosure 3, para. 5.b.) The purpose of the letter is to signify all parties are requesting joint
  venture status and to obtain approval for a joint venture entity. Specific details regarding
  governance and other operations are not necessary in this document. The letter shall be
  forwarded for approval through the appropriate chain of command to the Air Force Medical
  Support Agency DoD/VA Health Care Program office. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12,
  Enclosure 3, para. 5.b.) The Air Force Surgeon General is the approval authority for
  proposed joint ventures not involving capital improvements or construction. Proposed joint
  ventures involving capital improvements or construction must follow applicable Air Force
  and DoD policy, including DoD Instruction 6015.17. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12,
  Enclosure 3, para. 5.b.) Joint ventures can also be downward directed if DoD and the VA
  believe it is in the best interest of the government.
  3.2.3. Joint ventures require a significant level of local oversight to ensure the interests of
  the organization are protected and all agreements are followed. As a result of the effort in
  managing these organizations, it is recommended that MTF Commanders at approved joint
  venture sites appoint a dedicated staff member to manage joint venture activities.
  3.2.4. If the joint venture is approved, a local Joint Venture Planning Team will be
  established. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 5.b.) This team will consist
  of members from both organizations and will be responsible for developing a concept of
  operations (CONOPS) which includes, at minimum, the following information: the roles and
  responsibilities of each party, identifies the joint venture host, describes the governance
  model to include a joint venture executive council and the membership for the same, a
  proposed staffing plan, quality and risk management responsibilities and actions, and an
  issues resolution process. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 5.b.) The
  CONOPS will be forwarded through the chain of command to the Air Force Surgeon
  General. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 5.b.) Final approval for joint
  ventures lies with the OASD(HA) through the HEC.
  3.2.5. An important aspect of developing a joint venture where staff is integrated is the
  identification of roles and responsibilities for any integrated areas. Specifically, the
  identification of how the unit leadership is determined, as well as the chain of command for
  working issues that are beyond the ability of the leader to solve, should be fully delineated
  prior to the establishment of the integrated unit. (T-2) This can be done when describing the
  governance model in the CONOPS described in paragraph 3.2.4. or through a joint operating
  instruction/document.
AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014                                                                            11


   3.2.6. Approved sharing agreements are required for all shared services at the joint venture
   site and must follow the sharing agreement process as outlined in Section 3.1. (T-2)
   3.2.7. Reimbursement for shared services at joint venture sites must be in accordance with
   current DoD/VA guidance and AF/SG guidance as described in Paragraph 3.5. (T-0, DoDI
   6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 8.)
3.3. Joint Market Opportunities.
   3.3.1. Under the authority of the HEC, the Joint Venture/Resource Sharing Work Group
   (JV/RSWG) will identify potential sites for increased sharing. These sites will develop a
   joint executive level group with a charter that outlines their expectations for identifying
   increased collaboration opportunities that lead up to an operational sharing agreement with
   their VA partner. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 6.c.)
   3.3.2. At minimum, the sites will review potential sharing opportunities at least annually in
   the following health care functional areas: clinical services, facilities, staffing, business
   processes, management or governance, information management and information
   technology, logistics, education and training, and, if applicable, research. (T-0, DoDI
   6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 6.d.)
   3.3.3. Joint venture and joint market sites will establish baseline data relating to quality, cost
   and access to care for use in evaluating the effectiveness of their sharing initiatives.
   Reporting on the data will be biannually as part of their interim progress reports to the
   JV/RSWG. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 6.e.) Guidance on the
   reporting formats will be made available on the AFMS Kx site at
   https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx3/DoDVASharing.
3.4. Dual Eligible Beneficiaries.
   3.4.1. There are VA and DoD beneficiaries that are eligible for care in both systems. The
   guidance for handling dual eligible beneficiaries is relatively simple. The dual eligible
   beneficiary that is referred to the AF MTF by the VA under the auspices of an approved
   sharing agreement should be assumed to be seeking care as a VA beneficiary. Under this
   scenario, the VA would reimburse the AF MTF for that care in accordance with the approved
   DoD/VA sharing agreement and the appropriate reimbursement guidance outlined in Section
   3.5. However, if the dual eligible beneficiary voluntarily states they want to be treated as a
   DoD beneficiary, then the VA would not be billed or required to reimburse the AF MTF for
   that care. For those resource sharing partnerships where the VA is the host, the reverse is
   also applicable. At these locations, it is recommended that the MTFs work with their VA
   partner to ensure their staff is aware of the potential dual eligibility of some of the DoD
   referred beneficiaries.
   3.4.2. Benefit election by the dual eligible beneficiary should occur at the beginning of an
   episode of care. At no time should the entity providing health care solicit or encourage a
   benefit election change of status from one benefit or the other. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan
   12, Enclosure 3, para. 7.a.(1)) However, if the referred beneficiary voluntarily elects to
   change his or her benefit during an episode of care, he or she must be afforded the
   opportunity to have the local Beneficiary Counseling and Assistance Coordinators (BCACs)
   discuss and educate potential negative outcomes of their decision to ensure the patient makes
   an informed choice and is aware of all possible implications of the same. (T-0, DoDI
 12                                                                 AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014


   6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 7.a.(1)) Potential impacts of their decision could affect
   their continuity of care, incur increased or new co-payments, loss of eligibility for VA
   beneficiary travel allowance, or potential loss of other benefits. The VA referring facility
   must be notified about any changes that occur as a result of beneficiary benefit election. (T-0,
   DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 7.a.(2))
3.5. Reimbursements.
   3.5.1. Reimbursement for sharing agreements must be in accordance with current DoD/VA
   policy and guidance (https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx3/DoDVASharing). (T-0, DoDI 6010.23,
   23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3, para. 8.) The HEC establishes all reimbursement policy and
   guidance. Development of the policy is done by the HEC Financial Management Work
   Group with representation from the Service SGs, DHA, and VA. Waivers for deviation from
   the policy must be completed in accordance with the DoD/VA guidance and forwarded
   through the chain of command for approval. (T-0, VA/DoD Health Executive Council
   Memorandum of Agreement, Health Care Resource Sharing Reimbursement Methodology,
   2003).
   3.5.2. Invoice documentation at the MTF will follow the DoD Coding Guidance and actual
   billing processes will follow the guidance provided on the Uniform Business Office (UBO)
   website at the following location: http://www.tricare.mil/ocfo/mcfs/ubo/billing.cfm. (T-0,
   DoD 6010.15-M, Military Treatment Facility Uniform Business Office (UBO) Manual, Nov
   9, 2006).
   3.5.3. Reimbursement for health care services provided under any sharing agreement shall
   not exceed payment amounts for similar services provided by non-government providers
   under TRICARE payment rules and procedures. (T-0, DoDI 6010.23, 23 Jan 12, Enclosure 3,
   para. 8.).
3.6. Data Capture And Reporting.
   3.6.1. Recording of MTF health care encounters and services, manpower, expenses, and
   collections resulting from sharing agreements will be done in accordance with DoD Manual
   6010.13-M, Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military Medical
   and Dental Treatment Facilities, 7 April 2008. (T-0, DoD Manual 6010.13-M, Medical
   Expense and Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military Medical and Dental
   Treatment Facilities, 7 April 2008).
   3.6.2. The AF/SG DoD/VA Program Office will schedule ad hoc meetings as needed to
   provide updates, training, or relay policy changes. It is anticipated that meetings will be held
   quarterly provided there is sufficient information for discussion or new training requirements.
   Attendees include, but are not limited to, representatives from all AF/VA Joint Venture Sites,
   a representative from all MTFs engaged in significant DoD/VA sharing activities, and
   representatives from AFMOA.
3.7. The Joint Incentive Fund Program.
   3.7.1. The DoD/VA Joint Incentive Fund (JIF) Program was established in the National
   Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of fiscal year (FY) 2003. The intent of the program is to
   fund creative sharing initiatives between the two Departments. Each Department contributes
AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014                                                                       13


   equally to the project fund each year from FY04 through FY15, or until Congress terminates
   the program by not extending it in the out-years.
   3.7.2. Management of the JIF Program is the responsibility of the HEC Financial
   Management Work Group. Final approval for all projects is provided by the HEC. The
   GAO provides additional oversight of the program.
   3.7.3. The JIF program is the only source of venture capital dollars for DoD/VA sharing
   initiatives. Additional information on the program is available on the TRICARE website at
   the following location: www.tricare.osd.mil/DVPCO/default.cfm, the AFMS Kx DoD/VA
   Program site https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx3/DoDVASharing, or by contacting the AFMSA
   DoD/VA Program Office.
   3.7.4. JIF proposals are evaluated on multiple factors including the return on investment
   (ROI). While ROI is not the most important factor to consider, if it is negative, the other
   factors will need to be well written and provide substantial reasons for approving the
   proposal. When preparing a JIF proposal, the POCs need to have a plan for funding any
   sustainment requirements. In times of fiscal uncertainty, the lack of a sustainment plan is
   often the primary reason for non-approval of a JIF proposal.
3.8. Participation In Regional Dod/Va Committees.
   3.8.1. Participation in regional DoD/VA committees or groups is encouraged where the
   purpose of the group is to explore sharing opportunities and to facilitate the development of
   sharing arrangements, and there is no conflict of interest or violation of legal authority.
   3.8.2. Before participating in a regional committee or group, AF MTF Commanders might
   want to review the charter to ensure there is not a statement indicating the group has
   authority, either actual or implied, for approving sharing agreements or other DoD/VA
   collaborative efforts. Approval authority for AF DoD/VA sharing agreements is at the Air
   Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) and VA Central Offices. Approval for other collaborative
   efforts is generally at the HEC unless otherwise stated.




                                           THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                           Surgeon General
 14                                                              AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 6010.23, Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care
Resource Sharing Program, January 23, 2012
DoD 6010.15-M, Military Treatment Facility Uniform Business Office (UBO) Manual, Nov 9,
2006
DoD 6010.13-M, Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military
Medical and Dental Treatment Facilities, April 7, 2008.
AFI 41-102, Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS) for Fixed Military
Medical and Dental Treatment Facilities, 5 January 2011
AFI 41-108, Training Affiliation Agreement Program, 4 May 2011
Memorandum of Understanding Between the Veterans Administration and the Department of
Defense, VA/DoD Health Care Resources Sharing Guidelines, October 31, 2008, provides
overarching guidance for implementing a DoD/VA sharing program.
(http://www.tricare.mil/DVPCO/downloads/MOU.pdf)
VA/DoD Health Executive Council Memorandum of Agreement, Health Care Resource Sharing
Reimbursement Methodology, 2003, establishes the reimbursement methodology for direct
sharing of health care resources between DoD and VA.
(http://www.tricare.mil/DVPCO/policy-leg.cfm)
Memorandum of Agreement Between the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans
Affairs, Outpatient Billing Guidance For Department of Defense/Veterans Affairs Direct Sharing
Agreements for Health Care, June 19, 2009, establishes outpatient reimbursement rates for
DoD/VA direct health care sharing.
(http://www.tricare.mil/DVPCO/downloads/Outpatient%20Billing%20Guidance.pdf)
Memorandum of Agreement Between the Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of
Defense, Implementation of Cooperative Separation Process/Examinations for the Department of
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs at Benefits Delivery at Discharge Sites,
November 17, 2004, provides the conditions, stipulations, and responsibilities of both VA and
DoD to support a cooperative separation process that will meet the needs of VA disability
compensation evaluation and DoD separation/retirement assessment.
(http://www.tricare.mil/DVPCO/policy-leg.cfm)
VA/DoD Memorandum, Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-Department of Defense (DoD)
Health Care Resource Sharing Rates-Billing Guidance Inpatient Services, August 29, 2006,
establishes the inpatient reimbursement methodology for DoD/VA direct health care sharing.
(http://www.tricare.mil/DVPCO/policy-leg.cfm)
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014                                                    15


VA Form 10-1245c, VA/Department of Defense Sharing Agreement
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General
AF/SG1—Air Force Surgeon General Medical Force Development Directorate
AF/SG3—Air Force Surgeon General Health Care Operations Directorate
AF/SG8—Air Force Surgeon General Medical Plans and Programs Directorate
AF/SGJ—Air Force Surgeon General Legal Advisor
AF/SGR—Air Force Surgeon General Modernization Directorate
AF/SGY—Air Force Surgeon General Chief Financial Officer
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
BCA—Business Case Analysis
CCA—Currency Case Analysis
DHA—Defense Health Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
ECA—Expeditionary Case Analysis
FY—Fiscal Year
HEC—Health Executive Council
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
JIF—Joint Incentive Fund
MAJCOM—Major Command
MEPRS—Medical Expense Performance and Reporting System
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
OASD(HA)—Office of the Assistant Secretary Defense (Health Affairs)
POC—Point of Contact
 16                                                              AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014


ROI—Return on Investment
TRICARE—Tri-Service Health Care Program
U.S.C—United States Code
UBO—Uniform Business Office
UBU—Uniform Biostatistical Utility
VA—Department of Veterans Affairs
VISN—Veterans Integrated Service Network

Terms
Beneficiary—With respect to VA, a person eligible for health care services under title 38,
U.S.C., and with respect to DoD, means a person eligible for health care services under chapter
55 of title 10 U.S.C.
Direct Care Sharing Agreements—Memorandum of Agreement or approved VA Form 10-
1245c executed between a military health system facility command or other authorized authority
and a VA medical facility. These agreements involve the exchange of services for
reimbursement or services in kind.
Heads of Medical Facilities—With respect to VA, the Director of the facility, and with respect
to DoD, the commander or medical or dental officer in charge.
Health Care Resources—All available manpower, facilities, equipment, supplies, and funding
to produce health care services, and any other health care support or administrative resource.
Health Care Services—This includes hospital care, medical services, and rehabilitative
services, as defined in section 1701 of Section 8111 of Title 38, United States Code (U.S.C.),
certain health care services for immediate family members of veterans under section 1782
Section 8111 of Title 38, U.S.C., and bereavement counseling under section 1783 of Section
8111 of Title 38, U.S.C.
Health Executive Council (HEC)—Joint DoD/VA committee empowered by Congress to
implement mutually beneficial policies, operations and capital planning. Oversees development
and implementation of DoD/VA Joint Strategic Plan.
HIPAA—The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which provides
improved continuity of health insurance and requires MTFs to protect the privacy, security and
availability of individual health information.
Joint Venture—A VA or DoD approved, dual agency, locally negotiated partnership with a
specific management concept (i.e., integration or collocation), usually involving a capital
expenditure and generating an increased level of beneficiary services to achieve a mutually
accepted economy of scale benefiting both agencies. a. Co-location is the sharing of space,
facilities, and equipment at a joint venture site. b. Integration involves combining or
incorporating both Departments’ staff members into a single functional unit operating under a
single manager or organizational structure. c. Joint venture host is the agency (VA or DoD)
providing the site and facility for the joint venture.
AFI41-126 6 MARCH 2014                                                                       17


Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)—Memorandum that defines general areas of conditional
agreement between two or more parties – what one party does depends on what the other party
does (e.g., one party agrees to provide support if the other party provides the materials). MOAs
that establish responsibilities for providing recurring reimbursable support should be
supplemented with support agreements that define the support, basis for reimbursement for each
category of support, the billing and payment process, and other terms and conditions of the
agreement.
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)—Memorandum that defines general areas of
understanding between two or more parties – explains what each party plans to do; however,
what each party does is not dependent on what the other party does (e.g., does not require
reimbursement or other support from receiver).
Military Treatment Facility (MTF)—Those inpatient and outpatient medical/dental facilities
owned, staffed, and managed by the Military Departments.
Readiness—The level of health care resources necessary to maintain the combat effectiveness of
the military forces and to support expanded missions during periods of mobilization or national
emergency.
Seamless Transition—Efforts to provide service members a smooth transfer of medical
responsibility from the Military Health System to the Veterans Health Administration, to include
full transfer of medical documentation and absolutely minimal burden on the service member.
Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN)—A regional health network of the Department
of Veterans Affairs.
