BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-902
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                27 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                               Law

                                                 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES BY MEMBERS OF
                                                                    THE US AIR FORCE


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/JAA                                              Certified by: AF/JA (Maj Gen Rockwell)
                                                                                      Pages: 14
Supersedes:    AFI 51-902, 12 November 2010


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals,
and Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 1344.10, Political Activities by Members of the
Armed Forces, February 19, 2008. It provides specific prohibitions and guidance regarding
political activities of Air Force military personnel. This Instruction applies to members of the
Regular Air Force and the Reserve components on active duty for training, including the Air
National Guard when federalized or when performing full time National Guard duty. Certain
sections also apply to Reserve component members while in an inactive status, as indicated
within those sections. Members on active duty are prohibited from engaging in political
activities as provided in this Instruction. Military personnel who violate the prohibitions, or fail
to comply with the mandatory requirements, as applicable, in paragraphs 3.5, 4.1, 5.1.2, 6.3,
6.4.1, and 6.5 of this Instruction may be prosecuted under Article 92, Uniform Code of Military
Justice (UCMJ), as well as any other applicable articles of the UCMJ or provisions of federal
law.     Violations may result in administrative disciplinary action in addition to otherwise
applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. All waiver requests must be
submitted through the chain of command to the OPR for submission to the appropriate outside
agency. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the
Air Force Records Information Management System. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to AF/JAA using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the JA functional chain of
command.
 2                                                                  AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major textual
changes were made concerning the criteria to hold and exercise the functions of certain civil
offices pursuant to Title 10 United States Code, Section 973 and to implement changes required
by revised DoD Directive 1344.10 with regard to campaign literature for political candidates and
permissible political activities by military members. The statute permits retired Regular or
Reserve members serving on active duty under a call or order to active duty for 270 days or less
to hold and exercise the functions of civil office in the U.S. Government; a State; the District of
Columbia; a territory, possession, or commonwealth of the U.S.; or any political subdivision
thereof, if not otherwise prohibited by State or local law and if holding such office does not
interfere with the performance of military duties. DoD Directive 1344.10 no longer permits the
Secretary of the Air Force (SEC AF) to delegate the authority to approve member requests to
serve as an election official, to be a nominee or candidate for elected office, or to serve in such
office. Attachment 2 is the new template for nominee/candidate acknowledgements required by
DoD Directive 1344.10.
1. Overview. It is Air Force policy to encourage active duty members to carry out their rights
and responsibilities of U.S. citizenship. While on active duty, however, members are prohibited
from engaging in certain political activities as proscribed below in order to maintain good order
and discipline and to avoid conflicts of interest and the appearance of improper endorsement in
political matters.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Office of The Judge Advocate General (AF /JA) shall:
        2.1.1. Advise and assist SECAF, the Secretariat, and the Air Staff on matters related to
        Air Force military members’ participation in political activities.
        2.1.2. Receive, review, and forward for SECAF action any requests by members to file
        evidence of nomination or candidacy for nomination as required by law. See paragraphs
        5 and 6.
     2.2. Staff Judge Advocates at all levels of command advise and assist their respective
     commands and assigned members on matters related to participation in political activities.
     2.3. This Instruction establishes responsibilities for members on active duty for more than 30
     days. Paragraph 9 of this Instruction also establishes responsibilities for members on active
     duty for 30 days or less. All members on active duty must comply with this Instruction.
     Additionally, certain restrictions, as stated herein, also apply to retired regular members and
     members of the Reserve Component, even when not on active duty.
3. Permitted Activities. Members may:
     3.1. Register to vote, vote, and express a personal opinion on political candidates and issues,
     but not as a representative of the Air Force or DoD.
     3.2. Promote and encourage others to exercise their voting franchise, if such promotion does
     not constitute use of their official authority or influence to interfere with the outcome of any
     election.
AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014                                                                            3


   3.3. Join a partisan or nonpartisan political club and attend its meetings when not in uniform,
   but not in any official capacity nor listed as a sponsor (see restrictions in paragraph 4). The
   restriction on wearing the uniform to meetings also applies to retired and Reserve
   Component members.
   3.4. Attend partisan and nonpartisan political fundraising activities, meetings, rallies,
   debates, conventions, or activities as a spectator when not in uniform and when no inference
   or appearance of official sponsorship, approval, or endorsement can reasonably be drawn.
   3.5. Serve as an election official, if such service is not as a representative of a partisan
   political party, does not interfere with the performance of military duties, is performed when
   not in uniform, and the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) has given prior approval.
   Members who violate any of these provisions are subject to prosecution under Article 92,
   UCMJ, in addition to any other applicable violation of the UCMJ or Federal law. SECAF
   may not delegate the authority to grant or deny such permission. Requests to serve as an
   election official shall be forwarded through command channels to Headquarters Air Force,
   Office of The Judge Advocate General, Administrative Law Directorate (AF /JAA).
   3.6. Sign a petition for specific legislative action o r a petition to place a candidate’s name
   on an official election ballot, if the signing does not obligate the member to engage in
   partisan political activity and is done as a private citizen and not as a representative of the Air
   Force or DoD.
   3.7. Write a letter to the editor of a newspaper expressing the member’s personal views
   concerning public issues or political candidates, if such action is not part of an organized
   letter-writing campaign or a solicitation of votes for or against a political party or partisan
   political cause or candidate. If the letter identifies the member as being on active duty status
   (or if the member is otherwise reasonably identifiable as a member of the Armed Forces), the
   letter should clearly state that the views expressed are those of the individual only and not
   those of the Air Force or DoD. Members must apply this principle to personal views written
   for publication in all forms of print and electronic media (i.e., magazines, social media,
   blogging).
   3.8. Write a personal letter, not for publication, expressing preference for a specific political
   candidate or cause, if the action is not part of an organized letter-writing campaign on behalf
   of a partisan political cause or candidate.
   3.9. Make monetary contributions to a political organization, party, or committee favoring a
   particular candidate or slate of candidates, subject to limitations under Title 2, United States
   Code, Section 441a and Title 18, United States Code, Section 607.
   3.10. Display a political bumper sticker on the member’s private vehicle (but see paragraph
   4.1.11).
   3.11. Wear a political button or t-shirt when not in uniform, performing military duties, or
   under circumstances that could reasonably give rise to an appearance of official endorsement.
   3.12. Participate fully in the Federal Voting Assistance Program.
4. Prohibited Activities.
4                                                                   AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014


    4.1. Members who engage in any of the prohibited activities listed in this paragraph and
    subparagraphs are subject to prosecution under Article 92, UCMJ, in addition to any other
    applicable provision of the UCMJ or Federal law. Members shall not:
       4.1.1. Participate in partisan political fundraising activities (except as permitted in
       paragraph 3.7), rallies, conventions (including making speeches in the course thereof),
       management of campaigns, or debates, either on one’s own behalf or on that of another.
       This prohibition applies whether the individual is in uniform or not, and regardless of
       whether an inference or appearance of official sponsorship, approval, or endorsement
       may be drawn. Participation includes more than mere attendance as a spectator. (See
       also paragraphs 4.1.9 and 4.1.16.)
       4.1.2. Use official authority or influence to interfere with an election, to affect its course
       or outcome, to solicit votes for a particular candidate or issue, or to require or solicit
       political contributions from others.
       4.1.3. Allow, or cause to be published, partisan political articles, letters, or endorsements
       signed or written by the member that solicit votes for or against a partisan political party,
       candidate, or cause. This is distinguished from a letter to the editor as permitted under
       the conditions described in subparagraph 3.6.
       4.1.4. Serve in any official capacity or be listed as a sponsor of a partisan political club.
       4.1.5. Speak before a partisan political gathering, including any gathering that promotes
       a partisan political party, candidate or cause.
       4.1.6. Participate in any radio, television, or other program or group discussion as an
       advocate of a partisan political party, candidate, or cause.
       4.1.7. Conduct a political opinion survey under the auspices of a partisan political club or
       group, or distribute partisan political literature.
       4.1.8. Perform clerical or other duties for a partisan political committee or candidate
       during a campaign, on an election day, or after an election day during the process of
       closing out a campaign.
       4.1.9. Solicit or otherwise engage in fund-raising activities in federal offices or facilities,
       including military reservations, for any partisan political party, candidate, or cause. (See
       also paragraphs 4.1.1 and 4.1.16.)
       4.1.10. March or ride in a partisan political parade.
       4.1.11. Display a large political sign, banner, or poster (as distinguished from a bumper
       sticker) on a private vehicle.
       4.1.12. Display a large political sign, poster, banner, or similar device visible to the
       public at one’s residence on a military installation, even if that residence is part of a
       privatized housing development.
       4.1.13. Participate in any organized effort to provide voters with transportation to the
       polls, if the effort is organized by or associated with a partisan political party, cause, or
       candidate.
AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014                                                                        5


       4.1.14. Sell tickets for, or otherwise actively promote, partisan political dinners and
       similar fundraising events.
       4.1.15. Attend any partisan political event as an official representative of the Air Force
       or DoD, even without actively participating, except as a member of a joint Armed Forces
       color guard at the opening ceremonies of the national convention of a political party
       recognized by the Federal Elections Commission, or as otherwise authorized by the
       SECAF.
       4.1.16. Make a campaign contribution to, or receive or solicit (on one’s own behalf) a
       campaign contribution from, any other member of the Armed Forces on active duty, or an
       officer or employee of the federal government for promoting a political objective or
       cause. Any contributions not prohibited by this paragraph remain subject to the gift
       provisions of sections 2635.301-2635.304 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations. (See
       also paragraphs 4.1.1 and 4.1.9.)
       4.1.17. Participate, while in uniform, in any activity such as unofficial public speeches,
       interviews, picket lines, marches, rallies or any public demonstration which may imply
       Air Force sanction of the cause for which the demonstration or activity is conducted.
       Authorization to wear the uniform under certain circumstances may be granted in
       accordance with DoD Instruction 1334.01, Wearing of the Uniform, as implemented by
       AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, and AF I 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of
       Air Force Personnel.
       4.1.18. Engage in the public or organized recruitment of others to become partisan
       candidates for nomination or election to a civil office.
       4.1.19. Commissioned officers shall not use contemptuous words against the President,
       the Vice President, Congress, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of a military
       department, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the Governor or legislature of any
       State, Commonwealth, or possession in which the member is on duty or present as
       prohibited and punishable under Article 88, UCMJ.
   4.2. With the exception of subparagraph 4.1.19, and subject to any other restrictions in law, a
   member of the Air Force not on active duty may take the actions and participate in the
   activities prohibited in subparagraph 4.1 above, provided the member is not in uniform and
   does not otherwise act in a manner that could reasonably give rise to the inference or
   appearance of official sponsorship, approval, or endorsement.
   4.3. Activities not expressly prohibited above may be contrary to the spirit and intent of this
   Instruction. Any activity that may be reasonably viewed as directly or indirectly associating
   the Air Force or DoD with a partisan political activity or is otherwise contrary to the spirit
   and intention of this Instruction shall be avoided.
5. Nomination or Candidacy for Civil Office. For the purposes of this Instruction, “civil
office” includes a civil office in the U.S. Government that is an elective office, an office
requiring an appointment by the President, or a position on the executive schedule under Title 5,
United States Code, Sections 5312-5317; or a civil office in a State; the District of Columbia; a
territory, possession, or commonwealth of the U.S.; or any political subdivision thereof.
6                                                                  AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014


    5.1. Except as authorized by subparagraph 5.3., below, a regular Air Force member, or a
    retired regular or Reserve Component Air Force member on active duty under a call or order
    to active duty for more than 270 days, may not be a nominee or candidate for a civil office
    described in paragraph 5, except when the SECAF personally grants permission.
       5.1.1. SECAF may not delegate the authority to grant or deny permission under
       paragraph 5 and shall not authorize a service member to perform any activity while on
       active duty that is otherwise prohibited by other provisions of law, policy, regulation, or
       instruction.
       5.1.2. Permission of SECAF is required for a service member regardless of whether
       evidence of nomination or candidacy for civil office is filed prior to commencing active
       duty service or whether the service member is an incumbent in the relevant office. If a
       service member covered by the prohibition in paragraph 5.1 becomes a nominee or
       candidate for civil office prior to commencing active duty, then the service member must
       request permission in writing and submit the request to SECAF before entering active
       duty. Members who violate this prohibition are subject to prosecution under Article 92,
       UCMJ, in addition to any other applicable violation of the UCMJ or Federal law.
       5.1.3. If SECAF denies the request, the service member must take affirmative actions to
       decline the nomination or withdraw as a candidate.
       5.1.4. Requests for SECAF consideration shall be forwarded through command channels
       to Headquarters Air Force, Office of The Judge Advocate General, Administrative Law
       Directorate (AF/JAA).
    5.2. A retired regular Air Force member or Reserve Component member serving on active
    duty under a call or order to active duty for 270 days or less may remain or become a
    nominee or candidate for a civil office described in paragraph 5, provided there is no
    interference with the performance of military duties.
    5.3. Exceptions to the prohibitions of subparagraph 5.1.:
       5.3.1. Enlisted members, regardless of duty status, may seek, hold and exercise the
       functions of a nonpartisan civil office as a notary public or member of a local school
       board, neighborhood planning commission, and similar local agency. Officer members
       on active duty may seek, hold, and exercise the functions of a nonpartisan civil office on
       an independent school board that is located exclusively on a military reservation. Such
       offices must be held in a non- military capacity and may not interfere with the
       performance of military duties.
       5.3.2. Members may serve as a regular or reserve civilian law enforcement officer or
       member of a civilian fire or rescue squad when approved by the member’s commander.
       Such service must be in a personal capacity, may not involve the exercise of military
       authority, and may not interfere with the performance of military duties. In the case of
       regular officers on the active duty list or full- time National Guard and retired and reserve
       officers on active duty under a call or order for a period of more than 270 days, however,
       the position must not be a civil office described in paragraph 5. Refer to AFI 31 -201,
       Security Police Standards and Procedures, for further guidance regarding off-duty
       employment of Security Forces personnel.
AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014                                                                         7


6. Additional Limitations on Nominees or Candidates for Elective Civil Office.
   6.1. Members not on active duty who are nominees or candidates for the offices described in
   paragraph 5 may, in their campaign literature (including web sites, videos, television, and
   conventional print advertisements):
      6.1.1. Use or mention or permit the use or mention of their military rank or grade and
      military service affiliation, but must clearly indicate their retired or reserve status.
      6.1.2. Include or permit the inclusion of their current or former specific military duty,
      title, or position, or photographs in military uniform, when displayed with other non-
      military biographical details. Any such military information must be accompanied by a
      prominent and clearly displayed disclaimer that neither the military information nor
      photographs imply endorsement by the Department of Defense or the Department of the
      Air Force; e.g., “John Doe is a member of the Air National Guard. Use of his military
      rank, job titles, and photographs in uniform does not imply endorsement by the
      Department of the Air Force or the Department of Defense.”
   6.2. Members described in paragraph 6.1 may NOT, in campaign literature (including web
   sites, videos, television, and conventional print advertisements):
      6.2.1. Use or allow the use of photographs, drawings, and other similar media formats of
      themselves in uniform as the primary graphic representation in any campaign media, such
      as a billboard, brochure, flyer, web site, or television commercial. For the purposes of
      this Instruction, “photographs” include video images, drawings, and all other similar
      formats of representational media.
      6.2.2. Depict or allow their depiction in uniform in a manner that does not accurately
      reflect their actual performance of duty. For the purpose of this Instruction,
      “photographs” include video images, drawings, and all other similar formats of
      representational media.
   6.3. Any member on active duty who is permitted to be, or otherwise not prohibited from
   being, a nominee or candidate for civil office as described in paragraph 5, may NOT
   participate in any campaign activities. Members who violate this prohibition are subject to
   prosecution under Article 92, UCMJ, in addition to any other applicable violation of the
   UCMJ or Federal law. This includes open and active campaigning and all behind-the- scenes
   activities. For example, a service member on active duty who is a candidate or nominee
   may not:
      6.3.1. Direct, control, manage, or otherwise participate in their campaign, including
      behind-the-scenes activities.
      6.3.2. Make statements to or answer questions from the news media regarding political
      issues or government policies or activities unless specifically authorized to do so by an
      appropriate supervisor or commander.
      6.3.3. Publish or allow to be published partisan political articles, literature, or documents
      that they have signed, written, or approved that solicit votes for or against a partisan
      political party, candidate, issue, or cause.
   6.4. Nominees or candidates for office described in paragraph 6.3 must:
 8                                                                 AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014


        6.4.1. Take affirmative, documented efforts to inform those who work for them and
        those whom they control that the nominees or candidates may not direct, control, manage,
        or otherwise participate in campaign activities on their own behalf while on active duty.
        Members who fail to comply with this requirement are subject to prosecution under
        Article 92, UCMJ, in addition to any other applicable violation of the UCMJ or Federal
        law.
        6.4.2. Take all reasonable efforts to prevent current or anticipated advertisements that the
        nominees or candidates control from being publicly displayed in any media while on
        active duty. This includes web sites devoted to the nomination or candidacy. Web sites
        created before entry on active duty may not be updated or revised and may be ordered
        shut down at SECAF direction.
     6.5. Members who require permission to be nominees or candidates under this Instruction, or
     who are on active duty and are not otherwise prohibited from being a nominee or a candidate,
     must complete the acknowledgment of limitations at Attachment 2. Those who require
     permission must complete the acknowledgment before permission may be granted. Those
     who do not require permission must complete the acknowledgment within 15 days of
     becoming a nominee or candidate or within 15 days of entry on active duty if already a
     nominee or candidate. The acknowledgment must be forwarded through the service
     member’s chain of command to the first general officer in the military chain of command or
     functional chain. If elected to the office, a copy of the acknowledgement shall be maintained
     in the service member’s personnel record for the duration of the term of office. Members
     who fail to complete the acknowledgment and obtain the required permission to be a
     nominee or candidate are subject to prosecution under Article 92, UCMJ, in addition to any
     other applicable violation of the UCMJ or Federal law.
7. Members Elected or Appointed to Civil Office.
     7.1. Civil Office in the U.S. Government. Except as authorized by law, members serving on
     Active Duty in the Regular Air Force and members who are either retired Regular Air Force
     or a member of a Reserve Component and serving on active duty under a call or order to
     active duty for more than 270 days may not hold or exercise the functions of civil office in
     the US Government that is an elective office, requires an appointment by the President, or is
     a position on the executive schedule under Title 5, United States Code, Sections 5312 -5317.
     A member who occupies a civil office described above who is called to active duty for more
     than 270 days must resign from the civil office; entering a “leave of absence” or similar
     “inactive” status is insufficient to comply with this prohibition.
        7.1.1. This prohibition does not apply to any retired Regular Air Force member or
        Reserve Component service member serving on active duty under a call or order to active
        duty that specifies a period of active duty of 270 days or less, provided there is no
        interference with the performance of military duties. For example, Senator Smith, a
        lieutenant colonel in the Air Force Reserve, is permitted to perform active duty service
        while holding elected office and exercising the functions of her elected civil U.S.
        Government office so long as she is not called to active duty for more than 270 days and
        her exercise of those functions do not interfere with the performance of her military
        duties.
AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014                                                                         9


     7.1.2. If the call or order specifies a period of active duty of more than 270 days, the
     prohibition applies beginning on the first day of the active duty period.
     7.1.3. A member on active duty in the Air Force may hold or exercise the functions of a
     civil office in the U.S. Government that is not described in paragraph 7.1 when assigned
     or detailed to that office (while on active duty) or to perform those functions, provided
     the assignment or detail does not interfere with military duties.
     7.1.4. Any active duty Air Force member authorized to hold or exercise, or not
     prohibited from holding or exercising, the functions of civil office under paragraph 7.1.1
     is still subject to the prohibitions of subparagraph 4.1.
  7.2. Civil Office in a State or Other Political Subdivision. Except as authorized by law,
  Regular Air Force members may not hold or exercise the functions of civil office in the
  government of a State; the District of Columbia; a territory, possession, or commonwealth of
  the United States; or in any political subdivision thereof.
     7.2.1. This prohibition does not apply to members who are either retired Regular Air
     Force or a member of a Reserve Component and serving on active duty under a call or
     order to active duty that specifies a period of active duty of 270 days or less, provided
     there is no interference with military duties. For example, City Mayor Koziarz, a retired
     major recalled to active duty, may perform active duty service while holding his elected
     office and exercising the functions of that office so long as his recall to service is for 270
     days or less; he serves as the mayor in a non- military capacity; and there is no
     interference with his military duties while serving as mayor.
     7.2.2. A retired Regular or Reserve Component member on active duty under a call or
     order to active duty for more than 270 days may hold ─ but shall NOT exercise ─ the
     functions of a civil office as set out in subparagraph 7.2., provided:
         7.2.2.1. Holding the office is not prohibited under the laws of that State; the District
         of Columbia; a territory, possession, or commonwealth of the United States; or any
         political subdivision thereof, and
         7.2.2.2. SECAF grants permission after determining that holding such office does not
         interfere with the performance of military duties. SECAF may not delegate the
         authority to grant or deny such permission.
     7.2.3. For example, if City Mayor Koziarz, a retired major, is recalled to active duty for a
     period in excess of 270 days, he may continue to hold his elected office, unless he is
     prohibited from doing so under State law or SECAF determines that continuing to hold
     the office would interfere with the performance of his military duties. While Major
     Koziarz remains on active duty, however, he may not exercise any of the functions of his
     civil office.
  7.3. Members affected by the prohibitions against being a nominee or candidate or holding
  or exercising the functions of a civil office may request retirement (if eligible), discharge, or
  release from active duty. SECAF may approve these requests, consistent with the needs of
  the Air Force. Absent compelling circumstances, requests will normally not be approved if
  the member is:
     7.3.1. Obligated to fulfill an active duty service commitment.
 10                                                                AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014


         7.3.2. Serving or has been issued orders to serve afloat or in an area that is overseas,
         remote, a combat zone, or a hostile fire pay area.
         7.3.3. Ordered to remain on active duty while the subject of an investigation or inquiry.
         7.3.4. Accused of an offense under the UCMJ or serving a sentence or punishment for
         such offense.
         7.3.5. Pending other administrative separation action or proceedings.
         7.3.6. Indebted to the United States.
         7.3.7. In a Reserve Component and serving involuntarily under a call or order to active
         duty that specifies a period of active duty of more than 270 days during a period of
         declared war or national emergency, or other period when a unit or individual of the Air
         National Guard or other Reserve Component has been involuntarily called or ordered to
         active duty as authorized by law.
         7.3.8. In violation of this Instruction or an order or regulation prohibiting such member
         from assuming or exercising the functions of civil office.
      7.4. No actions undertaken by an Air Force member in carrying out assigned military duties
      shall be invalidated solely by virtue of such member having been a candidate or nominee for
      a civil office in violation of the prohibition of paragraph 5 or having held or exercised the
      functions of a civil office in violation of the prohibitions of paragraphs 7.1. or 7.2.
8. Duty Restrictions. No member of the Air Force may be assigned or detailed to perform
duties in the legislative or judicial branches of the U.S. Government. A member may, however,
perform such duties if under a scholarship, fellowship, grant, or internship, or for a specific
duration on a specific project as a member of the staff, court, or committee of the Congress. The
member must first agree to incur an active duty service obligation to commence at the
termination of the assignment or detail, and equivalent to the length of the assignment or detail,
or to the service obligation prescribed in other applicable regulations, whichever is greater.
9. Air Force Members on Active Duty for Less Than 30 Days. In addition to complying with
all other mandatory provisions herein regarding prescribed and proscribed actions for active duty
Air Force members, members on active duty for less than 30 days will:
   9.1. Give full time and attention to performing military duties during prescribed duty hours.
   9.2. Avoid any outside political activities that may be prejudicial to performing military
   duties or inconsistent with the accepted customs and traditions of the Armed Forces.
   9.3. Refrain from participating in any political activity while in military uniform and from
   using government facilities for political activities.




                                                 CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                                 Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                 The Judge Advocate General
AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014                                                                        11


                                          Attachment 1
            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 2 United States Code, Sections 441a, 441a-1, 441f, 441g, and 441i
Title 5 United States Code, Sections 5312 through 5317
Title 10 United States Code, Sections 888, 973 and Chapter 47 (“Uniform Code of Military
Justice”)
Title 18 United States Code, Sections 592-594, 596, 602-603, 606-609
DoD Directive 1344.10, Political Activities by Members of the Armed Forces, February 19,
2008
DoD Instruction 1325.06, Handling Dissident and Protest Activities among Members of the
Armed Forces, November 27, 2009
DoD Instruction 1334.01, Wearing of the Uniform, October 26, 2005
Air Force Instruction 31-201, Security Police Standards and Procedures, 30 March 2009
Air Force Policy Directive 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
Air Force Instruction 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2
August 2006
Air Force Policy Directive 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, 5 November 1993
Air Force Instruction 51-903, Dissident and Protest Activities, 1 February 1998
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations & Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DOD—Department of Defense
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice

Terms
Active Duty—Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States regardless of
duration or purpose, full- time duty in the Air National Guard, and duty in the Air National
Guard when federalized. Active duty includes full- time training duty; annual training duty;
and attendance, while in the active military service, at a school designated as a Service school by
law or by the Secretary concerned.
 12                                                                   AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014


Civil Office—A non-military office involving the exercise of the powers or authority of civil
government, to include elective and appointive office in the U.S. Government, a U.S. territory or
possession, State, Commonwealth, county, municipality, or official subdivision thereof. This
term does not include a non-elective position as regular or reserve member of a civilian law
enforcement, fire, or rescue squad.
Nonpartisan Political Activity—An activity supporting or relating to candidates who do not
represent, or issues not specifically identified with, national or state political parties or associated
or ancillary organizations. Issues relating to constitutional amendments, referendums, approval
of municipal ordinances, and others of a similar character which are not considered under this
Instruction as specifically being identified with national or state political parties.
Partisan Political Activity—An activity supporting or relating to candidates who represent, or
issues specifically identified with, national or state political parties or associated or ancillary
organizations. A candidacy, declared or undeclared, for national or state office is a partisan
political activity, even if the candidate is not affiliated with a national or state political party.
AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014                                                                   13


                                        Attachment 2
 CANDIDACY OR NOMINATION FOR POLITICAL OFFICE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                        OF LIMITATIONS

A2.1. Acknowledgement of limitations must be prepared by any member on active duty (or who
is about to enter active duty) who is:
   A2.1.1. Granted permission to remain or to become a candidate or nominee for civil office,
   (paragraph 5.1.) (“Alternate A”); or
   A2.1.2. Not otherwise prohibited from remaining or becoming a candidate or nominee for
   civil office (paragraph 5.2.) (“Alternate B”).
A2.2. Prepare the acknowledgement as a letter or memorandum, signed by the member and
addressed through the member’s immediate commander to the first general or flag officer in the
member’s chain of command.
 14                                                  AFI51-902 27 AUGUST 2014


Figure A2.1. Sample Acknowledgment of Limitations.
