BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-701
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               16 AUGUST 2011
                                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-701 AIR
                                                               FORCE SPACE COMMAND
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                                   10 MAY 2012

                                                                                             Law

                                                            NEGOTIATING, CONCLUDING,
                                                          REPORTING, AND MAINTAINING
                                                          INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/JAO                                              Certified by: AF/JAO (Col Craig Miller)
                                                                                      Pages: 20
Supersedes:    AFI 51-701, 6 May 1994
                                            (AFSPC)
OPR: HQ AFSPC/JAO                                       Certified by: HQ AFSPC/JA (Col Daniel
                                                                                 M. Vadnais)
                                                                                     Pages:5
Supersedes:    AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP, 15
               Apr 08


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-7, International Law. It
delegates the authority to negotiate and conclude certain categories of international agreements
and sets guidelines for processing these agreements. It also explains how to gain the approval to
negotiate and conclude international agreements that are beyond the listed delegations. It details
reporting and record-keeping requirements and is consistent with Department of Defense
Directive (DODD) 5530.3, International Agreements and Title 1 United States Code (USC)
Section 112b (Case-Zablocki Act). This publication applies to all United States Air Force
(USAF), Air Force Reserve (USAFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) military and civilian
personnel.
 2                                                                            AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the     Air       Force      Records     Disposition      Schedule    (RDS)      located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.             This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. No waivers may be granted for
any part of this publication.

(AFSPC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI)
51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining International Agreements, 16
August 2011. This supplement describes AFSPC’s procedures for use in conjunction with the
basic AFI. It does not apply to AFSPC-gained Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve units
unless attached to AFSPC in a mobilized/activated status. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Summary of Changes

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It provides a
current listing of offices requiring reports, and it describes the process for appropriate
notifications when negotiating, concluding and terminating international agreements.

(AFSPC) This supplement has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


       1.     Scope of Authority. ................................................................................................         3
       2.     Procedures. .............................................................................................................    7
       3.     Amendments. .........................................................................................................        8
       4.     Oral Agreements. ...................................................................................................         8
       4.     (AFSPC) AFSPC personnel will neither negotiate nor conclude oral international
              agreements. ............................................................................................................     9
       5.     Agreements in Foreign Languages. .......................................................................                     9
       6.     International Agreements Containing Advance Payment Terms. ..........................                                        9
       7.     Reporting Agreements. ..........................................................................................            10
       8.     Negotiating History of Agreements. ......................................................................                   10
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                                                                          3


       8.       (AFSPC) HQ AFSPC/JA is designated as the office responsible for compiling,
                keeping, and retrieving a complete negotiating history file for each agreement for
                which AFSPC has primary responsibility. .............................................................                     10
       9.       Office of Record. ...................................................................................................     10
       9.       (AFSPC) HQ AFSPC/JA is designated the single office of record for
                international agreements within the authority and responsibilities of AFSPC. .....                                        10
       10.      Compliance. ...........................................................................................................   10
       11.      (Added-AFSPC) Duties. ........................................................................................            11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            13

Attachment 2—PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING TO NEGOTIATE OR CONCLUDE
             AN INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT                                                                                                   16

Attachment 3—REPORTING INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS                                                                                           17

Attachment 4—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH
             POLICY SIGNIFICANCE                                                                                                          19


1. Scope of Authority. This Instruction is procedural only. Substantive legal authority for each
obligation the United States will assume must reside in constitutional, statutory, or other legal
authority applicable to the subject matter of the proposed agreement.
   1.1. Authority. Air Force personnel, or those serving with the Air Force, must obtain written
   approval from one of the following authorities before they may initiate, negotiate, or
   conclude international agreements:
       1.1.1. The Secretary of the Air Force or an authorized representative.
       1.1.2. The head of an organizational element of the Air Force, or designee, who has
       proper delegated authority.
       1.1.3. The head of another organizational element of the Department of Defense (DoD),
       or an authorized representative, with delegated authority with respect to the particular
       type of international agreement involved under AFPD 51-7 and DODD 5530.3.
   1.2. Delegation of Authority. This paragraph reflects long-standing Secretary of the Air
   Force delegations of authority. Subject to paragraph 1.5, commanders of major commands
   (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and the heads of Headquarters Air Force
   (HAF) organizations are delegated the authority to negotiate and conclude international
   agreements, or to approve the negotiation and conclusion of such agreements, involving
   predominantly Air Force matters that are within the authority and responsibility of such
   commanders and heads, in the following categories:
       1.2.1. Technical, operational, working, or similar agreements or arrangements concluded
       pursuant to a treaty or executive agreement that entails implementing arrangements.
             1.2.1.1. Note: Do not assume that if an agreement merely implements an existing
             agreement it is not a new international agreement and that the requirements of AFPD
4                                                      AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


           51-7 and DODD 5530. 3 do not apply. Also, do not assume previously delegated
           authority remains valid for implementing agreements. Narrowly interpret the
           delegation of authority for this category of agreements.
           1.2.1.2. In particular, authority is not delegated for implementing agreements which
           in any way expand or deviate from the basic agreement, or which address Status of
           Force Agreement (SOFA) rights or place restrictions on operating rights for military
           forces outside of the US. If there is any question as to proper procedures or any
           question whether properly delegated authority to negotiate an agreement exits, obtain
           advice from Deputy General Counsel, International Affairs (SAF/GCI) or the
           responsible staff judge advocate.
       1.2.2. Cooperative or reciprocal operational, logistical, training or other military support
       including the shared use or licensing of military equipment, facilities, services, or
       nonphysical resources.
       1.2.3. Combined military planning, command relationships, military exercises and
       operations, minor and emergency force deployments, or exchange programs. (For USAF
       officer exchanges with air forces of other governments, see AFI 16-107, Military
       Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP). The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense
       (Policy) (USD(P)) must approve the negotiation and conclusion of personnel exchange
       agreements.
       1.2.4. Collection and exchange of military information or data, other than military
       intelligence.
       1.2.5. Health and medical matters, including cooperative research, development, testing,
       evaluation, technical data exchange, and related standardization agreements concerning
       health and medical matters, provided that such agreements are not implemented through
       the security assistance program.
       1.2.6. Sharing or exchange of DoD communications equipment, facilities, support,
       services, or other communications resources with a foreign country or alliance
       organization such as North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) (including agreements
       pursuant to 10 USC §2350f, Procurement of Communications Support and Related
       Supplies and Services), the use of US military frequencies or frequency bands, and the
       use of US communications facilities and systems by foreign organizations, whether
       overseas or in the United States. Obtain approval in advance from the Under Secretary of
       Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)) if such an agreement does not consist mainly of Air
       Force matters.
       1.2.7. EXCEPTION: Agreements about operational command of joint forces require
       prior approval from the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff (CJCS).
    1.3. Exercise of Delegated Authority. Appropriate individuals must exercise this authority
    in compliance with laws and regulations that apply to the particular subject matter of the
    international agreement involved and are authorized to communicate through command
    channels with the DoD entity responsible for approving such agreements. Also, when
    authority has been delegated to a DoD element to negotiate an agreement, either specifically
    or by category, it does not relieve the DoD element of the requirement to fully coordinate the
    agreement.
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                             5


     1.3.1. Exercise this authority in full consultation with other Air Force and DoD
     organizations that have an interest in the subject matter of the agreement. In particular,
     an Air Force command or organization assigned to or located within the geographic area
     of a unified command must advise that command of any international negotiations which
     affect the unified command's plans and programs. The Air Force negotiators must give a
     copy of each agreement they conclude to the affected unified command. See Attachment
     3 for other organizations which must receive copies of the agreement.
     1.3.2. Coordinate with the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) or its designee any agreement in
     paragraph 1.1.2. that involves significant changes in logistics support for US Armed
     Forces and that affects joint plans and programs (including base adjustments).
  1.4. Redelegation of Authority. The authority delegated in paragraph 1.2. may be
  redelegated to subordinate commanders. However, redelegation does not relieve the
  delegating commander of the final responsibility for compliance with this Instruction and
  AFPD 51-7, Section 1A. Delegating commanders must send copies of all directives,
  messages, or correspondence redelegating authority or otherwise implementing this
  Instruction to the Operations and International Law Directorate, Office of The Judge
  Advocate General, HQ USAF/JAO. Staff actions "for the commander" are not redelegations.
     1.4.1. (Added-AFSPC) The commander, AFSPC/CC, designates the Director of
     Strategic Plans, Programs, Analysis, Assessments and Lessons Learned, HQ
     AFSPC/A8/9, to negotiate and, upon approval by the commander, conclude international
     agreements involving predominantly AFSPC matters that are within the authority and
     responsibility of AFSPC. When signing any agreement on behalf of the commander, the
     signature element will include “FOR THE COMMANDER.”
  1.5. Specific Limits on Delegated Authority. The authority delegated in paragraph 1.2. does
  not apply to the negotiation or conclusion of the following international agreements. See
  paragraph 1.1. for handling proposals for the negotiation or conclusion of such agreements,
  even though they may otherwise fall within the scope of a category of agreements listed in
  paragraph 1.3.
     1.5.1. International Agreements That Have Policy Significance. Prior approval from the
     Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Policy) (USD(P)) is required before
     negotiating or concluding these agreements. The term "policy significance" is to be
     broadly interpreted. Any subject which has reached the Assistant Secretary of Defense
     level in either government should be considered to have policy significance. If there is
     any doubt about the policy significance of a proposed agreement, it should be sent
     informally through command channels to AF/JAO and SAF/GCI for determination.
     Agreements that have "policy significance" include, but are not limited to, those
     identified in Attachment 4, International Agreements and Agreements with Policy
     Significance.
         1.5.1.1. International Agreements That Would Rely on The Authority of 10 USC
         §2304, Contracts: Competition Requirements, paragraph (c)(4) For Use of Other
         Than Competitive Contracting Procedures. Obtain the prior approval of the Under
         Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology & Logistics) (USD(AT&L)) before
         negotiating or concluding such agreements.
6                                              AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


    1.5.1.2. International Agreements Requiring New Legislative Authority For
    Implementation. Obtain the prior approval of the General Counsel of the Department
    of Defense (DoD/GC) before negotiating or concluding such agreements.
    1.5.1.3. International Agreements That Obtain Foreign Operating or Military Rights,
    As Defined in Attachment 1, "Foreign Operating Rights" and "Foreign Military
    Rights." The negotiation and conclusion of such agreements requires the approval of
    USD(P).
    1.5.1.4. International Agreements That Involve or Are Likely To Involve The
    Release of Classified Military Information, Classified Technology, or Classified
    Materiel. Coordinate the security provisions of such agreements with the USD(P)
    and the USD(I) before making any commitment to representatives of a foreign
    government or international organization.
    1.5.1.5. International Agreements Involving Security Assistance Programs. Obtain
    the prior approval of the Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) before
    negotiating and concluding such agreements.
    1.5.1.6. International Agreements Concerning Intelligence and Related Matters.
    Obtain the prior agreement of the Director, Defense Intelligence Agency, with the
    concurrence of USD(I), before negotiating and concluding agreements involving the
    collection and exchange of intelligence information (except signals intelligence
    agreements). Consult Defense Intelligence Agency Instruction 2000.01, International
    Military Intelligence Relationships, for additional guidance. The negotiation and
    conclusion of signals intelligence agreements also requires the prior approval of the
    Director, National Security Agency (NSA).
    1.5.1.7. International Agreements Involving Coproduction, Licensed Production, or
    Related Standardization Matters. DSCA must approve negotiating and concluding
    agreements implemented through the security assistance program (e.g., under a
    provision of the Arms Export Control Act). USD(AT&L) must give prior approval of
    all other such agreements.
    1.5.1.8. International Military or Industrial Security Agreements Under The
    Provisions of DoD Directive 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information
    to Foreign Governments and International Organizations, paragraph E.1.d.
    USD(AT&L) must give prior approval of such agreements.
    1.5.1.9. International Agreements Relating to On-Base Financial Institutions (E.G.,
    Military Banking Facilities And Credit Unions) and International Financial
    Agreements Requiring Coordination With the Treasury Department Under DoD
    7000.14-R Volume 5. The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)) must
    give prior approval of such agreements. For approval, forward copies through
    command channels to SAF/ FMP (Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial
    Operations). Send information copies to SAF/GCI and AF/JAO.
    1.5.1.10. International Agreements Related to Communications Security Technology,
    Services, Support, Research, or Equipment Development and Production. Such
    agreements require the prior approval of the NSA.
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                                 7


           1.5.1.11. International Agreements Related To Mapping, Charting, Or Geodesy.
           Such agreements require the prior approval of the Director, National Geospatial-
           Intelligence Agency (NGA), with USD(I) and USD(P) concurrence
           1.5.1.12. Agreements Related to Cooperative Research and Development and
           Acquisition (Except For Those Relating to Health and Medical Matters of the Air
           Force). The Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/IA) is the office of
           primary responsibility for proposals relating to cooperative research, development,
           testing, evaluation, technical data exchange, and related standardization matters.
           Forward all proposals for the negotiation of such agreements through command
           channels to SAF/IA.
           1.5.1.13. Agreements (including those agreements for which authority is delegated
           under paragraph 1.2. above) for which HAF has directed additional or special
           coordination/approval requirements.
2. Procedures. Air Force personnel will not make any unilateral commitment to any foreign
government or international organization (either orally or in writing), tender to a prospective
party thereto any draft of a proposed international agreement, nor initial or sign an international
agreement, before obtaining the concurrence of either SAF/GCI or the responsible staff judge
advocate as set forth below.
   2.1. Submit for SAF/GCI concurrence all proposals for the negotiation or conclusion of
   international agreements originating or received in the Secretariat of the Air Force, or the Air
   Staff, including:
       2.1.1. Requests for authority to negotiate or conclude agreements.
       2.1.2. Proposed international agreements referred to the Secretariat of the Air Force or
       Air Staff for coordination by any Air Force command or agency, the Office of the
       Secretary of Defense, JCS, another DoD component, the Department of State, or another
       US Government agency.
   2.2. Submit all proposals for the negotiation or conclusion of international agreements which
   are within the authority of major commanders or field operating agencies (or their
   subordinate commands if properly redelegated) to the staff judge advocate of that command
   or agency for concurrence. Coordinate determinations that an agreement solely defines
   administrative procedures with the staff judge advocate of the command or agency involved
   prior to entering into any negotiation.
       2.2.1. (Added-AFSPC) All international agreements, proposals for the negotiation and
       conclusion of international agreements, or requests to negotiate or conclude an
       international agreement shall be forwarded in writing to the International Affairs Division
       of the HQ AFSPC Directorate of Strategic Plans, Programs, Analysis, Assessments and
       Lessons Learned, HQ AFSPC/A8I. All written requests will contain:
           2.2.1.1. (Added-AFSPC) A         background      paper    on     the    proposed
           agreement/negotiation. This paper will be updated at least every 6 months and all
           updates will be sent to HQ AFSPC/A8I. Background papers will explain, at a
           minimum, the purpose of the agreement, the impact which concluding the agreement
           or failing to conclude the agreement will have on AFSPC operations, progress that
 8                                                      AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


            has been made in negotiating to a final text, and unresolved significant issues. A final
            background paper will accompany the text of the agreement when authority to
            conclude is requested.
            2.2.1.2. (Added-AFSPC) A draft agreement. Before drafting an agreement, the
            responsible AFSPC agency will consult with HQ AFSPC/A8I and HQ AFSPC/JAO.
            2.2.1.3. (Added-AFSPC) The identification of any US military information
            (classified or unclassified) to be released to international political organization or
            foreign governments.
            2.2.1.4. (Added-AFSPC) A financial review for all agreements and a preliminary
            fiscal memorandum for those proposed international agreements that go beyond the
            negotiating and concluding authority of AFSPC.
            2.2.1.5. (Added-AFSPC) A preliminary legal memorandum. This memorandum
            will contain references to the legal authorities which permit AFSPC to enter and carry
            out the obligations assumed, and a discussion of other relevant legal considerations.
     2.3. Submit to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management
     and Comptroller (SAF/FM)) for concurrence all proposals for the negotiation or conclusion
     of international agreements that include US financial obligations or have any other cost or
     fiscal implication, and that require SAF/GCI concurrence. Submit to the comptroller of a
     MAJCOM, FOA, or subordinate command for concurrence all such proposals that require the
     concurrence of the staff judge advocate of such command or agency.
     2.4. Request for Authority To Negotiate or Conclude. When a proposed agreement is
     beyond the delegated authority, or approval by HAF is required under paragraph 1.5.1.14,
     submit a request for authority to negotiate or conclude the agreement to the appropriate HAF
     functional element (Attachment 2). HAF organizations will ensure that SAF/GCI and
     AF/JAO receive copies of any proposals. In instances when no HAF functional office is
     apparent, send the proposal directly to AF/JAO for dissemination to the appropriate HAF
     offices. These offices will coordinate within the Air Staff, with SAF/GCI, and, as
     appropriate, with other elements of the SAF. Before approving any request to negotiate or
     conclude an international agreement, these offices will obtain any required coordination or
     approval from appropriate DoD offices.
3. Amendments. The negotiation and conclusion of an amendment to an international
agreement must be approved in accordance with the requirements of this Instruction by the same
US headquarters or office (or its successor) that approved the original agreement, or by another
US official who has been expressly delegated authority to approve amendments to the
agreement.
4. Oral Agreements. Any oral agreement that meets the international agreement criteria in
Attachment 4 is an international agreement that is fully subject to the requirements of this
Instruction and DoD Directive 5530.3. The DoD representative who enters into an oral
agreement must reduce that agreement to writing. A memorandum for the record may fulfill this
requirement. After reducing the agreement to writing, immediately report the agreement in
accordance with paragraph 7. Oral agreements, however, should be the exception and not the
rule. Upon conclusion of an oral agreement, enter the reasons for employing the oral rather than
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                                   9


written form into the negotiating history under paragraph 8 and also summarize those reasons in
the transmittal letter (see Attachment 3, A3.2.).
4. (AFSPC)AFSPC personnel will neither negotiate nor conclude oral international
agreements.
5. Agreements in Foreign Languages. Air Force personnel will not conclude any international
agreement in a foreign language text unless the agreement meets one of the following criteria:
   5.1. The agreement expressly provides that the English language text is the governing text in
   the event of conflict between the different language texts; or
   5.2. The agreement expressly provides that the English language text and the foreign
   language text are equally authentic, and each foreign language text of the agreement is the
   subject of a certification, executed before conclusion of the agreement in any language,
   stating that the foreign language text and the English language text are in conformity with
   each other and have the same meaning in all substantive respects. A civilian, military, or
   local national translator, designated as qualified, consistent with local practices, by the Air
   Force official authorized to negotiate and conclude the agreement or by an appropriate
   Department of State official, shall sign and date the certification. Transmit the certification,
   along with the agreement, to the addressees in Attachment 3, A3.1.
6. International Agreements Containing Advance Payment Terms. Only 10 USC 2396,
Advances for payment for compliance with foreign laws, etc. or 10 USC §2307, Contract
financing authorize advance payments to foreign governments and international organizations.
Advance payments are the least desirable method of financing; therefore, use advance payments
only when necessary to comply with the foreign country's laws and ministerial directives. When
advance payments are appropriate, the negotiator must negotiate terms and conditions that are
consistent with prudent cash management. The advance payment procedures should minimize
the amount of cash outlays and the duration of the prepayment time period. Coordinate advance
payment requests through command comptroller channels to SAF/ FMP, Washington DC 20330.
SAF/FMP will obtain the concurrence of SAF/GCI. The advance payment request should
contain, as a minimum, the following information (Note: Because circumstances vary, SAF/FMP
may require additional information):
   6.1. The foreign law or ministerial directive that requires payment in advance.
   6.2. Location and description of project being financed.
   6.3. Cost of the project and amount of advance needed.
   6.4. Name and location of the organization designated as recipient of the advance.
   6.5. Scheduled dates for the advance payments and the start of the project.
   6.6. Detailed description of the payment and recoupment/reconciliation procedures.
   6.7. Provisions for interest, if any, to be accrued from the funds advanced.
   6.8. Name and address of the organization negotiating the advance.
   6.9. Appropriation funding the project.
   6.10. Statement indicating project funding status (that is, fully, partially, or not funded).
 10                                                       AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


7. Reporting Agreements. 1 USC §112b(a), (Case-Zablocki Act), requires the Secretary of
State to report to the Congress all international agreements other than treaties within 60 calendar
days after their entry into force with respect to the United States. According to Title 22, Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 181.5, Twenty-day rule for concluded agreements, each
organizational element of the Air Force that concludes an international agreement must send the
original or certified copies (or both) of the international agreement, in time to arrive at the Office
of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Department of State, not later than 20 calendar
days after signature of the agreement. (EXCEPTION: Submit international intelligence
agreements in time to arrive at Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) or NSA, as appropriate, not
later than 15 calendar days after signature of the agreements.) Use the format in Attachment 3.
   7.1. Provide a copy of any annual list of terminated international agreements prepared by or
   for the air component of a unified command to AF/JAO.
8. Negotiating History of Agreements. The organization that actually negotiates an
international agreement is responsible for compiling, keeping, and being able to retrieve a
complete negotiating history file on it. Maintain this historical file at least for the duration of the
agreement, or until it no longer has legal significance.
8. (AFSPC)HQ AFSPC/JA is designated as the office responsible for compiling, keeping,
and retrieving a complete negotiating history file for each agreement for which AFSPC has
primary responsibility.
   8.1. (Added-AFSPC) The negotiating team shall retain all correspondence, internal
   working papers, and minutes of meetings in order to preserve the negotiating history. The
   negotiation file shall be submitted to HQ AFSPC/JAO with the completed agreement.
9. Office of Record. AF/JAO is the single office of record for the Air Force by maintaining
copies of each agreement covered by this Instruction. Each Air Force organization that exercises
delegated authority under this Instruction must name a single office to carry out the required
recordkeeping, and provide AF/JAO with one copy of its implementing directive.
9. (AFSPC)HQ AFSPC/JA is designated the single office of record for international
agreements within the authority and responsibilities of AFSPC.
10. Compliance. According to DODD 5530.3, the Air Force must oversee compliance with
those international agreements for which it is responsible. The Air Force must keep the DoD/GC
up to date and fully informed on compliance with such international agreements.
   10.1. Resolving Compliance Issues. When a question arises concerning compliance by a
   party with the terms of an international agreement that cannot be resolved by informal
   discussion between responsible working level authorities of the parties, send a report of the
   full particulars of the circumstances relevant to such question to SAF/GCI, with a copy to
   AF/JAO (except for such questions governed by the procedures set forth in AFJI 51-706,
   Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and Information).
   10.2. Resolving Policy Issues. Unless previously authorized by the Secretary of Defense,
   Air Force personnel shall not take any action to resolve or otherwise deal with such questions
   having policy significance before obtaining the written concurrence of both USD(P) and
   DoD/GC. Submit any request for the concurrence of USD(P) and DoD/GC concerning such
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                             11


   a question through command channels and HAF to SAF/GCI, who shall consult with SAF/IA
   and other appropriate HAF offices regarding appropriate action.
11. (Added-AFSPC) Duties.
   11.1. (Added-AFSPC) HQ AFSPC/A8I. All requests for authority to negotiate and
   conclude international agreements must be submitted through HQ AFSPC/A8I which is the
   office of primary responsibility (OPR) for monitoring international negotiations for AFSPC.
   HQ AFSPC/A8I will:
      11.1.1. (Added-AFSPC) Assist in preparing draft agreements and negotiating positions;
      and provide AFSPC representation to lead negotiating teams, as appropriate.
      11.1.2. (Added-AFSPC) Provide advice and assistance on international affairs and
      clarify, or forward for higher headquarters’ attention, questions or problems which cannot
      be resolved at HQ AFSPC level.
      11.1.3. (Added-AFSPC) Issue clearances to negotiate and/or conclude agreements
      when such activities are to be performed by other AFSPC units.
      11.1.4. (Added-AFSPC) When appropriate, ensure that proper authorization to
      negotiate and/or authorization to conclude international agreements is obtained from
      Headquarters United States Air Force.
      11.1.5. (Added-AFSPC) Ensure that HQ AFSPC/JAO is kept fully apprised of the
      status of each pending or planned international agreement.
      11.1.6. (Added-AFSPC) Annually inventory and validate all in-force international
      agreements relevant to AFSPC.
      11.1.7. (Added-AFSPC) Ensure that procedures are in place to receive signed
      agreements in sufficient time to fulfill the reporting requirements of paragraph 7.
   11.2. (Added-AFSPC) HQ AFSPC/JAO. In addition to other responsibilities specified in
   this supplement and basic instruction, HQ AFSPC/JAO will:
      11.2.1. (Added-AFSPC) Review requests for delegation of approval authority and
      requests for authorization to negotiate or conclude international agreements.
      11.2.2. (Added-AFSPC) Assist in drafting agreements, and participate as required in
      negotiations.
      11.2.3. (Added-AFSPC) Obtain necessary coordination and approval from DoD
      agencies on international agreements.
      11.2.4. (Added-AFSPC) Maintain a central repository and inventory of all agreements
      negotiated or concluded by AFSPC and its organizational elements, and all international
      agreements negotiated or concluded by US Government agencies having a significant
      effect on AFSPC.
      11.2.5. (Added-AFSPC) Review all agreements negotiated by AFSPC agencies to
      ensure compliance with international and US laws and regulations.
      11.2.6. (Added-AFSPC) Report all international agreements, as required, in accordance
      with paragraph 7.
12                                                   AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


  11.3. (Added-AFSPC) Other AFSPC Organizations. All other AFSPC organizations or
  units will maintain copies of all current international agreements directly applicable to their
  operations and will forward within 5 calendar days copies of new agreements concluded by
  such units simultaneously to HQ AFSPC/A8I and HQ AFSPC/JAO.




                                           RICHARD C. HARDING
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           The Judge Advocate General

                                           (AFSPC)

                                           BEGIN SIGNATURE
                                           CRAIG A. SMITH, Colonel, USAF
                                           Staff Judge Advocate
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                                   13


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 5 February 2009
AFJI 51-706, Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and Information, 14 January 1990
AFI 16-107, Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP), 2 February 2006
Title 1 United States Code Section 112b (a), Case-Zablocki Act
Title 10 United States Code Section 2304, Contracts: competition requirements
Title 10 United States Code Section 2307, Contract financing
Title 10 United States Code Section 2341, Authority to acquire logistic support, supplies, and
services for elements of the armed forces deployed outside the United States
Title 10 United States Code Section 2350f, Procurement of communications support and related
supplies and services
Title 10 United States Code Section 2396, Advances for payment for compliance with foreign
laws, rent in foreign countries, tuition, public utility services, and pay and supplies of armed
forces of friendly foreign countries
Title 10 United States Code Section 2667, Leases: non-excess property of military departments
and Defense Agencies
Title 10 United States Code Section 2675, Leases: foreign countries
Title 22 United States Code Section 2796, Leasing Authority
Title 22, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 181.5, Twenty-day rule for concluded agreements,
current edition
DoD Directive 2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements, November 24, 2003
DoD Directive 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments
and International Organizations, June 16, 1992
DoD Directive 5530.3, International Agreements, June 11, 1987
DoD Financial Management Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 5, current edition
Defense Intelligence Agency Instruction 2000.001, International Military Intelligence
Relationships, December 2, 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASCC—Air Standardization Coordination Committee
ANG—Air National Guard
 14                                                    AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


CJCS—Chairman Joint Chief of Staff
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
JCS—Joint Chief of Staff
MAJCOM—Major Command
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NAVSTAGS—Naval Standardization Agreements
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NSA—National Security Agency
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
QSTAG—Quadripartite Standardization Agreements
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
STANAG—Standardization Agreements
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
USC—United States Code

Terms
Conclusion—The act of signing, initialing, responding, or otherwise indicating the acceptance of
an international agreement by the United States.
Foreign Military Rights—These rights are a foreign government's approval to conduct US
operations or activities of a longer duration and of a more permanent nature in its territory.
These rights are the subject of government-to-government negotiations. They permit operating
US bases overseas, stationing US units overseas, establishing lines of communication, etc.
Requirements for these rights are set up as part of US-worldwide programs and requirements.
Foreign Operating Rights—These rights are a foreign government's approval to conduct US
operations or activities of short duration in or over its territory. Such rights permit (subject to
restrictions imposed by the foreign government) surveys, temporary support facilities, entry of
personnel, etc. In some situations, a foreign operating right may permit entry into a foreign
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                                   15


territory without a subsequent foreign clearance. In others, foreign operating rights may only
pertain to proposed activities in general, and one or more foreign clearances may be needed to
enter, transit, or exit the foreign territory.
Negotiation—Communication by any means of a position or an offer, on behalf of the United
States, the Department of Defense, or on behalf of any officer or an organizational element
thereof, to an agent or representative of a foreign government, including an agency,
instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, or of an international organization, in such detail
that the acceptance in substance of such position or offer would result in an international
agreement. The term "negotiation" includes any such communication even if it is conditioned on
later approval by higher authority. The term "negotiation" also includes provision of a draft
agreement or other document, the acceptance of which would constitute an agreement, as well as
discussions concerning any US or foreign government or international organization draft
document whether or not titled "agreement." The term "negotiation" does not include
preliminary or exploratory discussions or routine meetings where no draft documents are
discussed, so long as such discussions or meetings are conducted with the understanding that the
views communicated do not and shall not bind or commit any side legally or otherwise.
 16                                                     AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


                                          Attachment 2
       PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING TO NEGOTIATE OR CONCLUDE AN
                     INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT

A2.1. Procedures. When a proposed international agreement goes beyond the delegated
authority, written authority to negotiate or conclude the agreement is required. A request to
negotiate may be by letter or message and must include:
   A2.1.1. A draft text, outline, or complete description of the proposed international
   agreement.
   A2.1.2. A legal memorandum stating the Constitutional, statutory, or other legal authority
   for each proposed obligation that the United States would assume in the agreement and an
   explanation of other relevant legal considerations.
   A2.1.3. A fiscal memorandum stating the estimated cost of each proposed obligation that the
   DoD would assume in the agreement, the source of funds to be obligated, and reference to
   foreign currency payment provisions, if applicable.
   A2.1.4. A Technology Assessment and Control Plan per DoD Directive 5530.3.
   A2.1.5. A quid pro quo analysis that fully addresses the benefit to be derived by each
   signatory to all proposed agreements involving cooperative research, development, testing,
   evaluation, technical data exchange, and related standardization matters.
A2.2. Procedures Unique to International Intelligence Agreements. All proposals for
collection and exchange of intelligence information (except signals intelligence) must be
approved by the Director, DIA before the Air Force intelligence organization makes any
commitments to a foreign organization. Refer to DIA Instruction 2000.001, for guidance on how
to contact a foreign organization about the possibility of starting intelligence relationship; how to
establish, change or terminate an intelligence relationship; how to meet semi-annual reporting
requirements on the status of these relationships; and how to acknowledge any electronic
communications systems supporting these relationships. DIA International Engagement (IE), is
the DoD office of primary responsibility for international intelligence exchange agreements for
general military intelligence agreements (except signals intelligence agreements). The DIA
Defense Counterintelligence and HUMINT Center (DX) is the DoD Office of primary
responsibility for operational defense human intelligence (HUMINT) collection agreements with
foreign partners. [Note: Other types of collection agreements (i.e. for non-HUMINT collection
programs) will be coordinated and processed through DIA/IE as if they were traditional
intelligence exchange agreements].
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                             17


                                          Attachment 3
                    REPORTING INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS

A3.1. Addressees. Each organizational element of the Air Force that concludes an international
agreement must submit reproducible copies of the agreements to the following addressees:
   A3.1.1. Department of State, Attn Assistant Legal Adviser, Treaty Affairs, Washington DC,
   USA, 20520. (The original and one certified copy, or two certified copies)
   A3.1.2. DoD General Counsel, 1600 DEFENSE PENTAGON, WASHINGTON DC, 20301-
   1600. (Two certified copies)
   A3.1.3. Office of the Deputy General Counsel, International Affairs (SAF/GCI), 1740 AIR
   FORCE PENTAGON, WASHINGTON DC, 20330-1740. (One certified copy)
   A3.1.4. Operations and International Law Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General
   (HQ USAF/JAO, 1420 AIR FORCE PENTAGON, WASHINGTON DC 20330-1420. (One
   certified copy)
   A3.1.5. Any other offices required by unified or specified command directives or deemed
   appropriate by the component Air Force commands or their designee.
A3.2. Letter of Transmittal. Include a letter of transmittal with each international agreement,
that:
   A3.2.1. Identifies type of agreement: bilateral or multilateral.
   A3.2.2. Specifies the countries or international organization(s) that are party to the
   agreement.
   A3.2.3. Lists all US and foreign governmental agencies or units or international
   organizations responsible for carrying out the agreement.
   A3.2.4. Specifies the full title and security classification of the agreement.
   A3.2.5. Specifies the subject of the agreement and summarizes the agreement.
   A3.2.6. Explains why the agreement was concluded now and what the effect of the
   agreement is likely to be, including benefits to each party.
   A3.2.7. Indicates geographic location where the agreement was signed.
   A3.2.8. Specifies the legal authority that authorized the DoD to enter into and carry out the
   agreement (specifying both the procedural authority under this Instruction and the
   substantive legal authority for each obligation undertaken on behalf of the United States
   under the agreement).
   A3.2.9. States the date of entry into force.
   A3.2.10. States the date of termination.
   A3.2.11. Contains the names of all signing officials, their titles and the offices they
   represent, and their countries or international organization.
   A3.2.12. States the full titles and dates of any agreements, if any, upon which the agreement
   is based or amends.
18                                                   AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


  A3.2.13. States the date of signature of the agreement.
  A3.2.14. States any conditions for entry into force.
  A3.2.15. Specifies the organizational element responsible for maintaining the negotiating
  history (see paragraph 1.9).
  A3.2.16. Note: If the transmitted text is a copy of the original, certify the copy to be a true
  copy of the original. If transmitting the text of the agreement more than 20 calendar days
  after its signature, the transmittal document shall fully and completely describe the reasons
  for the late transmittal.
AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012                                                               19


                                          Attachment 4
       INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH POLICY
                          SIGNIFICANCE

A4.1. International Agreement—As used in this Instruction, an international agreement is any
agreement concluded with one or more foreign governments (including their agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions) or with an international organization, that:
   A4.1.1. Is signed or agreed to (including oral commitments) by personnel of any DoD
   component, or by representatives of the Department of State or any other department or
   agency of the US Government.
   A4.1.2. Signifies the intention of its parties to be bound in international law.
   A4.1.3. Is denominated as an international agreement or as a memorandum of
   understanding, memorandum of agreement, memorandum of arrangements, exchange of
   notes, exchange of letters, technical arrangement, protocol, note verbale, aide-memoire,
   agreed minute, plan, contract, arrangement, statement of intent, letter of intent, statement of
   understanding, standard operating procedure, CONPLAN, or any other name connoting a
   similar legal consequence.
   A4.1.4. Is not among the following categories of agreements which, for the purposes of this
   Instruction, are not considered international agreements:
       A4.1.4.1. Contracts made under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).
       A4.1.4.2. Foreign Military Sales Credit Agreements.
       A4.1.4.3. Foreign Military Sales Letters of Offer and Acceptance (LOAs).
       A4.1.4.4. Standardization Agreements, NATO Standardization Agreements (STANAG),
       Quadripartite Standardization Agreements (QSTAG), Air Standardization Coordination
       Committee Air Standards (ASCC Air Standards), and Naval Standardization Agreements
       (NAVSTAGS) that record the adoption of like or similar military equipment,
       ammunition, supplies and stores or operational, logistic, and administrative procedures.
       (EXCEPTION: A STANAG which provides for mutual support or cross-servicing of
       military equipment, ammunition, supplies and stores or for mutual rendering of defense
       services, including training, does constitute an international agreement).
       A4.1.4.5. Leases under 10 USC §2667, Non-excess Property; 10 USC §2675, Leases:
       foreign countries; and 22 USC §2796, Leasing Authority
       A4.1.4.6. Agreements concluded solely to establish administrative procedures.
       Coordinate the determination that an agreement solely establishes administrative
       procedures with the staff judge advocate of the command or agency involved prior to
       entering into any negotiation.
       A4.1.4.7. Acquisitions or orders pursuant to cross-servicing agreements made under the
       authority of the NATO Mutual Support Act (10 USC §2341 et seq.) and DoD Directive
       2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements.              Umbrella agreements,
       implementing arrangements and cross-servicing agreements under these authorities are
       international agreements.
 20                                                  AFI51-701_AFSPCSUP_I 10 May 2012


A4.2. Agreements That Have "Policy Significance"—Include, but are not limited to
agreements that:
   A4.2.1. Specify national disclosure, technology-sharing or work-sharing arrangements,
   coproduction of military equipment, or offset commitments as part of an agreement for
   international cooperation in the research, development, testing, evaluation, or production of
   defense articles, services, or technology;
   A4.2.2. Would directly and significantly affect foreign or defense relations between the
   United States and another government because of their intrinsic importance or sensitivity;
   A4.2.3. Would by their nature, require approval, negotiation, or signature at the OSD or
   diplomatic level; or
   A4.2.4. Would create security commitments not currently assumed by the United States in
   existing mutual security or other defense agreements and arrangements, or which would
   increase US obligations with respect to the defense of a foreign government or area.
