                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                               OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF CHAPLAINS
                                        WASHINGTON, DC


                                                                   AFI52-105V1_AFGM2014-02
                                                                                 9 May 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: HQ USAF/HC
      1380 Air Force Pentagon, Room 4E260
      Washington, DC 20330-1380

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 52-105V1, Chaplain Service Resourcing,
         Appropriated Funds

       By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Guidance Memorandum immediately
implements changes to AFI 52-105V1, Chaplain Service Resourcing, Appropriated Funds and
the descriptions of direct and indirect mission requirements. Compliance with this memorandum
is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the
information herein prevails in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management.

       The changes are as follows:

       4.1. Direct Mission Requirements. The Air Force Chaplain Corps provides spiritual
       care and ensures all Airmen have opportunities to exercise their constitutional right to the
       free exercise of religion. Activities that directly support the Air Force mission are called
       direct mission requirements, are funded with appropriated funds (see Table 1.), and
       reflect the Air Force Chaplain Corps’ Strategic Plan.

       Table 1. Direct Mission Requirements.

                          Direct Mission Requirements (list is all-inclusive)
       Guidance: AFI 52-105V1, AFI 52-105V2
       Funding Source: Appropriated Funds
       Definition: Requirements that enable the Air Force Chaplain Corps to meet the spiritual
       needs of all Airmen.
       1. Facilities and Facility Infrastructure     Repairs, maintenance, alterations, minor
                                                     construction, and military construction.
       2. Real Property                                Any item that is physically
                                                       attached/affixed to the facility, as well as
                                                       the facility itself.
3. Contracts (Clergy)                    Contracted civilian clergy (considered
                                         high-demand/low density as approved by
                                         AF/HC) in support of wing/installation
                                         worship, liturgies, and rites.
4. Contracts (Non-Clergy)                In support of wing/installation worship,
                                         liturgies, and rites, including one music
                                         director and one musician per worship
                                         service; religious education coordinators
                                         and youth ministry coordinators.
5. Religious Education                   Events, equipment, supplies and
                                         curriculum for religious education
                                         programs.
6. Readiness Requirements                Deployment gear/equipment in support of
                                         Chaplain Corps mobility taskings, to
                                         include uniforms and other required items.
7. Training/TDY Expenses                 Functional community-specific training
                                         and TDY expenses for Chaplain Corps
                                         personnel that meet direct mission
                                         requirements; support Chaplain Corps
                                         duties and projects; are related to official
                                         chapel program purposes when approved
                                         by Congress; or are for local travel or
                                         lodging determined by the wing chaplain
                                         to be necessary for an authorized religious
                                         ceremony/service.
8. Office Supplies                       Office supplies to support the official
                                         duties of Chaplain Corps personnel.
9. Automated Data                        Equipment must support the official duties
Processing/Communication Equipment and   of Chaplain Corps personnel (exception:
Information Technology                   CTOF check printers).
10. Transportation                       Transportation to support the official
                                         duties of Chaplain Corps personnel in
                                         accordance with AFI 24-301, Vehicle
                                         Operations.
11. Repair/Maintenance of Appropriated   Repairs and maintenance to any and all
Fund equipment                           equipment that has been purchased with
                                         appropriated funds.
12. Air Force Informal Uniform           In accordance with AFI 65-601V1, Budget
                                         Guidance and Procedures and AFI 36-
                                         2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of
                                         Air Force Personnel. Wing chaplain must
                                         determine that informal uniform is
                                         required in performance of official duties
                                         and make written justification for the use
                                         of the informal uniform.


                                                                                     2
13. Non-Portable Multimedia Technology        Non-portable projectors and sound/PA
and Music Equipment                           systems, pianos, organs, etc.
14. Ecclesiastical Supplies and Equipment     Faith group-specific ecclesiastical
                                              equipment such as robes, chalices,
                                              communion trays, tabernacles, etc.; also
                                              includes expendable communion supplies
                                              such as hosts, grape juice, and wine as
                                              required to perform religious worship
                                              services.
15. Strong Family Structure Programs          Support services for Chaplain-led
                                              programs and retreats, such as
                                              MarriageCare, to assist active duty
                                              members of the Armed Forces and their
                                              immediate family members in building
                                              and maintaining a strong family structure.
                                              Costs of transportation, food, lodging,
                                              childcare, supplies, fees, and training
                                              materials for members and their family
                                              members while participating in the
                                              programs.
16. Honoraria and Speaking Fees for Direct    Honoraria and speaking fees in support of
Mission Requirements                          wing/installation worship, liturgies, and
                                              rites, such as non-contracted clergy
                                              assistance and for chapel-sponsored
                                              events that are, themselves, funded with
                                              appropriated funds as direct mission
                                              requirements. See 4.1.12.
17. Airmen Ministry Center Operation and      Equipment and furnishings to operate and
Sustainment                                   sustain chapel facilities and Airmen
                                              Ministry Centers. Amenities may include
                                              TVs, game rooms, cyber café equipment,
                                              kitchen appliances, meeting rooms,
                                              communication and information technology
                                              (to include commercial internet service for
                                              Airmen Ministry Centers) and furnishings.
18. Other Requirements.                       Other supplies and services necessary to
                                              carry out the direct mission of the Chaplain
                                              Corps. Requirement determination must be
                                              in writing, legally sufficient, aligned with
                                              the annual ministry plan and approved by
                                              the Wing Commander.

4.1.12. Honoraria. Honoraria are payments for services that are rendered nominally
without charge. Honoraria will not be made on a recurring basis to the same person or
organization. Honoraria will not be used to pay government employees for services
rendered by a contract or for duties associated with the contract.


                                                                                         3
       4.1.12.1. Honoraria will not be paid to a potential contractor during the solicitation or
       evaluation phases of a procurement.

       4.1.12.2. See AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, for additional guidance
       on approving honoraria and speaking fees.

       4.2. Indirect Mission Requirements. Activities that indirectly support the Air Force
       mission are called indirect mission requirements and are funded with Chapel Tithes
       and Offering Funds (CTOF). CTOF will not be used to augment or supplement
       appropriated funds for direct mission requirements; doing so may result in a violation of
       the Antideficiency Act (31 USC § 1341 et seq, 31 USC § 1511 et seq).
       See AFI 52-105V2.

      This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.




                                                   HOWARD D. STENDAHL
                                                   Chaplain, Major General, USAF
                                                   Chief of Chaplains




                                                                                                   4
BY ORDER OF THE                                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 52-105, VOLUME 1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                                   22 MARCH 2004

                                                                                                                                         Chaplain

                                                                                         CHAPLAIN SERVICE RESOURCING,
                                                                                                  APPROPRIATED FUNDS



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/HCB                                                                                          Certified by: HQ USAF/HC
     (Ch, Lt Col Herrie Reed)                                                                        (Ch, Maj Gen Lorraine K. Potter)
                                                                                                                             Pages: 40
                                                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service. It directs procedures that ensure that Air
Force Chaplain Service is structured and organized to meet mission requirements. Send comments and
suggested improvements on an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through chan-
nels, to SAF/AAIP, 170 Luke Avenue, Suite 300, Bolling AFB DC 20332-5113. Any organization may
supplement this volume. Major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and direct
reporting units (DRU) should send one copy of their supplement to SAF/AAIP, 170 Luke Avenue, Suite
300, Bolling AFB DC 20332-5113; other commands should furnish one copy of each supplement to the
next higher headquarters. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribe in this publica-
tion are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


      1.      Purpose. ......................................................................................................................   3
      2.      Global Ministry Resourcing Categories. ...................................................................                        3
      3.      Planning and Programming. ......................................................................................                  3
      4.      Categories of Requirements. ......................................................................................                4
Table 1.      Direct and Indirect Mission Requirements ...............................................................                          5
      5.      Resourcing Global Ministry. ......................................................................................                7
      6.      Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................       8
2                                                                                             AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


Table 2.   Responsibility Levels. ...............................................................................................         9
      7.   Supplements. ..............................................................................................................   11

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          12

Attachment 2— FINANCIAL AND FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT RELATIONSHIPS                                                                          15

Attachment 3— Sample Needs Assessment Data Sheet (notional data)                                                                         16

Attachment 4— SAMPLE PROGRAM PLAN COST SHETT (NOTIONAL DATA)                                                                             20

Attachment 5— SAMPLE PROGRAM PLAN RESOURCING SHEET (NOTIONAL DATA)                                                                       26

Attachment 6— SAMPLE DOING GLOBAL MINISTRY EVALUATION SHEET
             (NOTIONAL DATA)                                                                                                             35

Attachment 7— SAMPLE WING LEVEL CHAPLAIN SERVICE FINANCIAL PLAN
             DEVELOPMENT CYCLE                                                                                                           40
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                                3


1. Purpose. This instruction provides detailed guidance to assist Chaplain Service personnel effectively
resource and secure materials and services needed to meet chapel program direct and indirect mission
requirements. The expeditionary nature of Air Force operations requires an objective approach by Chap-
lain Service personnel to adequately resource validated needs and manage Base Operating Support (BOS)
resources.

2. Global Ministry Resourcing Categories. Chaplain Service religious and spiritual support programs
are founded on the pillars of the Air Force Chaplain Service program: Ministry, People, Resources, and
Communications. These four components provide a resource allocation framework directly tied to the
AF/HC Strategic Plan upon which the program baseline is established. The Chaplain Service supports
efforts by chapel staffs to provide Air Force communities properly resourced chapel programs. Chaplain
Service financial plans should be developed to meet well documented, coordinated requirements identi-
fied via a robust and methodical needs assessment process. Chapel program effectiveness evaluations
should be based on how well they implement the goals and objectives in the Chaplain Service Strategic
Plan.
   2.1. Ministry: This pillar supports initiatives designed to improve the ability of Chaplain Service per-
   sonnel to respond to the spiritual needs of Air Force members and their families across the full spec-
   trum of air and space operations, while providing for their diverse religious requirements and
   changing demographics.
   2.2. People: This pillar supports initiatives designed to recruit, develop, and sustain Chaplain Service
   personnel and contract personnel who are committed to the spiritual care of tomorrow’s Air Force.
   2.3. Resourcing: This pillar supports initiatives designed to provide the structure and resources
   needed to realize the Chaplain Service vision.
   2.4. Communications: This pillar supports initiatives designed to enhance the communication
   between and among all levels/echelons of the Chaplain Service.

3. Planning and Programming. The Chaplain Service Planning, Programming, Budget and Execution
(PPBE) process planning occurs at all echelons. This process requires a long-range approach, because it
usually takes several years to acquire the resources necessary to conduct a world-class operation, espe-
cially if those resources are high cost, military construction (MILCON). Chaplain Service personnel at all
echelons should coordinate their financial and functional manager activities in order to be able to provide
timely feedback regarding the status of programming efforts (See Attachment 1).
   3.1. Base/Installation Level Chaplain Service Program Planning. Wing Chaplains will develop and
   implement operating instructions that outline policies, processes, and procedures for resourcing the
   wing chapel program.
       3.1.1. They will develop validated, comprehensive, detailed, and objective fiscal programs, bud-
       gets, and financial plans that establish defensible requirements developed via the Global Ministry
       life cycle process (See para. 5.).
       3.1.2. Chapel staffs will provide higher headquarters (HHQ) information copies of their financial
       plans, even as they develop and forward those plans through financial management channels. This
       enables these headquarters to be functional advocates for validated subordinate unit chapel pro-
       gram initiatives. Such visibility, across subordinate units, would enhance the headquarters’ ability
4                                                                       AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


       to aggregate chapel program requirements into MAJCOM program objective memoranda
       (POMs).
    3.2. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Chaplain Service Program Planning. Chaplain Service personnel, at the
    this level develop their own financial plans as well as document, integrate, determine, control, and act
    as chapel program advocates. They interact with HHQ financial managers to make a case for valid
    chapel program initiatives as these managers construct the HHQ POMs. These POMs reflect a sum-
    mation of base-level financial plan projections.
       3.2.1. From a functional manager perspective, MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Chaplain staffs will provide
       AF/HC with information copies of MAJCOM/FOA/DRU chapel program financial plans to
       enable AF/HC to be better able to advocate for adequate funding of Chaplain Service programs
       under review by the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS).
    3.3. Air Staff Chaplain Service Program Planning: Armed with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU chapel pro-
    gram financial plans, AF/HC planners gain insights about the most pressing needs across the Chaplain
    Service, and as appropriate, act as advocates before the AFCS for programs with Air Force-wide
    impact.
       3.3.1. Additionally, AF/HC develops the Chaplain Service Strategic Fund program, which is
       designed to meet strategic requirements for sustaining a comprehensive religious program (Refer-
       ence Program Element Code (PEC) 91229F, Chaplain Service Strategic Fund Program Develop-
       ment/Execution Plan).

4. Categories of Requirements. There are two categories of requirements that vie for Chaplain Service
resources (see Table 1.). They are: Direct Mission Requirements and Indirect Mission Requirements.
Chapel staffs must pay close attention to the differences between these types of requirements and the
applicable laws, DoD Directives and Instruction, and other regulations as they develop and execute their
fiscal plans. These differences determine the kinds of funds used to meet chapel program requirements.
Chaplain Service personnel must capture the actual and expected costs to meet both types of require-
ments.
    4.1. Direct Mission Requirements. The Air Force requires the Chaplain Service to organize, train, and
    equip Chaplain Service personnel to meet the spiritual and religious needs of the Air Force commu-
    nity. The Chaplain Service meets these needs by conducting religious observances, providing pastoral
    care, modeling ethical leadership, and advising unit leadership. Those activities that directly support
    the unit mission are called Direct Mission Requirements and are financed with appropriated funds
    (see Table 1.).
       4.1.1. Manpower: Chapel staffs will follow established manpower requirements determination
       processes to ensure they have properly identified the minimum manpower levels needed to suc-
       cessfully accomplish assigned missions. (See AFD 38-2, Manpower and AFI 38-201, Determin-
       ing Manpower requirements and AFI 38-204, Programming USAF Manpower)
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                                    5


Table 1. Direct and Indirect Mission Requirements.
Direct Mission Requirements                               Indirect Mission Requirements
Guidance: AFI 65-601V1                                    Guidance: AFI 65-601V1
          AFI 52-105, Volume 1                                      AFI 52-105, Volume 2
Funding Source: Appropriated Funds                        Funding Source: Nonappropriated Funds
Definition: Resources that allow the Air Force Chap-      Definition: Requirements that do not meet the
lain Service to meet the religious needs of the Air       “direct mission” requirement criteria. These
Force community at permanent bases, industrial com-       requirements enhance Chaplain Service activi-
plexes, medical facilities, and deployed sites through    ties.
religious observances, pastoral care, ethical leader-
ship, and advice to leadership.
Direct Mission Requirements:                              Indirect Mission Requirements:
Ministry: Training and Community Religious Obser-         Supplies, equipment, programs, or services that
vances                                                    enhance religious observances, pastoral care,
People: Manpower, Musicians, Choir Directors,             modeling ethical leadership, or advising leader-
Religious Activity Coordinators, and Auxiliary Chap-      ship.
lains
Resources: Facilities, Facility Infrastructure,
Multi-Media Technology (including Sound Systems),
Readiness Requirements, TDY Expenses, Ecclesiasti-
cal Supplies and Equipment, Transportation and
Office Supplies
Communication: Communication and Information
Technology
Determination: Evidence that the Government is            Determination: No evidence that the Govern-
obligated itself to fund the requirement.                 ment has obligated itself to fund the require-
                                                          ment.
NOTE: "In the absence of appropriated funds availability, Chapel Tithes and Offerings Fund (CTOF)
may be used to fund direct mission requirements." See AFI 52-105, Vol II for guidance on CTOF allo-
cation requirements.

      4.1.2. Facilities: The Chaplain Service requires adequately sized, designed, and properly main-
      tained religious facilities in their support of the free exercise of religion. These religious facilities
      must accommodate the religious needs of the entire base community. Wing Chaplains and their
      staffs must ensure the sanctity of sacred space within such facilities.
          4.1.2.1. Construction and Modification: HQ USAF/HCP and MAJCOM/ FOA/DRU HCs,
          should assist Wing Chaplains as they advise commanders on the need for and construction of
          new facilities coded for religious use.
              4.1.2.1.1. Wing Chaplains will work in close coordination with Base Civil Engineers and
              their Facility Working Groups to ensure religious facilities meet required standards. The
              USAF or MAJCOM Chapel Facilities Design Guides provide guidelines for evaluating,
              developing, and submitting facility construction and modification requests.
6                                                                   AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


           4.1.2.1.2. Wing Chaplains will ensure that facility upgrade plans are integrated with the
           base facility master plans.
       4.1.2.2. Naming and Designation: Follow established Air Force procedures when naming or
       designating religious facilities (See AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies).
       4.1.2.3. Secular Activities: Religious facilities will be used to support secular activities based
       on established operating instructions and facility availability. The chapel sanctuary, chancel,
       nave, or denomination-specific rooms will be used to conduct religious activities only.
       4.1.2.4. Scheduling: Chapel activities should receive priority over other base activities.
       4.1.2.5. Blessed Sacrament Room: Wing Chaplains shall ensure an appropriate room is pro-
       vided for the reservation of the Blessed Sacrament at each installation. The Blessed Sacrament
       Room is sacred space dedicated specifically for Catholic use.
       4.1.2.6. Neutrality: Wing Chaplains will be sensitive to multi-faith use of base religious facil-
       ities. They shall ensure that distinctive faith group symbols are not permanently displayed in
       the chapel sanctuary, chancel, or nave. Displays supporting the Chaplain Service are consid-
       ered neutral.
       4.1.2.7. Counseling Space: Each chaplain must have private office space suitable for confi-
       dential communication.
       4.1.2.8. Alcohol: Alcoholic beverages shall not be consumed in religious facilities, except
       when using such beverages for religious rites.
       4.1.2.9. Wing Chaplains may develop base supplements to this AFI outlining local procedures
       for religious facility use. Ensure such supplements are coordinated with and approved by the
       Wing Commander.
    4.1.3. Facility Infrastructure: Chapel staffs shall ensure proper maintenance and upkeep of real
    property and equipment. It is proper to program for the use contract janitorial services.
    4.1.4. Readiness Requirements: Chaplains and chaplain assistants shall meet the readiness
    requirements specified in AFI 52-104, Chaplain Service Readiness. Senior chaplain assistants, at
    all echelons, are responsible for identifying readiness training requirements through the proper
    channels (installation Readiness Officer/NCO).
       4.1.4.1. Weapons: Chaplain assistants who are filling mobility positions, or who are mobility
       position alternates, shall be M-16 and M-9 weapons qualified. Consult AFI 52-104 for weap-
       ons readiness requirements.
    4.1.5. Training: The Chief of the Chaplain Service provides trained forces to support the spectrum
    of worldwide military missions. Wing Chaplains shall ensure chapel staffs receive necessary train-
    ing and maintain requisite currency to support those missions.
    4.1.6. Communication and Information Technology (IT): Wing Chaplains should ensure that mis-
    sion essential communications and IT systems are available to support Chaplain Service core pro-
    cesses. For example, multi-media systems such as sound systems are essential to effective worship
    observances.
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                                 7


       4.1.7. Temporary Duty (TDY) Expenses: Chapel staffs must follow established policies and rules
       regarding the management of TDY expenses (see Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR), Joint
       Travel Regulations (JTR), and AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures).
       4.1.8. Ecclesiastical Supplies and Equipment: Wing Chaplains must ensure that essential religious
       supplies and equipment are available to support mission activities.
       4.1.9. Transportation: Vehicle support is an essential mission requirement for the Chaplain Ser-
       vice. Chapel staffs must follow established rules and policies regarding vehicle use and manage-
       ment as well as those for obtaining required vehicle support (See AFI 24-301, Vehicle
       Operations).
       4.1.10. Community Religious Observances: Chapel staffs must be able to support unit participa-
       tion in local community-wide religious observances such as memorial services, National Prayer
       Breakfasts, and Clergy Days. See AFI 65-601V1 regarding chapel program use of appropriated
       funds in the provision of food or beverage items.
       4.1.11. Office Equipment and Supplies: Wing Chaplains are responsible for all government real
       and personal property under their control. Chapel staffs must effectively manage materiel
       resources under their control (See AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Posses-
       sion of the Air Force).
   4.2. Indirect Mission Requirements: The chaplain service uses Nonappropriated MWR Funds and
   Chapel Tithes and Offerings Funds (CTOF) to meet requirements that do not meet the “direct mis-
   sion” requirement criteria. These requirements are called Indirect Mission Requirements. See AFI
   52-105, Volume 2, for policies, procedures, and processes regarding CTOF use.

5. Resourcing Global Ministry. There are five phases in the resourcing Global Ministry life cycle.
These phases are: (1) conducting local needs assessment, (2) ministry/program planning, (3) resourcing
the ministry/ program plan, (4) ministry/program execution, and (5) program evaluation. They form the
basis for developing fiscal programs that meet unit spiritual health and religious needs. They provide
chapel staff a standardized process for gathering data needed to prepare strong narrative justifications for
chapel program requirements as well as impact analyses, if requirements are not funded.
   5.1. Needs Assessment Phase: Since it establishes the basis for prioritized chapel program require-
   ments, it is critical this first phase in the Global Ministry resourcing process be done thoroughly.
   These requirements are determined by using the “Doing Global Ministry” guide to comprehensively
   research local needs. The needs assessment process focuses on identifying, validating, and prioritizing
   ministry or chapel program) requirements (See Attachment 2). As a result, needs assessments pro-
   vide the basis for advocating for resources and defending chapel program fiscal plans.
       5.1.1. Needs assessments should be validated annually.
   5.2. Chapel Program Planning Phase: This is the second phase in the cycle. During this phase, all
   chapel programs and ministry needs must be reviewed and the associated people, ministry/program,
   materiel, and communications costs identified (See Attachment 3). The chapel program plan cost
   reflects a compilation of all the costs associated with religious observances, counseling, training, pas-
   toral visitation, etc.
8                                                                     AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


    5.3. Resourcing Phase: During this third phase, chapel staffs determine whether or not identified
    requirements will be resourced as direct or indirect mission requirements (See Attachment 4). Appro-
    priated funds will be the only source for financing direct mission requirements.
    5.4. Ministry/Program Execution Phase: During this phase, chapel staffs expend monies against
    funded requirements based on budgets derived from their financial plans. These budgets should serve
    as guides for expensing or consuming resources across the fiscal year. Obligations should be in keep-
    ing with quarterly, semi-annual, and annual goals.
    5.5. Program Evaluation Phase: This is the longest lasting phase since it continuously monitors imple-
    mentation and results of chapel programs in order to permit adjustment of near-, mid-, and log-term
    plans (See Attachment 5). Chapel staffs will monitor AF Forms 1270 and 1270A as well as appropri-
    ate local resource management data gathering devices to measure effectiveness and establish baselines
    for subsequent fiscal years, as necessary.

6. Responsibilities. See Table 2. for a comparison of wing and chapel responsibility levels.
    6.1. Chief of Chaplain Service
       6.1.1. Provides guidance to MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Chaplains on administration, control, and
       management of appropriated funds and funding procedures.
       6.1.2. Provides functional manager advocacy for Chaplain Service programming requirements
       through the Air Force Corporate Structure on issues with Air Force-wide impact.
    6.2. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Chaplain
       6.2.1. Provides guidance to Wing Chaplains on command-specific administration, control, and
       management of appropriated funds and funding procedures.
       6.2.2. Provides functional manager advocacy for Chaplain Service programming requirements
       through their headquarters on issues with command-wide impact.
       6.2.3. Represents Chaplain Service MAJCOM/FOA/DRU interests to commanders based on
       command needs assessments.
       6.2.4. Provides functional manager advocacy for validated wing chapel requirements to wing
       commanders.
       6.2.5. Reviews chapel program financial plans and recommends to Wing Chaplains ways to
       improve efficiency and effectiveness in obtaining and using appropriated funds
       6.2.6. Advises and assists Wing Chaplains in obtaining and using special funding provided by
       MAJCOM/FOA/DRU commanders.
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                             9


Table 2. Responsibility Levels.
Wing/Installa-     Chapel Equivalent       Chapel Responsibilities (Not all inclusive)
tion Equivalent
                                           Fund Manager
Wing                                       Chairperson, Chapel Financial Working Group
Commander          Wing Chaplain           Develop/Approve annual comprehensive Chapel
                                           Program Plan
                                           Advises Wing Chaplain on Program Plan develop-
                                           ment. Reviews Annual Statement of Assurance
Financial          Chapel Financial        (Chaplain Fund portion)
Working Group      Working Group           Members: Wing Chaplain, NCOIC, Senior Faith
(FWG)              (CFWG)                  Group Chaplains, Denominational Leaders
                                           Advisors: Resource Advisor (add’l duty), Account
                                           Managers, Accounting Technicians and Appropri-
                                           ated Funds Manager
                                           NCOIC & Additional Duty Resource Advisor:
Resource           NCOIC                   Monitor/manage resource estimates and budget exe-
Advisor (RA)       Resource Advisor        cution
                   (add’l duty)            Advise Wing Chaplain of chapel funds status
                                           Prepare chapel financial plan
                                           Chapel POC to Comptroller and other RAs
                                           Member Chapel Financial Working Group
                                           Executes account administration.
Cost Centers       Chapel Resource         Makes purchases.
                   Advisor                 Advisor, Chapel Financial Working Group.

   6.3. Wing Chaplain
       6.3.1. Oversees the administration and management of wing chapel program appropriated funds,
       e.g., provides budget guidance to chapel staff and reviews quarterly expense reports.
       6.3.2. Ensures that resources are used only for authorized purposes, in the amount and for the
       period authorized by applicable budget authorizations.
       6.3.3. Presents wing chapel requirements to installation/base senior leadership based on a thor-
       ough needs assessments of the local community.
       6.3.4. Advocates resourcing of validated chapel program requirements.
       6.3.5. May designate an experienced chaplain assistant NCO, SSgt or above with a 7-skill level as
       the chapel Resource Advisor. This should be an additional duty requirement.
       6.3.6. Ensures all personnel involved in chaplain fund administration, management, and control
       have requisite RMS training and currency.
       6.3.7. Evaluates and improves the efficiency and effectiveness of appropriated fund usage.
       6.3.8. Provides guidance to Chaplain Service personnel on funding decisions, policies, processes,
       and procedures.
10                                                                     AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


            6.3.8.1. Ensures chapel staff personnel make full use of the base Financial Analysis and Con-
            tracting Offices to obtain expert financial management and procurement advice.
        6.3.9. Chairs the Chapel Financial Working Group. Approves the comprehensive Chapel Program
        Plan.
     6.4. NCOIC
        6.4.1. Monitors fund operating procedures, resource estimates, and budget execution.
        6.4.2. Acts as a technical advisor for oversight and management of chapel funds. Keeps the Wing
        Chaplain informed of fund status and requirements.
            6.4.2.1. Ensures that trained individual(s) maintain current tracking records of chapel expen-
            ditures.
            6.4.2.2. Reviews purchase and financial obligation documents such as Requests for Purchase,
            Fund Cite Authorization, Travel Orders, and Government Purchase Card use for propriety and
            completeness.
        6.4.3. Serves as a member of the Chapel Financial Working Group.
        6.4.4. Acts as a point of contact to the Comptroller and installation Resource Advisors.
            6.4.4.1. Maintain a close working relationship with the wing/installation Financial Analysis
            and Contracting Offices.
        6.4.5. Prepares the wing/installation chapel Financial Plan.
        6.4.6. Maintains and validates chapel unfunded requirements.
            6.4.6.1. Prepares the chapel staff for year-end closeout actions to opportunely obtain fallout
            funds for unfunded requirements.
            6.4.6.2. Ensures that unfunded requirements are prioritized and that appropriate documents
            such as Form 9sare prepared and ready, with strong narrative justifications, to execute
            year-end resource fallout actions.
     6.5. Resource Advisor (add’l duty)
        6.5.1. Monitors fund operating procedures, resource estimates, and budget execution.
            6.5.1.1. Will be trained to maintain current tracking records of chapel expenditures.
            6.5.1.2. Acts as a technical advisor for oversight and management of chapel funds.
            6.5.1.3. Performs a monthly, quarterly, and semi-annual assessment of chapel program finan-
            cial operations. Keeps the Wing Chaplain informed of fund status and requirements.
        6.5.2. Reviews purchase and financial obligation documents for propriety and completeness.
        6.5.3. Is an advisor to the Chapel Financial Working Group.
        6.5.4. Acts as a point of contact to the Comptroller and installation Resource Advisors.
        6.5.5. Prepares the wing/installation chapel Financial Plan.
        6.5.6. Maintains and validates chapel unfunded requirements.
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                           11


         6.5.6.1. Prepares the chapel staff for year-end closeout actions to opportunely obtain fallout
         funds for unfunded requirements.
         6.5.6.2. Ensures that unfunded requirements are prioritized and that appropriate documents
         such as Form 9sare prepared and ready, with strong narrative justifications, to execute
         year-end resource fallout actions.
   6.6. Chapel Financial Working Group (CFWG)
      6.6.1. Advises the Wing Chaplain on Chapel Program Plan development.
      6.6.2. Coordinates information sharing between chapel staff members so that complete informa-
      tion is available to enable the development of strong requirement documents.
      6.6.3. The composition of the CFWG may vary from base to base, but the CFWG usually includes
      the Wing Chaplain, Chapel NCOIC, senior faith group chaplains, e.g., Roman Catholic, Jewish, or
      Muslim chaplains.
         6.6.3.1. The following may act as advisors to the CFWG: the Resource Advisor (additional
         duty), Account Managers, and Accounting Technician.

7. Supplements. MAJCOM/FOA/DRUs may supplement this instruction based as required.



                                                  LORRAINE K. POTTER
                                                  Chaplain, Major General, USAF
                                                  Chief of the Chaplain Service
12                                                               AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies
AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements
AFI 38-204, Programming USAF Manpower
AFI 52-101, Planning and Organizing
AFI 52-104, Chaplain Service Readiness
AFI 52-105, Volume 2, Chaplain Service Chapel Tithes and Offerings Fund
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule
AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service
AFD 38-2, Manpower

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
CTOF—Chapel Tithes and Offerings Fund
CFWG—Chapel Financial Working Group
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IAW—In Accordance With
IT—Information Technology
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulations
JTR—Joint Travel Regulations
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILCON—Military Construction
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer In Charge
PEC—Program Element Code
POM—Program Objective Memoranda
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budget and Execution
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                             13


PTDY—Permissive Temporary Duty
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Account Manager—Individual(s) appointed to oversee specific faith group or denomination
administrative processes IAW local operating instructions. Examples: Protestant Account Manager,
General Account Manager, Catholic Account Manager, and LDS Account Manager. Account Managers
can be the Senior Faith Group Chaplain/Denominational Leader, lay volunteer, Chaplain Assistant, or
other chaplain.
Chapel Financial Working Group—Group that advises the Wing Chaplain in the development of a
comprehensive Chapel Program Plan, which includes both the Appropriated Fund and the CTOF Budget.
Chapel Program Plan—A document that consolidates individual calendars of events, appropriated fund
budget, and the chaplain fund budget. Each Account Manager submits a consolidated program plan for
inclusion into the comprehensive Chapel Program Plan.
Contingency Ministry—Costs associated with Chaplain Service readiness and emergency response
activities located at a Main Operating Base or Geographically Separated Unit.
Faith Group—Body of people responsible for supporting a specific faith group doctrine. Follow
guidance in AFI 52-101.
Group Care & Renewal—Costs associated with spiritual renewal activities such as; marriage
enrichment seminars, retreats, etc.
Humanitarian—Costs associated with base humanitarian activities, designated offerings, and charitable
organizations.
Lay Programs—Costs associated with chapel lay organizations such as; Women, Youth, Men, Singles,
etc.
Pastoral Visitation—Costs associated with unit visitation.
Public Relations—Costs associated with chapel publicity and public relations activities with the military
community.
Quality of Life Concerns—Costs associated with planning and developing base-wide quality of life
improvements.
Religious Instruction—Costs associated with religious education activities such as; Vacation Bible
School, Sunday School, Adult Education, Bible Studies, and Rite of Christian Initiation, etc.
Worship & Religious Observance—Costs associated with worship services, funeral services, memorial
services, etc.
Program Leaders—Program Leaders are Lay volunteer, Chaplains, or Chaplain Assistants responsible
for managing a specific religious program under Chaplain supervision or Contractors selected to provide
specific services in support of chapel religious programs. Examples include Youth Ministry Coordinator,
Religious Education Coordinator, National Prayer Breakfast Project Chaplain, and PWOC Lay Leader.
14                                                          AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


QuickBooks Administrator (QBA)—The QBA determines the level of access for each QuickBooks
User, sets up user passwords, and ensures the QuickBooks Closing Date reflects 30 Sep. When
determining the appropriate access to grant, consider the functions each user will perform.
USAF Chaplain Service Quickbooks Reference Guide—This guide outlines standardized processes
for CTOF accounting.
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                           15


                                            Attachment 2

             FINANCIAL AND FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT RELATIONSHIPS

Figure A2.1. Financial And Functional Management Relationships.




The figure above shows the interconnectedness between the financial management processes and the
functional management coordination processes. In order to facilitate centralized Chaplain Service plan-
ning and programming and decentralized execution, Chaplain Service personnel must develop strong
coordination relationships at base level and higher echelons between functional and financial managers.
By sharing financial planning information along the functional management chain, Chaplain Service per-
sonnel allow the AF/HC to enhance their ability to plan strategically for the entire Chaplain Service.
Other functional areas use these relationships to effective present their funded and unfunded require-
ments.
16                                                              AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


                                            Attachment 3

             SAMPLE NEEDS ASSESSMENT DATA SHEET (NOTIONAL DATA)

Table A3.1. NEEDS ASSESSMENT DATA SHEET.
Core                                                                     Needs
Process,      Ministries to Achieve Core Competencies, Core Processes,   Based
Functional                      and Functional Tasks                     Ministry
Task                                                                     Priorities
CORE PROCESS: Religious Observance
Functional Tasks: Worship, Liturgies, and Rites
- Local      Roman Catholic Mass                                         High
Ministry
- Local      General Protestant Service                                  High
Ministry
- Local      Contemporary Protestant Service                             High
Ministry
- Local      Gospel Service                                              High
Ministry
- Local      Jewish Worship                                              High
Ministry
- Local      Muslim worship                                              High
Ministry
CORE PROCESS: Pastoral Care
Functional Tasks: Counseling
- Local      Singles/Couples counseling programs                         Medium
Ministry
- Local      Youth ministry programs                                     Medium
Ministry
- Local      Marriage preparation courses                                Low
Ministry
- Local      Marriage & Family counseling programs                       High
Ministry
- Local      Grief/bereavement counseling                                Medium
Ministry
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                         17


Functional Tasks: Crisis Intervention
- Local     Critical Incident Stress Mgmt/Applied Suicide Intervention   High
Ministry    Skills Training
- Local     Domestic violence                                            High
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Pastoral Visitation
- Local     Squadron visitation                                          High
Ministry
- Local     Hospital visits                                              Medium
Ministry
- Local     Home visitation visits                                       Low
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Planning and Employment for Contingency Ministry
- Local     Monthly Base Readiness Exercise                              High
Ministry
- Local     Deployment Kit Upgrade                                       Medium
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Religious Instruction
- Local     Confirmation/Catechism Classes                               Low
Ministry
- Local     Teacher recruitment training                                 Medium
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Spiritual Renewal
- Local     Quarterly/Yearly chapel retreat                              High
Ministry
- Local     Spiritual enrichment programs                                Medium
Ministry
- Local     Revivals                                                     Low
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Lay Training
- Local     Lay leadership training                                      Medium
Ministry
- Local     Music Director training                                      Low
Ministry
18                                                                   AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


Functional Tasks: Humanitarian Programs
- Local     Red Cross                                                      Medium
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Financial Program Support
- Local     QuickBooks administrator training                              Medium
Ministry
- Local     Financial management workshop                                  Medium
Ministry
- Local     Resource Advisor/Resource Manager training                     High
Ministry

Functional Tasks: Ecclesiastical Relations
- Local     Religious endorser relations                                   Medium
Ministry
- Local     Clergy Day                                                     Medium
Ministry
CORE PROCESS: Modeling Ethical Leadership
- Local     Ethical leadership briefings @ local PME seminars              High
Ministry
CORE PROCESS: Advise Leadership
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Spiritual Needs
- Local     Climate assessment surveys                                     High
Ministry
- Local     Briefings                                                      Medium
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Religious Needs
- Local     Climate assessment surveys                                     High
Ministry
- Local     Religious accommodation briefings                              High
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Ethical/Moral Issues
- Local     Climate assessment surveys                                     High
Ministry
- Local     Ethical leadership briefings to senior leaders & supervisors   High
Ministry
                            Needs Assessment Data Sheet
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                               19


The sample Needs Assessment Data Sheet above shows a listing of local community needs at Anyplace
AFB. (It is by no means a complete listing of base needs.) It is developed from scratch, but reflects needs
identified through ongoing unit visitations, experience with families and singles, and interaction with
community clergy, for example. It does not address the resourcing actions required to obtain required sup-
plies and materials, for those see Attachment 3. The classification of ministry needs as High, Medium, or
Low is a judgment call by the Wing Chaplain in collaboration with his or her staff.
20                                                                  AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


                                          Attachment 4

               SAMPLE PROGRAM PLAN COST SHETT (NOTIONAL DATA)

Table A4.1. Sample Program Plan Cost Sheet (notional data).
Core
Process,
Functional   Ministry         People     Resource Program Communication Total
Task, and    Priority         Cost       Cost     Cost    Cost          Cost
Ministry
Core Process: Religious Observance
Functional Tasks: Worship, Liturgies, and Rites
- Local      Roman            $3,000     $2,000      $1,000       $800            $6,800
Ministry     Catholic Mass
             (High)
- Local      General        $1,000       $1,000      $1,000       $800            $3,800
Ministry     Protestant
             Service (High)
- Local      Contemporary $800           $1,000      N/A          $800            $2,600
Ministry     Protestant
             Service (High)
- Local      Gospel Service     $2,000      $1,500         N/A             $800      $4,300
Ministry     (High)
- Local      Jewish Worship     $2,500        $900         $700            $800      $4,900
Ministry     support (High)
- Local      Muslim             $1,000        $800         $500            $600      $2,900
Ministry     worship
             support (High)
Core Process: Pastoral Care
Functional Tasks: Counseling, Crisis Intervention, and Spiritual Nurture
- Local      Singles/           $2,000      $2500      $5,000            $3,000     $12,500
Ministry     Couples
             counseling
             programs
             (Medium)
- Local      Youth ministry     $5,000      $4,000     $4,000            $3,000     $16,000
Ministry     programs
             (Medium)
- Local      Marriage prep      $3,000      $1,000     $1,000            $1,000      $6,000
Ministry     courses (Low)
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                21


Core
Process,
Functional   Ministry            People     Resource Program Communication Total
Task, and    Priority            Cost       Cost     Cost    Cost          Cost
Ministry
- Local      Marriage &            $5,000      $1,500   $2,000        $1,000    $9,500
Ministry     Family
             counseling
             programs
             (High)
- Local      Grief/                $1,000      $1,000   $2,000        $1,000    $5,000
Ministry     bereave-ment
             counseling
             (Medium)
Functional Tasks: Critical Incident Stress Management
- Local      CISM/ASIST            $5,000      $2,000   $2,000        $1,000   $10,000
Ministry     training (High)
- Local      Domestic              $5,000      $4,000   $3,000        $1,000   $13,000
Ministry     violence (High)
Functional Tasks: Pastoral Visitation
- Local      Unit visitation       $1,000      $1,000     N/A      $1,000       $3,000
Ministry     (High)
- Local      Hospital visits         $800      $1,000     N/A      $1,000       $2,800
Ministry     (Medium)
- Local      Home                    $800      $1,000     N/A       $800        $2,600
Ministry     visitation visits
             (Low)


Functional Tasks: Planning and Employment for Contingency Ministry
- Local      Monthly Base          $5,000     $10,000   $2,000                 $17,000
Ministry     Readiness
             Exercise (High)
- Local      Deployment              N/A      $10,000     N/A        N/A       $10,000
Ministry     Kit Upgrade
             (Medium)
Functional Tasks: Religious Instruction
- Local      Confirmation/         $1,000      $1,000     N/A      $1,000       $3,000
Ministry     Catechism
             Classes (Low)
22                                                            AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


Core
Process,
Functional   Ministry         People      Resource Program Communication Total
Task, and    Priority         Cost        Cost     Cost    Cost          Cost
Ministry
- Local      Teacher             $3,000     $1,000   $1,000      $3,000       $8,000
Ministry     recruitment
             training
             (Medium)
Functional Tasks: Spiritual Renewal
- Local      Quarterly/          $5,000     $3,000   $3,000         $1,000   $12,000
Ministry     Yearly chapel
             retreat (High)
- Local      Spiritual           $2,000     $2,000   $1,000         $1,000    $6,000
Ministry     enrichment
             programs
             (Medium)
- Local      Revivals (Low)      $4,000     $2,000     N/A          $1,000    $7,000
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Lay Training
- Local      Lay Leadership      $3,000     $3,000     N/A         N/A        $6,000
Ministry     Training
             (Medium)
- Local      Music Director      $5,000     $2,000     N/A         N/A        $7,000
Ministry     training (Low)
Functional Tasks: Humanitarian Programs
- Local      Red Cross            $900      $1,000     $500       $600        $3,000
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Financial Program Support
- Local      QuickBooks          $1,000     $1,000     N/A         N/A        $2,000
Ministry     administrator
             training
             (Medium)
- Local      Financial           $5,000     $2,000     N/A         N/A        $7,000
Ministry     management
             workshop
             (Medium)
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                            23


Core
Process,
Functional   Ministry          People     Resource Program Communication Total
Task, and    Priority          Cost       Cost     Cost    Cost          Cost
Ministry
- Local      Resource            $3,000      $1,000    N/A         N/A      $4,000
Ministry     Advisor/
             Resource
             Manager
             training (High)
Functional Tasks: Ecclesiastical Relations
- Local      Religious           $1,000        N/A     $900      $1,000     $2,900
Ministry     endorser
             relations
             (Medium)
- Local      Clergy Day          $1,000      $1500     $900      $1,200     $4,600
Ministry     (Medium)
24                                                           AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


Core Process: Modeling Ethical Leadership
             Ethical            $1,000      $900                  $900   $2,800
             leadership
- Local
             briefings
Ministry
             @local PME
             seminars (High)
Core Process: Advise Leadership
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Spiritual Needs
             Climate            $1,000    $1,000      N/A         $800   $2,800
             assessment
             surveys (High)
- Local      Briefings            $600      $500      N/A         $400   $1,500
Ministry     (Medium)
            Pamphlets,           $500    $1,000       N/A         N/A    $1,500
            brochures
            (Low)
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Religious Needs
            Climate               N/A       N/A      $600      $500      $1,100
            assessment
            surveys (High)
- Local     Religious            $600      $500      $500      $500      $2,100
Ministry    accommodation
            briefings (High)
            Pamphlets,           $500    $1,000        N/A      N/A      $1,500
            brochures
            (Medium)
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Ethical/Moral Issues
            Climate               N/A       N/A       $600     $500      $1,100
            assessment
            surveys (High)
            Ethical              $600      $500       $500     $500      $2,100
            leadership
- Local     briefings to
Ministry    senior leaders
            and supervisors
            (High)
            Pamphlets,           $500    $1,000        N/A      N/A      $1,500
            brochures
            (Medium)
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                         25


Total Cost of “Doing Global Ministry” at:
                              People      Resource Program       Communi-      Total Cost
                              Cost        Cost     Cost          cation Cost
                                $84,100     $73,100    $33,700       $32,300    $223,700
                               Program Plan Cost Sheet
The sample Program Plan Cost Sheet above shows a listing of the estimated costs of meeting the local
community needs at Anyplace AFB. The costs of each ministry program reflect the aggregation on its
component costs. For example, the Roman Catholic Mass program includes the cost of contracting priest
support, purchasing hymnals, wine, wafers, and weekly bulletins.
26                                                                 AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


                                           Attachment 5

           SAMPLE PROGRAM PLAN RESOURCING SHEET (NOTIONAL DATA)

Table A5.1. Sample Program Plan Resourcing Sheet (notional data).


Core
Process,     Ministry         People     Resource    Program     Communication Total Cost
Functional   Priority         Cost       Cost        Cost        Cost
Task, and
Ministry
Core Process: Religious Observance
Functional Tasks: Worship, Liturgies, and Rites
- Local
Ministry                        $2,500      $1,400      $1,000            $800     $5,700
             Roman
Direct                            $500        $600        N/A              N/A    $$1,100
             Catholic Mass
Funds:
             (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local
Ministry                          $700        $800      $1,000            $800     $3,300
             General
Direct                            $300        $200        N/A              N/A       $500
             Protestant
Funds:
             Service (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local
Ministry                          $800        $600        N/A             $500     $1,900
             Contemporary
Direct                             N/A        $400        N/A             $300       $700
             Protestant
Funds:
             Service (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local
Ministry                        $2,000      $1,000        N/A             $800     $3.800
Direct       Gospel               N/A         $500        N/A              N/A       $500
Funds:       Service (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local
Ministry                        $2,500        $900        $700            $800     $4,900
             Jewish
Direct                            N/A          N/A         N/A             N/A       N/A
             Worship
Funds:
             support (High)
Indirect
Funds:
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                   27



Core
Process,     Ministry         People     Resource    Program     Communication Total Cost
Functional   Priority         Cost       Cost        Cost        Cost
Task, and
Ministry
- Local
Ministry                        $1,000        $800        $500            $600     $2,900
             Muslim
Direct                            N/A          N/A         N/A             N/A       N/A
             worship
Funds:
             support (High)
Indirect
Funds:
Core Process: Pastoral Care
Functional Tasks: Counseling
- Local
             Singles/
Ministry                        $2,000      $2,000      $1,500           $2,500    $8,000
             Couples
Direct                          $2,000      $1,500        $500             $500    $4,500
             counseling
Funds:
             programs
Indirect
             (Med)
Funds:
- Local
Ministry     Youth              $2,000      $2,000      $1,500           $2,000    $7,500
Direct       ministry           $3,000      $2,000      $2,500           $1,000    $8,500
Funds:       programs
Indirect     (Medium)
Funds:
- Local
Ministry                        $2,000        $400        $800            $500     $3,700
Direct       Marriage prep      $1,000        $600        $200            $500     $2,300
Funds:       courses (Low)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local
             Marriage &
Ministry
             Family
Direct                          $4,000        $750      $2,000            $600     $7,350
             counseling
Funds:                          $1,000        $750        N/A             $400     $2,150
             programs
Indirect
             (High)
Funds:
28                                                                  AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004



Core
Process,     Ministry          People     Resource    Program     Communication Total Cost
Functional   Priority          Cost       Cost        Cost        Cost
Task, and
Ministry
- Local
Ministry     Grief /               $600        $600      $1,000            $600     $2,800
Direct       bereavement           $400        $400      $1,000            $400     $2,200
Funds:       counseling
Indirect     (Medium)
Funds:
Functional Tasks: Critical Incident Stress Management
- Local
Ministry                          $5000      $2,000      $2,000           $1,000   $10,000
             CISM/ASIST
Direct                              N/A        N/A         N/A              N/A       N/A
             training
Funds:
             (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local
Ministry                          $5000      $4,000      $3,000           $1,000   $13,000
             Domestic
Direct                              N/A        N/A         N/A              N/A       N/A
             violence
Funds:
             (High)
Indirect
Funds:
Functional Tasks: Pastoral Visitation
- Local                           $1000       $1000        N/A            $1000      $3000
Ministry                            N/A         N/A        N/A              N/A        N/A
Direct       Unit visitation
Funds:       (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local                            $800       $1000        N/A            $1000      $2800
Ministry                            N/A         N/A        N/A              N/A        N/A
Direct       Hospital visits
Funds:       (Medium)
Indirect
Funds:
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                  29



Core
Process,     Ministry        People     Resource    Program     Communication Total Cost
Functional   Priority        Cost       Cost        Cost        Cost
Task, and
Ministry
- Local                          $800       $1000        N/A             $800      $2600
Ministry                          N/A         N/A        N/A              N/A        N/A
             Home
Direct
             visitation
Funds:
             visits (Low)
Indirect
Funds:
Functional Tasks: Planning and Employment for Contingency Ministry
- Local
Ministry     Monthly Base       $5000     $10000        $2000             NA      $17000
Direct       Readiness            N/A        N/A          N/A             N/A        N/A
Funds:       Exercise
Indirect     (High)
Funds:
- Local                          N/A      $10000         N/A              N/A     $10000
Ministry                         N/A         N/A         N/A              N/A        N/A
             Deployment
Direct
             Kit Upgrade
Funds:
             (Medium)
Indirect
Funds:
Functional Tasks: Religious Instruction
- Local
Ministry                         $800        $800        N/A             $800      $2400
             Confirmation/
Direct                           $200        $200        N/A             $200       $600
             Catechism
Funds:
             Classes (Low)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local
Ministry     Teacher            $1000       $1000       $1000           $2000      $5000
Direct       recruitment        $2000         N/A         N/A           $1000      $3000
Funds:       training
Indirect     (Medium)
Funds:
30                                                                 AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004



Core
Process,     Ministry         People     Resource    Program     Communication Total Cost
Functional   Priority         Cost       Cost        Cost        Cost
Task, and
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Spiritual Renewal
- Local
Ministry                         $3000       $1500       $2000           $1000      $7500
             Quarterly /
Direct                           $2000       $1500       $1000             N/A      $4500
             Yearly chapel
Funds:
             retreat (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local
Ministry     Spiritual           $1500       $1000       $1000            $500      $4000
Direct       enrichment           $500       $1000         N/A            $500      $2000
Funds:       programs
Indirect     (Medium)
Funds:
- Local                            N/A         N/A        N/A              N/A        N/A
Ministry                         $4000       $2000        N/A            $1000      $7000
Direct       Revivals
Funds:       (Low)
Indirect
Funds:
Functional Tasks: Lay Training
- Local                          $1000       $3000        N/A              N/A      $4000
Ministry     Lay                 $2000         N/A        N/A              N/A      $2000
Direct       Leadership
Funds:       Training
Indirect     (Medium)
Funds:
- Local                          $2000       $2000        N/A              N/A      $4000
Ministry                         $3000         N/A        N/A              N/A      $3000
Direct
Funds:
Indirect     Music
Funds:       Director
             training (Low)
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                       31



Core
Process,     Ministry        People     Resource      Program     Communication Total Cost
Functional   Priority        Cost       Cost          Cost        Cost
Task, and
Ministry
Functional Tasks: Humanitarian Programs
- Local                           N/A          N/A          N/A             N/A           N/A
Ministry                         $900        $1,000        $500            $600         $3000
Direct
             Red Cross
Funds:
Indirect
Funds:
Functional Tasks: Financial Program Support
- Local                         $1000        $1000         N/A                 N/A      $2000
Ministry     QuickBooks           N/A          N/A         N/A                 N/A        N/A
Direct       administrator
Funds:       training
Indirect     (Medium)
Funds:
- Local                         $5000        $2000         N/A                 N/A      $7000
Ministry     Financial            N/A          N/A         N/A                 N/A        N/A
Direct       management
Funds:       workshop
Indirect     (Medium)
Funds:
- Local      Resource           $3000        $1000         N/A                 N/A      $4000
Ministry     Advisor/             N/A          N/A         N/A                 N/A        N/A
Direct       Resource
Funds:       Manager
Indirect     training
Funds:       (High)


Functional Tasks: Ecclesiastical Relations
- Local                          $500          N/A         $600         $500         $1100
Ministry     Religious           $500          N/A         $300         $500         $1300
Direct       endorser
Funds:       relations
Indirect     (Medium)
Funds:
32                                                          AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


- Local                           $500      $1000    $600      $600    $2700
Ministry                          $500       $500    $300      $600    $1900
Direct      Clergy Day
Funds:      (Medium)
Indirect
Funds:
Core Process: Modeling Ethical Leadership
- Local     Ethical               $1000      $900    N/A       $900    $2800
Ministry    leadership              N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A      N/A
Direct      briefings
Funds:      @local PME
Indirect    seminars
Funds:      (High)
Core Process: Advise Leadership
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Spiritual Needs
- Local                           $1000     $1000    N/A       $800    $2800
Ministry                            N/A       N/A    N/A        N/A      N/A
            Climate
Direct
            assessment
Funds:
            surveys (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local                           $300       $300    N/A       $200     $800
Ministry                          $300       $200    N/A       $200     $700
Direct      Briefings
Funds:      (Medium)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local                           $300       $500    N/A       N/A      $800
Ministry                          $200       $500    N/A       N/A      $700
            Pamphlets,
Direct
            brochures
Funds:
            (Low)
Indirect
Funds:


Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Religious Needs
- Local     Climate assess-        N/A       N/A     $600      $500    $1100
Ministry    ment surveys           N/A       N/A      N/A       N/A      N/A
Direct      (High)
Funds:
Indirect
Funds:
AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004                                                                      33


- Local     Religious               $300        $300        $300        $300        $1200
Ministry    Accommoda-              $300        $200        $200        $200         $900
Direct      tion Briefings
Funds:      (High)
Indirect
Funds:
- Local     Pamphlets, bro-         $300        $500        N/A         N/A             $800
Ministry    chures                  $200        $500        N/A         N/A             $700
Direct      (Medium)
Funds:
Indirect
Funds:
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Ethical/Moral Issues
- Local     Climate assess-         N/A         N/A         $600        $500        $1100
Ministry    ment surveys            N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A
Direct      (High)
Funds:
Indirect
Funds:
- Local     Ethical Leader-         $300        $300        $300        $300        $1200
Ministry    ship Briefings          $300        $200        $200        $200         $900
Direct      to senior lead-
Funds:      ers and supervi-
Indirect    sors (High)
Funds:
- Local     Pamphlets, bro-         $300        $500        N/A         N/A             $800
Ministry    chures                  $200        $500        N/A         N/A             $700
Direct      (Medium)
Funds:
Indirect
Funds:


Total Cost of “Doing Global Ministry” At:
                               People      Resource    Program     Communi-     Total
                               Cost        Cost        Cost        cation       Cost
                                                                   Cost
Direct Mission Require-          $60,800     $58,850     $24,000      $24,200    $167,350
ments
Indirect Mission Require-        $25,300     $15,250      $6,700       $8,100     $55,350
ments
Program Plan Resourcing Sheet
34                                                                   AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


The sample Program Plan Resourcing Sheet above shows the type and amount of funds (direct or indirect
mission support) that would be used for each ministry program. Appropriated funds would be used to sup-
port direct mission requirements and nonappropriated funds for indirect mission requirements. The Com-
prehensive Chapel Fund program could act as the source document for the required data, since it reflects
a compilation of budgeting activity in both the appropriated and Nonappropriated fund arenas.
                                                          Attachment 6




                                                                                                                                    AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004
                     SAMPLE DOING GLOBAL MINISTRY EVALUATION SHEET (NOTIONAL DATA).

Table A6.1. Sample Doing Global Ministry Evaluation Sheet (notional data).


  Core Process,                                                                                              Action
 Functional Task,    Satisfac    Time     People   Resource Program        Communi     Total
  and Ministry        -tion      Spent     Cost      Cost   Cost           -cation     Cost
                      (1-5)     (Hours)                                    Cost
Core Process: Religious Observance
Functional Tasks: Worship, Liturgies, and Rites
Roman Catholic          4       105        $3500       $2300      $1500        $1000   $8300 $1500 over budget reflects trend—
Mass                                                                                         plan for an increase in the Fin Plan
General Protestant      3       85         $1000       $1000      $1000        $1000    $800 On budget, but not impressing
Service                                                                                      customers, consider increasing
                                                                                             funding next year
Contemporary
Protestant Service
Gospel Service
Jewish Worship
Muslim worship
Core Process: Pastoral Care
Functional Tasks: Counseling, Crisis Intervention, and Spiritual Nurture
Singles/Couples
counseling
programs
Youth ministry
programs




                                                                                                                                    35
                                                                                                  36
  Core Process,                                                                          Action
 Functional Task,     Satisfac    Time     People   Resource Program   Communi   Total
  and Ministry         -tion      Spent     Cost      Cost   Cost      -cation   Cost
                       (1-5)     (Hours)                               Cost
Marriage
preparation courses
Marriage & Family
counseling
programs
Grief/bereavement
counseling
Functional Tasks: Critical Incident Stress Management
Critical Incident
Stress Mgmt/
Applied Suicide
Intervention Skills
Training
Domestic violence
Functional Tasks: Pastoral Visitation
Squadron visitation




                                                                                                  AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004
Hospital visits
Home visitation
visits
Functional Tasks: Planning and Employment for Contingency Ministry
Monthly Base
Readiness Exercise
Deployment Kit
Upgrade
                                                                                                  AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004
  Core Process,                                                                          Action
 Functional Task,    Satisfac     Time     People   Resource Program   Communi   Total
  and Ministry        -tion       Spent     Cost      Cost   Cost      -cation   Cost
                      (1-5)      (Hours)                               Cost
Functional Tasks: Religious Instruction
Monthly Base
Readiness Exercise
Deployment Kit
Upgrade
Functional Tasks: Spiritual Renewal
Quarterly/Yearly
chapel retreat
Spiritual
enrichment
programs
Revivals
Functional Tasks: Lay Training
Lay leadership
training
Music Director
training
Functional Tasks: Humanitarian Programs
Red Cross
Functional Tasks: Financial Program Support
QuickBooks
administrator
training




                                                                                                  37
                                                                                                    AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004
  Core Process,                                                                            Action
 Functional Task,    Satisfac      Time      People   Resource Program   Communi   Total
  and Ministry        -tion        Spent      Cost      Cost   Cost      -cation   Cost
                      (1-5)       (Hours)                                Cost
Financial
management
workshop
Resource Advisor/
Resource Manager
training
Functional Tasks: Ecclesiastical Relations
Religious endorser
relations
Clergy Day
Core Process: Modeling Ethical Leadership
Ethical leadership
briefings @ local
PME seminars
Core Process: Advise Leadership
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Spiritual Needs
Climate assessment
surveys
Briefings
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Religious Needs
Climate assessment
surveys




                                                                                                    38
                                                                                                                                                    AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004
  Core Process,                                                                                                          Action
 Functional Task,      Satisfac       Time     People    Resource Program        Communi         Total
  and Ministry          -tion         Spent     Cost       Cost   Cost           -cation         Cost
                        (1-5)        (Hours)                                     Cost
Religious
accommodation
briefings
Functional Tasks: Advise Regarding Ethical/Moral Issues
Climate assessment
surveys
Ethical leadership
briefings to senior
leaders &
supervisors
Evaluation of “Doing Global Ministry” At:
Overall               Overall Time        People Cost Resource       Program     Communic Total          Action
Satisfaction          Spent                           Cost           Cost        ation    Cost
                                                                                 Cost


                                                   Doing Global Ministry Evaluation Sheet
The sample Doing Global Ministry Evaluation Sheet above can be used to help chapel staffs evaluate whether of not they have effectively
addressed community needs. Staffs need to compare customer surveys, ongoing needs assessments, and actual/planned expenditures in order to
evaluate ongoing programs.
Review customer satisfaction trends, to see whether they are going up, down, or staying steady. Also, examine annual costs over time, for exam-
ple, 2-3 years to see if the program’s spending too little, too much and if it its impacting customer satisfaction. Such reviews should assist in
developing future spending plans or initiatives.




                                                                                                                                                    39
40                                                           AFI52-105V1 22 MARCH 2004


                                       Attachment 7

                      SAMPLE WING LEVEL CHAPLAIN SERVICE
                       FINANCIAL PLAN DEVELOPMENT CYCLE

A7.1. Sample Wing Level Chaplain Service Financial Plan Development Cycle.
