BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-703
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   21 MAY 2014

                                                                                             Law

                                                      FOREIGN CRIMINAL JURISDICTION




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/JAOP                                                                Certified by: AF/JAO
                                                                          (Col Robert A. Ramey)
                                                                                          Pages: 5
Supersedes:    AFI51-703, 6 May 1994


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-7, International Law, 5 Feb
2009, and Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5525.1, Status of Forces Policies and
Information, August 7, 1979, With Change 2. For related information, see AFJI 51-706, Status
of Forces Policies, Procedures, and Information, 15 Dec 1989 (Joint Departmental
Publication). This Air Force Instruction (AFI) outlines the pretrial custody, international hold,
and reassignment or transfer procedures for Air Force personnel, including military members,
civilian employees, and dependents, being held on criminal charges under foreign law. It also
explains how a Military Legal Advisor (MLA) is appointed and the scope of an MLA’s
responsibilities in foreign court proceedings. This AFI applies to all United States Air Force
(USAF), Air Force Reserve (USAFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) personnel, whether
permanently assigned or transient. Waivers of requirements identified with a T-0 must be sought
through The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) to a non-Air Force Agency. TJAG is the waiver
authority for paragraph 7. No other waivers are authorized.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the        Air       Force       Records        Disposition        Schedule        located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.              This publication may be
 2                                                                     AFI51-703 21 MAY 2014


supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.


Section A—Pretrial Custody in Foreign Court Cases

1. Releasing Personnel from Foreign Custody. The Air Force will seek the release from
foreign custody of any Air Force personnel charged with criminal offenses under foreign laws.
     1.1. If an international agreement between the United States and the host country provides
     for the United States to exercise pretrial custody, do not post bail bonds using US funds
     before getting approval from HQ USAF Operations and International Law Directorate (HQ
     USAF/JAO).
2. Transferring Personnel. Air Force authorities will not transfer, curtail, or reassign Air
Force personnel charged with criminal offenses in a foreign court until final disposition of the
charges except in accordance with that court’s approved procedures or after coordination with
HQ USAF/JAO and with approval of the designated commanding officer.
3. Ensuring Personnel Remain in Country. Air Force component commands supporting a
Geographic Combatant Command will establish procedures to ensure that Air Force permanent
party, temporary duty, or transient personnel within the Geographic Combatant Command’s area
of responsibility, subject to foreign criminal jurisdiction do not depart the country in which the
alleged criminal conduct occurred before the final disposition of charges, except in accordance
with paragraph 2 (T-0).
     3.1. Air Force authorities will place on international hold all military personnel formally
     charged or military personnel the host nation is formally and actively investigating for
     possible violation of host country law. Air Force authorities may also place on international
     hold any military members who have been designated as witnesses in pending criminal
     investigations or prosecutions.
     3.2. Air Force authorities will adhere to the following minimum international hold
     procedures in cases in which the Air Force maintains or accepts custody of an individual
     allegedly involved in a foreign crime or a foreign court case. This instruction also covers
     cases in which the individual has posted bail from personal funds.
        3.2.1. Military Members. Commanders will order military members in writing not to
        depart the host country until properly released from international hold. Military members
        will acknowledge these orders in writing.
        3.2.2. ANG/USAFR Personnel. Members of the ARC(ANG and USAFR) serving on
        orders placed on international hold may require extensions of their military orders.
        Requests for military orders extensions will be coordinated with HQ USAF/A1 and the
        201 MSS/ ANG Readiness Center or the Air Force Reserve Command Judge Advocate
        (AFRC/JA) respectively for ANG/USAFR personnel (T-0).
     3.3. Civilian Employees. Commanders will ask their civilian employees to acknowledge in
     writing that they will not be transferred, reassigned, or allowed to use any type of US funded
     transportation to leave the host country until they are properly released (T-0).
AFI51-703 21 MAY 2014                                                                             3


    3.4. Family members. Commanders will ask family members, age 16 or over, of military
    members or civilian employees to acknowledge in writing that they will not be transferred
    from the host country on military orders or be given any kind of US-funded transportation
    until they are properly released from international hold. Family members’ sponsors will also
    be asked to acknowledge the statement. For family members under the age of 16, ask only
    the sponsors to acknowledge the statement. (T-0)
4. Designated Commanding Officer (DCO). In each geographical area assigned to a
geographic combatant commander, the Air Force Service Component will verify the geographic
combatant commander designates a commanding officer (DCO) for each country in which Air
Force personnel, contractors or command sponsored dependents are normally located.
5. Attending Court Hearings. Air Force personnel facing foreign criminal charges are
personally responsible for attending all scheduled court hearings. When these individuals are in
US military custody, commanders will make them available at all hearings as the court requests
(T-0).

Section B—Military Legal Advisors (MLA)

6. Notifying Personnel. Air Component Commanders will ensure that all Air Force military
members facing criminal charges in foreign courts are promptly notified of their ability to
request the services of an MLA. Commanders must notify personnel when charges are filed or a
summons is issued. In cases involving no significant risk of confinement, such as minor traffic
offenses, members can be notified by mail, with receipt confirmation. If mail postal services are
not available in the host country, commanders must notify the member verbally (telephonically,
or in person) or through electronic means with receipt confirmation. (T-0)
7. Appointing an MLA. If a member requests an MLA, the local staff judge advocate (SJA) or,
if none is assigned locally, the air component commander SJA appoints one as soon as possible.
The SJA cannot serve as an MLA under any circumstances. (T-1)
8. Qualifications for MLA Appointments. Only Air Force judge advocates may serve as
MLAs for Air Force personnel. Judge advocates assigned as Area Defense Counsel (ADC) may
be appointed MLAs if approved by the Chief Senior Defense Counsel.
    8.1. When neither an ADC nor another judge advocate is available, the SJA determines how
    a member requesting an MLA will be advised. In serious cases, such as those likely to
    prompt administrative discharge action or confinement, the SJA may appoint temporary duty
    MLAs. In minor cases, including those with no substantial likelihood of administrative
    discharge action or confinement, the SJA may arrange for advice by telephone or another
    sufficient method. The SJA will not appoint as MLA any person who has acted, or is
    expected to act, as trial counsel or trial observer in a case involving the member.
9. Duties of the MLA. The MLA does not act as a defense counsel. The MLA provides legal
advice to the member on all US-related matters arising out of criminal charges pending in a
foreign court, including:
•   The client’s military status and any administrative actions that may be taken by or against
•   that client.
•
    4                                                                      AFI51-703 21 MAY 2014


•       The rights guaranteed to the accused in applicable treaties or other international agreements
•       between the United States and the country concerned.
•
•       DoD policies on personnel subject to foreign criminal jurisdiction.

        9.1. The lawyer-client privilege applies to all communications between MLAs and their Air
        Force clients.
10. Role of the MLA in Foreign Court Proceedings. The MLA may participate in pretrial
discussions, facilitate communications between the client’s foreign counsel and military
authorities, and may also help in obtaining documents and witnesses for the defense. The MLA
must never seek to supplant the legal advice of the client’s foreign counsel regarding the foreign
proceeding.
11. The MLA may communicate with and advocate the client’s interests to the foreign
counsel, the trial observer, the claims officer, the SJA, the client’s commander, and other
US officials. However, the MLA must not make any official representations to foreign
authorities without obtaining permission from the SJA.
12. The MLA should not attend foreign trial or hearings unless a member’s right to
adequate legal counsel would otherwise be deprived in a particular case. If the MLA attends
he or she should appear as an unofficial spectator. The MLA may not sit at the counsel table,
present pleadings or arguments, or otherwise participate in the court proceedings. The MLA
may make suggestions to the client’s foreign counsel who remains responsible for the defense of
the foreign case.




                                                 ROBERT G. KENNY
                                                 Major General, USAFR
                                                 Performing the Duties of
                                                 The Judge Advocate General
AFI51-703 21 MAY 2014                                                                   5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5525.1, Status of Forces Policies and Information, August 7, 1979, with Change 2
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 5 February 2009
AFJI 51-706, Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and Information, 15 December 1989
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADC—Area Defense Counsel
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction
AF/JAO—Operations and International Law Directorate
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
DCO—Designated Commanding Officer
DoD—Department of Defense
MLA—Military Legal Advisor
MSS—Mission Support Squadron
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
