BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-704
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            21 MAY 2010

                                                                            FIFTH AIR FORCE
                                                                                   Supplement
                                                                           18 OCTOBER 2010
                                                            Certified Current 24 February 2014
                                                                                          Law

                                                   HANDLING REQUESTS FOR POLITICAL
                                                     ASYLUM AND TEMPORARY REFUGE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/JAO                                                               Certified by: AF/JAO
Supersedes: AFI 51-704, 19 July 1994                                Edward J. Monahan, YA-03)
                                                                                        Pages: 9
                                             (5AF)
OPR: 5 AF/JAI                                                               Certified by: 5 AF/JA
Supersedes: AFI51-704_5AFSUP,                                             (Col W. W. Pischnotte)
            15 May 1997                                                                    Pages:4


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 51-7, International Law, 5 February
2009, and DoD Directive 2000.11, Procedures for Handling Requests for Political Asylum and
Temporary Refuge, March 3, 1972, incorporating change 1, May 17, 1973 by providing guidance
and procedures for handling requests by foreign nationals for political asylum in the United
States or temporary refuge at Air Force installations and on AF aircraft worldwide. It does not
apply to prisoners of war or members of an enemy force during an armed conflict. This
publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and Air National Guard
(ANG). This publication may be supplemented, but all supplements must be routed to AF/JAO
for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF FM 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF FM 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms manager. This publication can’t be waived. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims.
 2                                                 AFI51-704_5AFSUP_I 18 OCTOBER 2010


(5AF) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 51-704, Handling Requests for Political Asylum and
Temporary Refuge, 21 May 2010, is supplemented as follows. AFI 51-704 and this Supplement
apply to members of the Fifth Air Force (5 AF), Air Force members and civilian employees
assigned or attached in Japan, and Air Force aircraft within the 5 AF areas of operation that have
flights originating and/or terminating in Japan. AFI 51-704 and this Supplement apply to
requests for political asylum and temporary refuge of foreign nationals who do not appear to
have information of value to the United States (US) that may qualify them for defector status.
All requests for political asylum, temporary refuge, or defector status made by foreign nationals
who have information of value to the US will be handled in accordance with paragraph 4 of AFI
51-704, and United States Forces, Japan, Instruction (USFJINST) 14-103 (SECRET//NOFORN)
(S//NF), Defector Program and Procedures for Handling Requests for Political Asylum and
Temporary Refuge (U). This supplement also implements USFJINST 51-703, Procedures for
Handling Requests for Political Asylum and Temporary Refuge in Japan. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/ Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. No
waivers may be granted for any part of the publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised to update procedures and the listing of offices
requiring reports and appropriate notifications. This revision also removed list of INS
regional/district offices, which is otherwise obtainable through USCIS website.

(5AF) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include: Updates to procedures for handling requests for political asylum at an
installation or on board USAF aircraft in territory of Japan and handling requests for temporary
refuge at an installation or on board USAF aircraft in territory of Japan.
1. Responding to Requests for Political Asylum. Air Force members may receive requests for
political asylum from foreign nationals who are within US territorial jurisdiction (defined as the
continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, other US territories)
as well as on or over the high seas or other place not within another nation’s territorial
jurisdiction. Upon receiving such a request, AF personnel do not turn away or release the foreign
nationals against their will until the proper US authorities consider their requests.
     1.1. Handling Requests for Political Asylum Within US Territorial Jurisdiction. Any
     request for political asylum from a foreign national (or an indication that such a request is
     imminent) will be referred to the senior Air Force commander or a member of the
     commander’s staff at an installation within US territorial jurisdiction. The commander must:
        1.1.1. Notify as soon as practicable the servicing Air Force Office of Special
        Investigations (AFOSI).
AFI51-704_5AFSUP_I 18 OCTOBER 2010                                                                 3


       1.1.2. Notify as soon as practicable the nearest office of the US Citizenship and
       Immigration Service (USCIS), found at www.uscis.gov/portal/site/uscis
       1.1.3. Take adequate measures to protect the foreign national, pending transfer to the US
       Immigration and Naturalization Service. Measures taken to protect the foreign national
       will be consistent with any directions given by superior authority or the directions of
       a local, state, or federal law enforcement agency, if any. Upon decision to transfer, a
       foreign national stationed at an installation within US territorial jurisdiction must receive
       reasonable time to conclude personal and administrative matters.
       1.1.4. Immediately inform the Air Force Service Watch Cell (AFSWC) as described in
       paragraph 4., and send information copies as specified in paragraph 4.2. Provide a copy
       of the message to the INS.
2. Handling Requests for Political Asylum at an Installation Under Foreign Jurisdiction or
On Board AF Aircraft at Locations Outside the US Territorial Jurisdiction. It is the
general policy of the United States not to grant political asylum at units or at installations within
the territorial jurisdiction of a foreign country or on board AF aircraft. If a foreign national in
these circumstances asks an Air Force official for help in requesting political asylum in the
United States, the official must:
2.1. Notify the servicing AFOSI.
   2.2. Advise the foreign national to apply in person at the nearest American embassy or
   consulate.
   2.3. Provide temporary refuge if requested and authorized under paragraph 2. of this
   Instruction.
   2.4. If an Air Force member who is serving under a chief of a diplomatic mission receives
   the request, handle it according to instructions issued by that mission.
   2.5. If the chief of the diplomatic mission issues no contrary instructions, the Air Force
   official who receives the request must communicate it by IMMEDIATE precedence message
   or by telephone to the Air Force Service Watch Cell (paragraph 4.) and send information
   copies (paragraph 4.3).
   2.6. (Added-5AF) . Within the territory of Japan, political asylum will not be granted by a
   military member or employee of the Department of the Air Force.
       2.6.1. (Added-5AF) . If the foreign national is outside of an area or facility granted to
       USFJ and not aboard a USAF aircraft or vessel and requests political asylum to a place
       other than the United States, Air Force personnel will refer the requester to the Japanese
       Ministry of Justice or the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The address
       for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Japan is Shin Aoyama
       Building, Nishi kan, 1-1-1 Minami Aoyama, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0062.
           2.6.1.1. (Added-5AF) . If the foreign national is outside of an area or facility
           granted to USFJ and not aboard a USAF aircraft or vessel and requests political
           asylum in the United States, Air Force personnel will refer the requester to the US
           Embassy, consulate, or consulate general, whichever is more convenient.
4                                              AFI51-704_5AFSUP_I 18 OCTOBER 2010


    2.6.2. (Added-5AF) . If the foreign national is in an area or facility granted to USFJ,
    which is administered by the Air Force, or if aboard a USAF aircraft or vessel and within
    the territory of Japan, and requests political asylum, Air Force personnel receiving the
    request will notify the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).
       2.6.2.1. (Added-5AF) . If the foreign national is aboard an airborne aircraft and
       within the territorial airspace of Japan, the aircraft commander will refer the request
       to the AFOSI supporting the facility contacted. Referral will be either to the
       installation where the mission originated or will terminate, as appropriate.
       2.6.2.2. (Added-5AF) . If the USAF aircraft is on the ground at an area or facility
       granted to USFJ that is administered by the Air Force, the aircraft commander will
       refer the request to the AFOSI supporting the area or facility.
       2.6.2.3. (Added-5AF) . If the USAF vessel is afloat and in the territorial waters of
       Japan, Air Force personnel refer the request to the installation commander where the
       vessel originated if it is returning to that installation. If the USAF vessel is not
       returning to the installation of origin, Air Force personnel use their discretion as to
       whom to report the request. If a referral is not made before reaching land, once
       ashore refer the request to the AFOSI supporting the area or facility.
    2.6.3. (Added-5AF) . Communications between Air Force personnel to refer the
    request will be by secure means. If secure means are unavailable, the requester will be
    taken to the law enforcement desk.
    2.6.4. (Added-5AF) . The Security Forces notify immediately by secure means the
    installation commander and the servicing AFOSI unit, if AFOSI has not already been
    notified.
    2.6.5. (Added-5AF) . The AFOSI or, when the AFOSI is unavailable, a designated
    officer shall collect information to help determine whether the requester will be handled
    as defector or potential defector in accordance with USFJINST 14-103 (S//NF). In
    addition, information described in Attachment 2 to the basic Instruction should be elicited
    from the requester.
    2.6.6. (Added-5AF) . After receiving the information elicited and any recommended
    course of action, the installation commander decides whether to handle the requester as a
    defector or potential defector. If the requester will be treated as a defector or potential
    defector, comply with the procedures in USFJINST 14-103 (S//NF).
    2.6.7. (Added-5AF) . Until a decision has been made not to treat the requester as a
    defector or potential defector, comply with USFJINST 14-103 (S//NF). Ensure recipients
    of communications understand the proper handling of communications.
    2.6.8. (Added-5AF) . When a determination has been made that the requester will not
    be considered as a defector or potential defector, comply with the reporting requirements
    in paragraph 4 of the basic Instruction and in paragraph 6.4. of USFJINST 51-703.
       2.6.8.1. (Added-5AF) . After complying with the reporting requirements, refer the
       requester to the Japanese Ministry of Justice, the United Nations High Commissioner
       for Refugees, or to the US Embassy, consulate, or consulate general as appropriate.
AFI51-704_5AFSUP_I 18 OCTOBER 2010                                                                5


           2.6.8.2. (Added-5AF) . After advising the requester appropriately, take the
           requester to the boundary of the facility or area and release them, unless the requester
           will be granted temporary refuge.
3. Granting Requests for Temporary Refuge. It is the policy of the United States to grant
temporary refuge in a foreign country to nationals of that country or of a third state, and to the
nationals of any country while on or over the high seas, or other area outside the territorial
jurisdiction of any nation, if there is an apparent need to protect them from imminent danger to
life or safety. However, do not grant temporary refuge to persons who are fleeing from duly
constituted law enforcement authorities of the foreign country.
   3.1. Handling Requests for Temporary Refuge at an Installation or on Board AF
   Aircraft in Territory Under Foreign Jurisdiction. Under the above conditions, the senior
   Air Force commander may grant temporary refuge to a foreign national for humanitarian
   reasons, on request. The commander sets procedures for granting temporary refuge and for
   determining when such refuge should be granted. The commander who grants temporary
   refuge must:
       3.1.1. Notify the servicing AFOSI.
       3.1.2. Protect the foreign national.
       3.1.3. Immediately inform the Air Force Service Watch Cell as described in paragraph
       4.1 and send information copies as specified in paragraph 4.3
       3.1.4. (Added-5AF) . If a foreign national seeks temporary refuge at the gate to an Air
       Force area or facility, the senior Security Forces officer at the gate will allow the
       requester to enter the area or facility and take them to a safe area while maintaining
       security at the gate. If a foreign national who seeks temporary refuge is already within an
       Air Force area or facility, immediately contact AFOSI and sequester the individual from
       public view in a safe area.
           3.1.4.1. (Added-5AF) . The Security Forces will notify immediately by secure
           means the installation commander, or the senior official present if not the installation
           commander, and the servicing AFOSI unit.
           3.1.4.2. (Added-5AF) . The servicing AFOSI unit shall promptly interview the
           requester to obtain the facts listed in Attachment 2 of AFI 51-704 and immediately
           inform the installation commander, or the senior official present if not the installation
           commander, of its findings.
           3.1.4.3. (Added-5AF) . The installation commander or designee shall decide if the
           requester will be treated as a defector or potential defector in compliance with
           USFJINST 14-103 (S//NF).
               3.1.4.3.1. (Added-5AF) . If the requester will not be treated as a defector or
               potential defector, the senior official present decides if the requester will be
               granted temporary refuge in accordance with paragraph 3.2. of AFI 51-704.
               3.1.4.3.2. (Added-5AF) . If the requester is not granted refuge, the senior
               official present will ensure that the foreign national is taken to the gate and
               released.
 6                                                 AFI51-704_5AFSUP_I 18 OCTOBER 2010


                3.1.4.3.3. (Added-5AF) . If the requester is granted temporary refuge, the
                installation commander shall secure quarters and provide meals for the refugee.
     3.2. The commander will terminate temporary refuge only when directed by higher authority
     through the Secretary of the Military Department or the Director of the Defense Agency
     concerned. The person whose temporary refuge has been terminated will only be released to
     the protection of the authorities designated in the message authorizing release.
4. Reporting Requests for Political Asylum or Temporary Refuge.
     4.1. Send an IMMEDIATE precedence message to the Air Force Service Watch Cell
     containing as much of the information requested in Attachment 2 as possible. Do not delay
     the notification to get additional information, but send any additional information in later
     messages. Air Force Service Watch Cell addresses:
        4.1.1. Electrical message address: AFSWC WASHINGTON DC//
        4.1.2. E-Mail   address:      afwatch@pentagon.af.mil               (unclassified)      or
        afwatch@af.pentagon.smil.mil (classified)
        4.1.3. Telephone: Major commands; Installations: DSN (312) 227-6103 or commercial
        (703) 697-6103
     4.2. Confirm telephone calls with an IMMEDIATE precedence message as soon as possible.
     4.3. At the same time you notify the Air Force Service Watch Cell, send information copies
     of the message to:
        4.3.1. The Office of The Judge Advocate General, Operations and International Law
        Directorate (AF/JAO). [HAF WASHINGTON DC//JAO//]
        4.3.2. If in CONUS, to the Secretary of State. If overseas, to the appropriate American
        embassy or consular office.
        4.3.3. The combatant command, the major command, and each intermediate command.
        4.3.4. The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). [DIA WASHINGTON DC//]
        4.3.5. AF/A2. [AF WASHINGTON DC//A2//
        4.3.6. (Added-5AF) . In addition to the offices listed in paragraph 4.3. of AFI 51-704,
        send information copies of reports to the Commander and Staff Judge Advocate, HQ
        USFJ (USFJ/J00/J06/).
5. Releasing Information. Do not release information concerning requests for political asylum
or temporary refuge (or that a request has been made) to the public or to the media without the
approval of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs. Refer all requests for
information received by Air Force personnel through command channels. Should any news
release or public statement be authorized, send a verbatim text of the release to all addressees in
paragraph 4.3

6. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
AFI51-704_5AFSUP_I 18 OCTOBER 2010                                           7




                              RICHARD C. HARDING, Lieutenant General, USAF
                              The Judge Advocate General

                              (5AF)

                              EDWARD A. RICE JR., Lieutenant General, USAF
                              Commander, Fifth Air Force
 8                                                  AFI51-704_5AFSUP_I 18 OCTOBER 2010


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 5 February 2009
DoDD 2000.11, Procedures for Handling Requests for Political Asylum and Temporary Refuge,
March 3, 1972, incorporating change 1, May 17, 1973
Definitions
1.1 Political Asylum—Protection and sanctuary granted by the United States Government
within its territorial jurisdiction or on the high seas to a foreign national who applies for such
protection because of persecution or fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality,
membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.
1.2 Temporary Refuge—Protection afforded for humanitarian reasons to a foreign national in a
Department of Defense shore installation, facility, or military vessel within the territorial
jurisdiction of a foreign nation or on the high seas, under conditions of urgency in order to secure
the life or safety of that person against imminent danger, such as pursuit by a mob. A military
vessel includes a military aircraft.
AFI51-704_5AFSUP_I 18 OCTOBER 2010                                                               9


                                         Attachment 2
REPORTING DATA ON REQUESTS FOR POLITICAL ASYLUM AND TEMPORARY
                            REFUGE

A2.1. Relay as available. Do not delay a report of initial request as you develop data.
   A2.1.1. Name and nationality of individual seeking asylum or temporary refuge.
   A2.1.2. Date, place of birth, and occupation (if applicable).
   A2.1.3. Description of any documentation in his/her possession.
   A2.1.4. What foreign authorities are aware of the request for asylum or temporary refuge;
   whether anyforeign authorities will be notified of the request.
   A2.1.5. Circumstances surrounding the request.
   A2.1.6. Exact location. If aboard vessel or aircraft, ETA at next intended port or airport.
   A2.1.7. Reason for claiming asylum or temporary refuge.
   A2.1.8. Description of any criminal charges known or alleged to be pending against the
   requester. Indicate also if any piracy at sea, air piracy, or hijacking is involved.
   A2.1.9. Any affiliation with a subversive organization and any government office now held
   or previously occupied.
   A2.1.10. If applicable, whether a field office of the US Citizenship and Immigration Service
   (USCIS) has been notified and if arrangements have been made to transfer the case to INS.
   A2.1.11. Any other pertinent information.
