BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 52-101
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         5 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                    Chaplain

                                                           PLANNING AND ORGANIZING



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: This publication has no releasability restrictions

OPR: AF/HCX                                                               Certified by: AF/HC

Supersedes:   AFI 52-101, 10 May 2005                                               Pages: 16


This instruction implements AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Corps. It directs procedures that ensure the
Air Force Chaplain Corps is structured and organized to meet mission requirements. Requests
for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. This
instruction applies to active duty, Air Reserve Component (ARC), and civilian personnel.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to AF/HCX, 1380 Air Force Pentagon,
Room 4D286, Washington, DC 20330-1380, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command. Any organization may supplement this volume. Major commands
(MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU) send one copy of
their printed supplement to AF/HCX and an electronic copy to hcx.workflow@pentagon.af.mil;
other organizations send one copy of each printed supplement to the next higher headquarters.
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include guidance as to how the Chief of Chaplains manages the Air Force Chaplain
Corps. It also includes the incorporation of the duty title of “Deputy Chief of Chaplains,”
omitted from the previous interim change of the Air Force Instruction (AFI).
 2                                                                                            AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013



        1.      Mission. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Responsibilities and Authorities. ...........................................................................                  2
        3.      Chaplain Corps Personnel. .....................................................................................                2
        4.      Religious Services and Education. .........................................................................                   10
        5.      Spiritual Care. ........................................................................................................      11
        6.      Advising Leadership. .............................................................................................            12
        7.      Reporting Death, Hospitalization and Illness of Chaplain Corps Personnel. .........                                           12
        8.      Air Force Chaplain Corps Activity Reporting System (AFCCARS). ...................                                             13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                14


1. Mission. The Air Force Chaplain Corps provides spiritual care and ensures all Airmen and
their families have opportunities to exercise their constitutional right to the free exercise of
religion.
     1.1. Core Capabilities.
        1.1.1. Spiritual Care. Meeting the diverse spiritual needs of Airmen and their families.
        1.1.2. Advise Leadership. Inform Air Force leaders on matters related to religious,
        spiritual, ethical, moral and morale concerns and advocate for the religious and spiritual
        needs of Airmen and their families.
2. Responsibilities and Authorities. This directive establishes the following responsibilities
and authorities.
     2.1. Chief of Chaplains. Principal advisor for religious matters to the Secretary of the Air
     Force (SECAF) and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) and is responsible for recruiting,
     organizing, developing and equipping Chaplain Corps personnel. Chief of Chaplains is
     responsible to the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
        2.1.1. Develops tactical doctrine and guidance providing oversight of Air Force Chaplain
        Corps echelons to meet the religious and spiritual needs of Air Force members, their
        families and other authorized personnel.
        2.1.2. Serves on the Armed Forces Chaplains Board (AFCB) in accordance with DoDI
        5120.08, Armed Forces Chaplains Board.
3. Chaplain Corps Personnel.
     3.1. Advisory Bodies.
        3.1.1. The HQ USAF/HC staff provides support to the Chief of Chaplains and advises on
        issues impacting the Air Force.
        3.1.2. The Chaplain Corps Council is the senior advisory body to the Chief of Chaplains
        on policies and programs affecting the Air Force and makes recommendations for action.
AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     3


     Members of the Council include MAJCOM senior Religious Support Teams (RST) and
     others determined by AF/HC.
     3.1.3. The Chaplain Corps Readiness Working Group (RWG) is a consultative body in
     support of the Chief of Chaplains and ensures effective communication and coordination
     on readiness issues throughout the Air Force. (See AFI 52-104, Chaplain Corps
     Readiness for composition).
     3.1.4. The Chaplain Development Team (DT) is the primary advisory group to the Chief
     of Chaplains on all chaplain force development and utilization issues. (See AFI 52-
     102V1, Chaplain Professional Development for composition). The Deputy Chief of
     Chaplains chairs the Chaplain DT.
     3.1.5. The Chaplain Assistant DT is the primary advisory group to the Chief of
     Chaplains on all chaplain assistant force development and utilization issues. (See AFI
     52-102V2, Chaplain Assistant Professional Development for composition). The
     Chaplain Assistant Career Field Manager chairs the Chaplain Assistant DT.
  3.2. Positions and Responsibilities.
     3.2.1. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU chaplains and functional managers are the principal
     advisors for religious matters to their respective leadership. In consultation with their
     staffs, they implement Chaplain Corps guidance and provide functional oversight of
     Chaplain Corps personnel within their area of responsibility. They also provide advice to
     the Chief of Chaplains and Chaplain Assistant Career Field Manager.
     3.2.2. Wing/installation/group chaplains and Superintendents/NCOICs, Chapel
     Operations are the principal advisors for religious matters to their respective leadership,
     and function as the Senior Religious Support Team (RST). They lead their teams to
     accomplish the Chaplain Corps mission through engaging RSTs in squadron-level units,
     providing opportunities for the free exercise of religion, and providing spiritual care to
     Airmen and their families. (T-2) They implement Chaplain Corps guidance and provide
     oversight of Chaplain Corps personnel within their area of responsibility. They provide
     advice to the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU/HC staff.
     3.2.3. Chaplains. IAW Title 10, United States Code, Section 8067 (h), chaplains provide
     religious worship and rites, religious accommodation, pastoral care, unit engagement,
     counseling and spiritual care. Chaplains will not perform duties incompatible with their
     endorsing organizations, professional role and noncombatant status. (T-0) Chaplains will
     not serve in any military capacity other than those specific duties contained in the 52XX
     Specialty Description found in the Air Force Officer Classification Directory. (T-1)
     3.2.4. Chaplain Assistants. As non-clergy members of the Chaplain Corps, chaplain
     assistants partner with chaplains to form Religious Support Teams. They provide
     religious program management, advice to leadership, crisis intervention, and unit
     engagement. . Chaplain assistants are trained to provide spiritual care in a religiously
     pluralistic environment. The chaplain assistant specialty description is specified in the
     Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory. The chaplain assistant is vital to the
     Chaplain Corps mission and will not serve in long-term additional Ready Program duties
     in accordance with the AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program
     Planning and Operations and AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty. Chaplain assistants
4                                                               AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013


       coordinate and facilitate force protection for chaplains. Chaplain assistants will qualify
       on the M9 and draw it as their primary weapon.
       3.2.5. Religious Support Team (RST). The RST is comprised of one Air Force Chaplain
       and one Chaplain Assistant at home and deployed locations. An RST will be assigned
       and actively engaged in each squadron and provide warrior care that is supportive of all
       Airmen. (T-2) The RST provides or provides for religious support (to include rites,
       religious observances, religious education, unit engagement, and spiritual care). RSTs
       also provide advice to leadership (to include advice concerning spiritual, ethical, moral,
       morale and religious accommodation matters affecting personnel, as well as religious
       issues in the operational area).
    3.3. Terms of address or salutation for chaplains.
       3.3.1. Use title and rank (Chaplain, Captain Brown) in official correspondence. (T-3)
       3.3.2. Address chaplains as “chaplain” regardless of rank.
       3.3.3. Chaplains may also be addressed by traditional or denominational titles (i.e. Father
       White, Rabbi Green, etc.).
    3.4. Standardized duty titles for chaplains. Standardization of duty titles assists Chaplain
    Corps officer career progression and clearly defines duty distinctions. The following duty
    titles are the only authorized titles for chaplains. Duty titles other than those listed in this
    AFI are not authorized. (NOTE: Grade references below serve as a guide for granting duty
    titles to individuals. The establishing of required and authorized grades on unit manpower
    documents shall follow appropriate 38-series manpower guidance.)
       3.4.1. Headquarters Air Force (HQ USAF).
           3.4.1.1. Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC). A chaplain, in the grade of major general,
           responsible to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force
           for all USAF Chaplain Corps personnel, operations and resources.
           3.4.1.2. Deputy Chief of Chaplains. A chaplain, in the rank of brigadier general,
           assigned as deputy to the Chief of Chaplains.
           3.4.1.3. Chief, Personnel, Budget and Readiness (AF/HCP). A chaplain, in the rank
           of colonel, responsible to the Chief of Chaplains. Serves as the 52R Career Field
           Manager (CFM) (see HAF Mission Directive 1-34, Chief of Chaplains for roles and
           responsibilities).
           3.4.1.4. Deputy Chief, Personnel, Budget and Readiness. A civilian or military
           member in the rank of lieutenant colonel, responsible to the Chief, Personnel,
           Readiness and Budget who performs assigned functions.
           3.4.1.5. Chief, Plans and Programs (AF/HCX). A chaplain, in the rank of colonel,
           responsible to the Chief of Chaplains (see HAF Mission Directive 1-34, Chief of
           Chaplains for roles and responsibilities).
           3.4.1.6. Deputy Chief, Plans and Programs. A chaplain in the rank of lieutenant
           colonel, responsible to the Chief, Plans and Programs who performs assigned
           functions.
AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    5


        3.4.1.7. Director, Chaplain Corps Resource Development Center (AF/HCXR). A
        chaplain, in the rank of lieutenant colonel, responsible to the Chief, Plans and
        Programs who performs project development, resourcing and other assigned
        functions.
        3.4.1.8. Staff Chaplain. A chaplain, responsible to a division chief/director, who
        performs assigned functions.
        3.4.1.9. Executive Officer (AF/HC). An officer responsible for executive and
        administrative support to the Chief and Deputy Chief of Chaplains.
        3.4.1.10. Mobilization Assistant to the Chief of Chaplains. A chaplain, in the rank of
        brigadier general, responsible to the Chief of Chaplains for training, readiness and
        resourcing the Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.
        3.4.1.11. Mobilization Assistant to the Deputy Chief of Chaplains. A chaplain, in the
        rank of colonel, responsible to the Deputy Chief of Chaplains for training, readiness
        and resourcing the Air Force Reserve Chaplain Corps.
     3.4.2. MAJCOM.
        3.4.2.1. Command Chaplain. A chaplain, in the rank of colonel, responsible to the
        MAJCOM commander for Chaplain Corps personnel, operations and resources.
        3.4.2.2. Deputy Command Chaplain. A chaplain, in the rank of colonel or lieutenant
        colonel, responsible to the Command Chaplain who performs assigned functions.
        3.4.2.3. Staff Chaplain. A chaplain, responsible to the Command Chaplain, who
        performs assigned functions.
     3.4.3. Field Operating Agency (FOA).
        3.4.3.1. Chief, Chaplain Force Development Branch, Air Force Personnel Center. A
        chaplain, in the rank of colonel, responsible to the division chief of Directorate of
        Personnel Assignments for Chaplain Corps Force Development. Serves under the
        functional oversight of Chief, Personnel, Budget and Readiness. (T-2)
        3.4.3.2. Chief, Air Force Chaplain Accessions, Air Force Recruiting Service. A
        civilian responsible for chaplain accessions and recruiting. Responsible to the
        Division Chief of Recruiting Operations. Serves under the functional oversight of
        Chief, Personnel, Budget and Readiness. (T-2)
        3.4.3.3. Deputy Chief, Air Force Chaplain Accessions, Air Force Recruiting Service.
        A chaplain, in the rank of lieutenant colonel, major or major-select responsible to the
        Chief, Air Force Chaplain Accessions, who supervises at least one active duty
        chaplain. (T-2)
        3.4.3.4. Senior Agency Staff Chaplain, Headquarters Air Force Intelligence,
        Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (ISRA). A chaplain, in the rank of colonel,
        responsible to the AF ISRA commander for Chaplain Corps personnel, operations and
        resources. (T-2)
        3.4.3.5. Staff Chaplain. A chaplain, responsible to the FOA chaplain, who performs
        assigned functions. (T-2)
6                                                         AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013


    3.4.4. Direct Reporting Unit (DRU).
       3.4.4.1. Air Force District of Washington (AFDW)
           3.4.4.1.1. Air Force District of Washington Chaplain. A chaplain, in the rank of
           colonel, responsible to the Commander, Air Force District of Washington for
           Chaplain Corps personnel, operations and resources. (T-2)
           3.4.4.1.2. Senior Chaplain, Arlington National Cemetery. A chaplain, in the rank
           of colonel, responsible to the 11th Operations Group Commander for Chaplain
           Corps personnel, operations and resources. (T-2)
           3.4.4.1.3. Senior Chaplain, Air Force Mortuary Affairs Operations (AFMAO). A
           chaplain, in the rank of major, responsible to the Commander, AFMAO for
           Chaplain Corps personnel, operations and resources. (T-2)
           3.4.4.1.4. Chaplain. A chaplain responsible to the DRU chaplain, who performs
           assigned functions. (T-2)
       3.4.4.2. United States Air Force Academy (USAFA).
           3.4.4.2.1. United States Air Force Academy Chaplain. A chaplain, in the rank of
           colonel, responsible to the Superintendent, United States Air Force Academy, for
           Chaplain Corps personnel, operations and resources. (T-2)
           3.4.4.2.2. Wing Chaplain. A chaplain, in the rank of lieutenant colonel,
           responsible to the USAFA Chaplain for all Chaplain Corps personnel, operations
           and resources assigned to the USAFA Cadet Wing (USAFA/HCX). (T-2)
           3.4.4.2.3. Deputy Wing Chaplain. A chaplain, in the rank of lieutenant colonel,
           major or major-select responsible to the wing chaplain, who supervises at least
           one active duty chaplain. (T-2)
           3.4.4.2.4. Branch Chief. A chaplain, in the rank of lieutenant colonel, major or
           major-select responsible to the wing chaplain for a branch at the USAFA Cadet
           Wing. Must supervise at least one active duty chaplain. (T-2)
           3.4.4.2.5. Chaplain. A chaplain responsible to the branch chief or deputy wing
           chaplain for Chaplain Corps operations who performs assigned functions. (T-2)
       3.4.4.3. Chaplain Corps College.
           3.4.4.3.1. Commandant, Chaplain Corps College. A chaplain, in the rank of
           colonel, responsible for implementing Chaplain Corps education and training
           programs. Responsible to the Ira C. Eaker Center Commander, Maxwell AFB,
           AL. Serves under functional oversight of Chief, Personnel, Readiness and
           Budget. (T-2)
           3.4.4.3.2. Deputy Commandant, Chaplain Corps College. A chaplain, in the rank
           of colonel or lieutenant colonel, responsible to the Commandant, Chaplain Corps
           College who performs assigned functions. (T-2)
           3.4.4.3.3. Staff Chaplain. A chaplain, responsible to the Commandant, Chaplain
           Corps College who performs assigned functions. (T-2)
AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                          7


     3.4.5. Joint Base.
         3.4.5.1. Joint Base Senior Chaplain. A chaplain responsible for Chaplain Corps
         personnel, operations and resources at joint base installations. This duty title is based
         upon the Joint Base Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or Memorandum of
         Agreement (MOA). Responsible to Joint Base Commander or delegate. (T-2)
         3.4.5.2. Deputy Joint Base Chaplain. A chaplain, in the rank of lieutenant colonel,
         major or major-select who supervises at least one active duty chaplain and is assigned
         as deputy to the wing, installation or group chaplain. (T-2)
         3.4.5.3. Branch Chief. A chaplain, in the rank of lieutenant colonel, major or major-
         select responsible to the Joint Base Senior Chaplain for operations at Joint Base San
         Antonio (Lackland AFB), who supervises at least one active duty chaplain. (T-2)
         3.4.5.4. Chaplain. A chaplain responsible to the Joint Base Senior Chaplain or
         delegate who performs assigned functions. (T-2)
     3.4.6. Wing.
         3.4.6.1. Wing Chaplain. A chaplain responsible for all Chaplain Corps personnel,
         operations and resources supporting the wing mission. Responsible to the Wing
         Commander or delegate. (T-2)
         3.4.6.2. Deputy Wing Chaplain. A chaplain, in the rank of lieutenant colonel, major
         or major-select responsible to the wing chaplain, who supervises at least one active
         duty chaplain or equivalent. (T-2)
         3.4.6.3. Branch Chief. A chaplain in the rank of lieutenant colonel, major or major-
         select who is responsible to an O-6 wing chaplain for operations at a branch chapel or
         program. Must supervise at least one active duty chaplain. (T-2)
         3.4.6.4. Chaplain. A chaplain responsible to the Wing Chaplain or delegate who
         performs assigned functions. (T-2)
     3.4.7. Units below wing-level.
         3.4.7.1. Group Chaplain. A chaplain, below wing-level, responsible to the unit
         commander for all Chaplain Corps personnel, operations and resources supporting the
         installation mission. (T-2)
         3.4.7.2. Chaplain. A chaplain responsible to the Group Chaplain who performs
         assigned functions. (T-2)
  3.5. Standardized duty titles for chaplain assistants. Standardization of duty titles assists
  Chaplain Corps enlisted career progression and clearly defines duty distinctions. The
  following duty titles are the only official, authorized titles for chaplain assistants. Duty titles
  other than those listed in this AFI are not authorized. (NOTE: Grade references below serve
  as a guide for granting duty titles to individuals. The establishing of required and authorized
  grades on unit manpower documents shall follow appropriate 38-series manpower guidance.)
8                                                             AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013


       3.5.1. Headquarters Air Force (HQ USAF).
           3.5.1.1. Chaplain Assistant Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). A chaplain
           assistant, in the rank of Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt), responsible to the Chief of
           Chaplains for organizing and managing the chaplain assistant career field.
           3.5.1.2. Manager, (Insert Function). A S/NCO who is a program, project, and policy
           manager at the Air Staff level. He/she may or may not supervise others and may be
           the enlisted leader of the branch, division, or directorate.
       3.5.2. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU.
           3.5.2.1. Chaplain Assistant MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Functional Manager (MFM). A
           chaplain assistant in the rank of Chief Master Sergeant, Senior Master Sergeant or
           Master Sergeant responsible for organizing and managing the chaplain assistant
           career field within a MAJCOM/FOA/DRU (e.g., ACC Chaplain Assistant Functional
           Manager; USAFA Chaplain Assistant Functional Manager). (T-2)
           3.5.2.2. Manager, (Insert Function). A S/NCO who is a program, project, and policy
           manager at the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU levels. He/she may or may not supervise
           others and may be the enlisted leader of the branch, division, or directorate. (T-2)
           3.5.2.3. Chief, Chaplain Corps College. A chaplain assistant, in the rank of Chief
           Master Sergeant, who directs the implementation of technical training courses to meet
           Specialty Training Standard (STS) requirements, works with ECPD/MSOT on
           technical training matters, and provides oversight to the Career Development Course
           (CDC) Writer and the Manager, Chaplain Corps College Education Department to
           ensure effective education and training programs that are consistent with STS
           requirements. (T-2)
       3.5.3. Wing-level and below.
           3.5.3.1. Superintendent or NCOIC, Chapel Operations. A SNCO (Superintendent) or
           NCO (NCOIC) in charge of wing-level chapel operations. (T-2)
           3.5.3.2. NCOIC, (Insert Function). A NCO subordinate to the Superintendent or
           NCOIC, Chapel Operations who performs an assigned function within the chapel
           program (e.g., NCOIC, Resource Management). (T-2)
           3.5.3.3. Chaplain Assistant. A chaplain assistant in the rank of Senior Airman or
           below. (T-2)
    3.6. Special Duty Positions. A chaplain assistant serving in unique duty positions such as
    Technical Training Instructor or Career Development Course (CDC) Writer will use duty
    titles commonly identified for those positions.
    3.7. Resource Personnel. The wing chaplain (or equivalent) authorizes and directs qualified
    resource personnel to provide for religious program requirements that cannot be provided by
    assigned Chaplain Corps personnel.
       3.7.1. Certifying Resource Personnel. The wing chaplain (or equivalent) will annually
       validate all resource personnel requirements and performance agreements, ensure
       required letters of certification from a recognized religious organization are on file and
       brief these personnel on requirements, restrictions, prohibitions, and performance
AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     9


     expectations. (T-1) A statement of work (SOW) for contractors fulfills the requirement
     for a performance agreement. The wing chaplain and resource personnel will sign the
     performance agreement(s). (T-2) Maintain documentation in official files. (T-2)
     3.7.2. Civilian Clergy. Personnel who serve in Civil Service positions or as contractors.
     These individuals are not chaplains and will not use the duty title of “chaplain”. (T-2)
     They must meet the same educational requirements outlined in AFI 36-2005,
     Appointment in Commisioned Grades and Designation and Assignment in Professional
     Categories - Reserve of the Air Force and United States Air Force and provide a valid
     DD Form 2088, Statement of Ecclesiastical Endorsement from a recognized religious
     organization. (T-0)
     3.7.3. Distinctive Religious Group Leaders (DRGLs)/Non-chaplain Lay Leaders.
     Personnel (e.g., Buddhist Lay Leader, Church of Christ Lay Leader, Muslim Lay Leader)
     must provide written validation of their credentials on official letterhead (original; no
     photocopies) by a recognized religious organization, which will serve as the credential
     recognized by the Armed Forces Chaplains Board (AFCB). (T-0) Documentation must be
     maintained in official files. (T-2)
     3.7.4. Civil Air Patrol (CAP) Chaplains. In contingencies and local emergencies, or in
     exceptional cases where active duty and ARC chaplains are unavailable, wing chaplains
     (or equivalents) are authorized to use fully qualified volunteer CAP chaplains to provide
     chaplain ministries as needed. (T-1) Serving as Air Force Auxiliary chaplains, CAP
     chaplains are covered by Title 10, Subtitle D, Part III, Chapter 909, Section 9442,
     Federal Tort Claims Act and Federal Employee Compensation Act. (See AFI 10-2701,
     Organization and Funtion of the Civil Air Patrol)
     3.7.5. Special Resource Personnel. Qualified personnel who provide program or support
     functions for mission-specific religious requirements (e.g., Religious Education Director
     or Parish Coordinator).
     3.7.6. Volunteers. Anyone serving Chaplain Corps programs who teaches or cares for
     youth (18 years and under) on a reoccurring basis must obtain an Installation Records
     Check (IRC) to meet the requirements in DoDI 1402.5, Criminal History Background
     Checks on Individuals in Child Care Services. (T-0) Upon favorable completion of the
     IRC, volunteers may provide services. While awaiting IRC completion, volunteers may
     provide services ONLY when they are always within line-of-sight supervision of an
     individual with a favorable completed IRC.
  3.8. Chapel Organizations. Wing chaplains (or equivalents), in coordination with their staffs
  and advisory groups, will provide oversight to organizations enhancing the Chaplain Corps
  mission. (T-2) These organizations are a part of the Chaplain Corps program. They are not
  private organizations and do not require charters (e.g., Protestant Women of the Chapel,
  Catholic Youth of the Chapel).
  3.9. Lay Organizations. Chaplains may support faith group-specific lay organizations with
  the concurrence of the wing/installation chaplain (or equivalent). Lay organizations have a
  primarily religious focus but are not Chaplain Corps programs. Their activities are consistent
  with the Chaplain Corps mission of providing spiritual care and opportunities for the free
  exercise of religion (e.g., Officers' Christian Fellowship (OCF), Mothers of Preschoolers
 10                                                            AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013


   (MOPS), The Navigators, The Knights of Columbus, Campus Crusade for Christ and
   Worldwide Marriage Encounter).
       3.9.1. Lay Organization Oversight. The wing chaplain has oversight of all religious
       activities at a wing/installation. Lay organizations are required to sign a Memorandum of
       Agreement (MoA) annually with the wing chaplain (or equivalent). The MoA, at
       minimum, must outline the roles, responsibilities (to include funding) and relationships
       between the wing and the lay organization. The MoA must also delineate the appropriate
       professional behaviors required for the lay organization to operate at a wing/installation.
       (T-2)
       3.9.2. Lay Organizations Resourcing.           Lay organizations are financially and
       operationally self–sustaining, primarily through dues, contributions, service charges, fees,
       or special assessment of members. Their funds are independent of Chapel Tithes and
       Offerings funds (CTOF). Lay organizations will not be included in the comprehensive
       Chapel Program Plan Appropriated or CTOF budget. They may apply for and receive
       occasional CTOF support.
4. Religious Services and Education. On behalf of the commander, the
wing/installation/senior chaplain is responsible for religious rites, services and education
conducted on Air Force bases, joint bases, installations, sites and other locations governed by a
MoU/MoA.
   4.1. Religious Accommodation. Chaplain Corps personnel advise and assist commanders
   and supervisors in responding to and facilitating religious accommodation requests. In
   accordance with DoDI 1300.17, Accommodation of Religious Practices Within the Military
   Services, section 4, “it is DoD policy that requests for accommodation of religious practices
   should be approved by commanders when accommodation will not have an adverse impact
   on mission accomplishment, military readiness, unit cohesion, standards, or discipline.” (T-
   0)
   4.2. Religious Services.
       4.2.1. Religious Holy Days. To facilitate the free exercise of religion of military
       personnel, the Chaplain Corps advises leadership regarding Holy Day observances in
       order to minimize scheduling conflicts. The Chaplain Corps provides or provides for
       accommodation of these observances.
       4.2.2. Worship. The senior RST with their team plan, provide, and advertise worship
       opportunities in response to the religious needs of assigned Airmen and their families,
       with consideration of staff capabilities and available resources. (T-1)
           4.2.2.1. Leading Worship. Chaplains conduct worship services consistent with the
           tenets of their respective endorsing religious organization.
           4.2.2.2. Protestant Worship. When there is only one worship service, led by a
           Protestant Chaplain it may be advertised as “Protestant Worship”. When there is a
           need to offer multiple Protestant services in various styles, they will be advertised
           using the terms: liturgical, traditional, contemporary, gospel, and community. (T-3)
           4.2.2.3. Additional Worship. When the wing chaplain (or equivalent) validates and
           documents a need for worship opportunities or other religious support the assigned
AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      11


          chaplains cannot provide, he/she may coordinate with civilian religious leaders in the
          area to provide for the religious needs of Airmen and their families. (See 3.7.5.) (T-
          3)
4.3. Religious Education Resources.
       4.3.1. Religious Education Curricula. Wing chaplains (or equivalents), in consultation
       with their staffs, ensure curricula meet the needs of religious communities and does not
       denigrate any religious faith group. (T-3)
       4.3.2. Religious Literature. Wing chaplains (or equivalents), in consultation with their
       staffs, review the contents and display of religious literature and ensure these do not
       denigrate any religious group. (T-2)
5. Spiritual Care.
   5.1. Privileged Communication. Privileged communication is protected communication
   IAW Military Rule of Evidence 503. Under this rule, “a person has a privilege to refuse to
   disclose and to prevent another from disclosing a confidential communication by the person
   to a clergyman or to a clergyman’s assistant, if such communication is made either as a
   formal act of religion or as a matter of conscience.”
       5.1.1. Written Consent. Under no circumstances may a chaplain or chaplain assistant
       disclose privileged communication revealed in the practice of his/her official capacity
       without the individual’s informed, written consent. (T-0) The individual’s written
       consent must be signed, dated and witnessed by a disinterested third party. The written
       consent must be maintained by the Chaplain Corps member in his or her personal files.
       A release from privileged communication is inapplicable in cases where a chaplain is
       bound by the requirements of sacramental confession. (T-0)
       5.1.2. Judicial Proceedings. The Manual for Courts-Martial further affirms the absolute
       character of such privileged communication within the context of judicial proceedings
       and investigations for chaplains and chaplain assistants.
       5.1.3. Ownership. The privilege against disclosure belongs to the individual and extends
       beyond the death of the individual.
       5.1.4. Protected Information. Chaplains’ notes from privileged communication are to be
       clearly marked “Confidential: Privileged Communication” and distinguished in the
       chaplain’s personal files. (T-0) Protected information will be properly secured and
       safeguarded from inadvertent disclosure and password-protected if stored electronically.
       5.1.5. Official and Private File Systems. Files containing privileged communication are
       the personal files of the individual chaplain or chaplain assistant. These files are not to
       be maintained in any system of records that may be subject to the Freedom of
       Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552. (T-0) All privileged communication must be secured
       and safeguarded by chaplains and chaplain assistants, who will personally dispose of
       them and ensure their destruction through a secure means (e.g., shredder). In the case of
       a death of a Chaplain Corps member, a chaplain will be appointed to review the
       deceased’s personal files and dispose of any files containing privileged communication.
       5.1.6. Chapel Staff and Privileged Communication. Under Military Rule of Evidence
       503, chaplains and chaplain assistants may receive privileged communication.
 12                                                            AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013


       Additionally, in the event secretaries, contractors or volunteers inadvertently or
       unintentionally receive or overhear intended privileged communication, they must protect
       such information.
       5.1.7. Privileged Communication between Chaplain Corps Personnel. Communication
       between supervisors and subordinates is not privileged communication. Supervisors
       should avoid counseling subordinates and their family members due to a conflict of
       interest. Chaplain Corps staff members are encouraged to exercise this privilege with a
       chaplain outside their chain of command when such communication is needed.
       5.1.8. Violation of Privileged Communication.             Actions inconsistent with the
       policies/standards outlined above will constitute a failure to meet Air Force standards and
       may result in administrative or Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) action. Wing
       chaplains (or equivalents) must consult with the local Staff Judge Advocate should they
       become aware of such actions.
       5.1.9. Incompatible Taskings. Commanders will not task chaplains or chaplain assistants
       to serve in a capacity in which they may be called upon to reveal privileged
       communication. (T-0)
   5.2. Death Notifications. Chaplains serve on commander-led death notification teams. They
   provide pastoral care and support for next-of-kin and death notification team members.
   Chaplains will not be assigned the duty of Casualty Notification Officer. (T-3)
   5.3. Airmen Ministry Centers. Chaplain Corps may sponsor facilities dedicated to meeting
   the religious, spiritual and pastoral care needs of Airmen. (See AFI 65-601V1, Budget
   Guidance and Procedures).
6. Advising Leadership. Chaplain Corps personnel at all echelons advise leadership in all
matters pertaining to religion and the accommodation of practices arising from religious faith,
ethical decision-making and moral reasoning. Additionally, Chaplain Corps personnel serve as
principal advisors to leadership regarding the spiritual pillar of Comprehensive Airman Fitness
(CAF). Chaplain Corps personnel provide the following:
   6.1. Advice regarding the potential mission impact of religion at the strategic, operational
   and tactical level.
   6.2. Updates on the religious, ethical, and moral health of the unit and opportunities for
   religious expression.
   6.3. Advice regarding public prayer, memorials, prayer at official functions and meetings,
   visits by ecclesiastical endorsing agencies and relations with civilian religious leaders and
   their communities.
7. Reporting Death, Hospitalization and Illness of Chaplain Corps Personnel. Wing and
MAJCOM-level senior RSTs report to the next functional level the death, hospitalization or
serious illness of Chaplain Corps personnel and are encouraged to report this same information
regarding their sponsored family members. (T-3) Reports are made within 24 hours using AF
Form 4376.
AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                       13


8. Air Force Chaplain Corps Activity Reporting System (AFCCARS).
   8.1. AFCCARS translates Chaplain Corps functional activities and strategic priorities into
   weighable and objective data. It tracks warrior care and core activities to assist in tactical,
   operational, and strategic trend analysis, risk assessment, and execution planning.
   8.2. All wing/installation-level active duty chaplains, chaplain assistants and auxiliary clergy
   assigned to Air Force reporting organizations will use AFCCARS on a daily basis to record
   their participation in Chaplain Corps functional activities, to include unit engagement,
   pastoral and crisis intervention counseling, and religious and spiritual accommodation. (T-1)
      8.2.1. The recording of functional activities is an individual responsibility and cannot be
      delegated or reassigned to anyone other than the member completing or sponsoring the
      activity.
   8.3. AFCCARS data aggregates will be generated and routed to HQ USAF/HC as directed
   by HQ USAF/HCXR. (T-1)




                                             HOWARD D. STENDAHL
                                             Chaplain, Major General, USAF
                                             Chief of Chaplains
 14                                                            AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Sections 8067(h)
Title 10, United States Code, Subtitle D, Part III, Chapter 909, Section 9442
Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552
Military Rules of Evidence 503
DoDD 1304.19, Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments, 11 June 2004
DoDI 1300.17, Accommodation of Religious Practices Within the Military Services,
10 February 2009
DoDI 1304.28, Guidance for the Appointment of Chaplains in the Military, 11 June 2004
DoDI 1402.5, Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals in Child Care Services, 19
January, 1993
DoDI 5120.08, Armed Forces Chaplains Board, 20 August 2007
HAF Mission Directive 1-34, Chaplain Corps, 30 May 2013
Air Force Officer Classification Directory
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Corps, XX XXXXX 2013
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 January
2007
AFI 10-2701, Organization and Function of the Civil Air Patrol, 29 July 2006
AFI 36-2005, Appointment in Commissioned Grades and Designation and Assignment in
Professional Categories – Reserve of the Air Force and United States Air Force, 19 May 2003
AFI 52-102V1, Chaplain Professional Development, 19 August 2013
AFI 52-102V2, Chaplain Assistant Professional Development, 1 August 2012
AFI 52-104, Chaplain Corps Readiness, 30 August 2012
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
DD Form 2088, Statement of Ecclesiastical Endorsement, October 2011
AF Form 4376, Death, Hospitalization, and Serious Illness Notification Worksheet, 27
Novemeber 2007
AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                15


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF ISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFCB—Armed Forces Chaplains Board
AFCCARS—Air Force Chaplain Corps Activity Reporting System
AFCCC—Air Force Chaplain Corps College
AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMAO—Air Force Mortuary Affairs Operations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAF—Comprehensive Airman Fitness
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CDC—Career Development Course
CFM—Career Field Manager
CTOF—Chapel Tithes and Offering Fund
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DPA—Directorate of Personnel Assignments
DRGL—Distinctive Religious Group Leaders
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DT—Development Team
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IRC—Installation Records Check
MAJCOM—Major Command
MoA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOPS—Mothers of Preschoolers
MoU—Memorandum of Understanding
MRE—Military Rules of Evidence
OCF—Officers’ Christian Fellowship
 16                                                          AFI52-101 5 DECEMBER 2013


PWOC—Protestant Women of the Chapel
PYOC—Protestant Youth of the Chapel
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RST—Religious Support Team
RWG—Readiness Working Group
SOW—Statement of Work
STS—Specialty Training Standard
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USD P&R—Office of the Under Secretary of Defense, Personnel and Readiness

Terms
Religious Accommodation— Chaplain Corps personnel advise and assist commanders and
supervisors in facilitating religious accommodation requests. In accordance with DODI 1300.17,
Accommodation of Religious Practices Within the Military Services, section 4, “it is DoD policy
that requests for accommodation of religious practices should be approved by commanders when
accommodation will not have an adverse impact on mission accomplishment, military readiness,
unit cohesion, standards, or discipline.”
