BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-108
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            9 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                          Law

                                                  THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL’S
                                               CORPS STRUCTURE, DEPLOYMENT, AND
                                                           OPERATIONAL SUPPORT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/JAO                                                               Certified by: AF/JA
                                                                   (Maj Gen Jeffrey Rockwell)
Supersedes:   AFI 51-108, 9 July 2013                                                Pages: 28


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-1, The Judge Advocate
General’s Department. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) offers practical counsel to Judge
Advocate (JA) personnel who support Air Force operations worldwide. This AFI also provides
guidance on the meaning of legal readiness, readiness preparation, and the management of legal
readiness through the Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) UTC Reporting Tool (ART).
This AFI complements the guidance provided in other 51-series AFIs. This AFI applies to all
Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air Force Reserve (AFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) legal
personnel.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This publication may be supplemented at
any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for
coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                                           AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in
this publication are Title 10 United States Code (USC), Sections 8013 and 8037. Forms affected
by the PA have an appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System Notices, F051
AFJA C, Judge Advocate Personnel Records, and F036 AF PC Q, Personnel Data System,
applies and is available at: http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the incorporation of the tiering requirements and waiver authorities required by AFI 33-
360. Chapter 5 on Capturing Lessons has been substantially changed.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                          4
       1.1.    Scope and Purpose. ................................................................................................     4

Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                   5
       2.1.    The Office of The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) The Judge Advocate
               General or his designee, holds these responsibilities and functions: .....................                              5
       2.2.    Professional Development Directorate (AF/JAX) .................................................                         5
       2.3.    AF/JA FAM ...........................................................................................................   5
       2.4.    Civilian Career Development, Plans, and Programs Division (AF/JAZ) ..............                                       6
       2.5.    Operations and International Law Division (AF/JAO) ..........................................                           6
       2.6.    Senior Paralegal Manager to The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) .....................                                     7
       2.7.    Air Force Legal Operations Agency (AFLOA) shall: ...........................................                            7
       2.8.    Major Command (MAJCOM)/Forward Operating Agency (FOA)/Direct
               Reporting Unit (DRU) Staff Judge Advocates (SJAs) will: ..................................                              8
       2.9.    MAJCOM/FOA/DRU FAMs will: ........................................................................                      9
       2.10.   Staff Judge Advocates (includes senior member of each JAGC activity) will: .....                                        9
       2.11.   Readiness Manager. ...............................................................................................      10
       2.12.   Component Staff Judge Advocates Air Force Forces (AFFOR SJA). ...................                                       10
       2.13.   The USAF Expeditionary Center Staff Judge Advocate (EC SJA). ......................                                     10
       2.14.   Individual JAGs and paralegals. ............................................................................            10

Chapter 3—MISSION READINESS                                                                                                            11
       3.1.    Mission Readiness. ................................................................................................     11
       3.2.    Mission Requirements. ..........................................................................................        11

Chapter 4—POSTURING AND SOURCING JAGC MEMBERS FOR DEPLOYMENT                                                                           14
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                                                                 3


     4.1.   General Management Considerations. ...................................................................                       14
     4.2.   Consistent with 10 USC §§ 806 and 8037, TJAG, acting through AF/JAX, is the
            sourcing and adjudication authority for the deployment of judge advocates and
            paralegals. ..............................................................................................................   14
     4.3.   Unit Type Code (UTC) Management. ...................................................................                         14
     4.4.   Deployment Posture. ..............................................................................................           16
     4.5.   Selection for Deployment. .....................................................................................              18

Chapter 5—CAPTURING LESSONS                                                                                                              19
     5.1.   Lessons Learned and After Action Reports. ..........................................................                         19
     5.2.   JAGC AAR Database. ...........................................................................................               19
     5.3.   JA Personnel AAR Responsibilities. .....................................................................                     19
     5.4.   Reporting Process. .................................................................................................         20

Chapter 6—AIR RESERVE COMPONENT OPERATIONAL READINESS                                                                                    21
     6.1.   ARC Integration into Operational Readiness. ........................................................                         21

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           23
 4                                                                 AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014



                                             Chapter 1

                                  GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. Scope and Purpose. This instruction provides guidance to JA personnel who support Air
Force operations worldwide by establishing the meaning of legal readiness, readiness
preparation, and the management of legal readiness through ART.
     1.1.1. Air Force Legal Readiness: All military missions require compliance with a wide
     variety of laws, rules and regulations. In a society built on the rule of law, a commander’s
     ability to lead, to maintain order, and to sustain the confidence of the public requires a solid
     legal foundation. Accordingly, commanders depend on legal personnel for timely and
     accurate legal guidance throughout the full spectrum of conflict. Judge Advocates (JAGs)
     provide this critical support and therefore, one key to legal readiness is preparing members
     of the Judge Advocate General’s Corps (JAGC) to fulfill this task before the crisis arises.
     The principal element of Air Force Legal Readiness is being prepared to face those
     challenges that arise during air missions. An overview of this role is set out in Air Force
     Doctrine Document (AFDD) 1-04, Legal Support to Military Operations.
     1.1.2. Mission Readiness. Mission readiness is the degree to which JAGC personnel are
     ready to support operational requirements. Mission-ready JAGC personnel are prepared to
     deal with any aspect of the military legal environment at home station or in an expeditionary
     capacity, both in their personal and mission capacities. Mission readiness is the product of
     the actions taken to organize, train, and equip JAGC personnel and is achieved through
     advance preparation, legal and professional military education, Air Force specialty training,
     and a sufficient level of resources and manpower.
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                         5


                                           Chapter 2

                             ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. The Office of The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) The Judge Advocate General or
his designee, holds these responsibilities and functions:
   2.1.1. Serves as legal advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff, and all
   officers and agencies of the Department of the Air Force.
   2.1.2. Directs JAGC personnel in the performance of their duties.
   2.1.3. Organizes, trains, and equips expeditionary and home station legal support capabilities
   to satisfy Air Force operational requirements.
   2.1.4. Oversees the mission readiness of personnel and equipment within JAGC.
   2.1.5. Establishes and oversees programs to enhance and assess the legal readiness of the
   Total Force.
   2.1.6. Ensures effective force management by approving Unit Type Code (UTC)
   management practices that enhance the operational readiness and organizational
   effectiveness of JAGC activities.
   2.1.7. Ensures all JAGC activities report their readiness status of assigned UTCs.
2.2. Professional Development Directorate (AF/JAX)
   2.2.1. Establishes policy, standards, procedures, guidelines, and training objectives related to
   the professional development of judge advocates and civilian personnel.
   2.2.2. Manages continuing legal education and training programs. Establishes formal
   training policies and procedures to assist staff judge advocates and ensure personnel who are
   most likely to deploy receive the proper training.
   2.2.3. Provides guidance, as necessary, for the overall management of security access
   requirements for all JAGC manpower authorizations.         For Individual Mobilization
   Augmentee (IMA) positions, these requirements require validation by Regular Air Force/
   Major Command (RegAF/MAJCOM)/A1. For unit positions, Air Force Reserve Command
   (AFRC) sets the requirements. For Air National Guard, the National Guard Bureau (NGB)
   sets the requirements.
   2.2.4. Includes the AF/JA Functional Area Manager (FAM).
2.3. AF/JA FAM
   2.3.1. Appointed in accordance with AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and
   Execution, develops and monitors UTC posturing, coding, and JAGC deployment guidance.
   Resolves inconsistencies between JA practices, and ensures compliance with Air Force and
   joint guidance, as required.
   2.3.2. Serves as principal advisor to AF/JA on the configuration, operational readiness, and
   employment of Air Force legal support capabilities.
 6                                                                AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


     2.3.3. Reviews requests for forces and requests for capabilities and provides JAGC’s ability
     to supply the requested force or capability.
     2.3.4. Recommends individual sourcing solutions for judge advocate and paralegal
     deployments for AF/JA’s approval.
     2.3.5. Serves as AF/JA’s designated coordinating authority with other functional areas for all
     operational legal support matters. Coordinates all policy, force availability, and readiness
     matters with appropriate AF/JA and MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency (FOA), Direct
     Reporting Unit (DRU) offices, Air Force Personnel Center Directorate of AEF Operations
     (AFPC/DPW), the AEF Center, and component commands.
     2.3.6. Serves as AF/JA focal point for JAGC requirements, guidance, and plans necessary to
     support Air Force operations worldwide.
     2.3.7. Recommends courses of action to facilitate and enhance legal support to expeditionary
     operations.
     2.3.8. Issues operational readiness guidance regarding all facets of JAGC UTC management
     and develops general guidelines for assigning and managing available UTCs within the AEF
     construct.
     2.3.9. Publishes JAGC planning guidance in the USAF War and Mobilization Plan (WMP)
     Volume 1. Acts as central coordinator of force management activities to ensure JAGC
     capabilities are properly postured, assigned, disseminated, managed, and utilized within the
     AEF construct.
     2.3.10. Assesses the overall readiness of the JAGC to meet its operational requirements.
     Reports the readiness status of legal capabilities to AF/JA and determines if JAGC activities
     can accomplish assigned missions. Monitors UTC readiness through ART and other sources.
     Evaluates JAGC UTC problem areas for overall mission impact, and assists in asset
     reprioritization based on each JAGC activity’s readiness level. Monitors JAGC shortfalls
     and deficiencies and ensures MAJCOM FAMs take actions to minimize adverse mission
     impact.
2.4. Civilian Career Development, Plans, and Programs Division (AF/JAZ)
     2.4.1. Plans, programs, budgets, and executes manpower and budgetary resources for
     operations law support by HQ USAF/JA and AFLOA, including Overseas Contingency
     Operations funding, central funding for training, and funding for master of law degree
     programs in international and space law.
     2.4.2. As career field manager for JAG Corps legal civilians, manages civilian career
     development and issues guidance pertaining to the deployment of civilians.
2.5. Operations and International Law Division (AF/JAO)
     2.5.1. Provides legal expertise and establishes standards, procedures, guidelines, and training
     objectives related to operations and international law and the operational employment of Air
     Force legal support forces.
     2.5.2. Provides oversight and support to current operations, legal support to the Air Force
     Operations Group, and emergency preparedness policies.
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       7


   2.5.3. Provides expertise to all Air Force legal activities, including the Air Force Judge
   Advocate General’s School (AFJAGS), with regard to all efforts to organize, train, and equip
   attorneys and paralegals in operations law.
   2.5.4. Consolidates the best practices from the legal support of Air Force operations.
   2.5.5. Provides subject matter experts and serves as AF/JA’s primary resource for operations
   and international legal issues.
   2.5.6. Supports the mission of the AF/JA Emergency Planning Coordinator as described in
   AFI 10-208, Air Force Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program.
   2.5.7. Supports legal readiness initiatives and assists in developing related policy and
   guidance.
   2.5.8. Represents AF/JA on the Department of Defense (DoD) Law of War Working Group.
   2.5.9. Supports the Air Force Joint Action Coordination Office.
   2.5.10. Represents AF/JA at the Air Force Doctrine Working Group.
2.6. Senior Paralegal Manager to The Judge Advocate General (TJAG)
   2.6.1. Advises TJAG on paralegal professional development and utilization. Ensures
   paralegal training supports both home station and expeditionary mission requirements.
   2.6.2. Establishes training policy, standards, procedures, guidelines, and training objectives
   to maximize the operational readiness of Air Force paralegals.
   2.6.3. Assists in the development of operational readiness policy for Air Force paralegals,
   and provides guidance on manpower availability, utilization, and training requirements.
   2.6.4. Develops and implements enlisted deployment training guidance and objectives that
   fully support the core deployment tasks of supported air components.
2.7. Air Force Legal Operations Agency (AFLOA) shall: Support Air Force operational
requirements directly and indirectly through a broad spectrum of roles. (T-1).
   2.7.1. AFLOA Commander. Responsible for organizing, training, and equipping
   expeditionary, home station, and reachback legal capabilities. The AFLOA Commander will:
      2.7.1.1. Maximize the operational readiness of personnel and equipment assigned to
      AFLOA. (T-1).
      2.7.1.2. Organize, train, and equip expeditionary trial judiciary capabilities. (T-1).
   2.7.2. Legal Information Services Directorate (AFLOA/JAS) will:
      2.7.2.1. Support home station and forward-deployed JAGC activities through software
      development, legal research, web hosting, and other essential legal information services.
      (T-2).
      2.7.2.2. Support home station and forward deployed JAGC activities by providing
      guidance and technical support for JAGC-owned or operated video-teleconferencing
      equipment. (T-3).
      2.7.2.3. Recommend to TJAG legal information services and software to facilitate and
      enhance legal support to forward deployed operations. (T-3).
8                                                                 AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


       2.7.2.4. Assist in the development and maintenance of Computer Based Training
       modules designed to prepare judge advocates and paralegals to effectively utilize
       technology in support of operations at home station and while deployed. (T-3).
       2.7.2.5. Maintain deployed personnel data within the TJAG Personnel Roster
       application. (T-3).
    2.7.3. The Community Legal Services Division (AFLOA/CLS) will:
       2.7.3.1. Develop guidance and training to promote personal legal readiness of AF
       personnel. (T-2).
           2.7.3.1.1. Centrally manage the worldwide legal assistance and preventive law
           programs. (T-3).
           2.7.3.1.2. Ensure legal assistance and preventive law instructions, programs, policies,
           and guidance address personal legal readiness requirements and concepts and support
           JAGC operational readiness requirements. (T-3).
    2.7.4. The Judge Advocate General’s School (AFJAGS) will:
       2.7.4.1. Ensure JAGC training programs, exercises, references, and instructional
       materials address the knowledge JAGC personnel require to become mission ready. (T-
       1).
       2.7.4.2. In coordination with AFLOA/CLS, develop training to promote legal readiness
       of JAGC and AF personnel. Provides resident or coordinates for provision of non-
       resident subject matter experts for legal training to both legally trained and lay audiences.
       (T-3).
       2.7.4.3. Publish Air Force Operations and the Law: A Guide for Air, Space and Cyber
       Forces. Assist JAO and other responsible offices in providing legal reachback support.
       (T-3).
    2.7.5. Environmental Law and Litigation Division (AFLOA/JACE) will:
       2.7.5.1. Provide legal expertise and support, to include training, related to environmental
       compliance, restoration, planning, and pollution prevention requirements for installations,
       activities, and personnel located in areas outside the United States (US) and US territories
       (i.e. foreign countries and global commons). (T-2). This applies for enduring as well as
       contingency and other deployed operations.
       2.7.5.2. Provide expertise, support, and training to all Air Force legal units, including
       AF/JAO and AFJAGS, with regards to environmental requirements and issues for USAF
       installations, activities, and operations in foreign countries. (T-3).
       2.7.5.3. When appropriate, coordinate with AF/JAO and relevant command (e.g. United
       States Forces Japan, United States Air Forces in Europe) legal offices on advice
       involving interpretation of treaties and international agreements. (T-3).
2.8. Major Command (MAJCOM)/Forward Operating Agency (FOA)/Direct Reporting
Unit (DRU) Staff Judge Advocates (SJAs) will:
    2.8.1. Organize, train, and equip expeditionary and home station legal capabilities within
    their respective organizations. (T-1).
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                         9


   2.8.2. Evaluate the mission readiness of legal support forces and the personal legal readiness
   of the commands’ supported populations. (T-1).
   2.8.3. Maximize the availability of JA personnel through the proper use of UTCs. (T-1).
   2.8.4. Oversee subordinate JAGC activities and their preparations to support operational
   requirements; monitor reporting of legal readiness status in accordance with this Instruction;
   AFI 10-244, Reporting Status Of Aerospace Expeditionary Forces; and AFI 10-201, Status of
   Resources and Training System. (T-1).
   2.8.5. Ensure subordinate activities document legal support requirements in their home
   station or expeditionary site plans in accordance with AFI 10-404, Base Support and
   Expeditionary (BaS&E) Site Planning. (T-1).
   2.8.6. Ensure that subordinate legal offices have a practical, active program for providing
   legal assistance to deploying personnel (see AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary, and
   Preventive Law Programs). At a minimum, the Chief of Legal Assistance must coordinate
   with base-level, or unit level if office is in a tenant unit, Personnel Readiness Units, Unit
   Deployment Managers (UDMs), and equivalents to satisfy all legal readiness demands for
   deploying personnel. (T-1).
2.9. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU FAMs will:
   2.9.1. Assist both higher and lower commands with legal readiness issues. (T-1).
   2.9.2. Ensure JAGC UTCs, if applicable, are equitably aligned according to JAGC
   Functional Area Prioritization and Sequencing Guidance. (T-1).
   2.9.3. Manage intra-command planning activities, coordinate responses to Air Staff taskings,
   implement Air Staff policies and guidance, and relay taskings to subordinate JAGC activities.
   Evaluate, track, and report the overall readiness status and training of the command’s legal
   capabilities. (T-1).
   2.9.4. Coordinate with other FAMs on deployment matters that affect their functional areas.
   2.9.5. Validate legal support requirements for deliberate plans. (T-1).
   2.9.6. Educate subordinate JAGC activities on their role/obligations under deliberate plans
   and are operating within the AEF construct. (T-1).
2.10. Staff Judge Advocates (includes senior member of each JAGC activity) will:
   2.10.1. Manage and prepare personnel and equipment required to support home station
   operations, including operations law support. Each SJA is responsible for tailoring the
   operations law support provided by the legal staff to satisfy the particular legal needs of
   supported home station units. The practice of operations law varies between legal offices
   due to the variety of activities and missions performed by different supported units. (T-1).
   2.10.2. Provide expeditionary legal services and UTC management support. (T-1).
   2.10.3. Develop, implement, and evaluate the personal legal readiness program that tailors
   available legal services to meet the requirements of the supported population. (T-1).
   2.10.4. Responsible for associating, tracking, and managing personnel aligned within the
   AEF construct and those tasked to support a deliberate plan. (T-1).
 10                                                                  AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


   2.10.5. Advise local chain of command and MAJCOM FAMs when resource changes may
   adversely impact, restrict, or delay operations from either home station or deployed locations.
   2.10.6. Appoint a Readiness Manager in writing. See para. 2.11. (T-1).
      2.10.7. Identify any necessary ARC augmentation requirements, and when warranted,
      submit a request for home station support to the MAJCOM senior IMA or Mobilization
      Assistant (MA), the ARC Home Station Support Coordinator at Air Force Reserve
      Directorate (AF/JAR), and AFRC/JA (A complete guide is available from the Home Station
      Support Coordinator at AF/JAR). (T-1).
      2.10.8. Ensure that all plans, policies, procedures and operations within their area of
      responsibility are consistent with the domestic and international legal obligations of the
      United States. (T-1).
      2.10.9. Ensure (through engagement with exercise planners) that local exercises involve
      legal personnel and have relevant inputs to facilitate play that meets legal training objectives.
      (T-1)
2.11. Readiness Manager. Facilitates readiness reporting requirements and works closely with
the Installation Deployment Officers and UDMs whenever a legal office receives a deployment
tasking.
2.12. Component Staff Judge Advocates Air Force Forces (AFFOR SJA). When
established, AFFOR SJAs will determine the level of and specific requirements (e.g., position
description, rank, training needed, and clearance) for component legal support needed to carry
out AF missions and request personnel as needed and request the forces through appropriate
channels. (T-1).
2.13. The USAF Expeditionary Center Staff Judge Advocate (EC SJA). The EC SJA
develops training programs on the legal aspect of contingency operations for both JA personnel
and for the wider AF community.
2.14. Individual JAGs and paralegals. All JAGC members should maintain the highest levels
of readiness at all times and seek out opportunities to further their training, education, and fitness
for performing their duties.
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        11


                                            Chapter 3

                                    MISSION READINESS

3.1. Mission Readiness. To achieve mission readiness, SJAs: (1) support Air Force operations
controlled, supported, or executed from Air Force installations under their responsibility; (2)
prepare expeditionary legal support personnel and capabilities under their responsibility; and (3)
determine essential level of services and conduct Contingency Mitigation Planning, to include
planning for JAGC ARC augmentation. Additionally, outside the continental United States
(OCONUS) and select continental United States (CONUS) legal offices provide a broad and
diverse range of international law services and advice.
3.2. Mission Requirements. Mission requirements determine the scope and types of legal
support appropriate for each operational location. This section details operational law focus
areas and will guide SJAs in planning support to operational missions. Because legal support to
operational missions forms a critical component of the overall readiness of any legal office, these
areas will be assessed through the Judge Advocate General’s Article 6 Inspection Program.
   3.2.1. Home Station Focus Areas for SJAs. The SJA will:
       3.2.1.1. Review and be prepared to support any operational plans (OPLANs) and concept
       plans (CONPLANs) applicable to assigned forces. (T-1).
       3.2.1.2. Identify and be prepared to support mission essential tasks in the installation’s
       Base Support Plan or Expeditionary Site Plan. (T-1). For specific guidance on supporting
       BaS&E Planning development, refer to AFI 10-404, in particular Attachment 40.
       3.2.1.3. Be prepared to support home station activities and operations, including
       identifying legal issues that impede or restrict operations (e.g., range access,
       encroachment, bandwidth de-confliction, or noise abatement). (T-1). Ensure the legal
       office is prepared to support the commander during emergencies. (T-1).
       3.2.1.4. Support deployment planning and execution, the personnel readiness function,
       and the deployment control center (DCC), in accordance with AFI 10-403, Deployment
       Planning and Execution. (T-1).
       3.2.1.5. Provide support to operations centers or other entities assembled to respond to
       wartime requirements and peacetime emergencies (e.g., the Command Post, Emergency
       Operations Center, Battle Staff, or Crisis Action Team). (T-1).
       3.2.1.6. Ensure mission-essential JA tasks will continue in the event of war, emergency,
       or natural disaster. For specific guidance on continuity of operations, refer to AFI 10-
       208, and coordinate with the Command Post and Wing Plans officials regarding guidance
       tailored to local conditions. (T-1).
       3.2.1.7. Ensure all legal personnel maintain a high state of personal legal readiness,
       particularly those who may deploy in support of ongoing and future operations. (T-1).
   3.2.2. International Law Focus Areas.
       3.2.2.1. Overseas missions often depend on foreign institutions and international
       agreements. Supporting JAs will need to coordinate their advice with the MAJCOM
12                                                            AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


     SJA’s office or higher authorities in order to prevent serious missteps. (T-1). Reference
     AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining International
     Agreements, and Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5530.3, International
     Agreements, which provide detailed procedural guidance.
        3.2.2.1.1. It is critically important to be familiar with and either maintain copies or
        ensure access to applicable international agreements and all supplemental and
        implementing agreements.
        3.2.2.1.2. Legal offices should maintain ready access to host nation laws and
        regulations affecting Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) obligations.
        3.2.2.1.3. Where appropriate, ensure there is sufficient classified storage capacity to
        enable ready access to applicable agreements.
        3.2.2.1.4. SJAs must ensure new commanders and other key personnel are briefed
        about key host nation laws, agreements of significance to operations, and the legal
        limitations on negotiating international agreements without a properly established
        delegated authority to negotiate. (T-1).
     3.2.2.2. Overseas operations often involve questions of criminal jurisdiction over Service
     Members, Contractors and Foreign Nationals. It is essential that JAs become familiar
     with the governing laws and regulations and procedures which apply to misconduct and
     crime. See, Air Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 51-706, Status of Forces Policies,
     Procedures, and Information. (T-0).
        3.2.2.2.1. SOFA rights vary widely from country to country. It is vitally important
        that JA’s inform deploying personnel about their rights and obligations under
        international agreements, treaties, or unique host nation laws.
        3.2.2.2.2. JAs should reach out to senior commanders and embassy personnel to plan
        a real-time response to these highly politicized situations. Being proactive is vital to
        shaping an appropriate response to an international criminal incident. If possible, the
        JA should build relationships with host nation authorities, local legal officials, and
        municipal leaders.
     3.2.2.3. Report all foreign litigation to AFLOA/JACC who will consult with HQ
     USAF/JAO prior to coordinating the request with the Department of Justice as directed
     in AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation.
        3.2.2.3.1. Ensure all units supported by the legal office have been instructed to
        immediately forward any foreign service of process to the office for return to the
        issuing authority or for other appropriate action.
        3.2.2.3.2. Promptly inform commanders, contract officials, and other appropriate
        personnel of threatened civil litigation, and ensure local processes are in place to
        ensure base officials and contracting officers understand the importance of promptly
        reporting these cases to legal personnel.
        3.2.2.3.3. Coordinate and liaise with other appropriate in-country agencies (e.g.,
        Embassy, Sending State Office, Office of Defense Cooperation, or other Services) to
        ensure a coordinated approach to threatened litigation.
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                 13


     3.2.2.4. Ensure requests for asylum and temporary refuge are handled in accordance with
     AFI 51-704, Handling Requests for Asylum and Temporary Refuge. (T-0). Additional
     guidance may be found in DoD Instruction (DoDI) 2000.11, Procedures for Handling
     Requests for Asylum and Temporary Refuge.
 14                                                             AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


                                          Chapter 4

        POSTURING AND SOURCING JAGC MEMBERS FOR DEPLOYMENT

4.1. General Management Considerations. The Air and Space Expeditionary Force is the Air
Force’s methodology for organizing, training, equipping, and sustaining rapidly responsive air
and space forces to meet defense strategy requirements. Members of the JAGC deploy as part of
and in support of the AEF construct, and as individual augmentees to the Joint Force.
   4.1.1. As a part of the AEF Teaming Construct, members of the JAGC may also deploy as
   part of a Demand Force Team (DFT), consisting of JAGs and paralegals.
4.2. Consistent with 10 USC §§ 806 and 8037, TJAG, acting through AF/JAX, is the
sourcing and adjudication authority for the deployment of judge advocates and paralegals.
   4.2.1. Subordinate JA FAMs represent TJAG and AF/JAX at their respective commands and
   execute TJAG and AF/JAX direction.
4.3. Unit Type Code (UTC) Management. For legal personnel, this guidance supplements
AFI 10-244. A description of the ‘posture codes’ for units may be found in AFI 10-401. Three
important codes are DP, DX and DW.
   4.3.1. All AF/JA activities, except as noted below, should posture the maximum number of
   standard deployable UTCs and equitably align them across the AEF libraries.
   4.3.2. All JAGC UTCs are placed in ART and are coded to indicate their availability to
   support military operations. Expeditionary legal capabilities may be tasked independently or
   as part of a combined, cross-functional capability to support deliberate plans, contingencies,
   or steady state operations.
   4.3.3. Due to their inherent flexibility to fill many roles, JAGs and paralegals are postured
   against two UTCs:
       4.3.3.1. XFFJJ - Combat Support JAG (1 pax). The primary UTC providing JAG legal
       services capability that enables The Judge Advocate General to fulfill his specific
       responsibilities listed in USAF War and Mobilization Plan (WMP)-1, Annexes P and R.
       Assists and advises Commander Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR) in carrying out
       obligations and responsibilities under international and domestic law and policy. This
       UTC is used to support any force module, to augment existing legal support forces, or to
       independently support operations. The capability should be sourced to fulfill Air &
       Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF) or joint legal support requirements, including
       sustainment. This UTC is used for RegAF, guard, and reserve personnel.
       4.3.3.2. XFFJP - Combat Support Paralegal (1 pax). The primary UTC providing
       paralegal services capability that enables The Judge Advocate General to fulfill his
       specific responsibilities listed in USAF WMP-1, Annexes P and R. Assists judge
       advocates and COMAFFOR in carrying out their obligations and responsibilities under
       international and domestic law and policy. This UTC is used to support any force
       module, to augment existing legal support forces, or to independently support operations.
       The capability should be sourced to fulfill any AETF or joint legal support requirement,
       including sustainment. This UTC is be used for RegAF, guard, and reserve personnel.
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       15


  4.3.4. Cross-Functional UTCs. If cross-functional UTCs include a requirement for legal
  support, the UTC manager contacts the AF/JA FAM to request a JA asset. The AF/JA FAM
  will source a member to the UTC subject to the approval of AF/JA.
  4.3.5. SJAs (and equivalents) are in the best position to assess an individual’s deployment
  readiness. Using the color coding guidance in AFI 10-244, with the exceptions noted below
  regarding skill level, SJAs should exercise their judgment when deciding how to code a
  judge advocate or paralegal UTC in ART.
     4.3.5.1. SJAs should make every effort to ensure staff members are current in their
     annual total force and expeditionary training requirements. However, a training
     deficiency can typically be corrected within a short time when an individual is tasked to
     deploy. For example, a judge advocate or paralegal should not be coded as yellow or red
     just because they are overdue for Self Aid Buddy Care, firearm qualifications, or
     chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives (CBRNE) training.
     4.3.5.2. Even if an individual may have a duty limiting condition or a medical profile
     that limits physical activity, the member should be coded green if medically worldwide
     qualified (WWQ). The WWQ status is controlling. In accordance with AFI 10-403,
     individuals should be coded red if they have a deployment availability code that indicates
     they are ineligible to deploy.
  4.3.6. Members of the JAGC are coded in ART following the guidance in AFI 10-244
  subject to the following guidelines which are necessary due to the individual nature of
  deployment requirements for JAGs and paralegals. UTCs coded yellow may deploy with the
  approval of AF/JA.
     4.3.6.1. Judge Advocate Readiness Coding Based on Experience. Every deployment
     tasking is given individual consideration to match capabilities to requirements.
         4.3.6.1.1. Green: A judge advocate with a year or more of JAG experience since
         completing the Judge Advocate Staff Officer Course (JASOC) should be coded green.
         4.3.6.1.2. Yellow: A judge advocate who has less than one year of JAG experience
         since completing JASOC should be coded yellow.
         4.3.6.1.3. Red: A judge advocate who has not completed JASOC is coded red.
     4.3.6.2. Paralegal Readiness Coding Based on Experience. Every deployment is
     given individual consideration to match capabilities to requirements.
         4.3.6.2.1. Green: A paralegal with a 5-skill level or higher should be coded green.
         4.3.6.2.2. Red: A paralegal with a 3-skill level is coded red.
  4.3.7. Use of Commander’s Remark Block in ART. Not all deployment taskings require
  the same level of training and experience. For AF/JAX to match individual capabilities to
  requirements for deployments, additional information on each individual isentered as part of
  ART reporting.
     4.3.7.1. SJAs should enter the following information in the Commander’s Remarks
     block:
         4.3.7.1.1. Name and rank associated with the UTC
 16                                                                AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


           4.3.7.1.2. Current security clearance
           4.3.7.1.3. Skill level (for paralegals)
           4.3.7.1.4. Trial certification status (for JAGs)
           4.3.7.1.5. Deployment      history   (including    deployed   location   and   dates   of
           deployments)
           4.3.7.1.6. Any applicable deployment availability code; and
           4.3.7.1.7. Any reason for being either yellow or red as well as a “get well” date.
       4.3.7.2. Within AFRC, the ART is usually maintained by the Logistics Readiness
       Squadron. HQ AFRC/AEF cell determined that the information provided through
       paragraph 4.3.7.1. was functional data that did not belong in the Commander’s Remarks
       and that the input was not required. AFRC units follow the guidance in 4.3.7.1 to the
       extent permitted by AFRC policy. ANG units follow the guidance in 4.3.7.1 to the extent
       permitted by NGB policy.
4.4. Deployment Posture. All Judge Advocate General Corps personnel are deployable, and
each is specifically slotted, or ‘postured’ against a particular UTC. Specifically, there are those
personnel that constitute a minimum essential force for the home-station mission (DX); those
that are the minimum essential for the currently assigned missions (DP); and those that are part
the full strength of the unit. Subtracting DX and DP from the overall strength leaves DW and
this is the maximum deployable strength of the unit. These numbers support deployment
planning in the AEF. Further discussion of this term may be found in AFI 10-401.
   4.4.1. Air Combat Command. All JAGC members, including members of the Air Warfare
   Center, will be postured against UTCs as rotationally available and coded DW. Headquarters
   (HQ) staff members will be postured as part of the institutional force in Military Personnel
   Data System (MilPDS).
   4.4.2. Air Mobility Command.              All JAGC members, excluding members of the
   Expeditionary Center, the 615th Contingency Response Wing, and the 621st Contingency
   Response Wing, will be postured as rotationally available and coded DW. The excluded
   entities may be postured against UTCs but will be coded DX. HQ staff members will be
   postured as part of the institutional force in MilPDS.
   4.4.3. Pacific Air Forces. All JAGC members, excluding members of the 613th Air and
   Space Operations Center and members of US Forces Korea will be postured as rotationally
   available and coded DW. The excluded entities may be postured against UTCs, but will be
   coded DP. HQ staff members will be postured as part of the institutional force in MilPDS.
   4.4.4. US Air Forces in Europe. All JAGC members, excluding members assigned to legal
   offices with two or fewer personnel, will be postured against UTCs and coded DW. Those
   assigned to offices with two or fewer personnel may be postured against UTCs, but will be
   coded DX. HQ staff members will be postured as part of the institutional force in MilPDS.
   4.4.5. Air Force Space Command. The command has a significant committed-in-place
   mission, and AF/JA will ensure deployments do not compromise the ability to provide
   adequate legal support for that mission. All JAGC members will therefore be postured
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  17


  against UTCs and coded DW. HQ staff members will be postured as part of the institutional
  force in MilPDS.
  4.4.6. Air Force Global Strike Command. The command has a significant committed-in-
  place mission, and AF/JA will ensure deployments do not compromise the ability to provide
  adequate legal support for that mission. All JAGC members will therefore be postured
  against UTCs and coded DW. HQ staff members will be postured as part of the institutional
  force in MilPDS.
  4.4.7. Air Education and Training Command (AETC). Though the command has an
  inherent institutional force mission, judge advocates and paralegals in AETC perform the
  same functions as their counterparts in other commands. AF/JA will ensure deployments do
  not compromise the ability to provide adequate legal support for the command’s mission.
  All JAGC members will therefore be postured against UTCs and coded DW. HQ staff
  members will be postured as part of the institutional force in MilPDS.
  4.4.8. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). Though the command has an inherent
  institutional force mission, judge advocates and paralegals in AFMC perform many of the
  same functions as their counterparts in other commands and provide critical procurement
  skills necessary in the deployed environment. AF/JA will ensure deployments do not
  compromise the ability to provide adequate legal support for the command’s mission. All
  JAGC members will therefore be postured against UTCs and coded DW. HQ staff members
  will be postured as part of the institutional force in MilPDS.
  4.4.9. Air Force District of Washington (AFDW). Though the command has an inherent
  institutional force mission, judge advocates and paralegals in AFDW perform many of the
  same functions as their counterparts in other commands. AF/JA will ensure deployments do
  not compromise the ability to provide adequate legal support for the command’s mission.
  All JAGC members will therefore be postured against UTCs and coded DW.
  4.4.10. US Air Force Academy (USAFA). Though the command has an inherent
  institutional force mission, judge advocates and paralegals in USAFA perform many of the
  same functions as their counterparts in other commands. AF/JA will ensure deployments do
  not compromise the ability to provide adequate legal support for the command’s mission.
  All JAGC members will therefore be postured against UTCs and coded DW. HQ staff
  members and military faculty members will be postured as part of the institutional force in
  MilPDS.
  4.4.11. Air Force Legal Operations Agency. AFLOA is a unique organization with
  diverse missions. Many of the skills practiced within the command are critical in the
  deployed environment, and those JAGs and paralegals are made available to deploy at a rate
  commensurate with the rest of the JAGC. Other AFLOA elements provide critical home
  station support and should only deploy as a last resort. All JAGC AFLOA members will
  therefore be postured as rotationally available in the same manner as the commands above,
  except for the following personnel who will be coded DX:
     4.4.11.1. Area Defense Counsel
     4.4.11.2. Defense Paralegals
     4.4.11.3. Senior Defense Counsel
 18                                                            AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


       4.4.11.4. Senior Trial Counsel
       4.4.11.5. Enlisted Court Reporters
       4.4.11.6. Medical Law Consultants
       4.4.11.7. Regional Environmental Attorneys and MAJCOM Environmental Liaison
       Officers
       4.4.11.8. Department of Justice Liaison Attorneys
       4.4.11.9. Special Victims’ Counsel
   4.4.11.10. Special Victims’ Paralegals
   4.4.12. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC). All JAGC members,
   excluding members assigned to offices with two or fewer personnel, will be postured against
   UTCs and coded DW. Those assigned to offices with two or fewer personnel may be
   postured against UTCs, but will be coded DP or DX. HQ staff members will be postured as
   part of the institutional force in MilPDS. In coordination with AFSOC/JA, judge advocates
   and paralegals assigned to AFSOC will be selected to deploy by AF/JA acting through
   AF/JAX.
   4.4.13. Institutional Force. The institutional force is composed of any unit or organization
   with an organize, train, and equip mission. Noting the exceptions listed above, members of
   the JAGC in institutional force organizations (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM staffs, and
   some NAFs) will be managed with AEF Indicators (AEFIs) in MilPDS at the AF’s standard
   deploy-to-dwell rate for the institutional force and may deploy with the approval of AF/JA.
   4.4.14. Joint Commands. Members of the JAGC assigned to joint commands will not be
   postured to deploy. They may deploy to fill AF requirements only with the consent of the
   joint command and the approval of AF/JA.
   4.4.15. Reserve Components. Judge advocate and paralegal members of the reserve
   components will be postured to deploy consistent with current AEF guidance for those
   components. They may only deploy upon the approval of AF/JA. Per current AFI 10-401
   guidance, IMAs are managed with AEFIs. JA IMA AEFIs will be managed by the AFRC JA
   FAM under the supervision of the AF/JA FAM. ANG AEFIs will be managed by the ANG
   JA FAM in coordination with the AF/JA FAM.
4.5. Selection for Deployment. The Judge Advocate General selects members of the JAGC for
deployment consistent with the parameters established in AFI 10-401 and AFI 10-403, inasmuch
as those Instructions do not infringe upon 10 U.S.C. §§ 806 and 8037.
   4.5.1. Members are selected to deploy based primarily on their ability to meet the
   requirements for the deployed position. Other considerations include, but are not limited to:
       4.5.1.1. The relative personnel strength of offices that can provide the requirement
       needed.
       4.5.1.2. How recent a member being considered for deployment previously deployed.
   4.5.2. Deployment of civilians follow the guidance in Department of Defense Civilian
   Expeditionary Workforce directives and instructions, as well as applicable Air Force
   instructions.
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                          19


                                            Chapter 5

                                    CAPTURING LESSONS

5.1. Lessons Learned and After Action Reports. The Air Force Lessons Learned Program
exists to enhance readiness and improve combat capability by capitalizing on the experiences of
Airmen. A Lesson Learned is an insight gained that, when validated and resolved, results in an
improvement in military operations or activities at the strategic, operational, or tactical level and
results in long-term, internalized change to an individual or an organization. An After Action
Report (AAR) is a report that includes observations which result in improvements in military
operations. AAR observations should describe how the mission could be/was improved, potential
risks to mission degradation and how to mitigate those risks. The Lessons Learned and After
Action Reporting process is governed by AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program,
and assists senior leaders in programming, budgeting and allocating resources as well as making
changes to doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership & education, personnel,
facilities, and policy. Judge Advocates and paralegals play a critical role in supporting this
program through the submission of carefully articulated, considered reports on important legal
and operations issues, in accordance with AFI 90-1601.
5.2. JAGC AAR Database. The JAGC maintains an internal JAGC process for submitting best
legal practices, addressing sensitive legal matters, and practical tips for the benefit of deploying
judge advocates and paralegals. The JAGC employs an internal process called the After Action
Reporting System to capture this information on federal legal information through electronics
(FLITE).
       5.2.1. The current AAR database in FLITE contains reports only from July 2011.
       AF/JAO, AFJAGS Operations and International Law Division and AF/JAX have the only
       access to reports between July 2011 and May 2013.
       5.2.2. Since May 2013, all AARs entered in the system are available for review by any
       JAG Corps military member. This allows military personnel deploying in the future to
       research the database on their own.
5.3. JA Personnel AAR Responsibilities. Each JAGC member must submit an AAR within 30
days of returning from a deployment. (T-2).
   5.3.1. In order to maintain an accurate and complete AAR database, the AAR must detail
   unclassified information addressing the deployer’s duties and experiences. (T-2).
   5.3.2. After JAGC Member submission, SJAs review the AAR and then forward it to
   AF/JAO with a recommendation to publish it or not. If the SJA finds reason to recommend
   not publishing, the SJA must return the AAR to the member and give the member an
   opportunity to address those concerns. The goal is to include as many AARs in the database
   as possible, so SJAs are encouraged to work with the member to alleviate any concerns,
   keeping in mind that the AAR must capture the deploying member’s experiences and be as
   accurate and detailed as possible. (T-2).
   5.3.3. AF/JAO, on behalf of AF/JA, makes the final decision whether an AAR gets included
   in the public database or not.
 20                                                            AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


   5.3.4. Any information classified Secret or Confidential must be transmitted to AF/JAO
   directly using the Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet). (T-2). Email to SIPR
   workflow: usaf.pentagon.af-ja.mbx.af-jao-operations-law-mbx@mail.smil.mil.
5.4. Reporting Process. The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School analyzes all
individual AARs and submits quarterly summaries to AF/JA through AF/JAO. AF/JAO will
also analyze the submissions and publish a synopsis of best practices and practical guidance for
the entire JAG Corps at least annually. This process has proven invaluable in the past and will
continue to form an important readiness component supporting future JAGC deployments.
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                      21


                                          Chapter 6

              AIR RESERVE COMPONENT OPERATIONAL READINESS

6.1. ARC Integration into Operational Readiness. ARC judge advocates and paralegals are
integral to the Total Force, performing vital Home Station Support (HSS) duties and deploying
on critical operational taskings. This section provides information on how ARC personnel
integrate into operational readiness.
   6.1.1. Augmentation for HSS. The ARC HSS Coordinator at AF/JAR has oversight of the
   entire HSS program, will notify all ARC JA personnel of any unfilled augmentation requests,
   and will monitor and report on the status of augmentation requests to the MA to TJAG and
   the ANG Asst to TJAG.
       6.1.1.1. SJAs of units of the Regular Air Force or their local reserve coordinators (RC)
       should simultaneously submit a request for HSS to the MAJCOM senior IMA or MA, the
       ARC HSS Coordinator at AF/JAR (who coordinates with the ANG HSS Liaison), and
       AFRC/JAR.
       6.1.1.2. SJAs of AFRC or ANG units tasked for deployment should notify their
       commands of HSS support needs and simultaneously coordinate with the ANG Asst to
       TJAG (or his/her designee), the ARC HSS Liaison, the ARC HSS Coordinator at
       AF/JAR and AFRC/JAR. ARC legal assets may be made available to augment activated
       AFRC and ANG units.
       6.1.1.3. RCs and SJAs of units of the Regular Air Force must notify the MAJCOM
       senior IMA or MA of any HSS request within their command and provide updates on any
       changes in circumstances that could affect the need for reserve support. (T-1).
       6.1.1.4. RCs of units of the Regular Air Force ordinarily schedule support from assigned
       ARC JAs to fill requests, making maximum use of Inactive Duty Training Days and
       Annual Tours. Support may also be obtained through quadrennial tours for Reserve and
       ANG members not assigned to the units of the Regular Air Force, which includes pay,
       allowances, travel, and per diem. There may be other special training tours that also
       include pay, allowances, travel and per diem (e.g., Seasoning Training Program tours or
       special reomotely piloted aircraft tours). Otherwise, travel costs and per diem are funded
       by the requesting unit. SJAs and RCs should carefully monitor expense and funding
       requirements.
   6.1.2. IMA Operational Readiness. SJAs of RegAF units with assigned IMAs monitor
   pre-deployment training for assigned IMAs identified for deployment. SJAs are responsible
   for planning, scheduling, and funding required training, and may utilize available and
   appropriate funding sources for the deployment. Each time an IMA is tasked to deploy, the
   SJA will complete a Statement of Understanding, acknowledging the responsibility to train
   and equip the IMA per applicable guidance and deployment reporting instructions. (T-1).
22                                                           AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


  6.1.3. UTC Allocations. ARC judge advocates and paralegals assigned to AFRC or ANG
  units are allocated to UTCs as directed by their respective AFRC and ANG commanders.
  They are fully trained along with other ARC members in their respective units of assignment.




                                          CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                          Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          The Judge Advocate General
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                    23


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5530.3, International Agreements, June 11, 1987, certified as current as of November 21,
2003
DoDI 2000.11, Procedures for Handling Requests for Asylum and Temporary Refuge, May 13,
2010
AFPD 51-1, The Judge Advocate General’s Department, 19 November 1993
Air Force Doctrine Document 1-04, Legal Support to Military Operations, 4 March 2012
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, 19 Apr 2013, incorporating AFGM2014-
01, 13 May 2014
AFI 10-208, Air Force Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program, 15 December 2011
AFI 10-244, Reporting Status Of Aerospace Expeditionary Forces, 15 June 2012
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006, incorporating
Change 4, 13 March 2012
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012, incorporating Change 2,
15 July 2014
AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary (BAS&E) Site Planning, 11 October 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation, 20 June 2002, incorporating AFGM2013-02, 26 September 2013
AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary and Preventive Law Programs, 27 October 2003,
incorporating AFGM1, 30 September 2013
AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting and Maintaining International Agreements,
16 August 2011
AFI 51-704, Handling Requests for Asylum and Temporary Refuge, 22 November 2011
AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 18 December 2013
AFJI 51-706, Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and Information, 15 December 1989
War and Mobilization Plan Volume 1, February 2007, certified as current as of 21 December
2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, incorporating AFGM2014-01, 28
May 2014
Title 10, United States Code Sections 806, 8013, and 8037
Air Force Operations and the Law: A Guide for Air, Space and Cyber Forces
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
 24                                                    AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
AEF—Air & Space Expeditionary Force
AEFI—Air & Space Expeditionary Force Indicators
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AETF—Air & Space Expeditionary Task Force
AF—Air Force
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction
AFJAGS—Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School
AF/JA—The Office of The Judge Advocate General
AF/JAO—Operations and International Law Directorate
AF/JAR—Reserve Directorate
AF/JAX—Professional Development Directorate
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency
AFLOA/CLS—Community Legal Services Division
AFLOA/JACC—Claims and Tort Litigation Division
AFLOA/JACE—Environmental Law and Litigation Division
AFLOA/JAS—Legal Information Services Directorate
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPC/DPW—AFPC Directorate of AEF Operations
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ART—AEF UTC Reporting Tool
BaS&E—Base Support & Expeditionary Site Planning
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                       25


CBRNE—chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives
COMAFFOR—Commander Air Force Forces
CONPLAN—Concept Plan
CONUS—Continental United States
COOP—Continuity of Operations
DCC—Deployment Control Center
DFT—Demand Force Team
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department Of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department Of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EC—Expeditionary Center
FLITE—- Federal Legal Information Through Electronics
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HSS—Home Station Support
HQ—-Headquarters
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
JA—Judge Advocate
JAG—Judge Advocate General
JAGC—Judge Advocate General’s Corps
JASOC—Judge Advocate Staff Officer Course
MA—Mobilization Assistant
MAJCOM—Major Command
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
NGB—- National Guard Bureau
NIPRNET—Nonsecure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPLAN—Operation Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
RC—Reserve Coordinator
 26                                                              AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


RegAF—Regular Air Force
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
USC—United States Code
UTC—Unit Type Code
WMP—USAF War and Mobilization Plan
WWQ—Worldwide Qualified

Terms
Base Support and Expeditionary (BaS&E) Site Planning Tool—A NIPRNET/SIPRNET-
based suite of standard systems tools that enables automated, employment-driven, agile combat
support planning. BaS&E supports the expeditionary site planning process by accurately and
rapidly identifying resources and combat support requirements at potential employment
locations, providing bed-down capability analysis and limiting factor identification, and
facilitating force tailoring decisions to reduce the overall deployment footprint. BaS&E consists
of three components that are mandated for use when they are available at all levels of command.
Concept Plan (CONPLAN)—In the context of joint operation planning level 3 planning detail,
an operation plan in an abbreviated format that may require considerable expansion or alteration
to convert it into a complete operation plan or operation order.
Continuity of Operations (COOP)—An internal effort within individual components of the
Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Branches of Government assuring the capability exists to
continue uninterrupted essential component functions across a wide range of potential
emergencies, including local or regional natural disasters, health-related emergencies, accidents,
and technological and/or attack-related emergencies. COOP involves plans and capabilities
covering the same functional objectives of Continuity of Government, must be maintained at a
high level of readiness, and be capable of implementation both with and without warning.
COOP is not only an integral part of Continuity of Government and Enduring Constitutional
Government (ECG), but is simply "good business practice" -- part of the Department of
Defense's fundamental mission as a responsible and reliable public institution.
Deployment Control Center (DCC)—The installation focal point for deployment operations.
The DCC is responsible for all command and control requirements.
AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                          27


DP—A specific posturing code (P-Code) that represents the minimum number of UTCs required
to accomplish the assigned/committed missions (to include those that may deploy to meet
assigned/committed missions). Assigned/committed missions include combatant commander
missions as well as those of external organizations/agencies that the unit must accomplish;
failure to accomplish these assigned/committed missions is not within the authority of the unit,
but would require approval/coordination with the impacted agency. AFI 10-401, paragraph
7.15.1.
DW—A specific P-Code that indicates a deployable capability for planning purposes. The
aggregate of DW UTC records represents the maximum simultaneous deployment capability of
the unit. For execution, the maximum simultaneously deployable capability of the unit is
determined by subtracting both the capability required for the in-place AF missions (DX) and the
assigned/committed missions (DP) from the assigned capability. AFI 10-401, paragraph 7.15.2.
DX—A specific P-Code that represents the minimum number of UTC requirements to support
critical home station operations. AFI 10-401, paragraph 7.15.3.
Expeditionary Site Plans—ESPs are chiefly associated with locations without a permanent Air
Force presence and may contain only the minimum data necessary to make initial bed-down
decisions. ESPs may be developed in short time frames to meet contingency needs without full
staffing or coordination. It is the installation level or site plan to support unified and specified
command wartime operations plans, as well as MAJCOM supporting plans. It cuts across all
functional support areas in a consolidated view of installation missions, requirements,
capabilities, and limitations to plan for actions and resources supporting war or contingency
operations, including deployment, post-deployment, and employment activities (as appropriate).
Host Nation—A nation which receives the forces and/or supplies of allied nations and/or North
Atlantic Treaty Organization to be located on, to operate in, or to transit through its territory.
Installation Deployment Officer—The host unit officer who maintains base deployment
guidance and directs and coordinates base deployments under the direction of the installation
commander.
Operations Law—The domestic, foreign, and international law associated with the planning and
execution of military operations in peacetime or hostilities. It includes, but is not limited to, the
Law of Armed Conflict, the law relating to security assistance, training, mobilization, pre-
deployment preparation, deployment, overseas procurement, the conduct of military combat
operations, counter-terrorist activities, status of forces agreements, operations against hostile
forces, and rule of law operations. Operations law is the application of law to a specific mission
of the supported Air Force unit.
Operation Plan (OPLAN)— A plan for one or more operations that deployed units carry out
simultaneously or in a series of connected stages. Higher authorities normally issue OPLANs as
directives based on stated assumptions to allow subordinate officers to prepare supporting plans
and orders.
Status of Forces Agreement—An agreement that defines the legal position of a visiting military
force deployed in the territory of a friendly state.
Unit Deployment Manager (UDM)—The Unit Deployment Manager is a member assigned to a
unit that manages all deployment readiness and training aspects for all deployable personnel and
 28                                                        AFI51-108 9 OCTOBER 2014


equipment within their unit to ensure they are deployment ready. In addition, UDMs support
redeployed personnel in the Redeployment Support Process with commanders of their units.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—A five-character, alphanumeric designator uniquely identifying each
type unit in the Armed Forces.
