BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-705
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              9 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                             Law

                                                 CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OF SERVICE
                                               COURTS OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN FORCES
                                                 AND SENDING STATES IN THE UNITED
                                                                           STATES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/JAO                                                                 Certified by: AF/JA
                                                                     (Maj Gen Jeffrey Rockwell)
Supersedes:    AFI 51-705, 5 February 2009                                              Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFPD 51-7, International Law. It provides guidance and
procedures for assisting friendly foreign forces and the forces of a sending state in interpreting
and complying with Title 22, United States Code (U.S.C.), Sections 701-706, Service Courts of
Friendly Foreign Forces ("the Act"), as implemented by DoD Instruction 5525.03, Criminal
Jurisdiction of Service Courts of Friendly Foreign Forces and Sending States in the United
States. This policy applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. This publication may not be
supplemented or further implemented/extended. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                               AFI 51-705 9 OCTOBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The revised
instruction removes the authority to supplement this publication, implements additional
requirements from DoD Instruction 5525.03 and includes Tier waiver approval authority.
1. Policy. The Air Force will implement DoD policy to facilitate the exercise of criminal
jurisdiction by service courts of friendly foreign forces or sending states in the United States
when authorized or as directed, subject to the following:
     1.1. Service Court Jurisdiction. A friendly foreign force or the force of a sending state has
     the right to exercise jurisdiction in the United States over offenses committed by its members
     that are punishable by its laws, but not by the laws of the United States or its political
     subdivisions.
     1.2. Concurrent Jurisdiction. The United States, including its political subdivisions, and a
     friendly foreign force or the force of a sending state have concurrent jurisdiction over
     offenses cognizable under the laws of both countries. Subject to the limitations below, the
     Air Force may request the United States exercise jurisdiction if the offense occurred on an
     Air Force installation or when directed by higher authority.
        1.2.1. Authorities of the United States and its political subdivisions, including the Air
        Force, have the primary right to exercise jurisdiction in any particular case, unless an
        international agreement governing the status of the friendly foreign force or the force of a
        sending state in the United States provides otherwise.
            1.2.1.1. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Status of Forces
            Agreement (SOFA) grants a sending state the primary right to exercise jurisdiction in
            two instances:
                1.2.1.1.1. The offense is solely against the property or security of the sending
                state or solely against the person or property of another member of the sending
                state, its civilian component, or a dependent.
                1.2.1.1.2. The offense arises out of any act or omission done in the performance
                of official duty.
        1.2.2. The commander or designated representative of a friendly foreign force or the
        force of a sending state may request a waiver of the primary right of the United States, or
        its political subdivisions, to exercise jurisdiction.
     1.3. United States Exclusive Jurisdiction. A member of a friendly foreign force or the
     force of a sending state may commit an offense not punishable by its laws, but punishable by
     the laws of the or one of its political subdivisions. Staff judge advocates (SJAs) will report
     these cases expeditiously through major command (MAJCOM) channels to the Headquarters
     United States Air Force Operations and International Law Division (AF/JAO) to coordinate
     potential legal and political issues before United States exclusive jurisdiction is exercised.
     (T-0)
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG), United States Air Force, is the Air Force
     designated agent to assist friendly foreign forces and the forces of a sending state in
AFI 51-705 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                           3


   exercising criminal jurisdiction over their personnel under the provisions of the Act or
   applicable international agreements.       The directorate which carries out TJAG's
   responsibilities is AF/JAO.
   2.2. To assist AF/JAO in carrying out these responsibilities, MAJCOM SJAs will:
      2.2.1. Establish appropriate channels and procedures for receiving and forwarding
      friendly foreign forces’ and sending states’ requests for assistance, interpretation, and
      waivers.
      2.2.2. Assist the friendly foreign forces and sending states in their contacts with
      authorities of the United States and its political subdivisions.
   2.3. Friendly foreign force or sending state commanders will submit assistance requests to
   the commander of the installation which serves as the host installation for the friendly foreign
   force or force of a sending state. The host installation commander will provide all necessary
   assistance consistent with this instruction and within capability. (T-0) When it is impractical
   to give assistance (for example, the apprehension of a friendly foreign force or sending state
   member not in the local area), the host installation commander may communicate directly
   with the appropriate United States Armed Forces installation commander in fulfilling the
   request.
3. Apprehension.
   3.1. When the friendly foreign force or sending state commander makes a specific request
   for apprehension and when the installation commander concerned approves the
   apprehension, any member or civilian employee of the Air Force Security Forces or Air
   Force Office of Special Investigations who is authorized to apprehend United States military
   personnel may also apprehend a friendly foreign force or sending state member..
   3.2. Requests for apprehension before trial will contain the following information and be
   addressed to the host installation commander:
      3.2.1. A full description of the person to be apprehended, along with a statement that the
      person is a member of a friendly foreign force or force of a sending state and is subject to
      the jurisdiction of its service court for the offense allegedly committed;
      3.2.2. A factual description of the offense allegedly committed by the person to be
      apprehended;
      3.2.3. The name, address, and telephone numbers of the friendly foreign force or sending
      state officer to be contacted if the person is apprehended.
      3.2.4. Citation to the provisions of the Act or international agreement authorizing the
      apprehension.
   3.3. The SJA will seek guidance promptly from AF/JAO when compliance with the request
   for apprehension is considered inadvisable or when the person to be apprehended is a United
   States national or ordinarily resident in the United States. (T-0)
   3.4. The host installation commander will coordinate the apprehension with appropriate
   civilian authorities, if the friendly foreign force or sending state member's alleged offense
   involves substantial local interest, or if the assistance of civilian authorities is advisable. (T-
   0)
 4                                                               AFI 51-705 9 OCTOBER 2014


4. Confinement.
     4.1. Pretrial Confinement.
        4.1.1. A friendly foreign force or sending state commander may request in writing the
        confinement of one of its members prior to trial. All detention or confinement shall be at
        the sole expense of the friendly foreign force or the force of the sending state concerned.
        Address the request to the host installation commander and include the same information
        required by paragraph 3.2. If the installation commander approves the request, the
        installation commander or designated representative will authorize the pretrial
        confinement by signing a DD Form 2707, Confinement Order. See AFI 31-205, The
        Air Force Corrections System, for further information on confinement orders.
        4.1.2. The installation commander, upon advice of the SJA, will release the prisoner if
        the friendly foreign force or force of a sending state does not take immediate steps to
        investigate the alleged offense and provide a prompt and speedy trial. (T-0) The
        Secretary of the Air Force (or designee) must approve any pretrial confinement exceeding
        45 days. The installation commander's SJA will report through MAJCOM channels to
        AF/JAO any pretrial confinement which reaches the 30th day. (T-0)
     4.2. Post-Trial Confinement.
        4.2.1. Prisoners sentenced to a term of imprisonment by a friendly foreign force or
        sending state service court may be confined in an Air Force corrections facility at the
        expense of the sending state. The friendly foreign force or sending state commander will
        submit a written request for post-trial confinement to the installation commander who has
        authority over the corrections facility. The request will attach documentary evidence,
        translated into English if necessary, of the service court's sentence.
        4.2.2. The Secretary of the Air Force (or designee) must authorize and designate a
        suitable place of confinement when a friendly foreign force or sending state prisoner is
        sentenced to a term of confinement exceeding 6 months.
     4.3. Rules and Policies for Confinement. The installation commander who has authority
     over the corrections facility will:
        4.3.1. Carry out the confinement of friendly foreign force or sending state prisoners in
        accordance with the rules and policies of AFI 31-205. (T-0)
        4.3.2. Not confine friendly foreign force or sending state prisoners in immediate
        association with United States armed forces prisoners, although both kinds of prisoners
        may be confined in the same facility. (T-0)
        4.3.3. Follow the requirements in AFI 31-205 for segregating male and female prisoners.
        (T-0)
        4.3.4. Accommodate requests for visitation by friendly foreign force or sending state
        representatives whenever feasible. If a visit does not occur for 30 days, contact friendly
        foreign force or sending state representatives and recommend a visit. To the extent
        consistent with facility security and available resources, accommodate efforts of friendly
        foreign force or sending state representatives to provide prisoners with culture-specific
        items, such as religious materials, reading materials, and food. (T-0)
AFI 51-705 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       5


       4.3.5. Refer requests for legal counsel to the friendly foreign force or sending state
       requesting the incarceration and to the servicing installation SJA. (T-0) United States
       military forces do not provide counsel or legal assistance to foreign prisoners. The
       friendly foreign force or force of a sending state provides counsel and legal assistance to
       any of its members in United States custody.
   4.4. Release From Confinement. Normally, the friendly foreign force or sending state
   commander will initiate the request for release from confinement by submitting a written
   request to the installation commander who has authority over the corrections facility. Only
   the installation commander or designated representative will release the prisoner by signing a
   DD Form 2718, Inmate’s Release Order. See AFI 31-205. (T-0)
5. Assistance to Friendly Foreign Force or Sending State Service Courts.
   5.1. The installation commander should make available the base courtroom or other suitable
   venue for the trial on the same basis as other base facilities are made available for friendly
   foreign force or sending state use. The United States and friendly foreign force or sending
   state commanders concerned should coordinate closely on security requirements for the trial.
   The friendly foreign force or sending state shall provide or pay for court reporting,
   interpreting, defense counsel, and any other trial-related services.
   5.2. The installation commander's SJA will provide a copy of the Act, this instruction, and
   any implementing directives to the friendly foreign force or sending state commander. The
   SJA will specifically advise concerning the assistance available to a friendly foreign force or
   sending state service court from a United States district court or equivalent United States
   court in a territory or possession (see 22 U.S.C. §§ 703 and 704). (T-0)
   5.3. Any trial by a friendly foreign force or sending state service court of an offense against
   a member of the civilian population of the United States shall be open to the public (unless
   security considerations require otherwise) and shall take place promptly in the United States
   within a reasonable distance from the place where the offense is alleged to have been
   committed, for the convenience of the witnesses.
6. Financial Responsibility. The requesting friendly foreign force or sending state is
responsible for all expenses incident to apprehension, confinement, trial, and attendance of
witnesses.
7. Reports.
   7.1. Responsibility for Reporting Incidents (Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Report, in
   JAGUARS). If a friendly foreign force or sending state member is involved in an incident
   under this instruction, the SJA for the first Air Force unit or organization who becomes
   aware of the incident will report the member's involvement immediately to AF/JAO, with
   information copies to the SJA at MAJCOM and any intermediate headquarters. (T-0) The
   reporting SJA will retain reporting responsibility, unless AF/JAO determines that another
   installation commander's SJA is better situated to obtain and submit information. Normally,
   the reporting will come from the installation which provides host support to the friendly
   foreign force or sending state member's unit.
 6                                                                 AFI 51-705 9 OCTOBER 2014


Exceptions are permissible when:
        7.1.1. The incident to be reported occurs at a significant distance from the home
        installation;
        7.1.2. The escape, death, or serious injury of the friendly foreign force or sending state
        member occurs at a corrections facility not at the home installation; or,
        7.1.3. Unusual circumstances dictate deviation.
     7.2. Contents of Reports. Reports will contain the following information as appropriate to
     the stage of the proceedings:
        7.2.1. Name, rank, and organization of the friendly foreign force or sending state
        member; (T-1)
        7.2.2. Identity of the friendly foreign force or sending state concerned; (T-1)
        7.2.3. Brief account of circumstances; (T-1)
        7.2.4. Identity and authority of person requesting apprehension or confinement; (T-1)
        7.2.5. Date, time, and place of member's apprehension and confinement; (T-1)
        7.2.6. If pretrial confinement, nature of the charges, date member was informed of
        charges, and expected release date; (T-1)
        7.2.7. If post-trial confinement, charges of which the member was convicted, date of
        trial, sentence of the court, anticipated corrections facility, and expected release date; (T-
        1)
        7.2.8. Identity and authority of person requesting release from detention or confinement;
        7.2.9. Identity and authority of person to whom prisoner is released; (T-1)
        7.2.10. Whether substantial local interest is involved or expected; and, (T-1)
        7.2.11. Any other pertinent information. (T-1)
     7.3. Frequency of Reports. Submit reports immediately after significant events. Examples
     of significant events include commission of offense, request for apprehension, apprehension,
     request for waiver, trial, confinement, escape, and release. Continue reports until the case is
     considered closed.




                                               CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               The Judge Advocate General
AFI 51-705 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                          7


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-7, International Law, certified current 23 April 2014
AFI 31-205, The Air Force Corrections System, 7 April 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, incorporating changes through
AFGM2014-01, 28 May 2014
DoDI 5525.03, Criminal Jurisdiction of Service Courts of Friendly Foreign Forces and Sending
States, 30 March 2006
Title 22, United States Code, Sections 701-706, Service Courts of Friendly Foreign Forces
Presidential Proclamation No. 3681, 30 Fed. Reg. 13049, 10 October 1965
Agreement Between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their
Forces [NATO SOFA], 19 June 1951, 4 United States Treaties 1792
Agreement Among the State Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and the Other States
Participating in the Partnership for Peace Regarding the Status of Their Forces [Partnership for
Peace SOFA], 19 June 1995, Treaties and Other International Acts Series 12666
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2707, Confinement Order
DD Form 2718, Inmate’s Release Order

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
DD—Department of Defense (for forms)
DoD—Department of Defense
JAGUARS—Judge Advocate General Unified Automated Reporting System
MAJCOM—Major Command
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 8                                                                AFI 51-705 9 OCTOBER 2014


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
The Act. Title 22, Code, Sections 701—706, Service Courts of Friendly Foreign Forces.
Applicable International Agreement—. An agreement that authorizes a sending state to
exercise criminal jurisdiction within the and imposes obligations on the United States that are
similar to those imposed under the Act. Foreign states which are parties to the NATO SOFA are
authorized to exercise service court jurisdiction pursuant to Article VII of that treaty, as are
parties to the Partnership for Peace SOFA.
Friendly Foreign Force.—Any military, naval, or air force of any friendly foreign state to
which the Act is made applicable by Presidential finding and declaration. On October 10, 1965,
the President declared to be a friendly foreign force.
Sending State.—The party to an applicable international agreement to which the force belongs.
Service Court. Any military, naval, or air force court, court—martial, or similar tribunal of
any friendly foreign force or sending state within the .
United States.—The , its territories, its insular possessions, and any other place subject to the
jurisdiction of the .
United States Political Subdivision.—Any state, territory, insular possession, county, parish,
city, municipality, or other political jurisdiction within a state, territory, or insular possession.
