BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-705
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              31 MARCH 1994

                                                                AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                                  Supplement 1
                                                                                   29 DECEMBER 1994
                                                                          Certified Current, 23 November 2010
                                                                                                        Law

                                                         JURISDICTION OF SERVICE COURTS OF
                                                           FRIENDLY FOREIGN FORCES IN THE
                                                                             UNITED STATES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/JAI (Maj J. Rueth)                                             Certified by: HQ USAF/JAI
                                                                                (Col Phillip A. Johnson)
Supersedes AFR 110-17, 8 May 1967.                                                               Pages: 7
                                                                                          Distribution: F

                                                (AFMC)
OPR: HQ AFMC/JAG (Col Craig L. Head)                                        Certified by: HQ AFMC/JA
                                                                           (Brig Gen James C. Roan, Jr.)
Supersedes AFR 110-17/AFMC Supplement 1,                                                        Pages: 1
           1 July 1992                                                                   Distribution: F

This instruction imp lements AFPD 51-7, International Law. It provides guidan ce and procedures for
assisting friendly foreign forces in interpreting and complying with Title 22, United States Code, Chapter
13, Service Courts of Friendly Foreign Forces ("the Act"), as implement ed by DoD Directive 5525.3,
Jurisdiction of Service Courts of Friendly Foreign Forces in the United States, August 18, 1966.

(AFMC) AFI 51-705, March 1994, is supplemented as follows:
(AFMC) This supplement imp lements AFPD 51-7, International Law, and AFI 51-705. It expands on
the guidance provided in the Air Force instruction, and applies to all offices of record within AFMC. Use
this with AFI 51-705, as supplemented. It does not appl y to the Air National Guar d or to US Air Force
Reserve Units and members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 51-7. It identifies the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) countries as authorized foreign states, requires mutual assistance in the arrest of foreign service
members and investigation of offenses, adds a reporting requirement for pretrial confinement cases of 30
2                                                   AFI51-705_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994


days or more, and requires installation commanders to provide certain resource assistance to foreign ser-
vice courts.
(AFMC) This supplement supersedes AFR 1 10-17/AFMC Sup 1, and provides updated instructions on
where to send requests for guidance.



1. Court Jurisdiction and Trial:
    1.1. Service Court Exclusive Jurisdiction. A friendly foreign force (FFF) has the exclusive right to
    exercise jurisdiction in the Unit ed States over offenses committed by its members which are punish-
    able by its laws, but not by the laws of the United States or any US political subdivision.
    1.2. Concurrent Jurisdiction. The United States, including any US political subdivision, and a FFF
    have concurrent jurisdiction over offenses punishable under the laws of both.
       1.2.1. Authorities of the United States and any US political subdivision have the primary right to
       exercise jurisdiction in any particular case, unless an international agreement governing the status
       of the FFF in the United States provides otherwise.
       1.2.2. The commander or designated representative of a FFF may request in writing a waiver of
       the primary right of the United States or any US political subdivision to exercise jurisdiction. No
       particular format is required.
    1.3. FFF Exclusive Jurisdiction. The NATO Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) grants a FFF the
    primary right to exercise jurisdiction in two instances:
        • The offense is solely against the property or security of the FFF, or solely against the person or
           property of another member of the FFF, or its civilian component or a dependent.
        • The offense arises out of any act or omission done in the performance of official duty.
    1.4. US Exclusive Jurisdiction. A FFF member may commit an offense not punishable by FFF laws,
    but punishable by the laws of the United S tates or a US political subdivision. S taff judge advocates
    (SJA) will report these cases expeditiously th rough major command (MAJ COM) channels to HQ
    USAF International and Operations Law Division (H Q USAF/JAI) to resolve the potential legal and
    political issues, if possible, before US exclusive jurisdiction is exercised.
    1.5. Responsibilities. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG), USAF, is the designated agent to assist
    FFFs in interpreting and complying with the provisions of the Act. The directorate which carries out
    TJAG's responsibilities is HQ USAF/JAI. To assist in carrying out these responsibilities, MAJCOM
    SJAs will:
       1.5.1. Establish appropriate channels and procedures for receiving and fo rwarding FFF requests
       for assistance, interpretation, and waivers.
       1.5.1. (AFMC) Send requests for guidance dire ctly to the Office of the Judge Advocate General
       (HQ USAF/JAI) with an information copy to AFMC/JAG.
       1.5.2. Assist the FFFs in their contacts with author ities of the United States and any US political
       subdivisions.
       1.5.3. Ensure uniformity of policy and procedure among installations of their respective MAJ-
       COMs.
AFI51-705_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994                                                                     3


  1.6. Requests for Assistance. FFF commanders will submit assistance requests to the commander of
  the installation which serves as the host installation for the FFF. The host installation commander will
  provide all necessary assistance consistent with this instruction and with in capability. When it is
  impractical to give assistance (for example, the apprehension of a FFF member not in the local area),
  the host installation commander may communicate directly with the appr opriate US Armed Forces
  installation commander in fulfilling the request.
  1.7. Apprehension:
     1.7.1. US and FFF authorities will assist each othe r in the arrest of me mbers of the FFF and in
     handing them over to the authority which is to exercise criminal jurisdiction. The authorities will
     also assist each other in carrying out all necessary investigations into offenses and in the collection
     and production of evidence, including the seizure and, in proper cases, the handing over of objects
     connected with an offense.
         1.7.1.1. Apprehension of FFF Member. (22 U.S.C. 702) Any member or civilian employee
         of the Air Force Security Police or Air Force Of fice of Special Investigations who is autho-
         rized to apprehend US military per sonnel may also apprehend a FFF member when the FFF
         commander makes a specific request for appreh ension and when the installation commander
         concerned approves the apprehension.
     1.7.2. Requests for appr ehension before trial will contain the following information and be
     addressed to the host installation commander:
         1.7.2.1. A full description of the person to be a pprehended, along with a statement that the
         person is a member of a FFF and is subject to the jurisdiction of its service court for the offense
         allegedly committed.
         1.7.2.2. A factual description of the of fense allegedly committed by the person to be appre-
         hended.
         1.7.2.3. The name, address, and telephone numbers (work, cellular, fax, and home, as applica-
         ble) of the FFF officer to be contacted if the person is apprehended.
     1.7.3. Seek guidance promptly from HQ USAF/JAI when compliance with the request for appre-
     hension is considered inadvisable, or when the person to be apprehended is a US national or ordi-
     narily resident in the United States.
     1.7.4. The host installation commander will coordinate the apprehension with appropriate civilian
     authorities, if the FFF member's alleged offense involves substantial local interest, or if the assis-
     tance of civilian authorities is advisable.
  1.8. Requests for Counsel. US military forces do not provide coun sel or legal assistance to foreign
  prisoners. Whoever receives such a request will foward it to the FFF requesting the incarceration and
  to the servicing installation SJA. The FFF provides counsel and legal assistance to any FFF member
  in US custody.
  1.9. Pretrial Confinement:
     1.9.1. A FFF commander may request in writing the confinement of a FFF member prior to trial.
     Address the request to the host installation commander and include the same information required
     by paragraph 1.7.1.2. If the installation commander approves the requ est, the installation com-
     mander or designated representative will authorize the pretrial confinement by signing a DD Form
4                                                   AFI51-705_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994


       497, Confinement Order. See AFI 31-205, The Air Force Corrections Program, for furt her
       information on confinement orders.
       1.9.2. The installation commander will release the prisoner, if the FFF does not take immediate
       steps to investigate the alleged of fense and provi de a prompt and speedy tr ial. The Secretary of
       the Air Force (or designee) must approve any pretrial confinement exceeding 45 days. The instal-
       lation commander's SJA will report through MAJC OM channels to HQ USAF/JAI any pretrial
       confinement which reaches the 30th day.
    1.10. Assistance to FFF Service Courts:
       1.10.1. The installation commander w ill make available the base courtroom or other sui table
       venue for the trial on the same ba sis as other base faci lities are made available for FFF use. The
       US and FFF commanders concerned will coordinate closely on security requirements for the trial.
       The FFF will provide or pay for court reporti ng, interpreting, defense counsel, and any other
       trial-related services.
       1.10.2. The installation commander's SJA will provide a copy of the Act, this instruction, and any
       implementing directives to the FFF commander. The SJA will specifically advise of the provi-
       sions of 22 U.S.C. 703 and 704 conc erning the assistance available to a FFF service court from a
       US district court or equivalent US court in a territory or possession.
    1.11. Post-Trial Confinement:
       1.11.1. Prisoners sentenced to a term of imprisonment by a FFF service court may be confined in
       an Air Force corrections fac ility (22 U.S.C. 705). The FF F commander will submit a written
       request for post-trial confinement to the installation commander who has authority over the cor-
       rections facility. The re quest will attach documentary evidence, translated into English if neces-
       sary, of the service court's sentence.
       1.11.2. The Secretary of the Air Force (or designee) must authorize and designate a sui table place
       of confinement when a FFF prisoner is sentenced to a term of confinement exceeding 6 months.
    1.12. Rules and Policies for Confinement. The installation commander who has authority over the
    corrections facility will:
       1.12.1. Carry out the confinement of FFF prisoners in accordance with the rules and policies of
       AFI 31-205.
       1.12.2. Not confine FFF prisoners in immediate association with US Armed Forces prisoners,
       although both kinds of prisoners may be confined in the same facility.
       1.12.3. Follow the requirements in AFI 31-205 for segregating male and female prisoners.
       1.12.4. Accommodate requests for visitation by FFF representatives whenever feasible. If a visit
       does not occur for 30 days, contact FFF representatives and recommend a visit. To the extent con-
       sistent with facility security and available resources, accommodate efforts of FFF representatives
       to provide prisoners with culture-specific items, such as religious materials, reading materials, and
       food.
    1.13. Release From Confinement. Normally, the FFF comm ander will initiate the request for
    release from confinement by sub mitting a written reques t to the installati on commander who has
AFI51-705_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994                                                                  5


  authority over the corrections facility. Only the installation commander or designated representative
  will release the prisoner by signing a DD Form 367, Prisoner's Release Order. See AFI 31-205.
  1.14. Financial Responsibility (22 U.S.C. 703 & 705). The requesting FFF is responsible for all
  expenses incident to apprehension, confinement, trial, and attendance of witnesses. See Section 703
  concerning mileage rates and witness fees.
  1.15. Responsibility for Reporting Incidents ( Friendly Foreign Forces Incident Report, RCS:
  HAF-JAI [AR] 9381).
     1.15.1. If a FFF member is involved in an incident under this instruction, the SJA for the first Air
     Force installation commander who becomes aware of th e incident will report the member's
     involvement immediately by message or fax to HQ USAF/JAI, with information copies to the SJA
     at MAJCOM and any intermediate headquarters. The reporting SJA will retain reporting respon-
     sibility, unless HQ USAF/JAI determines that another installation commander's SJA is better situ-
     ated to obtain and submit information. Normally , the reporting will come from the installation
     which provides host support to the FFF member's unit. Exceptions are permissible when:
         • The incident to be reported occurs at a significant distance from the home installation.
         • The escape, death, or serious injury of the FFF member occurs at a corrections facility not
              at the home installation.
         • Unusual circumstances dictate deviation.
  1.16. Reports:
     1.16.1. Contents of Reports. Reports will contain the following inf ormation as appr opriate to
     the stage of the proceedings.
         • Name, rank, and organization of FFF member.
         • Identity of FFF concerned.
         • Brief account of circumstances.
         • Identity and authority of person requesting apprehension or confinement.
         • Date, time, and place of member's apprehension and confinement.
         • If pretrial confinement, nature of the charges, date member was informed of charges, and
             expected release date.
         • If post-trial confinement, char ges of which th e member was convicted, date of trial, sen-
             tence of the court, anticipated corrections facility, and expected release date.
         • Identity and authority of person requesting release from detention or confinement.
         • Identity and authority of person to whom prisoner is released.
         • Whether substantial local interest is involved or expected.
         • Any other pertinent information.
     1.16.2. Frequency of Reports. The installation commander concerned submits reports immedi-
     ately after significant events. Examples include commission of offense, request for apprehension,
     apprehension, request for waiver , trial, confinement, escape, and release. Continue reports until
     the case is considered closed.
6                                           AFI51-705_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994


    1.16.3. Discontinue reporting during emergency conditions. Do not se nd by message during
    MINIMIZE.




                               NOLAN SKLUTE, Maj General, USAF
                               The Judge Advocate General

                               (AFMC)

                               JAMES C. ROAN, JR., Brig Gen, USAF
                               Staff Judge Advocate
AFI51-705_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994                                                                      7


                                              Attachment 1

                             BASIC TERMS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

A1.1. The Act. Title 22, United States Code, Chapter 13, Service Courts of Friendly Foreign Forces.

A1.2. Authorized Foreign States:
   A1.2.1. Foreign states which are part ies to the NATO SOFA are authorized to exercise service court
   jurisdiction pursant to Article VII of that treaty. The NATO SOFA is published in volume 4 of United
   States Treaties and Other International Agreements (4 UST 1792; TIAS 2846; 199 UNTS 67).
   A1.2.2. To date, the President has designated only one other friendly foreign state, Australia, to which
   the Act is applicable. The finding and declaration are in Presidential Proclamation No. 3681, October
   10, 1965. A recently concluded agr eement with Singapore will require similar Presidential action, if
   the Government of Singapore so requests.

A1.3. Friendly Foreign Force. Any military, naval, or air force of any friendly foreign state to which the
Act is made applicable by Presidential finding and declaration.

A1.4. Service Court. Any military, naval, or air force court, court-martial, or similar tribunal of any FFF
within the United States.

A1.5. United States. The United States, its territories, its insular possessions, and any other place subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States.

A1.6. US Political Subdivision. Any state, territory, insular possession, county, parish, city, municipal-
ity, or other political jurisdiction within any state, territory, or insular possession.
