                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                              HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                     WASHINGTON DC 20330




                                                                     AFI51-1301_AFGM2014-01
                                                                                 30 April 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: HQ USAF/JA
      1240 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington, DC 20330

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 51-1301, Judge Advocate Continuation
         Pay (JACP) Program

       By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this is an Air Force Guidance Memorandum
immediately changing AFI 51-1301, Judge Advocate Continuation Pay (JACP) Program.
Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. This Memorandum implements Air Force
Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-13, Judge Advocate Special and Incentive Pay Programs. This
guidance requires no wing or unit level compliance. To the extent its directions are inconsistent
with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-
360, Publications and Forms Management. There are no releasability restrictions on this
guidance. This guidance only applies to active duty judge advocates who meet the eligibility
requirements set forth within.

       Ensure that all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
Memorandum are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This
Memorandum requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974, System of Records Notices (SORN) F033 AF B, Privacy Act Request File and F051 AFJA
C, Judge Advocate Personnel. Changes include that the Director, Professional Development
Directorate is the final approval or disapproval authority for JACP contracts and any
modifications or waivers.

Current guidance in AFI 51-1301 remains in effect with the following changes:

Change to 1.1 Determining Eligibility. The Professional Development Directorate, Office of
The Judge Advocate General (AF/JAX), determines whether a judge advocate is eligible to
receive JACP. To be eligible for JACP, a judge advocate must:

Change to 1.4. JACP Recoupment. Judge advocates who fail to complete their ADSC are
subject to recoupment, unless waived by the Secretary, of a prorated portion of the cost of the
continuation pay IAW Title 37 United States Code Section 373.
Change to 1.5. Release from JACP-Incurred ADSC. A judge advocate seeking to separate
from the Air Force prior to completing a JACP ADSC must submit a waiver request in
accordance with AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC).

Change to 1.6. Director, Professional Development Directorate (AF/JAX). The Director,
Professional Development Directorate will administer the continuation pay program and will
execute continuation pay contracts and, where appropriate, grant exceptions, modifications or
waivers.

Change to 2.1.1 Judge advocates who meet the requirements of paragraph 1.1. become eligible
for JACP in accordance with Table 1.1. Eligible judge advocates may apply for JACP through
the Continuation Pay Management System (CPMS). The applicant will then print out a contract
through CPMS, sign it, and forward it by fax or scanned copy to AF/JAX for the Director,
Professional Development Directorate’s signature. JAX may prescribe alternate procedures on a
case-by-case basis.

Change to 2.2.2.3. The applicant must be counseled on the reasons for the disapproval
recommendation. The JACP supervisor recommending that a JACP application be disapproved
must provide the applicant with a copy of the disapproval memorandum and have the applicant
sign a written acknowledgment of receipt. Applicants may submit a rebuttal to the disapproval
memorandum within 5 duty days. The JACP supervisor may grant reasonable extensions to the
5-duty day response time period. If no rebuttal is received within 5 duty days, or approved
extension thereof, the applicant forfeits any opportunity to respond. If the applicant provides a
rebuttal to the disapproval memorandum, the JACP supervisor may further comment on the
merits of the applicant's submission. However, if the JACP supervisor includes additional
matters not previously provided to the applicant, the applicant must be provided a copy of the
new information and allowed an additional 5 duty days to respond. Forward the disapproval
recommendation documents and rebuttal (if any), through all intermediate levels of the Air Force
judge advocate supervisory chain to the Director, Professional Development Directorate for final
action.

Change to 2.2.4.1. Verify that each applicant is eligible for JACP and that each contract is
complete and accurate before final action.

Change to 2.2.4.3. Update ADSCs as required upon approval of the contract.

Atch 1, GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION,
Terms
Change to JACP Approval Authority—The Director, Professional Development Directorate is
the final approval authority for JACP.

Change to JACP Contract—An eligible judge advocate’s written agreement, signed by the
judge advocate, and accepted by the Director, Professional Development Directorate on behalf of
the Air Force in accordance with the terms of this AFI, to remain on active duty for a specified
period of time in exchange for a certain amount of JACP. Once signed, it becomes a legal
agreement between the United States and the judge advocate. The Director, Professional

                                                2
Development Directorate’s acceptance of the JACP contract is also approval of the JACP
application.

Change to Attachment 2

                                          Attachment 2

                    SAMPLE JACP DISAPPROVAL MEMORANDUM

                                                                                             [date]
MEMORANDUM FOR [APPLICANT]

FROM: [JACP supervisor]

SUBJECT: Notification for Recommended Disapproval of Judge Advocate Continuation Pay
(JACP)

       I recommend disapproval of your request for JACP based on [explain reasons here]. A
copy of this memorandum is attached to your contract and will be forwarded through
intermediate judge advocate channels to AF/JAX. The Director, Professional Development
Directorate, is the final decision authority for your JACP contract request.

        You may submit a rebuttal to accompany my recommendation. You must submit your
rebuttal to me within 5 duty days from the date you receive and endorse this memorandum. If
you do not submit a rebuttal to me within 5 duty days, your JACP request and this disapproval
memorandum will be forwarded through all intermediate judge advocate channels to AF/JAX for
final processing.

       Sign and date acknowledging that you received this memorandum. Indicate in your
indorsement if you intend to submit a rebuttal.

                                                       [signature]
                                                       [typed name and grade of JACP supervisor]
Attachment(s): [as required]

                                                                                             [date]

1st Ind [functional address symbol of applicant]

TO: [JACP supervisor]

       I acknowledge receipt of your recommended disapproval of JACP. I (will) (will not)
submit a written rebuttal.

                                                       [signature]
                                                       [typed name and grade of applicant]

                                                   3
        The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after 1 year has elapsed from the date
of this Memorandum, or upon incorporation by interim change to, or a rewrite of AFI 51-1301,
whichever is earlier.




                                           ROBERT G. KENNY
                                           Major General, USAFR
                                           Performing Duties of The Judge Advocate General




                                              4
BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-1301
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          15 JANUARY 2008
                                                                         Certified Current 8 March 2010
                                                                                                  LAW

                                                              JUDGE ADVOCATE CONTINUATION
                                                                        PAY (JACP) PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the E-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/JAXE                                          Certified by: AF/JAX (Colonel Tonya Hagmaier)
Supersedes AFI51-1301, 1 July 2004                                                        Pages: 10

This instruction sets eligibility requirements and governs the judge advocate continuation pay (JACP)
program for all Air Force judge advocates. This program does not apply to Air Force Reserve or Air
National Guard judge advocates. This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-13,
Judge Advocate Incentive and Special Pay Programs.
This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974. Title 37 United States Code (U.S.C.) Section 321 authorizes collection and maintenance of the
information; System of Records Notice, T7340, Defense Joint Military Pay System-Active Component
applies. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT
847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accor-
dance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This version supersedes
AFI 51-1301, dated 1 July 2004. Major changes include the following: prescribes the Continuation Pay
Management System (CPMS) as the means of applying for JACP, simplifies the JACP application coor-
dination process to reflect the use of CPMS, requires attorneys in the application coordination chain who
recommend disapproval of an application to notify AF/JAX immediately, shortens the disapproval recom-
mendation response period from 14 calendar days to 5 duty days, and eliminates the requirement that the
Chief, AF/JAX, prepare and submit an indorsement memorandum when acting as a JACP supervisor.
2                                                                     AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008


                                                Chapter 1

                                       PROGRAM ELEMENTS

1.1. Determining Eligibility. The Office of Professional Development, Office of The Judge Advocate
General (AF/JAX), determines whether a judge advocate is eligible to receive JACP. To be eligible for
JACP, a judge advocate must:
    1.1.1. Be an Air Force officer on full-time active duty.
    1.1.2. Be qualified, designated, and serving as a judge advocate as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 801.
    1.1.3. Have completed the active duty service commitment (ADSC) incurred upon initial entry into
    The Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the United States Air Force.
    1.1.4. Not have an approved retirement or separation date (approved retirement or separation dates
    may be withdrawn prior to submitting an application for JACP).
    1.1.5. Not have participated in the Funded Legal Education Program.
    1.1.6. Be within an eligibility window listed in Table 1.1.

1.2. JACP Active Duty Service Commitment.
    1.2.1. Judge advocates with approved JACP contracts incur an ADSC equal to the JACP contract
    length. For example, judge advocates who enter into two-year JACP contracts incur two-year ADSCs;
    and judge advocates entering into four-year contracts incur four-year ADSCs. Unless otherwise spec-
    ified in Air Force Instructions, JACP ADSCs will be served concurrently with any non-JACP ADSCs
    and consecutively to any existing JACP ADSC.
    1.2.2. Judge advocates entering into JACP contracts are not guaranteed continued active duty military
    service. For example, a judge advocate who has been twice deferred for promotion may be separated
    before fulfilling his or her JACP ADSC. The recoupment provisions in paragraph 1.4. will apply.

1.3. JACP Contract Payment Rates, Length, and Proration. Eligible judge advocates may receive not
more than $60,000 in JACP payments. Payment of applicable federal and state income taxes is the respon-
sibility of the JACP recipient. All payments made will be in lump sum amounts in accordance with Table
1.1.
AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008                                                                          3


Table 1.1. JACP Contract Availability.
Status of Judge Advocate Contract Length            Lump Sum Amount       If No JACP
(Eligibility Window)     Available                  Paid for Contract     Application
                                                                          Submitted During
                                                                          Eligibility Window
Has completed 4 years       2 years                 $20,000               Eligible for $40,000
TAFCS and is within 30                                                    contract at 6 years
days before or 30 days                                                    TAFCS
after completion of initial
ADSC incurred upon
entry into the JAG Corps
(see Note 1)
Is within 30 days before   4 years                  $40,000               No further eligibility
or 30 days after 6 years
TAFCS
Is within 30 days before   3 years                  $30,000               No further eligibility
or 30 days after 7 years
TAFCS and has not
entered into a JACP
contract previously (see
Note 2)
Is within 30 days before   2 years                  $20,000               No further eligibility
or 30 days after 8 years
TAFCS and has not
entered into a JACP
contract previously (see
Note 2)
Has existing JACP          Contact AF/JAX           Contact AF/JAX        Contact AF/JAX
contract that was signed
between 1 October 2001
and 30 June 2004

NOTES:
  1. This option applies only to judge advocates accessed into the JAG Corps through the Direct
     Appointment Program, One-Year College Program, Graduate Law Program, or Educational Delay
     Program or who otherwise enter the JAG Corps with no prior commissioned service.
   2. This option only applies to judge advocates accessed into the JAG Corps with prior commis-
      sioned service who enter the JAG Corps through intraservice or interservice transfer, the Direct
      Appointment Program, the Excess Leave Program, recall, and any other such program (except for
      the Funded Legal Education Program) where the judge advocate enters the JAG Corps with prior
      commissioned service.
4                                                                     AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008


1.4. JACP Recoupment. AF/JAX initiates JACP recoupment in accordance with 37 U.S.C. § 321 when a
judge advocate fails to complete a JACP ADSC for any reason except the judge advocate’s death occur-
ring in the line of duty or as waived by the Secretary of the Air Force. Recoupment will be an amount that
bears the same ratio to the total JACP payment made to the officer as the unserved portion of active duty
bears to the total period of active duty the officer agreed to serve in exchange for JACP.

1.5. Release from JACP-Incurred ADSC. A judge advocate seeking to separate from the Air Force prior
to completing a JACP ADSC must submit a waiver request through his or her respective Air Force judge
advocate supervisory chain to The Judge Advocate General (TJAG). Such requests will not be granted
absent unusual and compelling circumstances. If unusual and compelling circumstances convince TJAG
to waive any part of a JACP ADSC, the recoupment provisions of paragraph 1.4. will apply.

1.6. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG). TJAG is the final approval or disapproval authority for JACP
contracts and any modifications.
AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008                                                                              5


                                               Chapter 2

                                       APPLYING FOR JACP

2.1. Judge Advocates. Review this instruction before requesting counseling from JACP supervisors.
JACP is not an entitlement, and its provision is subject to the approval of TJAG. While AF/JAX will
attempt to contact JACP-eligible judge advocates concerning JACP, the burden rests on the individual
judge advocate to confirm JACP eligibility with AF/JAX.
   2.1.1. Judge advocates who meet the requirements of paragraph 1.1. become eligible for JACP in
   accordance with Table 1.1. Eligible judge advocates may apply for JACP through the Continuation
   Pay Management System (CPMS). The applicant will then print out a contract through CPMS, sign it,
   and forward it by fax or scanned copy to AF/JAX for TJAG’s signature. JAX may prescribe alternate
   procedures on a case-by-case basis.

2.2. Processing JACP Applications.
   2.2.1. JACP Supervisor. When a judge advocate applies for JACP, CPMS sends the application to the
   applicant’s JACP supervisor for coordination (see Attachment 1 - Terms for examples of JACP
   supervisors). Upon notification, the JACP supervisor will enter CPMS and recommend the applica-
   tion be approved or disapproved.
   2.2.2. Recommending Disapproval.
       2.2.2.1. Reasons for recommending disapproval of a judge advocate’s request include, but are not
       limited to the following:
          2.2.2.1.1. Potential or ongoing criminal investigation by military or civilian authorities.
          2.2.2.1.2. Potential or ongoing involuntary separation action under AFI 36-3206, Administra-
          tive Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, or AFI 36-3207, Separating Commis-
          sioned Officers.
          2.2.2.1.3. Misconduct or substandard duty performance rendering the officer a poor candidate
          for retention on active duty.
       2.2.2.2. Select the disapproval option in CPMS only after contacting AF/JAX. Prepare a memo-
       randum explaining why the judge advocate’s JACP application should be disapproved (see
       Attachment 2), and attach any pertinent documents.
       2.2.2.3. The applicant must be counseled on the reasons for the disapproval recommendation. The
       JACP supervisor recommending that a JACP application be disapproved must provide the appli-
       cant with a copy of the disapproval memorandum and have the applicant sign a written acknowl-
       edgment of receipt. Applicants may submit a rebuttal to the disapproval memorandum within 5
       duty days. The JACP supervisor may grant reasonable extensions to the 5-duty day response time
       period. If no rebuttal is received within 5 duty days, or approved extension thereof, the applicant
       forfeits any opportunity to respond. If the applicant provides a rebuttal to the disapproval memo-
       randum, the JACP supervisor may further comment on the merits of the applicant's submission.
       However, if the JACP supervisor includes additional matters not previously provided to the appli-
       cant, the applicant must be provided a copy of the new information and allowed an additional 5
       duty days to respond. Forward the disapproval recommendation documents and rebuttal (if any),
6                                                                     AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008


       through all intermediate levels of the Air Force judge advocate supervisory chain to TJAG for
       final action.
    2.2.3. Judge Advocate Supervisory Chain. After the applicant’s JACP supervisor coordinates on the
    application, CPMS forwards the application through the remainder of the judge advocate supervisory
    chain for coordination. In most instances, this includes the general court-martial convening authority
    staff judge advocate and the MAJCOM or equivalent staff judge advocate. Each attorney in the judge
    advocate supervisory chain will review the forwarded application and recommend its approval or dis-
    approval. If at any point in the judge advocate supervisory chain a recommendation for disapproval is
    made, the provisions of paragraph 2.2.2. shall apply with respect to the individual making the initial
    disapproval recommendation.
    2.2.4. AF/JAX. As the office of primary responsibility, AF/JAX will do the following:
       2.2.4.1. Verify each applicant’s eligibility and that each contract is complete and accurate before
       taking it to TJAG for approval.
       2.2.4.2. Forward all approved JACP contract payment information to the Defense Finance and
       Accounting Service.
       2.2.4.3. Update ADSCs as required upon TJAG’s approval of the contract.
       2.2.4.4. Retain completed (approved and disapproved) JACP contracts and all allied documents in
       accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008                                                                   7


                                            Chapter 3

                                       ADOPTED FORMS

3.1. AF Form 399, Request for Action on Implementation of Higher Headquarters Publications
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                           JACK L. RIVES, Major General, USAF
                                           The Judge Advocate General
8                                                                   AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, U.S.C., Section 801
Title 37, U.S.C., Section 321
AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers
AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADSC—Active Duty Service Commitment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
CPMS—Continuation Pay Management System
JACP—Judge Advocate Continuation Pay
JAG Corps—The Judge Advocate General’s Corps
JAX—Professional Development Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TAFCS—Total Active Federal Commissioned Service
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Continuation Pay Management System—The web-based program that notifies judge advocates of their
JACP eligibility, allows judge advocates to apply for JACP, and forwards the application through the
judge advocate supervisory chain for coordination.
JACP Approval Authority—TJAG is the final approval authority for JACP.
JACP Contract—An eligible judge advocate’s written agreement, signed by the judge advocate, and
accepted by TJAG on behalf of the Air Force, to remain on active duty for a specified period of time in
exchange for a certain amount of JACP. Once signed, it becomes a legal agreement between the United
States and the judge advocate. TJAG’s acceptance of the JACP contract is also approval of the JACP
application.
JACP Supervisor—The attorney who counsels JACP applicants and makes the initial recommendation
for approval or disapproval of a judge advocate’s JACP application. Ordinarily, the JACP supervisor is
AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008                                                                           9


the JACP-eligible judge advocate’s rater. At a typical Air Force installation legal office, the SJA is
normally the JACP supervisor. For judge advocates assigned as area defense counsel, the senior defense
counsel is the JACP supervisor. For judge advocates assigned as senior defense counsel, the Chief,
AFLOA/JAJD is the JACP supervisor. For those assigned as senior trial counsel, the Chief, AFLOA/
JAJG is the JACP supervisor. For those assigned to The Judge Advocate General’s School, the
Commandant is the JACP supervisor. For all other judge advocates assigned to the Air Force Legal
Operations Agency and judge advocates assigned to Headquarters, United States Air Force, the respective
division chief is the JACP supervisor. For all others, the Chief, AF/JAX is the JACP supervisor. In
atypical situations, AF/JAX will designate a JACP supervisor.
10                                                                   AFI51-1301 15 JANUARY 2008


                                             Attachment 2

                        SAMPLE JACP DISAPPROVAL MEMORANDUM
                                                                                                   [date]
MEMORANDUM FOR [APPLICANT]
FROM: [JACP supervisor]
SUBJECT: Notification for Recommended Disapproval of Judge Advocate Continuation Pay (JACP)
       I recommend disapproval of your request for JACP based on [explain reasons here]. A copy of this
memorandum is attached to your contract and will be forwarded through intermediate judge advocate
channels to AF/JAX. The Judge Advocate General of the Air Force is the final decision authority for your
JACP contract request.
        You may submit a rebuttal to accompany my recommendation. You must submit your rebuttal to
me within 5 duty days from the date you receive and endorse this memorandum. If you do not submit a
rebuttal to me within 5 duty days, your JACP request and this disapproval memorandum will be for-
warded through all intermediate judge advocate channels to AF/JAX for final processing.
       Sign and date acknowledging that you received this memorandum. Indicate in your indorsement if
you intend to submit a rebuttal.


                                                    [signature]
                                                    [typed name and grade of JACP supervisor]
Attachment(s): [as required]




                                                                                                   [date]
1st Ind [functional address symbol of applicant]
TO: [JACP supervisor]
        I acknowledge receipt of your recommended disapproval of JACP. I (will) (will not) submit a writ-
ten rebuttal.
                                                    [signature]
                                                    [typed name and grade of applicant]
