BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 52-102,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  VOLUME 1

                                                                               19 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                        Chaplain

                                                                 CHAPLAIN PROFESSIONAL
                                                                          DEVELOPMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/HCP                                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/HC
                                                              (Ch, Maj Gen Howard D. Stendahl)
Supersedes: AFI52-102V1, 24 September 2007                                            Pages: 14


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 52-1, Chaplain Service. This
instruction applies to active duty, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard chaplains. It
outlines the Chief of Chaplains’ role in designating chaplains to serve on active duty and reserve
status. It directs procedures to ensure the Air Force Chaplain Corps Active and Reserve
components are structured and organized to meet mission requirements. Requests for waivers
must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration and
approval. This document includes information related to the Law of Armed Conflict, the Geneva
Conventions, Title 10, United States Code, Section 8067 (h) and the non-combatant status of
chaplains. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to AF/HCP, 1380
Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1380, using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate chain of command. Any organization may supplement this volume. Major
commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA) and direct reporting units (DRU) send
an electronic copy of each supplement to hcp.reachback@pentagon.af.mil.                      Other
organizations send one copy of each supplement to the next higher headquarters. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Note: Any reference to MAJCOMs
includes DRUs, FOAs and the Air Reserve Component (ARC).
 2                                                            AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include
reorganization of organizational responsibilities; adds the management of the chaplain candidate
program under the Air Force Reserve Command, Office of the Command Chaplain and
introduces procedures for changing ecclesiastical endorsement and withdrawing chaplain
designation.
1. Organizational Responsibilities.
     1.1. Functional Authority/ Chief of Chaplains (HQ USAF/HC). Provides strategic
     oversight of and corporate perspective to the total Chaplain Corps professional development
     program. Develops guidance for the professional development of chaplains under 10 USC §
     8067(h). Serves as a member of the Officer Force Development Panel (OFDP) and Air Force
     Council (AFC) and provides advice to the Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and
     Services (AF/A1) on Chaplain Corps force development.
     1.2. Functional Manager / Deputy Chief of Chaplains (HQ USAF/HC). Chairs the
     Chaplain Corps Education Oversight Board (CCEOB) and Development Team (DT).
     Publishes DT meeting minutes through the Air Force Portal. Notifies AF/A1PF of a newly
     appointed Chaplain Career Field Manager in accordance with AFI 36-2640, Executing Total
     Force Development.
     1.3. Career Field Manager (CFM) / Chief, Personnel, Budget and Readiness
     (AF/HCP). Provides central oversight for career field education and training in coordination
     with AETC/HC, Air University (AU) and Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT).
     Determines accession and training priorities in support of the vision and mission of the
     Chaplain Corps to ensure readiness through force development and participates in accession
     and training conferences. Reviews and validates Advanced Academic Degree (AAD) and
     Professional Continuing Education (PCE) requirements through the Air Force Education
     Requirement Board (AFERB) process (see AFI 36-2302, Professional Development
     (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional Continuing Education)). Provides functional
     oversight of Chaplain Recruiting (HQ AFRS/RSOCC) and the Air Force Personnel Center,
     Chaplain Force Development Branch (AFPC/DPANH); serves as a permanent voting
     member of the DT.
     1.4. Education and Training Officer (AETC/HC). Serves as the Academic Specialty
     Monitor on the AFERB Working Group.
     1.5. Air Force Chaplain Corps College (AFCCC). Implements AF/HC education and
     training requirements and develops all Chaplain Corps course content and design under the
     functional direction of AF/HCP.
     1.6. Air Force Reserve Command, Office of the Command Chaplain
     (AFRC/HC). Implements Air Force policy and guidance regarding programs pertaining to
     chaplains assigned to AFRC units, individual reserve programs, and the chaplain candidate
     program.
        1.6.1. Approves accessions of reserve component chaplains and chaplain candidates
        (including Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) and Participating Individual Ready
        Reserve (PIRR)).
AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013                                                                   3


     1.6.2. Recommends appointment and assignment of chaplains to AFRC unit
     commanders.
     1.6.3. Monitors training and inspection of chaplains as required.
     1.6.4. Manages the chaplain candidate program.
     1.6.5. Maintains ecclesiastical endorsements of chaplains who are in the Pre-trained
     Individual Manpower (PIM) pool to include the (a) Individual Ready Reserve (IRR), (b)
     Retired Reserve (active and Reserve), and (c) Standby Reserve (active and inactive).
     Requests chaplains in the PIM pool obtain endorsements when identified for recall.
  1.7. National Guard Bureau, Air National Guard, Office of the Director, Air National
  Guard Chaplain Corps (NGB/HC). Implements policy and guidance regarding programs
  pertaining to chaplains assigned to ANG units.
     1.7.1. Receives recommendations for appointment and assignment of chaplains from
     ANG Wing commanders and Wing Chaplains.
     1.7.2. Monitors training and inspection of chaplains as required.
  1.8. Chaplain Recruiting (HQ AFRS/RSOCC). Develops, implements and oversees a
  strategic accessions plan to recruit Religious Ministry Professionals (RMP) to meet Air Force
  requirements.
  1.9. Headquarters, Air Force Personnel Center, Chaplain Force Development Branch (HQ
  AFPC/DPANH).
     1.9.1. Oversees Active Component chaplain (Lt – Lt Col) assignments consistent with
     DT vectors.
     1.9.2. Coordinates promotion board membership.
  1.10. Wing/Installation Chaplain (WG/HC). Pursues professional development
  opportunities for assigned chaplains (T-1). Supports all aspects of Force Development (FD)
  through mentoring and documented feedback of subordinate chaplains (T-1). Supports
  chaplains attending required denominational/endorser conferences to remain in good
  standing with their respective denominational/endorser authorities (T-0).
  1.11. Functional Advisory Council / Chaplain Corps Council. Serves as the principal
  advisory body to the Chief of Chaplains and a venue for communication to all lower level
  echelons. Provides recommendations to the Chief of Chaplains regarding the effective
  development and utilization of chaplains to meet Air Force requirements. Meets
  semiannually in the spring and fall and additionally at the discretion of the Chief of
  Chaplains. Membership is determined by the Chief of Chaplains (see Chaplain Corps
  Council charter).
  1.12. Development Team (DT). Executes the guidance of the Chief of Chaplains and AF
  Force Development (A1D) and advises AF/HC. Reviews and recommends developmental
  vectors for all Lt through Lt Col chaplains on their Airmen Development Plan (ADP). DT
  membership includes:
     1.12.1. Career Field Manager (AF/HCP),
     1.12.2. Chief, Plans and Programs (AF/HCX),
 4                                                             AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013


        1.12.3. MAJCOM Command Chaplains,
        1.12.4. Chief, Chaplain Force Development Branch (AFPC/DPANH),
        1.12.5. Others determined by the Chief of Chaplains.
     1.13. Chaplain Corps Education Oversight Board (CCEOB). Advises the Chief of
     Chaplains on chaplain educational requirements to meet the operational needs of the AF,
     Chaplain Corps, and AF/HC strategic plan. Membership is determined by the Chief of
     Chaplains (see CCEOB charter). AETC/HC is the Vice-Chair of the CCEOB regarding
     development and implementation of education and training programs.
2. Chaplain Candidate Program
     2.1. Recruiting of Chaplain Candidates
        2.1.1. AFRC/HC recruits chaplain candidates to meet the needs of the Air Force Reserve,
        Air National Guard and Active Component Chaplain Corps for fully qualified chaplains.
        In cooperation with AF/HCP, AFRC/HC determines recruiting goals based on projected
        requirements. AFRC/HC develops career vectors to prepare chaplain candidates for
        chaplain positions in the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, or Active Component
        Air Force. Selection for a career vector does not guarantee appointment in the Active
        Component Air Force, Air National Guard, or Air Force Reserve upon completion of the
        Chaplain Candidate Program.
        2.1.2. Chaplain candidates may be eligible to receive a bonus, tuition assistance or other
        monetary incentives. Chaplain candidates who receive monetary incentives may incur a
        service obligation. See individual incentive program guidelines for details.
     2.2. Appointment of Chaplain Candidates. AFRC/HC approves and appoints chaplain
     candidates in accordance with AFI 36-2005, Appointment in Commissioned Grades and
     Designation and Assignment in Professional Categories – Reserve of the Air Force and
     United States Air Force, paragraph 5.4.
     2.3. Training of Chaplain Candidates.
        2.3.1. The Chaplain Candidate Program includes the following elements: Commissioned
        Officer Training (COT) IAW AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School (OTS) and Enlisted
        Commissioning Programs (ECPS), paragraph 3.17; Chaplain Candidate Course; and
        supervised training tours as determined by AFRC/HC.
        2.3.2. Chaplain candidates who are prior Air Force officers are not required to attend
        COT. Chaplain candidates coming from services other than the Air Force are required to
        attend COT.
        2.3.3. During supervised internships, chaplain candidates are introduced to all Total
        Force components (i.e. active, Guard, Reserve).
        2.3.4. Chaplain candidates are supervised by a chaplain in the grade of Captain or above
        during their internships.
        2.3.5. AFRC/HC may offer a mid-year symposium or other venue to the chaplain
        candidates in order to maintain training currency.
AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013                                                                      5


       2.3.6. Chaplain candidates are managed by AFRC/HC and are assigned to AFRC.
       AFRC/HCX publishes guidance for the Chaplain Candidate Program, except for COT
       waivers per AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School (OTS) and Enlisted Commissioning
       Programs (ECPS), paragraph 3.18. AFRC/HC is the approval authority for training
       waivers or training modifications.
       2.3.7. Chaplain Candidates who do not reappoint as chaplains within eight years from
       the time of their appointment shall be discharged.
   2.4. Reappointment of Chaplain Candidates.
       2.4.1. Chaplain candidates will be reappointed as chaplains in accordance with AFI 36-
       2005.
       2.4.2. Chaplain candidates who receive compensation in the form of a bonus, tuition
       assistance or other monetary incentives to train or for retention are bound to endorsement
       as chaplains in the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, or Active Air Force, unless
       they fail to qualify for endorsement, do not receive ecclesiastical endorsement, or are not
       accepted upon endorsement. Chaplain candidates who receive educational assistance,
       special pay, or bonus money and do not fulfill incurred service obligations are held to the
       same requirements for repayment as defined in AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge
       Procedures for Commissioned Officers.
3. Designating Chaplains. Only the Chief of Chaplains can designate an active duty or reserve
officer as a chaplain.
   3.1. Designation. To be designated as a chaplain by the Chief of Chaplains under Title 10
   United States Code, Section 8067 (h), the officer must satisfy the requirements set forth in
   DOD Directive 1304.19, Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments and DOD
   Instruction 1304.28 Guidance for the Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments
   (T-0).
       3.1.1. Undergraduate work (i.e., “advanced standing hours”) will not be counted toward
       the 72 semester hours (108 quarter hours) graduate-level educational requirement to be
       qualified as a chaplain applicant.
       3.1.2. For an active duty appointment, applicants must have two years of full-time
       religious leadership experience after graduate-level educational requirements are
       complete and is compatible with the duties of a RMP in their respective religious
       organization.
       3.1.3. Meets DOD and Air Force physical and medical standards and age requirements
       (see DOD Instruction 6130.03, Medical Standards for Appointment, Enlistment, or
       Induction in the Military Services; AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards
       and, for reserve chaplains, AFI 36-2005, Appointment in Commissioned Grades and
       Designation and Assignment in Professional Categories – Reserve of the Air Force and
       United States Air Force, Chapter 5).
   3.2. Air National Guard Chaplains (NGB/HC). The Air National Guard Readiness
   Center, Officer Programs Branch (NGB/A1P) selects and appoints applicants nominated by
   the various adjutants general for all categories of officers, from all sources, to fill ANG
 6                                                           AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013


     vacancies. NGB/A1P will obtain NGB/HC approval for all appointments (see AFI 36-2005,
     paragraph 1.15.).
     3.3. Statement of Ecclesiastical Endorsement. AFPC/DPANH maintains a valid DD Form
     2088, Statement of Ecclesiastical Endorsement, for each active duty chaplain. AFRC/HC
     maintains a valid DD Form 2088 for each reserve chaplain and approval letters for chaplain
     candidates. NGB/HC and JFHQ State maintains a valid DD Form 2088 for each ANG
     chaplain.
4. Professional Development. Professional development is essential in supporting Air Force
and Chaplain Corps mission requirements. The Air Force Chaplain Corps will create a rich
learning environment through a variety of educational programs and developmental opportunities
to prepare chaplains for senior leadership positions.
     4.1. Formal Training (Core Courses). Course descriptions, content and prerequisites are
     found in Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements at
     https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
        4.1.1. Basic Chaplain Course (BCC). RMPs assessed into the Chaplain Corps are
        required to successfully complete this in-residence course for the award of Air Force
        Specialty Code 52R3 (fully qualified chaplain). The BCC must be completed within 24
        months of accession (T-1).
     4.2. Professional Continuing Education (PCE). Chaplains attend PCE programs to
     enhance professional competencies and meet educational requirements for leadership level
     positions within the Chaplain Corps.
        4.2.1. Distance Learning Education (DLE). Eligible chaplains will register and complete
        DLE in order to fulfill the requirement for career progression and to enhance their
        professional competencies (T-1). The Basic Leadership Certificate (BLC) program is
        offered to all chaplains who have completed the Basic Chaplain Course (BCC) with a
        minimum of four years’ time in service. Successful completion of the BLC is a pre-
        requisite for enrollment in the Deputy Wing Chaplain Course (DWCC). Chaplains in the
        ARC who have not already completed the BLC will complete the course within one year
        of being assigned as a Deputy Wing Chaplain or an IMA to a Deputy Wing Chaplain (T-
        2).
        4.2.2. Deputy Wing Chaplain Course (DWCC). This course is a requirement for all
        chaplains based on the following prioritization (T-1):
            4.2.2.1. Any chaplain who has assumed the role of Deputy Wing Chaplain or IMA to
            the Deputy Wing Chaplain within the past 12 months.
            4.2.2.2. Any chaplain who is projected to assume the role of Deputy Wing Chaplain
            or IMA to the Deputy Wing Chaplain within the next 12 months.
            4.2.2.3. Any chaplain in the grade of Capt-Lt Col nominated by the appropriate
            MAJCOM.
        4.2.3. Wing Chaplain Course (WCC). This course is a requirement for all chaplains
        based on the following prioritization (T-1):
AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013                                                                     7


         4.2.3.1. Any chaplain who has assumed the role of Wing Chaplain or IMA to the
         Wing Chaplain within the past 12 months.
         4.2.3.2. Any chaplain vectored or projected to assume the role of Wing Chaplain or
         IMA to the Wing Chaplain within the next 12 months.
         4.2.3.3. Any chaplain in the grade of Maj-Col, to include major-selects, nominated
         by the appropriate MAJCOM.
     4.2.4. Senior Chaplain Course (SCC). This course is a requirement for all Chaplains
     based on the following prioritization (T-1):
         4.2.4.1. Any chaplain who has assumed the role as Command Chaplain or IMA to
         the Command Chaplain within the past 12 months.
         4.2.4.2. Any chaplain vectored or projected to assume the role of Command Chaplain
         or IMA to the Command Chaplain within the next 12 months.
         4.2.4.3. Any Deputy Command Chaplain or IMA to the Command Chaplain
         nominated by the appropriate Command Chaplain.
  4.3. Continuing Education. Continuing Education is any type of education that advances a
  specific capability; it may include workshops, seminars, home-study, online courses,
  conferences or reading professional related publications/journals.
  4.4. Developmental Education (DE). An array of educational opportunities comprised of
  professional and specialized education programs, research and doctrinal studies, fellowships
  and graduate-level studies that meet Air Force and Chaplain Corps requirements.
  Professional Military Education is a subset of DE and includes: Basic Development
  Education (BDE), Intermediate Development Education (IDE), and Senior Development
  Education (SDE). The DT nominates chaplains to attend PME in-residence and selects
  chaplains for other DE programs.
     4.4.1. Advanced Academic Degrees (AAD). An advanced academic degree required for
     a chaplain in the grade of Major and below to fully carry out duties and responsibilities
     associated with the performance of a particular job and are aligned with Air Force and
     Chaplain Corps mission requirements.
     4.4.2. Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE). The Air Force CPE program provides active
     duty chaplains clinical pastoral skills which enable them to serve effectively in
     assignments such as Air Force or multi-service medical facilities, Air Force Mortuary
     Affairs Office, Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facilities, contingency and trauma care
     operations, care stations, military confinement facilities, Basic Military Training, as well
     as other assignments requiring chaplains with a specified level of CPE training.
     4.4.3. Accreditation and Special Experience Identifier (SEI). The CPE program is
     accredited by the Association of Clinical Pastoral Education (ACPE). The one-year Air
     Force CPE program provides graduates with four units of CPE. Graduates of an Air
     Force CPE program and other chaplains who previously earned a minimum of four
     ACPE accredited units may apply for the SEI through their unit of assignment with
     endorsements from the appropriate MAJCOM/HC.
 8                                                              AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013


        4.4.4. Graduates of DE programs will serve at least one utilization tour based on mission
        requirements (T-1).
     4.5. Service Commitment. Chaplains must fulfill the service commitment incurred by
     participating in a chaplain specialized education program before they are eligible for another
     specialized education program.
     4.6. Vectoring and Mentoring. The DT will vector chaplains to serve in a variety of duty
     positions that promote professional development. Mentoring is an inherent responsibility of
     supervision and is an essential ingredient in developing well-rounded, professional and
     competent leaders to meet current and future mission requirements. Chaplains are
     encouraged to actively seek mentors both internal and external to the Chaplain Corps.
        4.6.1. Career Path Tool (CPT).
            4.6.1.1. Chaplains will use the CPT to track their career progression and
            development (T-2).
            4.6.1.2. The DT will use the CPT to identify chaplains with specific capabilities and
            vector them toward future appropriate responsibilities.
        4.6.2. Vectoring Eligibility. Chaplains who are Major selects through Lieutenant
        Colonel are vectored at the DT. Driving factors are: Time on Station, Date Eligible for
        Return from Overseas, Career Development and requests from MAJCOM/HCs.
5. Maintaining Designation. For entry into, award and retention of this specialty, ecclesiastical
endorsement from a religious organization recognized by the DoD Armed Forces Chaplains
Board is mandatory (see Air Force Officer Classification Directory, DoDI 1304.28, Guidance for
the Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments and AFI 36-2005, Appointment In
Commissioned Grades and Designation and Assignment in Professional Categories -- Reserve of
The Air Force and United States Air Force) (T-0).
     5.1. Chaplains must comply with the requirements of their endorsing religious organizations
     (T-0).
     5.2. Endorsing Religious Organizations may require attendance at endorser-sponsored or
     endorser-approved meetings and/or training events for chaplains. Temporary duty (TDY) is
     authorized for chaplains to attend at least one of these events per fiscal year. Permissive
     TDY (PTDY) is also authorized for these events. AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program,
     table 7, rule 26. Reserve chaplains not on active duty are authorized inactive duty for
     training for points only IAW AFI 36-2254, Volume 1, Reserve Personnel Participation,
     paragraph 2.5.4., table 2.1.
     5.3. Certification and Licensure. To maintain certification and licensure in areas of
     specialized care related to the Chaplain Corps mission, chaplains may be required to fulfill
     training. Agency or professional association regulations dictate certification and licensure
     requirements. Chaplains may request TDY, PTDY or leave status IAW Joint Ethics
     Regulation and AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program.
6. Change of Ecclesiastical Endorsement.
     6.1. Chaplains who choose to change religious organizations shall submit a Request for
     Change in Ecclesiastical Endorsement Memorandum (Attachment 2) directly to the Chief of
AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013                                                                  9


   Chaplains or delegate (T-1). This memo will include intent of the change of RO and
   statements regarding communication with current and prospective endorsing agents.
   6.2. The endorsing agent from the prospective religious organization shall submit a DD
   Form 2088, Statement of Ecclesiastical Endorsement to hcp.reachback@pentagon.af.mil or
   by mail.
   6.3. After reviewing the change request and DD Form 2088, the Chief of Chaplains or
   delegate determines whether or not the request fills a valid Air Force requirement.
   6.4. The Chief of Chaplains or delegate will approve or disapprove requests for change in
   Ecclesiastical Endorsement and return the package to the following individuals, where
   applicable: MAJCOM Chaplain, Wing Chaplain and requestor. NGB/HC in coordination
   with the Adjutants General of the respective state/territory will approve or disapprove
   changes of Ecclesiastical Endorsement of ANG chaplains.
7. Withdrawing Chaplain Designation.
   7.1. The Chief of Chaplains or delegate will withdraw chaplain designation and classify the
   officer as an “unclassified officer” (96U0) for the following reasons:
      7.1.1. Transfer from the Chaplain Corps.
      7.1.2. Withdrawal of endorsement, DD Form 2088 (see DOD Directive 1332.31,
      Administrative Separation of Chaplains Upon Loss of Professional Qualifications).
      Chaplains have 10 business days to seek new endorsement before they are reclassified.
      7.1.3. Violates privileged communication/confidentiality.
      7.1.4. Fails to satisfactorily complete COT.
      7.1.5. Fails to satisfactorily complete the BCC within 24 months of accession.
      7.1.6. Violates or compromises the chaplain non-combatant status.
      7.1.7. Convicted of a violation of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). For
      ANG, if serving on USC Title 10 orders, violates the UCMJ or State Militia Code.
      7.1.8. Convicted of a violation of state or federal criminal statutes.
      7.1.9. Chaplain candidates who fail to maintain good standing with their
      denominational/endorser authorities or are recommended for removal by the Chaplain
      Corps Ethics Advisory Committee shall have their chaplain/chaplain candidate
      designation removed.
   7.2. Punitive Actions. When there is an alleged violation, initiate and forward a report to
   the chaplain’s respective MAJCOM/HC or next organizational level. Upon receipt the
   MAJCOM/HC will, within five working days, forward the case file to AF/HCP with a
   recommended course of action. Upon receipt of the case file, AF/HCP, at a minimum, will
   consult with AF/JA and inform the endorsing agent of the alleged violation. AF/HCP will
   forward a recommended course of action to the Chief of Chaplains or delegate for action.
      7.2.1. The Wing/Installation chaplain, Command Chaplain or CFM can restrict the
      chaplain from specific duties until the case is adjudicated.
10                                                     AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013


     7.2.2. For an ANG chaplain, the Chief of Chaplains will recommend a final course of
     action to The Adjutant General of the chaplain’s state, commonwealth, or territory.




                                HOWARD D. STENDAHL, Chaplain, Major General, USAF
                                Chief of Chaplains
AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013                                                                 11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
United States Code, Title 10, Sec 1789, Chaplain-led Programs: Authorized Support
United States Code, Title 10, Sec 8067(h), Designation: Officers to Perform Certain
Professional Functions
DODD 1304.19, Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments, 11 June 2004
DODD 1332.31, Administrative Separation of Chaplains Upon Loss of Professional
Qualifications, 16 October 1981
DODI 1304.28, Guidance for the Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments, 11
June 2004.
DODI 6130.03, Medical Standards for Appointment, Enlistment or Induction in the Military
Services, 28 April 2010
AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service, 2 October 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2005, Appointment In Commissioned Grades and Designation and Assignment in
Professional Categories -- Reserve of The Air Force and United States Air Force, 19 May 2003
AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School (OTS) and Enlisted Commissioning Programs (ECPS), 23
October 2008
AFI 36-2254, Volume 1, Reserve Personnel Participation, 26 May 2010
AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, 16 July 2010
AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional
Continuing Education, 11 July 2001
AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 16 December 2008
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 26 October 2009
AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 24 September 2009
AFI 52-104, Chaplain Corps Readiness, 30 August 2012
Adopted Forms
DD Form 2088, Statement of Ecclesiastical Endorsement

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAD—Advanced Academic Degree
ACPE—Association of Clinical Pastoral Education
ADP—Airmen Development Plan
 12                                                         AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013


AFC—Air Force Council
AFCCC—Air Force Chaplain Corps College
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFIT—CI - Air Force Institute of Technology-Civilian Institution
ALC—Advanced Leadership Course
ANG—Air National Guard
BCC—Basic Chaplain Course
BDE—Basic Developmental Education
BLC—Basic Leadership Course
CCEOB—Chaplain Corps Education Oversight Board
CFM—Career Field Manager
COT—Commissioned Officer Training
CPE—Clinical Pastoral Education
CPT—Career Path Tool
DLE—Distance Learning Education
DPANH—Chaplain Force Development Branch
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DT—Development Team
DWCC—Deputy Wing Chaplain Course
ECPS—Enlisted Commissioning Programs
FOA—Field Operating Agencies
ICC—Intermediate Chaplain Course
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
IRR—Individual Ready Reserve
OFDP—Officer Force Development Panel
PCE—Professional Continuing Education
PME—Professional Military Education
PIM—Pre-trained Individual Manpower
PIRR—Participating Individual Ready Reserve
PTDY—Permissive Temporary Duty
AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013              13


RMP—Religious Ministry Professional
SCC—Senior Chaplain Course
SDE—Senior Developmental Education
SEI—Special Experience Identifier
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USC—United States Code
WCC—Wing Chaplain Course
 14                                                                 AFI52-102V1 19 AUGUST 2013


                                             Attachment 2
  FORMAT FOR REQUEST FOR CHANGE IN ECCLESIASTICAL ENDORSEMENT
                         MEMORANDUM


                                                                                                 Insert Date


MEMORANDUM FOR (Enter Appropriate Address)

FROM: (member’s name, rank, military address)

SUBJECT: Request for Change in Ecclesiastical Endorsement

1. I request approval for a change in ecclesiastical endorsement from insert current religious
organization to insert prospective religious organization effective ddmmyyyy.

2. I have informed my present endorsing agent of this action.




                                                         SIGNATURE BLOCK
