BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-105
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          25 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                             Law

                                                      AUTOMATED LEGAL INFORMATION
                                                        SERVICES AND LIBRARY SYSTEM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFLOA/JAS                                                              Certified by: AF/JAA
                                                                            (Mr. Gregory Girard)
Supersedes:    AFI 51-105, 16 April 2010                                                Pages: 15


This instruction implements AFPD            51-1, The Judge Advocate General's Department,
19 November 1993, and Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5160.64E, Legal Information
Technology, 23 August 2005. This instruction applies to Air Force military and civilian
personnel at all levels including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
(ANG) units, except where noted otherwise. It assigns legal automation responsibilities to the
Legal Information Services Directorate of the Air Force Legal Operations Agency
(AFLOA/JAS) and to Air Force legal offices. Chapter Two only applies to ANG legal offices
that receive centrally funded law library materials. It also provides guidance and procedures
concerning the operation of Air Force law libraries. The term major command (MAJCOM), as
used in this instruction, includes field support centers, operating agencies and equivalents when
the responsibilities of those entities are not separately addressed. The authorities to waive
wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)
number following the compliance statement. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the OPR listed above using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command.
Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                            AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised. This rewrite of AFI 51-105 identifies Tiered waiver
authorities for unit level compliance items, restricts the timeframe for legal offices to conduct
their annual law library inventories to the month of April, eliminates the requirement for all legal
offices to maintain a law library, eliminates the 12-month notification requirement to close a law
library, and incorporates IC-1, which provides guidance to legal offices regarding location and
movement of video teleconference (VTC) equipment.
AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    3



                                          Chapter 1

                                 LEGAL AUTOMATION

Section 1A—Responsibilities

1.1. The Judge Advocate General's Corps (TJAGC). TJAGC controls the use of
AFLOA/JAS legal automated systems by Air Force Judge Advocate General Corps’ legal offices
and personnel.
1.2. AFLOA/JAS. AFLOA/JAS has primary responsibility within TJAGC for legal
automation. AFLOA/JAS:
   1.2.1. Is executive agent for DoD in the operation, maintenance, and continuous
   development of the Federal Legal Information Through Electronics (FLITE) system and the
   Defense Emergency Authorities Retrieval and Analysis System (DEARAS) and responsible
   for hosting Internet sites for the Court of Appeals of the Armed Forces (CAAF), service
   branch courts, administrative decisions from the Boards for Correction of Military Records,
   Discharge Review Boards of all services, and Air Force, DoD, other government agencies, or
   the Congress of the United States data repositories approved by AFLOA/CC.
   1.2.2. As executive agent for DoD in the operation, maintenance, and continuous
   development of the FLITE system, AFLOA/JAS will:
      1.2.2.1. Create and maintain full-text, on-line, retrievable databases of legal and related
      information which has research value for authorized users of the FLITE system. (T-0)
      1.2.2.2. Provide computer-assisted legal research (CALR) capabilities and on-line
      interactive search capabilities to non-DoD federal government agencies on a
      reimbursable basis in accordance with 31 U.S.C. §1535, when practical. (T-0)
      1.2.2.3. Produce computer-hosted and portable media-based products in support of full-
      text CALR, Knowledge Management (KM), and Enterprise Information Management
      (EIM) capabilities for authorized users. (T-0)
      1.2.2.4. Provide advisory service on CALR to other government agencies when
      resources permit. (T-2)
      1.2.2.5. Implements Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) procedures to assure high
      availability of operations. (T-1)
   1.2.3. Operate automated information system (AIS) programs for TJAGC as directed by
The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) or AFLOA/CC. (T-1)
   1.2.4. Plan and implement data automation initiatives for TJAGC organizations. (T-1)
   1.2.5. Plan, evaluate, and acquire automation hardware and software for use by Air Force
   legal offices as directed by The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) or AFLOA/CC. (T-1)
   1.2.6. Ensure access by authorized users to AFLOA/JAS-controlled (web/Internet) assets
   and capabilities. (T-1)
 4                                                               AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


        1.2.6.1. Provide training and other resources designed to assure the ability of TJAGC
        offices and personnel to use all programs and applications listed on TJAGC sites. (T-3)
1.3. AF/JA and AFLOA Directors, MAJCOM Staff Judge Advocates (SJAs), Legal
Office SJAs, or equivalents will:
        1.3.1. Ensure members of their staffs are completely familiar with and capable of using
        all information technology (IT) tools and applications associated with their areas of
        responsibility, whether developed and provided by AFLOA/JAS or a commercial vendor
        (T-3).
     1.3.2. Ensure members of their staffs periodically review and keep current information in
     Roster and are responsive to TJAG requests for information and various certification requests
     and requirements (T-3).
     1.3.3. Are responsible for properly configuring, accounting for, and securing all their
     respective legal office Automated Information System (AIS) (T-3).
     1.3.4. Ensure Roster accurately reflects their office’s current manning, organizational
     structure, duty titles, contact information, and any other details as required (T-3).
     1.3.5. Ensure that all information media of any kind (including but not limited to hard drives,
     thumb drives, CDs, DVDs, etc.) of unclassified computer equipment being disposed of are
     wiped/sanitized of data in conformance with the most current guidance promulgated by DoD
     and Air Force communications agencies. (T-2)
     1.3.6. Ensure all members of their staffs are aware of their obligations to use CALR search
     tools (asset locators, license locator, etc.) and databases only in the course of official business
     (T-3).
     1.3.7. Immediately send to AFLOA/JAS informational reports of all incidents involving
     unauthorized access to TJAGC data or whenever a security information file is established
     and the member's security clearance is revoked (T-2).
     1.3.8. Utilize all required applications and programs as directed by TJAG (T-3).
1.4. Users of Legal AIS Equipment will:
     1.4.1. Comply with this instruction and with other DoD, Air Force, and local computer
     security and operations procedures.
     1.4.2. Certify the accuracy of personal data in Roster and professional responsibility
     information annually (T-3).
     1.4.3. Update the data in Roster as changes occur (T-3).
     1.4.4. Comply with their obligations to use CALR search tools (asset locators, license
     locator, etc.) and databases only in the course of official business (T-3).
1.5. Legal Office Computer Systems Manager (ISSM) will:
     1.5.1. Ensure all standard system files and all data maintained on stand-alone computers are
     backed up on an as needed basis. However, all personnel should be trained that daily back
     up is the optimum solution (T-3).
AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                      5


   1.5.2. Fully train new legal office personnel in the use of AIS equipment, security measures,
   and protocols before they are allowed access (T-3).

Section 1B—Administration and Operation

1.6. Protection of Privileged and Sensitive (but Unclassified) Information.
   1.6.1. Privileged and Sensitive Information. Information stored on computers may include
   For Official Use Only (FOUO) information, such as Personally Identifiable Information
   (PII), privileged attorney-client information, or information covered by the Privacy Act.
   Protecting this information from unauthorized users is of paramount importance.
       1.6.1.1. Protecting Privileged and Sensitive Information. Protect the integrity and
       accuracy of this data against unauthorized access or disclosure. All users must maintain
       proper configuration management and physical security of the equipment itself so that
       this information is adequately safeguarded. For sensitive information, the use of
       password-protected files and directories is recommended. For further guidance, see
       AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, AFI 31-401, Information Security
       Management, AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, DoD
       5400.11-R, DoD Privacy Program, and DoDI 5200.01, DoD Information Security
       Program and Protection Of Sensitive Compartmented Information.
       1.6.1.2. Reporting PII Breaches. Should a suspected breach occur, users must notify
       their supervisor immediately and reporting actions should be promptly initiated. SJAs
       must ensure suspected breaches of AFJAGC systems are reported to AFLOA/JAS (T-1).
       1.6.1.3. Attorney-Client and Work-Product Doctrine Privileged Information.
          1.6.1.3.1. Judge advocates and Air Force attorneys representing the Air Force who
          use government computers and communications systems to transmit and store
          attorney-client privileged information do so with the consent of their client, the Air
          Force, when done in the furtherance of official business.
          1.6.1.3.2. In situations where a judge advocate or Air Force attorney is representing a
          client other than the Air Force, the TJAG Advisory Committee on Professional
          Responsibility and Standards and an overwhelming number of state bar associations
          that have considered the issue, have determined the electronic transmission and
          storage of information does not, in and of itself, compromise the privileged nature of
          information between an attorney and client. Attorneys should be aware of the ethics
          requirements of their respective state bars and if there is an apparent conflict, consult
          with their supervisory attorney prior to requesting guidance from the TJAG Advisory
          Committee on Ethics and Standards.
          1.6.1.3.3. Regardless of whom their clients are, users must maintain attorney-client
          privileged, source selection sensitive information or other FOUO information in such
          a way that unauthorized personnel cannot access it (T-1). Refer to DoD 5200.01-R,
          Information Security Program, for proper marking and security of FOUO material.
          This is particularly problematic when the information is stored on a Local Area
          Network (LAN) or on a computer connected to a LAN and military or contract
          personnel not assigned to TJAGC administer or have access to that system. Users
          must ensure that privileged or sensitive computer information is stored in folders that
6                                                    AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


    are clearly labeled as such with access restricted to the appropriate users and that e-
    mail messages containing such information are also clearly identified (T-1). System
    administrators may not read, review, inspect, disseminate, or disclose the substance of
    any material that may be considered attorney-client privileged information without
    first coordinating such efforts with their servicing SJA. In these types of cases, it
    may be prudent to consider securing a search authorization from the appropriate
    authorities. The servicing SJA will ensure that all systems administrators assigned to
    the installation are aware of this coordination requirement (T-1). If the servicing SJA
    or functional equivalent is the subject of an investigation, coordination should be
    made with next higher SJA in the functional chain of command.
AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    7


                                           Chapter 2

                               AIR FORCE LAW LIBRARIES

Section 2A—Responsibilities

2.1. AFLOA/JAS will:
   2.1.1. Establish TJAGC-wide policies and procedures for the operation and management of
   the Unified Law Library (ULL). The ULL encompasses all available legal research
   sources, including FLITE, commercial legal research services, and TJAGC and external
   Internet sites. (T-3)
   2.1.2. Evaluate, plans for, and purchases the best combination of electronic and paper legal
   research resources within authorized funding levels. (T-3)
   2.1.3. Provide guidance for all Air Force law libraries. (T-3)
   2.1.4. Centrally order and track centrally purchased law library system materials. (T-3)
   2.1.5. Approve disposition of excess centrally purchased law library materials, including
   materials from scheduled office closures. (T-3)
   2.1.6. Ensure the Unified Law Library Handbook is available on the Resource Allocation
   Management System (NetRAMS) Home Page. The handbook establishes procedures for
   managing centrally purchased library materials. (T-3)
2.2. MAJCOM SJAs or equivalent:
   2.2.1. Appoints, in writing, a Law Library Accountable Officer (LLAO) and furnishes an
   electronic copy of the appointment to AFLOA/JASR via digital signature email. This officer
   serves as the contact between AFLOA/JAS and subordinate-level LLAOs. Ensures
   appointments are updated in NetRAMS to reflect the current LLAO.
   2.2.2. Upon AFLOA/JAS request, surveys law offices within their commands to determine if
   they can use excess law library publications.
   2.2.3. Serves as the approving official for legal offices (or equivalents) desiring to
   discontinue receipt for AFLOA/JAS centrally purchased law library materials.
2.3. Other SJAs and Their Functional Equivalents will:
   2.3.1. Appoint LLAOs. Ensure appointments are updated in the NetRAMS to reflect the
   current LLAO for their office (T-3).
   2.3.2. Budget and request local funding for purchase of law library materials not provided by
   AFLOA/JAS (T-3).
   2.3.3. Ensure library resources are maintained in good condition (T-3).
2.4. LLAOs will:
   2.4.1. Maintain records and conduct inventories as required by this AFI and local procedures
   (T-3).
   2.4.2. Dispose of non-serviceable or obsolete publications as provided by this AFI (T-3).
 8                                                            AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


     2.4.3. Conduct an annual inventory and validation of law library materials in NetRAMS
     during the month of April (T-3).
     2.4.4. MAJCOM or equivalent LLAOs coordinate on requests for additional centrally
     purchased library materials from law offices within their commands.

Section 2B—Administration and Operation

2.5. Maintaining Law Libraries. Each Air Force legal office that receives law library
materials (as discussed in Section 2C) centrally purchased through AFLOA/JAS will maintain a
law library (T-3). Law libraries can also contain locally purchased materials, or materials
purchased by or donated by other organizations or individuals.
2.6. Receipt of Library Materials. LLAOs will update NetRAMS to reflect the receipt of all
centrally purchased law library materials and maintain NetRAMS information to reflect the
current state of all centrally purchased law library materials (T-3).
2.7. Reconciling Ordered Material:
     2.7.1. AFLOA/JAS will update NetRAMS to indicate what publications have been centrally
     purchased for each law library. (T-3) LLAOs will monitor NetRAMS to stay aware of
     publications currently on order for their respective libraries and update the information once
     the publication arrives (T-3).
     2.7.2. LLAOs will immediately advise AFLOA/JAS, in writing, of any discrepancy between
     what was ordered and what was received (T-3). This notification must contain the book title,
     publisher of the affected material, and a description of the problem.
2.8. Publisher Correspondence. Send all renewal notices, bills, and cancellation notices for
centrally purchased material to AFLOA/JAS for action
2.9. U. S. Government Property. All publications in the law library are U.S. Government
property, whether centrally purchased or acquired by other means. LLAOs must stamp each
book on the inside cover and on the front edge of the pages with the words "U.S. Government
property" -- stamp periodicals on the front cover (T-3).
2.10. Missing, Damaged, or Destroyed Library Materials. If an inventory reveals missing,
damaged, or destroyed library materials, the SJA or equivalent will initiate a Report of Survey
(ROS), if appropriate (T-3).
     2.10.1. The LLAO must annotate NetRAMS to reflect any missing, damaged, or destroyed
     centrally purchased law library materials (T-3).
2.11. Excess, Obsolete, or Nonserviceable Materials. Report excess materials to
AFLOA/JAS. If AFLOA/JAS determines these excess materials are not required elsewhere in
TJAGC, follow local base policy for disposition
2.12. Transferring Materials. The SJA must ensure that AFLOA/JAS is contacted for
approval before transferring centrally purchased materials between libraries (T-3).
2.13. Closure of Legal Offices. MAJCOM or equivalent offices will notify AFLOA/JAS as
soon as possible prior to closure of a subordinate legal office. AFLOA/JAS will then provide
guidance on how to dispose of centrally purchased library materials.
AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    9


2.14. Correspondence with AFLOA/JAS. Send all correspondence for AFLOA/JAS to
AFLOA/JASR, Unified Law Library, 51 East Maxwell Blvd, Bldg 678, Maxwell AFB AL
36112. Include the LLAO's name, e-mail address, DSN telephone number, law library unit
designation, and the book title.

Section 2C—Centrally Purchased Law Library System

2.15. The Centrally Purchased Law Library System. This system consists of prioritized lists
of basic sets of law materials designed for different types of Air Force legal offices. AFLOA/JAS
will centrally purchase these materials.
2.16. Application of Centrally Purchased Law Library System. The centrally purchased law
library system applies to all law libraries within TJAGC.
2.17. Additional Specialized Materials. Certain legal offices will receive additional
specialized law materials when the material is mission-essential.
2.18. Reviewing Centrally Purchased Law Library Materials. All legal office personnel
should review law library materials for suitability and suggest additions or deletions to the
centrally purchased law library system when appropriate.
2.19. Requests for Additions to Centrally Purchased Law Library Materials. Requests for
additional law library materials must be forwarded through the requester's functional chain of
command to AFLOA/JAS. Requests must contain the title, author, publisher, publisher
telephone number, cost, if available, and justification for purchase.
2.20. Requests to Eliminate Materials from Law Library System. SJAs or their functional
equivalents will forward requests for elimination of specific or entire collections of AFLOA/JAS
centrally purchased materials through their respective MAJCOM SJA or equivalent (T-3).
MAJCOM SJAs or equivalent will in turn send AFLOA/JAS an approval or disapproval of the
request.
 10                                                           AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 3

                        VIDEO TELECONFERENCE (VTC) SYSTEMS

Section 3A—Responsibilities

3.1. AFLOA/JAS will:
   3.1.1. Maintain and operates a VTC bridge to facilitate simultaneous multipoint virtual
   meetings. (T-3)
   3.1.2. Evaluate, plan for, and purchase end-point and centrally-operated VTC equipment for
   TJAGC. (T-3)
   3.1.3. Centrally order, purchase, and maintain warranty and software version information for
   all VTC equipment within TJAGC offices. (T-3)
   3.1.4. Provide guidance and technical support for TJAGC-owned or operated VTC
   equipment. (T-3)
3.2. MAJCOM SJAs or equivalent:
   3.2.1. Ensures TJAGC-provided VTC equipment assigned to their location and other
   locations within their commands is properly installed and configured.
   3.2.2. Ensures all locations within their commands who schedule VTC meetings requiring
   the use of the AFLOA/JAS bridge are scheduled in accordance with paragraphs 3.4 and 3.6.
   Modifications or cancellations will be accomplished as needed in accordance with
   paragraph 3.6.
3.3. Other SJAs and Their Functional Equivalents will:
   3.3.1. Ensures TJAGC-provided VTC equipment assigned to their location is properly
   installed and configured (T-3).
   3.3.2. Ensures VTC meetings requiring the use of the AFLOA/JAS bridge do so in
   accordance with paragraphs 3.4 and 3.6 (T-3). Modifications or cancellations will be
   accomplished as needed in accordance with paragraph 3.8 (T-3).
3.4. VTC Meeting Organizers: All personnel who schedule and/or use TJAGC-provided
equipment or resources.
   3.4.1. Are strongly encouraged to use point-to-point calls for conferences with only two
   participating end-points. Users should contact AFLOA/JAS for assistance if necessary.
      3.4.2. Plans and schedules use of the AFLOA/JAS bridge at least 24 hours in advance of the
      planned conference, but no earlier than 60 days in advance.
      3.4.3. Contacts all participating offices and obtains the information identified in paragraph
      3.6.4. prior to scheduling a conference requiring use of the AFLOA/JAS bridge.
      3.4.4. Notifies AFLOA/JAS of any cancellations or modifications according to
      paragraph 3.8 for any VTC meeting which uses the AFLOA/JAS bridge to facilitate the
      meeting.
AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    11


   3.4.5. Acts as a liaison between AFLOA/JAS and meeting participants for non-technical
   discrepancies and questions related to a scheduled meeting.
3.5. VTC Meeting Participants: All units who participate in meetings using TJAGC-provided
VTC equipment:
   3.5.1. Provide information in accordance with paragraph 3.6.4 to AFLOA/JAS and to
   meeting organizers as required.
   3.5.2. Notify meeting organizers of cancellations, discrepancies, non-technical questions, or
   changes at least 24 hours prior to the meeting start time.

Section 3B—Scheduling

3.6. VTC Scheduling Program. The VTC scheduling program will be used to schedule all
conferences requiring use of the AFLOA/JAS bridge. The scheduling program is located at
https://aflsa.jag.af.mil/apps/VTC/vtc_main.php. The scheduling program streamlines the
request process for conference organizers while providing a tool for administrators to oversee the
program and manage resources. When requesting a conference reservation:
   3.6.1. Requests for use of the bridge will be scheduled at least 24 hours prior to the meeting
   but no more than 60 days in advance. Requests to use the bridge that are received less than
   24 hours prior to the meeting start time must be approved by AFLOA/JAS prior to being
   placed on the schedule and will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
   3.6.2. When requesting use of the bridge, schedule the actual start and stop times for which
   the meeting is planned; do not schedule “buffer time” at the beginning or end of the
   conference. AFLOA/JAS plans time into the VTC bridge schedule before and after each
   conference to allow users to call into the bridge prior to the start time and to accommodate
   the possibility of conferences running over the allotted time.
   3.6.3. The conference organizer will provide any special instructions or accommodations
   (e.g., conference layout, VIPs participating in the conference, etc.) of which AFLOA/JAS
   should be aware.
   3.6.4. The organizer will provide the following information to AFLOA/JAS for each
   location identified to participate in the conference:
       3.6.4.1. Location name. For military entities, identify the unit and base. For civilian
       entities, identify the name of the organization.
       3.6.4.2. Point of Contact (POC) information. A POC will be identified for each location
       who will be available to assist on the day of the conference. This includes, at a
       minimum, the POC’s first and last name, phone number, and e-mail address.
       3.6.4.3. Commercial and/or DSN VTC numbers for each location. At a minimum, the
       organizer will provide either the commercial or DSN VTC number for each location
       scheduled to participate in the meeting. If both commercial and DSN numbers are
       available for a location, the organizer will provide both.
   3.6.5. The organizer is responsible for compiling and verifying the accuracy of all
   participant information prior to scheduling a VTC and ensuring that information is provided
   to AFLOA/JAS.
 12                                                          AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


   3.6.6. AFLOA/JAS will not validate a conference and place it on the schedule until all
   required information is received and approved. Users may not access the AFLOA/JAS VTC
   bridge until their meeting has been validated and a call-in number has been assigned.
3.7. Simultaneous Bridge Use. The AFLOA/JAS VTC bridge is capable of supporting
multiple simultaneous conferences. Organizers should not feel pressured into scheduling a
conference in order to reserve a time slot. Conferences will only be scheduled after organizers
have confirmed the meeting will occur and all participant information is available to the
organizer.
3.8. Cancelling or Modifying Meetings. In the event a previously requested meeting using the
AFLOA/JAS bridge must be cancelled or modified, the organizing office will notify
AFLOA/JAS immediately. The VTC scheduling program is the preferred method of notification
and cancellation. Organizers should notify AFLOA/JAS a minimum of 24 hours prior to the
meeting’s scheduled start time:
   3.8.1. In the event that a previously scheduled meeting is cancelled it is the responsibility of
   the organizing office to notify AFLOA/JAS and inform them of the cancellation. The VTC
   scheduling program is the preferred method of notification and cancellation. This must be
   done as soon as possible to allow for reallocation of equipment and manpower resources.
   3.8.2. Meeting organizers will use the VTC scheduling program to notify AFLOA/JAS of
   any changes that arise after a meeting has been scheduled. The VTC scheduling program is
   the preferred method of notification.
3.9. Meeting Validation. VTC administrators will validate each reservation and assign a call-in
number to each conference. Once the reservation has been validated AFLOA/JAS will send an
e-mail to the organizer and each participant location’s POC confirming the date and time of the
conference and listing the conference organizer, all participating locations, and the call-in
number assigned to the conference.
3.10. Roster Usage. AFLOA/JAS uses information in Roster, particularly e-mail addresses and
phone numbers, for contacting POCs regarding scheduling and when providing help and
guidance to VTC users. VTC users must ensure their contact information is current and correct
in the Roster program. Incorrect information may delay or prevent AFLOA/JAS from providing
timely technical assistance.

Section 3C—VTC Equipment Use

3.11. Permitted VTC Equipment Use. VTC equipment provided by TJAGC is for official
government use and other authorized purposes only.
   3.11.1. Individuals who wish to utilize VTC technology for non-official or morale purposes
   (e.g., weddings, promotions, etc.) are encouraged to first contact their local Family Readiness
   Center or other morale entities for assistance. Units that possess TJAGC-provided VTC
   equipment will evaluate whether requested use is permissible prior to allowing use.
   Approved requests should utilize point-to-point meetings whenever feasible.
   3.11.2. Requests to use the AFLOA/JAS bridge to facilitate non-official events must be
   approved by AFLOA/JAS prior to being placed on the schedule and will be considered on a
AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  13


   case-by-case basis. Technical support and equipment availability for non-official or morale
   events may be limited, dependent upon mission requirements.
3.12. Connecting to the AFLOA/JAS Bridge. All participants will dial into the call-in number
provided by AFLOA/JAS at least 20 minutes prior to their meeting start time and remain
connected. This will provide AFLOA/JAS time to troubleshoot any possible issues connecting
to the bridge. For conferences with more than 15 participants, users may be directed to call in
earlier depending on the number of participants involved. In the event a participant experiences
technical difficulty, the POC for that location should contact AFLOA/JAS for assistance.
3.13. VTC Movement. All JAG Corps purchased VTC machines must be installed and
maintained within the legal offices designated by AFLOA/JAS (T-3). Any movement of a VTC
machine to a facility controlled by another unit or office, to include another JAG Corps office,
must be coordinated with and approved by the Director, AFLOA/JAS (T-3).




                                            CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            The Judge Advocate General
 14                                                      AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 5160.64E, Legal Information Technology, 23 August 2005
DoD Directive 5400.11, DoD Privacy Program, 8 May 2007
DoD Directive 5500.7, Standards of Conduct, 29 November 2007
DoD Instruction 5200.01-R, DoD Information Security Program and Protection of Sensitive
Compartmented Information, 9 October 2008
AFPD 51-1, The Judge Advocate General's Department, 19 November 1993
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 April 2006
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCIMS—Armed Forces Claims Information Management System
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AIS—Automated Information System
AMJAMS—Automated Military Justice Analysis and Management System
CAAF—Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces
CALR—Computer-Assisted Legal Research
COOP—Continuity of Operations Plan
DEARAS—Defense Emergency Authorities Retrieval and Analysis System
DoD—Department of Defense
DRMS—Defense Reutilization & Marketing Service
AFI51-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                  15


EIM—Enterprise Information Management
FLITE—Federal Legal Information Through Electronics
FOA—Field Operating Agency
ISSM—Computer Systems Manager
KM—Knowledge Management
JAS—Air Force Legal Information Services
LAN—Local Area Network
LLAO—Law Library Accountable Officer
MAJCOM—Major Command, Operating Agency, Field Support Center or equivalent
NetRAMS—Network Resource Allocation Management System
POC—Point of Contact
ROS—Report of Survey
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
TJAGC—The Judge Advocate General's Corps
ULL—Unified Law Library
VTC—Video Teleconference
