BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 52-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               10 MAY 2005
                                                             Incorporating Through Change 4,
                                                                              14 March 2008
                                                              TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                        22 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                    Chaplain

                                                           PLANNING AND ORGANIZING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/HCX                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/HC
Supersedes: AFI 52-101, 18 October 2004                      (Ch, Maj Gen, Lorraine K. Potter)
                                                                                    Pages: 15
                                     (TYNDALLAFB)
OPR: 325 FW/HC                                          Certified by: 325 FW/HC (Lt Col Hall)
                                                                                     Pages:1


This instruction implements AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service. It directs procedures that ensure the
Air Force Chaplain Service is structured and organized to meet mission requirements. Send
comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through channels, to SAF/AAIP, 170 Luke Avenue, Suite 300, Bolling AFB, DC
20032-5113. Any organization may supplement this volume. Major commands (MAJCOM),
field operating agencies (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU) send one copy of their
supplement to SAF/AAIP, 170 Luke Avenue, Suite 300, Bolling AFB DC 20332-5113; other
commands furnish one copy of each supplement to the next higher headquarters. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFPD 37-1, Information Management and AFMAN 37-123, Management of
Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.
 2                                   AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011



(TYNDALLAFB) This supplement implements and extends the guidance in AFI 52-101,
Planning and Organizing, 10 May 2005. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. It applies to individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review,
certify, approve, disseminate and/or use official Air Force publications and forms, including Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af6a1/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

 In this change, the title “Director, Chaplain Service Institute” has been replaced with
“Commandant, Chaplain Service Institute.” Non-chaplain duties not authorized for chaplains
have been updated, and the 11th Wing has been removed from the list of DRUs. The duty title
“Chief (insert division name)” has been removed as a title option for MAJCOM/HCs due to the
reorganization of MAJCOM staffs, and the wear of the Geneva Conventions armbands for CS
personnel in training and deployed environments has been updated. Additionally, to come in line
with current legal interpretations of the Geneva Conventions, chapels are no longer authorized to
be marked with a Geneva Conventions protocol emblem (Red Cross or Red Crystal). Finally,
paragraph 4.5, which defines Airmen Ministry Centers, has been added. A margin bar indicates
newly revised material.
1. Chaplain Service Planning and Organizing. This instruction implements AFPD 52-1,
Chaplain Service.
2. Chaplain Service Personnel:
     2.1. Chaplains. As visible reminders of the Holy, chaplains directly (provide) or indirectly
     (provide for) support the free exercise of religion for all members of the Military Services,
     their dependents, and other authorized persons. Chaplains provide spiritual care and ethical
     leadership. Chaplains do not perform duties incompatible with their faith group tenets,
     professional role, or noncombatant status. Chaplains will not serve in any military capacity
     other than those specific duties contained in the 52RX Specialty Code found in AFMAN 36-
     2105, Officer Classification.
        2.1.1. Titles.
            2.1.1.1. Use title and rank (Chaplain, rank name) in official correspondence.
            2.1.1.2. Address chaplains as “chaplain” regardless of rank.
            2.1.1.3. Chaplains may be addressed by traditional or denominational titles.
        2.1.2. Standardized Duty Titles. The standardization of duty titles assists Chaplain
        Service (CS) officer career progression and clearly defines duty distinctions.
AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011                                              3


       2.1.2.1. Headquarters Air Force (HQ USAF).
          2.1.2.1.1. Chief of Chaplains. A chaplain in the grade of major general directly
          responsible to the CSAF for all USAF CS programs and personnel.
          2.1.2.1.2. Deputy Chief of Chaplains. A Chaplain in the grade of brigadier
          general assigned as deputy to the Chief of Chaplains.
          2.1.2.1.3. Chief (Insert division name). A chaplain responsible for a HQ
          USAF/HC or CSI division.
             2.1.2.1.3.1. Commandant, Chaplain Service Institute. This person is a
             chaplain in the grade of colonel, responsible for directing CS education and
             training programs. The Commandant, Chaplain Service Institute receives
             functional guidance from HQ USAF/HC, administrative oversight from HQ
             AETC/HC, and reports to AU/CPD.
             2.1.2.1.3.2. Chief, CS Resource Board. A chaplain responsible to HQ
             USAF/HC Plans & Programs Division Chief for support of the CS.
          2.1.2.1.4. Staff Chaplain (Insert area of responsibility). A chaplain who
          performs specific portions of a HQ USAF CS mission. This includes CSI and CS
          Resource Board chaplains.
       2.1.2.2. MAJCOM.
          2.1.2.2.1. Command Chaplain. A chaplain in the grade of colonel responsible
          to a MAJCOM/CC for the CS programs and personnel of a specific USAF
          MAJCOM.
          2.1.2.2.2. Deputy Command Chaplain. May be used in MAJCOMs with at
          least two authorized O-6 positions.
          2.1.2.2.3. Staff Chaplain (Insert area of responsibility). A chaplain who
          performs specific portions of an HQ MAJCOM CS mission.
          2.1.2.2.4. DELETED
       2.1.2.3. DRU.
          2.1.2.3.1. United States Air Force Academy. Same as FOA.
          2.1.2.3.2. DELETED
       2.1.2.4. FOA. Air Intelligence Agency; Air National Guard; Air Reserve
       Personnel Center, DPAH. (List not inclusive)
          2.1.2.4.1. Senior Staff Chaplain. A chaplain responsible for the Chaplain
          Service programs and personnel of an AF FOA
          2.1.2.4.2. Chief (Insert division name). A chaplain, responsible for a FOA CS
          Division.
          2.1.2.4.3. Staff Chaplain (Insert area of responsibility). A chaplain who
          performs specific portions of a FOA CS mission.
4                                AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011


       2.1.2.5. Wing.
          2.1.2.5.1. Wing Chaplain. A chaplain responsible to the Wing/CC for all CS
          programs and personnel of a specific USAF wing.
          2.1.2.5.2. Deputy Wing Chaplain. In situations where the Wing Chaplain is in
          the grade of colonel or (colonel select) and a lieutenant colonel is designated as
          Deputy Wing Chaplain.
          2.1.2.5.3. Senior (Insert area of responsibility) Chaplain. A chaplain (grade of
          Major or above) responsible for a major CS wing program (e.g., faith group, unit
          ministries, hospital, flight line, etc.) and supervises at least one active duty
          chaplain within that same program area of responsibility.
          2.1.2.5.4. Chaplain. A chaplain responsible to the Wing Chaplain for CS
          ministries.
          2.1.2.5.5. Special Assistant to the Wing Chaplain. A chaplain designated
          “Special Assistant to the Wing Chaplain.” MAJCOM/HC approval is required.
       2.1.2.6. Base/Installation.
          2.1.2.6.1. Base/Installation Chaplain. The chaplain responsible for the CS
          ministry at a base/installation.
          2.1.2.6.2. Chaplain. A chaplain responsible to the base/installation chaplain for
          CS ministry.
    2.1.3. Noncombatant Status. Chaplains are noncombatants and will not be placed in
    any duty status that compromises their status as noncombatants.
       2.1.3.1. Chaplains do not and will not bear arms. Chaplains do not transport or carry
       weapons and/or ammunition under any circumstance. Chaplains must also avoid
       engaging in other traditional combatant activities, e.g., assisting in planning military
       actions, conveying military intelligence, and directing response to hostile fire, etc.
       2.1.3.2. Chaplains normally will wear the Geneva Conventions brassard (armband) to
       identify themselves as noncombatants in training exercises, deployments, and combat
       environments. In deployed environments, the Combatant Commander may direct
       chaplains not to wear the armband for security reasons. Chaplains are issued the
       “Geneva Conventions Identity Card for Medical and Religious Personnel Who Serve
       In or Accompany the Armed Forces” (DD Form 1934) and will carry it at all times
       during training exercises and in deployed and combat environments.           Chapel
       facilities will not be marked with or display a Geneva Conventions protocol emblem
       (Red Cross or Red Crystal).
          2.1.3.2.1. When worn, the Geneva Conventions brassard should be displayed on
          the left sleeve of the outer garment, with the bottom edge of the brassard
          approximately 2 inches above the elbow with the Red Cross facing away from the
          body.
    2.1.4. Chaplains in a Combat Environment. Chaplains will refrain from all activities
    that could be interpreted as combatant behavior or that could compromise the
    noncombatant status of other chaplains in the field.
AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011                                                    5


     2.1.5. Non-compliance with noncombatant status. Violations of the chaplain’s
     obligations as a noncombatant constitute a dereliction of duty as well as a failure to meet
     Air Force standards with resulting consequences. This does not exclude any actions that
     may be taken against a chaplain under the provisions of the Uniformed Code of Military
     Justice (UCMJ).
     2.1.6. Non-chaplain Duties. Chaplains do not serve in any position that might violate
     their non-combatant status or put privileged communication at risk (e.g., troop
     commander, commander’s executive officer, non-chaplain authorization translators, stick
     leaders, etc.).
     2.1.7. Courts Martial. Chaplains do not serve as court members.
        2.1.7.1. Any request for a chaplain to testify at official investigations, proceedings
        and/or courts martial will be elevated through the chaplain’s functional chain of
        command.
            2.1.7.1.1. Chaplains are to exercise extreme caution when appearing as a witness
            in any official proceedings, including courts-martial. The requirements outlined in
            Paragraphs 4.1, 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 below are to be followed diligently.
     2.1.8. Summary Court Officer on Death of a chaplain. At the death of a chaplain, the
     commander appoints only a chaplain to carry out the responsibilities of a summary court
     officer to safeguard the confidentiality of professional communications (Title 10 U.S.C.
     9712 (b), AFI 34-244).
     2.1.9. Military Chaplains in service to detainees or Enemy Prisoners of War
     (EPW). The requirements of the Geneva Conventions are to be followed diligently in the
     spiritual care of detainees and EPWs.
        2.1.9.1. The senior chaplain is to brief the commander on his/her obligation to
        provide for religious needs of detainees or EPW.
        2.1.9.2. Military chaplains assist and support retained ministers and substitute
        ministers in facilitating the requirements and needs of these ministers in the spiritual
        care of detainees and/or EPWs.
            2.1.9.2.1. “Retained” ministers are those who have been detained with EPW or
            taken with other detainees in custody. Military chaplains will facilitate and
            expedite the requirements and needs of these retained ministers in the spiritual
            care of detainees and/or EPWs.
            2.1.9.2.2. “Substitute” ministers are used when EPWs or detainees do not have
            the assistance of a retained minister of their particular faith-group. It is the
            obligation of the installation commander to secure substitute ministers according
            to the procedures outlined in Article 37, “Geneva Convention Relative to the
            Treatment of Prisoners of War August 12, 1949 (Geneva Convention III)”. The
            military chaplain facilitates the procedures the commander must follow to secure
            such substitute ministers.
6                                     AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011


           2.1.9.3. The military chaplain normally will not serve as a substitute minister to
           detainees or EPW, except in the case of emergency or special circumstance. He/she
           acts as an advisor to the commander and as a liaison with retained ministers or
           substitute ministers among the detainees and/or EPW.
    2.2. Chaplain Assistants. As a visible reminder of the Holy, chaplain assistants are
    assigned at all levels of command to provide comprehensive ministry support. The chaplain
    assistant specialty description is specified in AFMAN 36-2108, Airman Classification.
    Chaplain assistants are trained and tasked to provide mission essential ministry support
    during training exercises, deployments, and combat environments.
       2.2.1. Chaplain Assistant Duty Restrictions. Chaplain assistants are exempt from
       details or duties that impede Chaplain Service mission accomplishment.
       2.2.2. Combatant Status. Chaplain assistants are combatants and are responsible for
       providing security for chaplains.
    2.3. Resource Personnel. The wing chaplain (or chaplain-in-charge) authorizes and directs
    qualified resource personnel to provide for religious program needs assigned chaplain service
    personnel cannot meet. The wing chaplain (or chaplain-in-charge) develops performance
    agreements with all resource personnel and reviews needs, qualifications, and performance
    agreements annually.
       2.3.1. Auxiliary Chaplains. Auxiliary Chaplains must meet the same educational
       requirements as Air Force chaplains and be approved in writing by their religious bodies.
       Exceptions must be approved in writing by MAJCOM/HC and kept on file.
       2.3.2. Air Reserve Components (ARC). ARC members do not wear the uniform,
       receive credit points, or earn military pay while serving as paid resource persons.
       2.3.3. Special Resource Personnel. The Wing chaplain (or chaplain-in-charge)
       authorizes qualified resource personnel to perform a program, religious service, rite, or
       support function for specific documented needs.
       2.3.4. Air Force Auxiliary Chaplains (Civil Air Patrol). In contingencies such as national
       and local emergencies, plane crashes and acts of terrorism, or in exceptional cases, where
       active duty and reserve chaplains are unavailable, wing chaplains are authorized to use
       fully qualified (as outlined in AFI 52-102), volunteer Civil Air Patrol (CAP) chaplains to
       provide chaplain ministries as needed. Serving as Air Force Auxiliary chaplains, CAP
       chaplains are covered by the Federal Tort Claims Act and Federal Employee
       Compensation Act, Title 10, Subtitle D, Part III, Chapter 909, Section 9442.
    2.4. Reporting Death and Illness of Chaplain Service Personnel. Wing chaplains (or
    chaplains-in-charge) at all levels report to the next functional level the death, hospitalization
    or resulting convalescence, or serious illness of Chaplain Service personnel and their family
    members. Reports are made within 24 hours using AF Form 4376.
    2.5. Chapel Organizations. Wing chaplains (or chaplains-in-charge), working with their
    staffs and advisory groups, establish and support organizations to enhance the Chaplain
    Service mission. These organizations are a part of the Chaplain Service program. They are
    not private organizations and do not require charters.
AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011                                                     7


3. Religious Observance. The Chaplain Service is responsible for religious observances on Air
Force bases, installations, and sites.
   3.1. Religious Accommodation. The Chaplain Service accommodates requests for chaplain
   services and/or support for religious practices unless the specific accommodation is
   logistically impossible, or contrary to good order and discipline prohibited by law or policy.
   If a specific request is denied, Chaplain Service members remain responsible for pursuing
   alternative means for accommodation.
   3.1. (TYNDALLAFB) Units will submit Tyndall AFB Form 112, Invocation Request for
   Official Function, to the Tyndall Chapel (325 FW/HC) to request chaplain services.
   3.2. Religious Services.
       3.2.1. Religious Holy Days. Chaplains perform or provide Holy Day observances and
       advise commanders, first sergeants, and other military and civilian leaders regarding
       these observances.
       3.2.2. Worship. The wing chaplain (or chaplain-in-charge) and staff, plan, schedule and
       implement worship opportunities in response to local need assessments, religious
       requirements, staff capabilities, and available resources.
          3.2.2.1. Chaplains will conduct services that are within the scope of their personal
          faith tenets and religious convictions.
          3.2.2.2. Chaplains will lead worship services that target a broad population
          possessing common beliefs and desiring a specific style of worship. The terms
          “liturgical,” “traditional,” “contemporary,” “gospel,” “praise,” “evangelical,” or
          “charismatic” are used to identify exclusively chaplain-led worship of a particular
          style designed to meet the needs inclusive of several denominations and/or a broad
          population. Chaplain leadership ensures attentiveness to needs and sensitivity to the
          diversity of those attending these worship services. Services must be advertised and
          promoted by style, character, and doctrinal content.
          3.2.2.3. Where there is a need for worship the assigned chaplains cannot provide, the
          Chaplain Service staff will be augmented with qualified and capable personnel. The
          following is the process to obtain worship leaders:
              3.2.2.3.1. Non-chaplain worship leaders must provide letters of certification from
              a religious organization.
              3.2.2.3.2. In those instances where someone other than a chaplain is authorized to
              conduct worship, the wing chaplain (or chaplain-in-charge) will:
                  3.2.2.3.2.1. Fully brief the worship leader in writing on requirements,
                  restrictions, prohibitions, and expectations. The wing chaplain and worship
                  leader will sign this document. Maintain this documentation and certification
                  of the worship leader in official files.
 8                                   AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011



4. Pastoral Care.
     4.1. Privileged Communication. The privilege of total confidentiality in communications
     with a chaplain is an essential component of the chaplain’s ministry. Privileged
     communication is protected communication. It is any communication given to a chaplain in
     trust by an individual, to include Enemy Prisoners of War (EPW), if such communication is
     made either as a formal act of religion or as a matter of conscience.
        4.1.1. Obligation to confidentiality. The privilege of confidentiality belongs to the
        individual counselee. From the counselee’s right to privileged communication flows the
        chaplain’s obligation to maintain confidentiality.
            4.1.1.1. The “Code of Ethics for Chaplains of the Armed Services” affirms that all
            chaplains will hold in confidence any privileged communication received during the
            conduct of his/her ministry. The manual for Courts-Martial further affirms the
            absolute character of such privileged communication within the context of judicial
            proceedings and investigations.
            4.1.1.2. The privilege against disclosure belongs to the counselee. The privilege
            extends beyond the death of the counselee and may not be waived by anyone.
        4.1.2. Release from privileged communication. Under no circumstances may a
        chaplain disclose privileged communication revealed in the practices of his/her ministry
        without the individual counselee’s informed, written consent. The counselee’s written
        consent must be signed, dated, and witnessed by a disinterested third party.
            4.1.2.1. A release from privileged communication is inapplicable to cases where a
            chaplain is bound by the requirements of sacramental confession.
        4.1.3. Professional Information. Information received or collected by a chaplain in
        performing his/her ministry or in fulfilling the requirements of his/her faith-group is
        considered privileged communication.
        4.1.4. Sensitive Information. Sensitive information is any non-privileged
        communications that would be an inappropriate subject for general dissemination to a
        third party (e.g., attendance at substance abuse clinics, treatment by counselors, prior
        arrests). Sensitive information will be protected and handled confidentially by all chapel
        staff.
        4.1.5. Protected Information Files. Chaplains’ notes from privileged communication
        are to be clearly marked “Confidential: Privileged Communication” and distinguished in
        the chaplain’s personal files from professional information and sensitive information.
        Protected information files shall be properly secured and safeguarded protecting them
        from inadvertent disclosure. When privileged or sensitive information is stored in digital
        form, the digital media must not reside permanently on government computers.
        4.1.6. Chapel Staff and Privileged Communication. Persons assisting clergy, e.g.,
        chaplain assistants and secretaries must avoid receiving privileged communications and
        should never receive privileged communications voluntarily. Every effort must be made
        to insure that persons seeking spiritual advice or counseling disclose privileged
        information only to chaplains.
AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011                                                      9


       4.1.7. Privileged     Communication       between     Chaplain      Supervisors      and
       Subordinates. Chaplain supervisors are to avoid entering into privileged communication
       with subordinates on their staff. Staff members are encouraged to exercise this privilege
       with a chaplain outside their chain of command when such communication is needed.
       4.1.8. Violation of Privileged Communication. Actions inconsistent with the
       policies/standards outlined above will constitute a failure to meet Air Force standards and
       may result in administrative or Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) action as set
       forth in AFI 52-102, para 7.2.
       4.1.9. Incompatible Taskings. Commanders will not require a chaplain to serve in a
       capacity in which the chaplain may later be called upon to reveal privileged or sensitive
       information.
       4.1.10. Official and Private File Systems. Privileged communication, professional
       communications and sensitive information files are the personal files of the individual
       (counselor) chaplain. These files are not to be maintained in any system of records that
       may be subject to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552. Chaplains will
       personally dispose of them and ensure their destruction through a secure means (e.g.
       shredder). Chaplains must secure and safeguard file copies (paper, computer files,
       message storage devices, and all forms of electronic media) containing privileged
       communications and sensitive information.
   4.2. Death Notifications: Chaplains are members of the notification team. They provide
   pastoral care and support for both next-of-kin and death notification team members.
   4.3. Religious Education Curricula. Wing/Base/Installation chaplains, in consultation with
   their staffs, approve curricula for religious education to meet the assessed needs of religious
   communities. Curricula will not denigrate any religious group.
   4.4. Religious Literature. Wing/Base/Installation chaplains, in consultation with their
   staffs, approve the display and distribution of religious literature to inform and educate the
   base population. Literature will not denigrate any religious group.
   4.5. Airmen Ministry Centers. These are chapel sponsored facilities located in or near
   dormitories and dedicated to providing pastoral care to the residents/students living there.
   Airmen Ministry Centers may be furnished with comfortable furniture, recreational
   equipment (TVs, game systems, pool tables, etc.) and small kitchen appliances (microwaves,
   coffee pots/cappuccino machines, etc.).
5. Advising Leadership. CS personnel advise military leaders in all matters pertaining to
religious conviction and expression, and the accommodation of practices arising from religious
faith, ethical decision-making, and moral reasoning. CS personnel at all echelons will provide to
leaders:
   5.1. Advice consistent with their role as visible reminders of the Holy.
   5.2. Analysis of religious demographics and associated requirements.
   5.3. Frequent updates on the spiritual health of the community and opportunities for
   religious expression.
 10                                  AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011


   5.4. Advice regarding public prayer, memorials, prayer at official functions and meetings,
   visits by ecclesiastical endorsing agencies, and relations with civilian religious leaders and
   communities.
6. Cultural Diversity. The CS values diversity. Diversity makes us stronger, innovative,
vibrant and more effective. Leadership at all echelons will demonstrate and foster respect for all.
7. Chaplain Service Sustainment. Chaplain Service sustainment is realized by successfully
achieving Global Ministry strategies.
   7.1. AF Form 1270 and AF Form 1270A. Global Ministry implementation is measured,
   and becomes a matter of record at all levels using AF Form 1270, Chaplain Service Report
   and AF Form 1270A, Deployed Senior Chaplain Report.
   7.1. (TYNDALLAFB) Adopted Forms:
   AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
   AF Form 1270, Chaplain Service Report
   AF Form 1270A, Deployed Senior Chaplain Report
   AF Form 4376, Air Force Chaplain Service Death, Hospitalization, and Serious Illness
   Notification Worksheet

Table 1. DELETED.
       7.1.1. Active Duty. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU, and wing chaplains compile and consolidate
       monthly AF Form 1270 reports and forward to their higher headquarters. Consolidated
       MAJCOM 1270 reports are due to AF/HC NLT the 20th day of the month following the
       reporting month (e.g. January report is due 20 February).
       7.1.2. ARC. Category A reservists report quarterly to their higher functional
       headquarters (who determine report due dates). Category B reservists only report
       statistics when on duty (IDT, active duty, MPA days, RPA days, etc.). Category B
       reservists will report their statistics to their active duty unit wing chaplain.
       7.1.3. All Deployed Chaplains. Deployed chaplains (active and ARC) complete the AF
       Form 1270A monthly and forward to their functional headquarters (within 10 days after
       the close of the report month). A consolidated 1270A report will then be forwarded from
       the functional headquarters to AF/HCP, Readiness (due date will be determined by
       AF/HCP, Readiness).
8. Forms Prescribed. AF Form 1270, Chaplain Service Report, AF Form 1270A, Deployed
Senior Chaplain Report, and AF Form 4376, Air Force Chaplain Service Death, Hospitalization,
and Serious Illness Notification Worksheet.
AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011                                   11



8. (TYNDALLAFB) Prescribed Forms:
TYNDALLAFB Form 112, Invocation Request for Official Function




                                       CHARLES C. BALDWIN, Chaplain, Major
                                       General, USAF
                                       Chief of the Chaplain Service

                                       (TYNDALL AFB)

                                       DARRYL L. ROBERSON, Col, USAF
                                       Commander, 325th Fighter Wing
 12                                  AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-244, Disposition of Personal Property and Effects
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization
AFMAN 36-2105, Officer Classification
AFMAN 36-2108, Airman Classification
AFMAN 37-123, Records of Management
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management
AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service
United States Code, Title10, Sec 9712, Disposition of effects of deceased persons by summary
court-martial

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFCB—Armed Forces Chaplains Board
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CS—Chaplain Service
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DPAH—Directorate of Personnel Actions, Chaplain Service
FOA—Field Operating Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
PPBS—Planning, Programming and Budgeting System
RCS—Reports Control Symbol
USC—United States Code

Terms
—NOTE: The purpose of this glossary is to help the reader understand the terms used in this
publication. It is not intended to encompass all pertinent terms.
Auxiliaries—Clergy meeting educational requirements equivalent to Air Force chaplains who,
with the approval of their religious bodies, are authorized by a Wing chaplain (or chaplain-in-
charge) to provide spiritual care.
Base—A locality from which operations are projected or supported.
AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011                                                     13


Chaplain Assistants—Enlisted support members of the Chaplain Service with Air Force
Specialty Code 5R0 whose description is specified in AFMAN 36-2108.
Holy Days—Occasions of special religious significance during which worship, rites, sacraments,
or other religious observances are required and/or conducted.
Religious Demographics—Data collected to determine religious program needs at a given
location. May address various population groups (i.e. national, regional, military, base, deployed
site, etc.) from the perspective of religious affiliations, requirements, accommodations and
practices.
Supervise(s)—indicates responsibility as the individual(s) rating official, as well as direct
supervisory responsibility.
 14                                 AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 2
               IC 2004-01 TO AFI 52-101, PLANNING AND ORGANIZING

18 October 2004
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2004-01. The change reflects recent modifications
to the organization of the Chaplain Service. This change clarifies standardized duty titles and
becomes an inspection item.
2.1.2.1.1. Chief of Chaplains. A chaplain in the grade of major general directly responsible to
the CSAF for all USAF CS programs and personnel.
2.1.2.1.2. Deputy Chief of Chaplains. A Chaplain in the grade of brigadier general assigned as
deputy to the Chief of Chaplains.
2.1.2.2.3. Chief (insert division name). A chaplain, responsible for a HQ MAJCOM CS
Division.
2.1.2.2.4. Staff Chaplain (Insert area of responsibility). A chaplain who performs specific
portions of a HQ MAJCOM CS mission.
2.1.2.4.2. Chief (Insert division name). A chaplain, responsible for a FOA CS Division.
2.1.2.4.3. Staff Chaplain (Insert area of responsibility). A chaplain who performs specific
portions of a FOA CS mission.
AFI52-101_TYNDALLAFBSUP_I 22 FEBRUARY 2011                                                      15


                                          Attachment 3
                IC 2005-1 TO AFI 52-101, PLANNING AND ORGANIZING

10 MAY 2005
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2005-1. This change adds paragraph 2.3.4
regarding the use of Civil Air Patrol Chaplains to provide chaplain ministries during emergencies
and/or contingencies. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.
2.3.4. Air Force Auxiliary Chaplains (Civil Air Patrol). In contingencies such as national and
local emergencies, plane crashes and acts of terrorism, or in exceptional cases, where active duty
and reserve chaplains are unavailable, wing chaplains are authorized to use fully qualified (as
outlined in AFI 52-102), volunteer Civil Air Patrol (CAP) chaplains to provide chaplain
ministries as needed. Serving as Air Force Auxiliary chaplains, CAP chaplains are covered by
the Federal Tort Claims Act and Federal Employee Compensation Act, Title 10, Subtitle D, Part
III, Chapter 909, Section 9442.
