BY ORDER OF THE                                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-903
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                1 FEBRUARY 1998

                                                          HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
                                                                                         Supplement 1
                                                                                         7 March 2005
                                                                    Certified Current on 28 March 2011
                                                                                                  Law

                                                               DISSIDENT AND PROTEST ACTIVITIES

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:         This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
                http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/JAG                                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/JAG
        (Lt Col William E. Boyle)                                                      (Mr. Harlan G. Wilder)
Supersedes AFI 51-903, 4 March 1994                                                                  Pages: 5
                                                                                              Distribution: F

                                                   (USAFA)
OPR: HQ USAFA/JA (MSgt Barbara J. Lamb)                                         Certified by: HQ USAFA/JA
                                                                                        (Maj Mark C. Garney)
Supersedes AFI51-903_USAFASUP1,                                                                      Pages: 2
           18 March 2002                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, and Department of Defense Directive
1325.6, Guidelines for Handling Dissident and Protest Activities Among Members of the Armed Forces,
October 1, 1996. It provides prohibitions and guidance regarding dissident and protest activities involv-
ing Air Force installations or Air Force members. It applies to all Air Force military personnel serving on
active duty or active duty for training. Military members who violate the prohibitions contained in para-
graphs 2., 5., 5.1., 7., and 7.2., are subject to disciplinary action under Article 92, or other applicable arti-
cles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.

(USAFA) This supplement implements and extends the guidance for Air Force Instruction (AFI)
AFI 51-903, Dissident And Protest Activities, 01 February 1998. This supplement establishes proce-
dures for obtaining approval to conduct protest activities or distribute literature on Air Force Academy
property. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAFA/
JA, 2304 Cadet Dr, Suite 241, USAF Academy CO 80840, on Air Force (AF) Information Management
Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.”
2                                                         AFI51-903_USAFASUP1_I 7 MARCH 2005



SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 51-9, and updates the instruction to implement DODD
1325.6, October 1, 1996. The revision contains minor editing changes for clarification. Major textual
changes were made concerning prohibited activities paragraph 5.); new guidance on the functions of com-
mand (paragraph 5.2.); and, training requirements to educate members about prohibited activities (para-
graph 6.). Punitive language was added to paragraphs 2., 5.1., 7., and 7.2., to comply with notice
requirements. A | indicates revisions from the previous edition.
(USAFA) This revision simplifies the application process by removing distinctions and guidelines regard-
ing proposed activities, and makes editorial clarifications. A bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous
edition.



1. Authority and Responsibility of Commanders. Air Force commanders have the inherent authority
and responsibility to take action to ensure the mission is performed and to maintain good order and disci-
pline. This authority and responsibility includes placing lawful restriction on dissident and protest activ-
ities.
    1.1. Air Force commanders must preserve the service member's right of expression, to the maximum
    extent possible, consistent with good order, discipline, and national security.
    1.2. To properly balance these interests, commanders must exercise calm and prudent judgment and
    should consult with their staff judge advocates. In appropriate cases, commanders may find it advis-
    able to confer with higher authority before initiating action to restrict manifestations of dissent.
    1.3. AFI 31-209, Air Force Resource Protection Program, contains additional guidance.

2. Possession and Distribution of Printed Materials. Air Force members may not distribute or post
any printed or written material, other than publications of an official government agency or base-regu-
lated activity, within any Air Force installation without permission of the installation commander or that
commander's designee. Members who violate this prohibition are subject to disciplinary action under
Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice in addition to any other applicable violation of the Uni-
form Code of Military Justice or Federal law.
    2.1. The member must provide a written request including a copy of the material and a proposed
    plan or method for distribution or posting.
    2.2. The installation commander or authorized designee determines if a clear danger to the loyalty,
    discipline, or morale of members of the Armed Forces or interference with accomplishing the military
    mission would result from publication of distribution of the materials. If so, the commander or autho-
    rized designee shall prohibit the distribution or posting and notify SAF/PA.
       2.2.1. Do not prohibit distribution or posting of publications on the sole ground that the material
       is critical of government policies or officials. See Article 88--Contempt Toward Officials, the
       Uniform Code of Military Justice, when publications are critical of officials.
       2.2.2. This instruction will not be used to prohibit the distribution of publications or other materi-
       als through the US mail or the distribution of materials officially approved by the Air Force or
AFI51-903_USAFASUP1_I 7 MARCH 2005                                                                        3


       Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) for distribution through official outlets, such as
       military libraries and exchanges.
   2.3. Do not prohibit mere possession of materials unauthorized for distribution or posting, unless oth-
   erwise unlawful. These materials may be impounded if a member of the Armed Forces distributes or
   posts, or attempts to distribute or post them, within the installation. Return
   impounded materials to the owners when they leave the installation, unless the materials are deter-
   mined to be evidence of a crime.
   2.4. (Added-USAFA) Individuals wishing to distribute unofficial printed or written matter on the Air
   Force Academy must first receive permission from the Installation Commander (Superintendent, HQ
   USAFA) or designee, as described in paragraph 2.6. (Added)
   2.5. (Added-USAFA) The Installation Commander or designee may make time, place, and manner
   restrictions in granting permission to conduct these activities. Activities will normally only be allowed
   during periods when the Academy is observing visitor hours.
   2.6. (Added-USAFA) Submit the request, in writing, addressed to the Superintendent, through Public
   Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA, 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 320, USAF Academy, CO 80840), not less than 30
   days before the planned date and include the following information, as applicable:
       2.6.1. (Added-USAFA) Two copies of the printed or written matter to be distributed.
       2.6.2. (Added-USAFA) Number of people participating.
       2.6.3. (Added-USAFA) Names and addresses of those participating.
       2.6.4. (Added-USAFA) Number of printed or written pieces to be distributed.
       2.6.5. (Added-USAFA) Time and place of the planned distribution.
   2.7. (Added-USAFA) If permission is granted, the Installation Commander or designee will state the
   location, date, and time activities are authorized, along with any particular limitations appropriate to
   the activity. Even when permission is granted, it is subject to cancellation without notice due to
   changes in the Academy’s force protection condition.
   2.8. (Added-USAFA) Appeals of any denials may be made to the Director of Staff, United States Air
   Force Academy (HQ USAFA/DS). Appeals should state the reason for the appeal and should be sub-
   mitted through HQ USAFA/PA (address same as paragraph 2.6. (Added) above); include copies of
   the original request, with attachments, and the denial letter from the Installation Commander or desig-
   nee.
   2.9. (Added-USAFA) Failure to comply with the requirements of this instruction may result in debar-
   ment from the Air Force Academy (civilians), or disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of Mili-
   tary Justice (active duty members).

3. Writing for Publications. Air Force members may not write for unofficial publications during duty
hours. While unofficial publications, such as "underground newspapers," are not prohibited, they may not
be produced using government or nonappropriated fund property or supplies on or off-duty. If such a pub-
lication contains language, the utterance of which is punishable by the Uniform Code of Military Justice
or other Federal laws, those members involved in printing, publishing, or distributing such materials are
subject to discipline for such infractions.
4                                                          AFI51-903_USAFASUP1_I 7 MARCH 2005


4. Off-limits Action. Action may be initiated under AFJI 31-213, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control
Boards and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations, to place establishments "off limits" when, for exam-
ple, activities taking place include counseling members of the Armed Forces to refuse to perform their
duty or to desert, or involve acts with a significant adverse effect on health, welfare, or morale of military
members.

5. Prohibited Activities. Military personnel must reject participation in organizations that espouse
supremacist causes; attempt to create illegal discrimination based on race, creed, color, sex, religion, or
national origin; advocate the use of force or violence; or otherwise engage in the effort to deprive individ-
uals of their civil rights.
    5.1. Active participation, such as publicly demonstrating or rallying, fund raising, recruiting and
    training members, organizing or leading such organizations, or otherwise engaging in activities in
    relation to such organizations or in furtherance of the objectives of such organization that the com-
    mander concerned finds to be detrimental to good order, discipline, or mission accomplish-ment, is
    incompatible with military service and prohibited. Members who violate this prohibition are subject
    to disciplinary action under Article 92, in addition to any other appropriate articles of the Uniform
    Code of Military Justice.
       5.1.1. Mere membership in the type of organization enumerated is not prohibited, however, mem-
       bership must be considered in evaluating or assigning members (AFI 36-2701, Social Actions
       Operating Procedures; AFI 36-2403, The Enlisted Evaluation System; AFI 36-2402, Officer Eval-
       uation System; and AFI 36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity and Maltreatment Program).
    5.2. Commanders are authorized to use the full range of administrative procedures, including separa-
    tion or appropriate disciplinary action against military personnel who actively participate in such
    groups.
    5.3. It is a function of command to be vigilant about the existence of the type of activities enumerated
    above. Active use of investigative authority to include a prompt and fair complaint process, and the
    use of administrative powers, such as counseling, reprimands, orders, and performance evaluations
    should be used to deter such activities.

6. Training Policy on Prohibited Activities. The policy on prohibited activities shall be included in ini-
tial active duty training, pre-commissioning training, professional military education, commander train-
ing, and other appropriate Air Force programs.

7. Demonstrations and Similar Activities. Demonstrations or other activities within an Air Force
installation, which could result in interference with or prevention of the orderly accomplishment of a mis-
sion of the installation or which present a clear danger to loyalty, discipline, or morale of members of the
Armed Forces, are prohibited. Members who violate this prohibition are subject to disciplinary action
under Article 92, in addition to any other appropriate articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
    7.1. It is a crime for any person to enter a military installation for any purpose prohibited by law or
    unlawful regulation, or for any person to enter or reenter an installation after having been barred by
    order of the installation commander (AFI 31-209; 18 U.S.C. 1382).
    7.2. Air Force members are prohibited from participating in demonstrations when they are on duty,
    when they are in a foreign country, when they are in uniform, when their activities constitute a breach
AFI51-903_USAFASUP1_I 7 MARCH 2005                                                                       5


   of law and order, or when violence is likely to result. Members who violate this provision are subject
   to disciplinary action under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
   7.3. (Added-USAFA) Demonstration activities at the USAF Academy are controlled by the same
   requirements as those set forth for the distribution of printed materials in paragraphs 2.4. (Added)
   through 2.9. (Added)

8. Military Grievances. The right of Air Force members to complain and request redress of their griev-
ances against actions of their commanders is protected by Article 138, UCMJ (AFI 51- 904, Complaints
of Wrongs Under Article 138, Uniform Code of Military Justice) and by the Inspector General Complaint
System (AFI 90-302). Military personnel may also petition or present a grievance to any member of Con-
gress without fear of reprisal. An open door policy for complaints is a basic principle of good leadership.
Commanders should ensure that adequate procedures exist locally for identifying complaints and taking
necessary corrective actions.




                                      BRYAN G. HAWLEY, Maj General, USAF
                                      The Judge Advocate General

                                      (USAFA)

                                      MICHAEL R. McANTEE, Colonel, USAF
                                      HQ USAFA Staff Judge Advocate
