BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-905
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          30 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                             Law

                                               USE OF MAGISTRATE JUDGES FOR TRIAL
                                                   OF MISDEMEANORS COMMITTED BY
                                                                        CIVILIANS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/JAA                                             Certified by: AF/JA (Maj Gen Rockwell)
                                                                                     Pages: 11
Supersedes:    AFI 51-905, 1 June 1998


This instruction implements AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals. It provides guidance and
procedures for prosecution before U.S. magistrate judges of civilians who commit minor
offenses on United States Air Force reservations where the U.S. has either exclusive or
concurrent jurisdiction. The procedures contained in this Instruction do not apply to offenses
committed by service members in the Regular Air Force (RegAF), or offenses committed by
service members in the Air Force Reserve (AFR), and Air National Guard (ANG), when such
service members are on Title 10 orders. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. The authorities to waive wing-level requirements in this publication lie with the OPR
of this publication, unless such requirements are otherwise followed with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to
the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. This publication
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of
1974, 5 United States Code (U.S.C.) § 552a; AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil
 2                                                            AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


Liberties Program, 5 June 2013. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records
prescribed in this publication are 10 U.S.C. § 8013 and Executive Order 9397, 22 November
1943. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act
System Notice(s) is available online at: http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised and should be reviewed. Changes include citations to current
statutory authorities, delineation of responsibilities of the installation commander and the
servicing staff judge advocate (SJA) pertaining to establishing and maintaining a process for
prosecution of civilians; clarification as to when a defendant’s consent to be tried before a U.S.
magistrate judge is required, and the addition of tiered waiver authorities in accordance with AFI
33-360.
1. Overview. Civilians who violate federal law on Air Force installations, including assimilated
state criminal laws applicable to federal reservations, may be prosecuted in U.S. district court or
the U.S. magistrate court. The magistrate system is particularly well-adapted to dispose of traffic
and minor offense cases. Air Force attorneys appointed as Special Assistant United States
Attorneys (SAUSA) may represent the United States in such proceedings.
2. Roles and Responsibilities. This instruction establishes the following roles and
responsibilities:
     2.1. Installation Commanders.
        2.1.1. Have the responsibility and authority to protect personnel and property, to
        maintain good order and discipline and to enforce applicable laws.
        2.1.2. Will establish and maintain an effective, comprehensive traffic safety program on
        the installation. (T-0). See Title 32, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), § 634.25,
        Installation Traffic Codes; 32 CFR § 210.3, Policy; DoD Directive 5525.4, Enforcement
        of the State Traffic Laws on DoD Installations.
        2.1.3. Will coordinate with the Department of Justice a process for the prosecution of
        civilians who commit minor offenses on Air Force Installations. (T-3). If no U.S.
        magistrate judge has been designated to try misdemeanors on an Air Force installation,
        the installation commander will request the U.S. attorney to petition the U.S. district
        court to designate a U.S. magistrate judge for that purpose. If the U.S. district court fails
        to designate a U.S. magistrate judge after petition, the installation commander will report
        the failure to AF/JAA. (T-1).
        2.1.4. Where an installation magistrate court program is established in accordance with
        this Instruction, the installation commander should execute a Memorandum of
        Understanding with the U.S. attorney covering responsibilities and procedures for trials
        in U.S. Magistrate Court.
        2.1.5. May delegate administration of the installation’s magistrate court program to the
        servicing SJA.
        2.1.6. State vehicular and pedestrian traffic laws are expressly adopted and made
        applicable under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. § 13 on military installations having
AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                      3


       concurrent or exclusive federal jurisdiction. See 32 CFR § 634.25. In those states where
       violations of traffic laws are not considered criminal offenses and cannot be assimilated,
       DoDD 5525.4 adopts the vehicular and traffic laws of such states and makes these laws
       applicable to military installations having concurrent or exclusive federal jurisdiction. It
       also delegates authority to installation commanders to establish additional vehicular and
       pedestrian traffic rules and regulations for their installations. See DoDD 5525.4,
       enclosure 1. Persons found guilty of violating the vehicular and pedestrian traffic laws
       made applicable on the installation under provisions of that directive are subject to a fine
       as determined by the local magistrate or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both,
       for each violation. See 32 CFR § 634.25. In those States where traffic laws cannot be
       assimilated, an extract copy of DoDD 5525.4, paragraph (f) and a copy of the delegation
       memorandum in DoDD 5525.4, enclosure 1, will be posted in a prominent place
       accessible to persons assigned, living, or working on the installation. (T-0). Note:
       Congress authorized the General Services Administration (GSA) to establish regulations
       for the protection of federal property. The GSA delegated to the Secretary of Defense the
       authority to promulgate traffic and pedestrian regulations for military installations. The
       statutory basis for military traffic regulations and criminal sanctions are currently found
       at 40 U.S.C. § 1315 (transferring authority from GSA to the Department of Homeland
       Security).
       2.1.7. May, in addition to case by case consideration, make a blanket determination
       (based on safety, discipline or other considerations) that administrative disposition of
       certain offenses committed by civilians on the installation is not adequate or appropriate
       and that all such offenses should be presented to the U.S. attorney’s office for
       consideration of prosecution before a U.S. magistrate judge for trial.
   2.2. Staff Judge Advocates.
       2.2.1. SJAs will ensure overall management of the magistrate court program and
       compliance with this Instruction. (T-1).
       2.2.2. SJAs will closely monitor prosecutions conducted by SAUSAs in U.S.
       magistrate’s court and U.S. district court, and will provide supervision as necessary
       through appropriate coordination with the U.S. attorney concerned. (T-1).
   2.3. Special Assistant United States Attorneys.
       2.3.1. Air Force attorneys designated to prosecute cases before the U.S. magistrate judge
       must be appointed as SAUSAs. 28 U.S.C. § 543. (T-0). Attorneys so appointed come
       under the supervision of the appropriate U.S. attorney in the performance of those duties,
       and may perform only those duties, under such supervision, specifically authorized under
       this Instruction.
       2.3.2. Air Force Attorneys designated to prosecute cases before a U.S. magistrate judge
       must familiarize themselves with the local rules of court and Federal Rules of Criminal
       Procedure, Rule 58, Petty Offenses and other Misdemeanors.
3. U. S. District Courts and U.S. Magistrates.
   3.1. The U.S. district courts are the general trial courts of the federal court system. Each
   district court has at least one United States district judge appointed for a life term. The
 4                                                             AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


     districts are the same as those for the U.S. attorneys, and the U.S. attorney is the primary
     prosecutor for the federal government in his or her respective area. The district courts of the
     United States have original jurisdiction of all offenses against the laws of the United States.
     See 18 U.S.C. § 3231.
     3.2. U. S. Magistrate Judge. A properly designated U.S. magistrate judge:
        3.2.1. Has jurisdiction to try persons accused of, and sentence persons convicted of,
        misdemeanors committed in places under the exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction of the
        United States and in the judicial district for which such magistrate judge is appointed. 18
        U.S.C. § 3401(a); see also 28 U.S.C. § 636.
        3.2.2. Can issue a warrant of arrest, based on a properly filed complaint.
        3.2.3. Can try persons for violating Air Force or installation instructions, when
        promulgated under the authority delegated by the Office of the Secretary of Defense to
        installation commanders in DoDD 5525.4.
4. Prosecutions by Air Force Attorneys Before U. S. Magistrate Judges.
     4.1. The U.S. attorney has prosecutorial responsibility and authority in U.S. district and U.S.
     magistrate courts. The U.S. attorney for the judicial district in which the installation is
     located may advise that a representative of the Department of Justice is not available to
     conduct the prosecutions before U.S. magistrate judges. In this case, installation SJAs will
     designate one or more Air Force attorneys to conduct such prosecutions. (T-3).
     4.2. Once designated, the SJA will, through the local U.S. attorney, seek such designee’s
     appointment as a SAUSA consistent with 28 U.S.C. §§ 515(a), 516, 543. (T-0).
5. Prosecutions by Air Force Attorneys in U. S. District Courts. If the defendant elects to be
tried before the U.S. district court in a non-petty offense, and the U.S. attorney requests the Air
Force attorney conduct the prosecution in U.S. district court, the SJA, through appropriate
command channels, must first obtain approval from the major command SJA before an Air Force
attorney may prosecute the case in U.S. district court. This is true even if the judge advocate was
authorized to prosecute in that case before a U.S. magistrate judge. Such approval is granted on
a case by case basis. (T-2).
6. Procedures Established by This Instruction:
     6.1. Offenses committed by service members in the RegAF, and by AFR, and ANG service
     members, when such members are on Title 10 orders, shall not be tried in U.S. magistrate or
     U.S. district court under the provisions of this Instruction; rather, appropriate action will be
     taken by military commanders in such cases.
     6.2. The trial of a misdemeanor may proceed on a Complaint, Information, or Indictment, in
     accordance with the local rules and procedures, and in the format prescribed by the local U.S.
     magistrate judge. Attachment 2 is a suggested Complaint format. Assistant U.S. attorneys
     and SAUSAs prepare these charging documents. The office of the SJA will ensure these
     documents properly allege a violation of federal law, including crimes assimilated pursuant
     to 18 U.S.C. § 13, and offenses established under the authorities identified in DoDD 5525.4.
     (T-3).
AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   5


  6.3. The trial before a U.S. magistrate judge of petty offenses committed by civilians on base
  may also proceed on a U.S. District Court Violation Notice. A U.S. District Court Violation
  Notice is not a Complaint, Information, or Indictment as those terms are used here. A U.S.
  District Court Violation Notice issued by the security forces does not require review by the
  office of the SJA.
  6.4. Warrants. When a U.S. magistrate judge issues a warrant of arrest, U.S. marshals or
  their deputies will usually execute such warrants. Under no circumstances will Air Force
  personnel execute such warrants.
  6.5. Trial. Any person charged with a misdemeanor, other than a petty offense, may elect
  trial before the U.S. district court for the district in which the offense was committed. In
  accordance with 18 U.S.C. § 3401(b), the U.S. magistrate judge must inform the defendant of
  the right to make this choice and may not try the case until the defendant is notified and
  expressly consents to be tried by the U.S. magistrate judge. Attachment 2 is a suggested
  written consent format.
  6.6. In all cases of conviction by a U.S. magistrate judge, the defendant may appeal to the
  U.S. district court for the district in which the offense was committed. 18 U.S.C. § 3402.




                                           CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           The Judge Advocate General
 6                                                       AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, 5 November 1993
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, AFGM dated 28 May 14
32 CFR § 210.3, Policy
32 CFR § 634.25, Installation Traffic Codes
DoDD 5525.4, Enforcement of the State Traffic Laws on DoD Installations, 2 November 1981
18 U.S.C. § 13
18 U.S.C. § 3231
18 U.S.C. § 3401(a)
28 U.S.C. § 636
28 U.S.C. § 515(a)
28 U.S.C. § 516
28 U.S.C. § 543
40 U.S.C. § 1315
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
JAA—Administrative Law Directorate
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAUSA—Special Assistant United States Attorney
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USC—United States Code
AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     7


USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Magistrate Judge—A U.S. magistrate judge serves as a judicial officer of the U.S. district
courts and exercises the jurisdiction delegated to him or her by law as well as those delegated by
the district judges.
Misdemeanor—An offense for which the authorized penalty does not exceed imprisonment for
one year. Misdemeanors may include violations of assimilated state criminal laws that apply to a
federal reservation pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 13.
Petty Offense—A misdemeanor for which the authorized penalty does not exceed imprisonment
for six months or a fine of $5,000.00, or both. This includes installation traffic offenses
promulgated under DoDD 5524.4, subject to a fine as determined by the local magistrate or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both, for each violation.
8                                                             AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                          Attachment 2
                                    SAMPLE COMPLAINT

                             UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                                       FOR THE


                                                                    Magistrate Judge's Docket No.
                                                                                           Case No.


UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                                     COMPLAINT for VIOLATION of
V.                                                           U.S.C. Title
                                                             Section
BEFORE


Name of Magistrate Judge                                     Address of Magistrate Judge


The undersigned complainant being duly sworn states:


That on or about      20XX at        in the


District of


(1)


did (2)


And the complainant states that this complaint is based on



And the complainant further states that (he) (she) believes that
AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                      9




are material witnesses in relation to this charge.




                                          Signature of Complainant


                                                     Official title


 Sworn to before me, and subscribed in my presence,            20XX.




                                        United States Magistrate Judge


 (1) Insert name of accused.
 (2) Insert statement of the essential facts constituting the offense charged.
10                                                         AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                         Attachment 3
                            SAMPLE CONSENT DOCUMENT

                                    (Misdemeanors)
                            UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                                      FOR THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA


V.




                            Docket No.




CONSENT TO PROCEED BEFORE UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE IN A
MISDEMEANOR CASE


The United States magistrate judge has explained to me the nature of the offense(s) with which I
am charged and the maximum possible penalties which might be imposed if I am found guilty.
The magistrate has informed me of my right to the assistance of legal counsel.


The magistrate judge has also informed me of my right to trial, judgment and sentencing before a
United States district court judge.


I HEREBY: Waive (give up) my right to trial, judgment and sentencing before a United States
district court judge and I consent to trial, judgment and sentencing before a United States
magistrate judge.


                                 ……………………………..
                                          Defendant
AFI51-905 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                         11


                                 WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL
                                         BY JURY
 The magistrate judge has advised me of my right to trial by jury before either a United States
 district court judge or a United States magistrate judge.


 I HEREBY: Waive (give up) my right to trial by jury.


                                   ……………………………..
                                             Defendant


                            WAIVER OF RIGHT TO HAVE THIRTY
                              DAYS TO PREPARE FOR TRIAL

 The magistrate has also advised me of my right to have at least thirty days to prepare for trial
 before the magistrate judge.

                                    ……………………………..
                                                  Defendant


Date
Before
United States Magistrate Judge               Defendant's Attorney (if any)
