BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-401
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            5 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                              Law

                                                 TRAINING AND REPORTING TO ENSURE
                                                COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW OF ARMED
                                                                         CONFLICT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/JAO                                            Certified by: AF/JAO (Col Robert Ramey)
                                                                                       Pages: 9
Supersedes:    AFI 51-401, 11 Aug 2011


This Instruction implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 2311.01E, DoD Law of
War Program and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-4, Compliance With the Law of Armed
Conflict. It prescribes Law of Armed Conflict (LOAC) compliance requirements, and it
establishes training guidance and investigating and reporting procedures for alleged LOAC
violations. This Instruction applies to all Regular Component (RegAF), Air Force Reserve
(AFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) military and civilian personnel and to contractor
personnel assigned to or accompanying the force. This publication may be supplemented at any
level, but all supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed
above for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the OPR listed above using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication lie with the OPR of this publication, unless otherwise identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-
1, T-2, T-3”). See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a
description of the authorities associated with waiver authorities. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                             AFI51-401 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised to include tiering information required under AFI 36-360 and to
update publication dates.
1. Purpose. This AFI provides guidance to ensure compliance with policy in AFPD 51-4.
     1.1. All Air Force military and civilian personnel will comply with the LOAC in the conduct
     of military operations and related activities in armed conflict, regardless of how such
     conflicts are characterized. In support of this policy, the Air Force will conduct specialized
     training programs for military and civilian personnel designed to prevent LOAC violations.
     The Air Force will ensure that contract work statements require contractors authorized to
     accompany the armed forces to institute and implement effective programs to prevent
     violations of the LOAC by their employees and subcontractors in accordance with DoDD
     2311.01E and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 3020.41, Operational Contract Support (OCS). (T-0)
     1.2. In appropriate publications, instructions and training programs, the Air Force will
     ensure that all Air Force military and civilian personnel know LOAC principles and
     fundamental rules; the extent of knowledge required will be commensurate with each
     individual’s duties and responsibilities. This program will include training required by the
     1949 Geneva Conventions for the Protection of War Victims and Hague Convention IV of
     1907.
     1.3. Air Force military and civilian personnel have the obligation to promptly report
     reportable incidents involving U.S. or enemy personnel. Report LOAC violations alleged to
     have been committed by or against members of other government agencies and other nations’
     military departments including all persons accompanying, contracted to, or serving with
     those forces. Consistent with Department of Defense (DoD) policy, LOAC obligations are
     similarly observed and enforced by contractors assigned to or accompanying deployed armed
     forces. (T-0)
2. Roles and Responsibilities. This Instruction establishes the following responsibilities and
authorities.
     2.1. The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) will: serve as Headquarters Air Force (HAF)
     office of primary responsibility to issue effective implementation of guidance for AFPD 51-
     4. To facilitate effective implementation, the Air Force Operations and International Law
     Directorate (AF/JAO) will:
        2.1.1. Oversee the preparation of adequate training materials to inform Air Force military
        and civilian personnel of their rights and obligations under the LOAC. Training materials
        will be developed to provide a level of the LOAC knowledge commensurate with an
        individual’s duties and responsibilities.
        2.1.2. Serve as the central collection point within the Air Force for all reports of
        reportable incidents and ensure all required offices within DoD are informed.
        2.1.3. Make recommendations regarding reportable incidents against Air Force
        personnel.
        2.1.4. Review reports and investigations forwarded to the Air Force from Commanders
        of the Combatant Commands.
AFI51-401 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    3


     2.1.5. Ensure the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) or the Inspector
     General (IG) receive advice during investigations of known or reported deficiencies in
     command responsibility pertaining to the LOAC implementation and enforcement.
     2.1.6. Coordinate plans with the Department of the Army (DoD Executive Agent) for the
     investigation, collection, recording and reporting of information relating to reportable
     incidents.
     2.1.7. Provide oversight on the training of all judge advocates and paralegals on the
     LOAC. Review and evaluate this training to ensure all judge advocates and paralegals
     are capable of assisting in the development and implementation of rules of engagement
     (ROE).
     2.1.8. Coordinate and consult with subordinate staff judge advocates (SJAs) to assist
     them in correctly advising all levels of commands on the legal principles of the LOAC
     and command responsibility.
  2.2. Pursuant to AFPD 51-4, the Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and
  Services (AF/A1) will, in coordination with AF/JA, develop policy and procedural guidance
  to enable effective implementation of the LOAC education and individual training programs
  for all personnel, to include Emergency Essential (EE) coded civilians.
  2.3. Pursuant to AFPD 51-4, the Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Operations (AF/A3/5)
  will:
     2.3.1. Ensure that plans, policies, procedures, and operations activities under its purview
     are consistent with and adhere to the legal obligations of the United States under the
     LOAC.
     2.3.2. Ensure that implementation of the LOAC training satisfies operational
     requirements.
     2.3.3. Ensure that operational unit training standards are issued which specifically
     explain the LOAC and ROE requirements.
     2.3.4. Ensure that plans, policies, and procedures for exercises and operations
     incorporate the requirement that qualified legal advisers at all levels of command provide
     advice about law of war compliance during planning and execution of exercises and
     operations.
  2.4. The Air Force Inspector General (SAF/IG) will:
     2.4.1. Ensure AFOSI identifies and reports all reportable incidents using the most
     expeditious means available to the installation commander and servicing SJA.
     2.4.2. Promulgate guidance to ensure AFOSI investigates incidents involving LOAC
     violations, committed by Air Force personnel or persons accompanying or serving with
     the Air Force.
  2.5. Pursuant to AFPD 51-4, the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
  (SAF/AQ) will provide guidance to ensure Air Force contract work statements for
  contractors authorized to accompany the armed forces are consistent with DoDI 3020.41.
  2.6. The Surgeon General (AF/SG) will:
4                                                              AFI51-401 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


       2.6.1. Develop plans, policies, and procedures to ensure that medical service personnel
       satisfy LOAC training requirements and adhere to the LOAC. This includes ensuring
       identification of deployed medical personnel is consistent with the member’s status under
       the LOAC.
       2.6.2. Supervise the individual training of medical service personnel to ensure adequate
       specialized training and instruction of medical personnel in requirements of the LOAC as
       it pertains to medical personnel.
    2.7. Pursuant to AFPD 51-4, the Chaplain (AF/HC) will:
       2.7.1. Develop plans, policies, and procedures to ensure that chaplains satisfy LOAC
       training requirements and adhere to the LOAC. This includes ensuring identification of
       deployed chaplains is consistent with the member’s status under the LOAC.
       2.7.2. Supervise the individual training of chaplains to ensure adequate specialized
       training and instruction in the requirements of the LOAC as it pertains to chaplains.
    2.8. Pursuant to AFPD 51-4, the Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics (AF/A4/7) will:
       2.8.1. Develop plans, policies, and procedures to ensure that all Air Force Security
       Forces satisfy LOAC training requirements and adhere to the LOAC.
       2.8.2. Review individual training of Air Force Security Forces personnel to ensure
       adequate specialized training and instruction of such personnel on the treatment of
       prisoners of war and detainees.
       2.8.3. Assist in promulgating plans, policies, and procedures to ensure incidents
       involving alleged LOAC violations, committed by or against members of the Air Force or
       persons accompanying or serving with the Air Force, are appropriately investigated.
    2.9. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will:
       2.9.1. Develop training plans and procedures to instruct and train Air Force personnel at
       the start of their service on the content and requirements of the LOAC. The amount and
       content of any specialized training and instruction shall be commensurate with each
       individual’s projected duties and responsibilities. For example, relevant specialized
       training should be specifically designed for personnel directly participating in combat
       operations, such as aircrew members, security forces, those personnel responsible for
       target selection and evaluation, and those personnel deemed non-combatant, such as
       medical personnel and chaplains.
       2.9.2. Supervise instruction and training in the LOAC for personnel assigned for airman
       basic military training, officer military training, and initial commissioned officer training
       for direct appointment officers, as well as for officers and Airmen receiving technical
       instruction and training.
       2.9.3. Develop plans and procedures to incorporate AFR, ANG personnel, and Air Force
       EE coded civilians in AETC LOAC training programs and throughout other applicable
       training stages.
    2.10. The United States Air Force Academy will:
AFI51-401 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   5


     2.10.1. Develop plans and procedures to provide instruction to all cadets on the content
     and requirements of the LOAC as part of their basic educational and training
     requirements. All course instruction will ensure that all graduating cadets know LOAC
     principles and fundamental rules; the extent of knowledge required will be commensurate
     with the individual’s duties and responsibilities. At a minimum, this program will
     include training required by the 1949 Geneva Conventions for the Protection of War
     Victims and Hague Convention IV of 1907. (T-0)
     2.10.2. Implement the objectives of this AFI and discuss the LOAC in academic courses
     and in military training, whenever it is relevant and appropriate. (T-0)
  2.11. The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School (AFJAGS) will:
     2.11.1. Develop plans and procedures to include adequate education and instruction in
     the content and requirements of the LOAC in military education and training programs
     the Air University administers. (T-1) Their content will be commensurate with each
     individual’s projected duties and responsibilities. AFJAGS has primary responsibility for
     supplemental LOAC instruction and related topics (e.g., the legal aspects of rules of
     engagement) for Air University, and it develops, in coordination with the other academic
     institutions of Air University, instructional lesson plans and teaching materials to carry
     out this responsibility.
     2.11.2. Furnish more advanced education in the subject in more senior programs at the
     Air War College and Air Command and Staff College, and the College of Aerospace,
     Doctrine, Research and Education. (T-1)
     2.11.3. Include LOAC instruction in Air War College, Air Command and Staff College,
     Squadron Officer School, and Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy curricula to
     ensure adequate knowledge of the subject commensurate with the nature of each
     enrollee’s duties and responsibilities. (T-1)
     2.11.4. Supervise LOAC instruction within the Air University to ensure that it is current
     and fulfills DoD Law of War Program objectives. (T-1)
     2.11.5. Develop plans, policies, and procedures for LOAC training of AFR and ANG
     members in Air University training. (T-1)
     2.11.6. Develop for Air Force Officer Accessions Training Squadron and AETC LOAC
     training modules commensurate with the level of academic standards for Airmen in each
     program. (T-1)
  2.12. All other MAJCOMs, Direct Reporting Units and Field Operating Agencies will:
     2.12.1. Ensure that plans, procedures, and operations within their areas of responsibility
     are consistent with domestic and international legal obligations under the LOAC. (T-0)
     2.12.2. Supervise individual training of assigned Air Force members to ensure general
     and specialized LOAC instruction and training is commensurate with each individual’s
     projected duties and responsibilities. (T-0)
     2.12.3. Supervise individual training of attached AFR and ANG members to ensure
     adequate LOAC training and instruction. (T-0)
 6                                                            AFI51-401 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


        2.12.4. Ensure contract work statements related to contractors assigned to or
        accompanying deployed armed forces are consistent with the requirements in this
        Instruction and AFI 63-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management which require that
        contractors implement effective LOAC training and prevention programs. (T-0)
     2.13. All other Air Force offices will ensure that all plans, policies, procedures, and
     operations within their area of responsibility are consistent with the international legal
     obligations of the United States under the LOAC. (T-0) As necessary, Air Force offices
     should seek legal guidance from their servicing SJA.
3. Law of Armed Conflict in Expeditionary Skills Training Programs.
     3.1. Refresher LOAC training will be conducted as part of the Air Force’s Expeditionary
     Skills Training program in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. All
     commanders will ensure that assigned personnel are trained in the principles and rules of the
     LOAC using the Advanced Distributed Learning System (ADLS) computer based training or
     alternative IAW paragraph 3.2. (T-1) Although ADLS is the preferred method for training
     completion, units have the option to download computer-based training to a local server and
     deliver the courses off-line to individuals as needed.
     3.2. Training can also be accomplished in a mass briefing format. Mass training should be
     led by a functional expert, ordinarily a judge advocate, or by a commander-approved (to
     include civilian equivalent) instructor utilizing the ADLS approved training materials.
     Downloaded training or mass briefing options should only be used by units with limited
     computer access or availability. For training completed outside ADLS, ancillary training
     monitors or unit training managers must certify completion and update ADLS to ensure
     members received full credit for the training.
4. Reports on Alleged Violations of the Law of Armed Conflict. Air Force personnel who
suspect or have information which might reasonably be viewed as a violation of the LOAC must
report this to their immediate commander or another appropriate official. (T-0)
     4.1. Contractor employees report reportable incidents to the commander of the unit they
     accompany or the installation to which they are assigned.
     4.2. In addition to reporting incidents involving U.S. or enemy personnel, report incidents
     alleged to have been committed by or against contractors or persons accompanying or
     serving with the United States armed forces, and violations alleged to have been committed
     by or against allies of the United States, including personnel accompanying those forces.
5. Investigations of Alleged Law of Armed Conflict Violations.
     5.1. Individual Responsibilities. All military and civilian personnel who, in the course of
     their duties, uncover information which might reasonably be viewed as a violation of the
     LOAC will report that information to their commanders. (T-0) Contracts shall similarly
     require reporting through the chain of command by contractor personnel. If the immediate
     commander appears to be involved or reporting to that commander is otherwise not feasible,
     personnel must report the incident to the next higher command authority. (T-0) In instances
     where it is unreasonable to report within the chain of command, personnel shall report to the
     servicing SJA, IG, AFOSI or to a sister Service counterpart of one of these offices. (T-0)
AFI51-401 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                        7


     5.1.1. Military and civilian personnel with information or evidence concerning a
     reportable incident will take all prudent steps to safeguard that information and/or
     evidence. (T-1) Limit the dissemination of information only to those with a need to know
     (e.g., the responsible commander, the SJA, and/or the local AFOSI Field Unit).
     Additionally, personnel will, when applicable, (a) preserve physical evidence through
     limiting access to evidentiary materials and crime scenes, (b) draw detailed sketches or
     take photographs documenting the circumstances of the incident, (c) collect any
     applicable descriptive notes, and (d) identify all possible witnesses and victims for later
     interview by investigators and legal personnel. (T-1)
     5.1.2. Military and civilian personnel must safeguard evidence and surrender it to the
     agency that investigates the alleged violation.
  5.2. Commanders and Staff Agencies. Within Air Force channels, each commander and
  staff agency that receives a report of a reportable incident will report the facts promptly to the
  appropriate SJA and will make relevant information or evidence available to the appropriate
  investigating agency. (T-0)
  5.3. The Staff Judge Advocate will:
     5.3.1. Notify the appropriate investigating agency of the receipt of a report of a
     reportable incident. (T-1)
     5.3.2. Assist and advise investigators. (T-1)
     5.3.3. Review completed investigation summaries and reports. (T-1)
     5.3.4. Develop and provide recommendations to the commander on the use of the
     evidence and on the disposition of the report of investigation. (T-1)
     5.3.5. For reports of reportable incidents initiated within service channels, forward the
     initial report of investigation to The Judge Advocate General through AF/JAO. (T-1)
     Subsequent reports to The Judge Advocate General of reportable incidents will include,
     but are not limited to: (T-1)
         5.3.5.1. The incident report; (T-1)
         5.3.5.2. Report of investigation; (T-1)
         5.3.5.3. Summary of investigation and report on disposition of the case, including
         any disciplinary actions taken in light of LOAC violations. The report must include
         any recommendations for corrective action that should be undertaken at HAF level or
         above. (T-1)
  5.4. Investigating Agency. Upon notification of the alleged LOAC violation, the
  investigating agency will also coordinate its investigative efforts with affected command and
  legal officials. (T-1)




                                             CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             The Judge Advocate General
 8                                                          AFI51-401 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-4, Compliance with the Law of Armed Conflict, 4 August 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, incorporating changes through
AFGM2014-01, 28 May 2014
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010, incorporating through Change
3, 7 August 2013
AFI 63-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions of 1949, August 12, 1949
Articles 1, 47, 50, Geneva Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded and
Sick in Armed Forces in the Field, August 12, 1949
Articles 1, 48, 50, Geneva Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded,
Sick, and Shipwrecked Members of the Armed Forces at Sea, August 12, 1949
DoDD 2311.01E, Department of Defense Law of War Program, May 9, 2006, incorporating
Change 1, November 15, 2010, Certified Current as of February 22, 2011
DoDI 3020.41, Operational Contract Support (OCS), December 20, 2011
Prescribed Forms:
None
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF/JA—Air Force Judge Advocate General
AFJAGS—Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
EE—Emergency Essential
AFI51-401 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                      9


HAF—Headquarters Air Force
LOAC—Law of Armed Conflict
ROE—Rules of Engagement
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
AFR—Air Force Reserve

Terms
Law of Armed Conflict.—Also known as the Law of War, LOAC is the part of domestic and
international law that regulates the conduct of armed hostilities. LOAC encompasses all
international law for the conduct of hostilities binding on the United States or its individual
citizens, including treaties and international agreements to which the United States is a party,
domestic law implementing those treaties and applicable customary international law.
Reportable Incident.—A possible, suspected, or alleged LOAC violation, for which there is
credible information, or conduct during military operations other than war that would constitute a
violation of LOAC if it occurred during armed conflict.
