BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-704
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           9 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                         Law

                                              HANDLING REQUESTS FOR ASYLUM AND
                                                            TEMPORARY REFUGE


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at ww.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/JAO                                                              Certified by: AF/JA
                                                                  (Maj Gen Jeffrey Rockwell)
                                                                                     Pages: 5
Supersedes: AFI 51-704, 22 November 2011


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 51-7, International Law, and Department
of Defense Instruction 2000.11, Procedures for Handling Requests for Asylum and Temporary
Refuge, by providing guidance and procedures for handling requests by foreign nationals for
asylum in the United States or temporary refuge at Air Force installations and on Air Force
aircraft worldwide. This publication applies to all United States Air Force (USAF), Air Force
Reserve (USAFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) military and civilian personnel.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This publication may be supplemented at
any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for
coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through command channels to the publication OPR for consideration/forwarding to DoD for
approval. No other waivers may be granted for any part of this publication.
 2                                                                AFI 51-704 9 OCTOBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised to include required tier waiver approval authority.
1. Responding to Requests for Asylum Within U. S. Territorial Jurisdiction. Air Force
personnel may receive requests for asylum from foreign nationals. If a foreign national
requesting asylum is physically present in the territory of the United States (defined as the 50
States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands,
American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands), the
application for asylum will be adjudicated by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
Department of Homeland Security, or if the applicant is in removal proceedings, by an
Immigration Judge of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice.
     1.1. Any request for asylum from a foreign national (or an indication that such a request is
     imminent) will be referred to the senior Air Force commander or a member of the
     commander’s staff. Upon receiving an asylum request, the commander must: (T-0)
        1.1.1. Notify as soon as practicable the servicing Air Force Office of Special
        Investigations (AFOSI).
        1.1.2. Notify as soon as practicable the nearest office of the U.S. Citizenship and
        Immigration Service (USCIS), found at www.uscis.gov/portal/site/uscis.
        1.1.3. Notify their Command Post/Center to transmit an operational report (OPREP) to
        the Air Force Service Watch Cell (AFSWC) in accordance with AFI 10-206, Operational
        Reporting.
        1.1.4. Primary responsibility for providing protection to persons requesting asylum rests
        with the civilian law enforcement or security agency having exclusive or concurrent
        jurisdiction. In unusual circumstances where it is necessary to protect persons on a
        temporary basis pending involvement of USCIS, commanders will take interim measures
        to ensure the safety of the person against attempts at forcible repatriation. Inquiries from
        foreign authorities will be addressed by the senior Air Force official present with a
        response that the case has been referred to higher authorities for instructions.
2. Responding to Requests for Asylum or Temporary Refuge made in all areas not within
the Territory of the United States (including international waters and foreign territorial
seas) Air Force personnel shall neither directly nor indirectly invite persons to seek asylum or
temporary refuge
     2.1. Temporary Refuge. Air Force officials may be asked to grant temporary refuge in a
     foreign country to nationals of that country or of a third state, and to the nationals of any
     country while within the territorial jurisdiction of any nation. It is the policy of the DoD to
     handle requests from foreign nationals for temporary refuge as follows:
        2.1.1. The senior officer present at an Air Force installation or facility or on board an Air
        Force aircraft, may grant temporary refuge to a foreign national for humanitarian
        reasons, upon the foreign national’s request. The commander sets procedures for
        granting temporary refuge and for determining when such refuge should be granted.
        When deciding which measures may be prudently taken to provide temporary refuge, the
        safety of U.S. personnel and security of the unit must be taken into consideration. The
        commander who grants temporary refuge must:
AFI 51-704 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       3


          2.1.1.1. Notify the servicing AFOSI. (T-0)
          2.1.1.2. Protect the foreign national. (T-0)
          2.1.1.3. Immediately inform the AFSWC as described in paragraph 3.1 and send
          information as specified in paragraph 3.2 (T-0)
      2.1.2. Terminate temporary refuge only when directed by the Secretary of the Air Force,
      or higher authority, in coordination with relevant U.S. agencies. (T-0) Persons whose
      temporary refuge is terminated will be released to the protection of the authorities
      designated in the message authorizing release.
   2.2. Asylum. Although asylum, by definition, can only be sought and granted within U.S.
   territory, foreign nationals may request “asylum” or otherwise seek protection in other
   locations, including territorial seas and international waters.
      2.2.1. If it is clear from the facts and circumstances that the requestor is in fact seeking
      temporary refuge but has improperly used the word “asylum,” the request will be treated
      as a request for temporary refuge and the requestor so informed.
      2.2.2. Foreign nationals (including third country nationals) seeking asylum will be
      referred, as applicable, to the local representative of the United Nations High
      Commissioner for Refugees or, if outside the individual’s country of nationality or if the
      individual fears harm from host country officials, to the appropriate officials in the host
      country, foreign territory, or foreign possession for assistance in being recognized as a
      refugee or submitting a request for asylum under that country’s domestic laws and
      procedures.
      2.2.3. Requests for asylum received by Defense Attaché personnel and other military
      personnel serving under the direction of a Chief of Diplomatic Mission will be governed
      by the appropriate instructions applicable to the diplomatic mission.
      2.2.4. If the Chief of the Diplomatic Mission issues no contrary instructions, the Air
      Force official who receives the request must communicate it to the AFSWC (paragraph
      3.1) and send information to the agencies specified in paragraph 3.2.
3. Reporting Requests for Asylum or Temporary Refuge.
   3.1. Commanders will send an OPREP-3 in accordance with AFI 10-206 through the nearest
   Command Post/Center to the AFSWC. Reports will include as much information in
   Attachment 2 as possible. (T-0) If OCONUS, Commanders will notify the local embassy or
   consular office. (T-0).
   3.2. The AFSWC will immediately notify the following agencies:
      3.2.1. SECAF, CSAF, AF/A3/5.
      3.2.2. The Office of The Judge Advocate General, Operations and International Law
      Directorate (AF/JAO).
      3.2.3. The combatant command and major command.
      3.2.4. The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).
 4                                                                AFI 51-704 9 OCTOBER 2014


       3.2.5. The Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and
       Reconnaissance (AF/A2).
       3.2.6. Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA).
       3.2.7. Legislative Liaison (for Secretary of State notifications).
4. Releasing Information. Do not release information concerning requests for asylum or
temporary refuge (or that a request has been made) to the public or to the media without the
approval of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs. Refer all requests for
information received by Air Force personnel through command channels. Should any news
release or public statement be authorized, send a verbatim text of the release to all addressees in
paragraph 3.2




                                              CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                              Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              The Judge Advocate General
AFI 51-704 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                            5


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 5 February 2009
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 September 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDI 2000.11, Procedures for Handling Requests for Asylum and Temporary Refuge, May 13,
2010
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFSWC—Air Force Service Watch Cell
ANG—Air National Guard
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPREP—Operational Reporting
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
USCIS—U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service

Terms
Asylum—Protection granted by the U.S. Government within the United States to a foreign
national who, due to persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of his or her
race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion, is unable
or unwilling to avail himself or herself of the protection of his or her country of nationality (or, if
stateless, of last habitual residence).
Temporary Refuge—Protection afforded for humanitarian reasons to a foreign national in a
DoD shore installation, facility, or military vessel within the territorial jurisdiction of a foreign
nation or in international waters, under conditions of urgency in order to secure the life or safety
of that person against imminent danger, such as pursuit by a mob.
