BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-802
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               16 JUNE 2011
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 3 JUNE 2014

                                                                                           Law

                                                      MANAGEMENT OF THE JUDGE
                                               ADVOCATE GENERAL’S CORPS RESERVE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/JAR                                                                Certified by: AF/JA
                                                                    (Maj Gen Robert G. Kenny)
Supersedes:   AFI51-802, 1 May 1999                                                   Pages: 12


This publication implements AFPD 51-8, Assignment, Training, and Management of Members of
The Judge Advocate General’s Corps Reserve (TJAGCR). It governs management of TJAGCR,
and establishes eligibility and processing requirements for assignment to TJAGCR. This
publication applies to members of the United States Air Force Reserve and the Air National
Guard, as well as to individuals applying for an assignment to TJAGCR. This publication may
be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) listed above for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR listed above using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command
to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternatively, to the Publication OPR for
non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                 AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: references to TJAGDR changed to TJAGCR; references to ARPC/JAR changed to
AF/JAR or AFRC/JAR, as appropriate; revised TJAGCR application requirements and
procedures; deleted paragraph on grade determinations and service credit; changed Reassignment
Panels to Force Development Teams; and revised guidance on termination from assignment to
TJAGCR. An asterisk (*) indicates newly revised material.

Section A—Purpose and Authority.

1. Purpose. Provide accession and removal criteria and standards to meet the peacetime and
mobilization readiness requirements for high-quality legal and paralegal personnel in The Judge
Advocate General’s Corps Reserve (TJAGCR).
2. Authority. 10 U.S.C. §§ 806, 8037; AFPD 51-8. The Judge Advocate General has the
authority to designate officers as judge advocates and enlisted members as TJAGCR paralegals,
to assign and attach judge advocates and TJAGCR paralegals for duty, and to direct judge
advocates and paralegals in the performance of their duties. TJAGCR is comprised of all judge
advocates and paralegals serving in an active status in the Air National Guard (ANG) and the
United States Air Force Reserve (USAFR).

Section B—Roles and Responsibilities.

3. The Judge Advocate General. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) selects officers and
officer candidates for duty as judge advocates in TJAGCR and designates them as judge
advocates. TJAG is the approval authority for all TJAGCR judge advocate and paralegal
accessions and assignments. TJAG assigns and attaches TJAGCR members for duty, establishes
training standards and requirements, decides upon accession and removal of Air Reserve
Component judge advocates and paralegals, and provides professional oversight and supervision
for all TJAGCR members.
4. The Mobilization Assistant to TJAG, acting on behalf of TJAG, provides force
management, force development, and professional supervision and oversight for judge
advocates and paralegals assigned to the USAFR. These duties include developing and
implementing policies and programs for USAFR judge advocates and paralegals, providing
management oversight for the proper training and mission readiness of all USAFR judge
advocates and paralegals, and recommending, through AF/JAR, the selection and assignment of
all USAFR judge advocates and paralegals.
5. The ANG Assistant to TJAG, acting on behalf of TJAG, provides force management,
force development and professional supervision and oversight for judge advocates and
paralegals assigned to the ANG. These duties include developing and implementing policies
and programs for ANG judge advocates and paralegals, providing management oversight for the
proper training and mission readiness of all ANG judge advocates and paralegals, and
recommending, through AF/JAR, the selection and assignment of all ANG judge advocates and
paralegals.
AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011                                                                        3


6. AF/JAR, acting on behalf of TJAG, and in coordination with the Mobilization Assistant
to TJAG and the ANG Assistant to TJAG, as appropriate, serves as the primary action
officer for recruiting, accessions, and assignments of TJAGCR judge advocates, and aids in
the formulation of management policies, including training policies, for TJAG decision.
7. AFRC/JAR implements decisions made by TJAG by providing personnel management
of USAFR members of TJAGCR.
8. TJAGCR Paralegal Leadership. [Insert Additional Procedures.]
   8.1. The Senior Paralegal Manager to TJAG (AF/JAY), on behalf of TJAG, develops
   policies and programs, and provides professional oversight for all paralegals assigned in The
   Judge Advocate General’s Corps, including all paralegals assigned in TJAGCR.
   8.2. The Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) the Senior Paralegal Manager to
   TJAG (IMA to AF/JAY) assists AF/JAY with the development and update of policies,
   programs, and directives affecting TJAGCR paralegals. The IMA to AF/JAY advises TJAG,
   the Mobilization Assistant to TJAG, and AF/JAY on all USAFR paralegal accession,
   retraining, training, attachment, and assignment actions.
   8.3. The AFRC Command Paralegal Manager is the primary point of contact for all
   individuals seeking assignment into TJAGCR as USAFR paralegals, and for reassignments
   of paralegals into, out of, or within the USAFR.          This individual formulates
   recommendations for USAFR paralegal accession, retraining, assignment, and attachment
   actions, and staffs such recommendations to TJAG through the IMA to AF/JAY and
   AF/JAY. Upon obtaining the approval of TJAG, the AFRC Command Paralegal Manager
   ensures the implementation of such actions.
   8.4. The ANG Paralegal Career Field Functional Manager assists AF/JAY with the
   development and update of policies, programs, and directives affecting TJAGCR paralegals,
   and advises TJAG, the ANG Assistant to TJAG, and AF/JAY on all ANG paralegal
   accession, retraining, training, attachment, and assignment actions. This individual is also
   the primary point of contact for all individuals seeking assignment into TJAGCR as ANG
   paralegals, and for reassignments of paralegals into, out of, or within the ANG. This
   individual formulates recommendations for ANG paralegal accession, retraining, assignment,
   and attachment actions, and staffs such recommendations to TJAG through AF/JAY. Upon
   obtaining the approval of TJAG, the ANG Paralegal Career Field Functional Manager
   ensures the implementation of such actions.
9. MAJCOM Staff Judge Advocates are responsible for ensuring that TJAGCR training
programs at their offices, and at their subordinate legal offices, are implemented according
to the training requirements established by TJAG. 10. Staff Judge Advocates for the unit
of assignment are responsible for implementing and supervising the training of TJAGCR
personnel assigned to their units. The Commander, AFLOA, exercises this responsibility for
IMAs assigned to AFLOA. (T-1)

Section C—Assignment to TJAGCR Judge Advocate Positions.

11. TJAGCR Judge Advocate Eligibility Requirements. Persons who meet the following
requirements may apply for assignment to TJAGCR, with concurrent assignment to a USAFR
unit, as an IMA, or to an ANG judge advocate position:
 4                                                                        AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011


     11.1. Graduate from an American Bar Association-accredited law school.
     11.2. Be currently licensed to engage in the immediate active practice of law before the
     highest court of a state or territory of the United States, or of the District of Columbia.
     11.3. Qualify for an appointment as an officer in the USAFR or the ANG, as set forth in AFI
     36-2005 and ANGI 36-2005, as applicable.
12. Applying for TJAGCR Judge Advocate Assignments. Applicants for TJAGCR
assignments in the USAFR apply by submitting the documents listed in paragraphs 12.1 through
12.11, as applicable, either electronically or in hard copy, through an Air Force Reserve recruiter
or directly to AF/JAR, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1420. Applicants for
TJAGCR assignments in the ANG apply by submitting the documents listed in paragraphs 12.1
through 12.11, as applicable, either electronically or in hard copy, directly to AF/JAR or the
desired ANG legal office.
     12.1. AF Form 24, Application for Appointment as Reserve of the Air Force or USAF
     Without Component.
     12.2. Law school and undergraduate transcripts.
     12.3. Evidence that the applicant is currently authorized to engage in the immediate and
     active practice of law before the highest court of a state or territory of the United States, or of
     the District of Columbia.
     12.4. Resumé or military biography.
     12.5. AF Form 2030, USAF Drug and Alcohol Abuse Certificate.
     12.6. A one-page cover letter, discussing the applicant’s reasons for applying and
     qualifications to become designated as a judge advocate in TJAGCR.
     12.7. Copies of all DD Forms 214 and all performance evaluations (for applicants with prior
     service in any branch of the armed forces).
     12.8. Standard Form 86, Questionnaire for National Security Positions (for applicants
     with no current security clearance).
     12.9. Voluntary request for permanent suspension from flying status (for applicants on
     flying status).
     12.10. Air National Guard Statement of Agreement and Understanding (for ANG
     applicants).
     12.11. Either AF/JAR or AFRC/JAR may request further documentation regarding the
     applicant’s qualifications for appointment and designation as a judge advocate. This
     documentation may include, but is not limited to, all information required to qualify for an
     appointment in the USAFR or the ANG, as set forth in AFI 36-2005 and ANGI 36-2005.
13. TJAGCR Judge Advocate Applicant Recommendations and Interviews. Prior to
receiving TJAG approval for assignment into TJAGCR, all applicants for TJAGCR judge
advocate positions (including applicants who are currently serving on active duty as Air Force
judge advocates) must obtain a recommendation from an active duty USAF Staff Judge
Advocate (SJA) or equivalent in the grade of O-4 or above.
AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011                                                                          5


   13.1. Unless the SJA is personally familiar with the applicant’s performance and
   qualifications, a formal interview is required. All interviews will be arranged and
   coordinated by AF/JAR.
   13.2. SJAs prepare reports of interview using the same format prescribed by AF/JAX for
   applicants for active duty judge advocate positions, and forward those reports directly to
   AF/JAR. Reports must include the SJA’s specific recommendation as to whether the
   applicant should be appointed into TJAGCR.
14. Processing Applications for TJAGCR USAFR Judge Advocate Positions. Applications
for assignment to TJAGCR USAFR positions are processed as follows:
   14.1. AF/JAR forwards applications, along with a recommendation for approval or
   disapproval, to TJAG for final action.
   14.2. If TJAG approves an application for assignment to the USAFR, AF/JAR notifies
   AFRC/JAR that the applicant has been approved for designation as a judge advocate.
   AFRC/JAR then works with the applicant and the Air Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC) to
   complete the accession process.
   14.3. If TJAG disapproves an application for assignment to an USAFR position, AF/JAR
   notifies the applicant of the disapproval.
15. Processing Applications for TJAGCR ANG Judge Advocate Positions. Applications for
assignment to TJAGCR ANG positions are processed as follows:
   15.1. Upon receipt of an application from NGB/A1POP (Officer Programs) for assignment
   to an ANG position, AF/JAR obtains a recommendation from the ANG Assistant to TJAG,
   or designee. AF/JAR then forwards the application, along with a recommendation for
   approval or disapproval and the ANG Assistant’s input, to TJAG for final action.
   15.2. If TJAG approves an application for assignment to an ANG position, AF/JAR notifies
   NGB/A1POP that the applicant has been approved for designation as a judge advocate.
   NGB/A1POP then processes the application back to the state for accession.
   15.3. If TJAG disapproves an application for assignment to an ANG position, AF/JAR
   notifies NGB/A1POP, Officer Programs, of the disapproval. NGB/A1POP then notifies the
   unit that the application has been disapproved.
16. TJAGCR Judge Advocate Assignments and Attachments.
   16.1. TJAG is the approval authority for determining the assignment or attachment of all
   TJAGCR judge advocates. AF/JAR establishes procedures for submitting and processing
   assignment and attachment requests. In making assignment or attachment recommendations
   to TJAG, the Mobilization Assistant to TJAG and the ANG Assistant to TJAG consider the
   specific needs of the unit, the overall interests of TJAGCR, and the desires of the individual.
   16.2. Under no circumstances will an officer perform the duties of a judge advocate, or wear
   the judge advocate badge, prior to the completion, in its entirety, of the member’s accession
   into TJAGCR.

Section D—Procedures for Assignment to TJAGCR Paralegal Positions.
 6                                                                     AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011


17. Assignment to TJAGCR Paralegal Positions. Enlisted personnel and individuals with no
military experience may apply for TJAGCR paralegal assignment. Air Force enlisted personnel
may seek retraining into the paralegal career field from any other career field. Acceptance into
TJAGCR and assignment to paralegal positions is limited to those who meet the requirements set
forth in paragraphs 18, 19, or 20, as applicable.
18. Applicants Holding Current USAF Paralegal Assignments – Eligibility Requirements
and Application Materials.
     18.1. Active duty Air Force enlisted personnel who currently hold the paralegal Air Force
     Specialty Code (AFSC) and seek assignment in TJAGCR as paralegals must meet the
     following eligibility requirements:
        18.1.1. Have attained a paralegal AFSC skill level of 5 or higher.
        18.1.2. Have a current physical fitness test score that meets or exceeds standards. (See
        AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program.)
        18.1.3. Have no prior convictions by court-martial or by any civilian court (except for
        minor traffic violations, etc.).
        18.1.4. Project a professional image.
        18.1.5. Have the ability to engage in effective verbal and written communication.
        18.1.6. Meet the standards and qualifications set out in AFI 48-123, Medical
        Examinations and Standards, AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and
        Enlisted), the most current TJAG Policy Memorandum on paralegal personnel recruiting,
        and the Paralegal (5J0X1) Career Field Education and Training Plan.
        18.1.7. Be in the grade of technical sergeant (E-6) or below, or accept a reduction to
        technical sergeant (for applicants for IMA paralegal positions).
     18.2. Air Force enlisted personnel who currently hold the paralegal AFSC and seek
     assignment in TJAGCR as paralegals, may apply by submitting the following materials:
        18.2.1. AF Form 1288, Application for Ready Reserve Assignment.
        18.2.2. Military biography or résumé.
        18.2.3. At least two letters of recommendation from former or current supervisors.
        18.2.4. All Enlisted Performance Reports/Airman Performance Reports.
        18.2.5. Report on Individual Person (RIP) indicating that the applicant has attained a
        paralegal AFSC skill level of 5 or higher.
        18.2.6. Proof of current physical fitness test score that meets or exceeds standards.
        18.2.7. Paralegal Retraining Counseling Acknowledgment (applicants for ANG paralegal
        positions only).
        18.2.8. Applicants may be required to provide further documentation regarding
        qualifications for assignment as a TJAGCR paralegal.
19. Applicants for Retraining, or for Transfer from Paralegal Assignments in Another
Armed Service – Eligibility Requirements and Application Materials.
AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011                                                                      7


  19.1. Air Force enlisted personnel seeking retraining into TJAGCR as paralegals, as well as
  enlisted personnel from other U.S. armed services holding the equivalent of a paralegal
  AFSC seeking transfer into TJAGCR, must meet the following eligibility requirements:
     19.1.1. Have attained a skill level of 5 or higher in the applicant’s current AFSC or
     equivalent.
     19.1.2. Have a score of 51 or higher on the Armed Forces Qualification Test.
     19.1.3. Have a current physical fitness test score that meets or exceeds standards (Air
     Force applicants only). (See AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program.)
     19.1.4. Have a minimum typing speed of 25 words per minute.
     19.1.5. Have no prior convictions by court-martial or by any civilian court (except for
     minor traffic violations, etc.).
     19.1.6. Project a professional image.
     19.1.7. Have the ability to engage in effective verbal and written communication.
     19.1.8. Meet the standards and qualifications set out in AFI 48-123, Medical
     Examinations and Standards, AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and
     Enlisted), the most current TJAG Policy Memorandum on paralegal personnel recruiting,
     and the Paralegal (5J0X1) Career Field Education and Training Plan.
     19.1.9. Be in the grade of technical sergeant (E-6) or below, or accept a reduction to
     technical sergeant (for applicants for IMA paralegal positions).
  19.2. Air Force enlisted personnel seeking retraining into TJAGCR as paralegals, as well as
  enlisted personnel from other U.S. armed services holding the equivalent of a paralegal
  AFSC seeking transfer into TJAGCR, may apply by submitting the following materials:
     19.2.1. AF Form 1288, Application for Ready Reserve Assignment.
     19.2.2. Military biography or résumé.
     19.2.3. At least two letters of recommendation from former or current supervisors.
     19.2.4. All Enlisted Performance Reports/Airman Performance Reports or equivalent.
     19.2.5. Report on Individual Person (RIP) indicating that the applicant has attained a
     paralegal AFSC skill level of 5 or higher.
     19.2.6. Proof of typing speed of 25 words per minute or higher.
     19.2.7. Proof of score of 51 or higher on the Armed Forces Qualification Test.
     19.2.8. Proof of current physical fitness test score that meets or exceeds standards (Air
     Force applicants only).
     19.2.9. Paralegal Retraining Counseling Acknowledgment (applicants for ANG paralegal
     positions only).
     19.2.10. Applicants may be required to provide further documentation regarding
     qualifications for assignment as a TJAGCR paralegal.
 8                                                                   AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011


20. Applicants with No Prior Military Service, and Applicants From Other Armed
Services Who Hold Non-Paralegal AFSCs – Eligibility Requirements and Application
Materials.
     20.1. Applicants with no prior military service, and non-Air Force enlisted personnel who do
     not currently hold the equivalent of a paralegal AFSC, must meet the following eligibility
     requirements for assignment to TJAGCR paralegal positions:
        20.1.1. Have a minimum score of 51 on the Armed Forces Qualification Test.
        20.1.2. Have a minimum typing speed of 25 words per minute.
        20.1.3. Have no prior convictions by court-martial or by any civilian court (except for
        minor traffic violations, etc.).
        20.1.4. Project a professional image.
        20.1.5. Have the ability to engage in effective verbal and written communication.
        20.1.6. Meet the standards and qualifications set out in AFI 48-123, Medical
        Examinations and Standards, AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and
        Enlisted), the most current TJAG Policy Memorandum on paralegal personnel recruiting,
        and the Paralegal (5J0X1) Career Field Education and Training Plan.
     20.2. Applicants with no prior military service, and non-Air Force enlisted personnel who do
     not currently hold the equivalent of a paralegal AFSC, may apply by submitting the
     following materials:
        20.2.1. AF Form 1288, Application for Ready Reserve Assignment.
        20.2.2. Military biography or résumé.
        20.2.3. At least two letters of recommendation from former or current supervisors.
        20.2.4. All Enlisted Performance Reports/Airman Performance Reports or equivalent.
        20.2.5. Proof of score of 51 or higher on the Armed Forces Qualification Test.
        20.2.6. Proof of typing speed of 25 words per minute or higher.
        20.2.7. Paralegal Retraining Counseling Acknowledgment (applicants for ANG paralegal
        positions only).
        20.2.8. Applicants may be required to provide further documentation regarding
        qualifications for assignment as a TJAGCR paralegal.
21. Applying for TJAGCR Paralegal Positions.
     21.1. Individuals submit applications for TJAGCR USAFR paralegal positions (IMA and
     Unit) through any Air Force Reserve recruiting office.
     21.2. Individuals submit applications for TJAGCR ANG paralegal positions directly to the
     desired ANG unit.
22. TJAGCR Paralegal Applicant Interviews. Prior to receiving approval for assignment to a
TJAGCR paralegal position, applicants must complete an interview.
AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011                                                                        9


   22.1. For USAFR Unit paralegal positions, the interview will be conducted by the SJA and
   the LOS at the unit of application. SJAs and LOSs forward interview reports directly to HQ
   AFRC/JAR, 255 Richard Ray Blvd, Robins AFB, GA 31098. The SJA and LOS may
   consolidate their reports into a single report.
   22.2. For USAFR IMA paralegal positions, the interview will be conducted by the SJA and
   the LOS at any active duty base-level legal office. SJAs and LOSs forward interview reports
   directly to HQ AFRC/JAR, 255 Richard Ray Blvd, Robins AFB, GA 31098. The SJA and
   LOS may consolidate their reports into a single report.
   22.3. For ANG paralegal positions, the interview will be conducted by the SJA and the LOS
   at the unit of application. SJAs and LOSs forward certificates of interview as part of the
   complete application package directly to the ANG Paralegal Career Field Functional
   Manager.
23. Processing Applications for TJAGCR Paralegal Positions.
   23.1. For applicants for USAFR paralegal positions, recruiters forward completed
   application packages to HQ AFRC/JAR, 255 Richard Ray Blvd, Robins AFB, GA 31098.
   23.2. For applicants for ANG paralegal positions, the SJA or LOS of the unit of application
   forwards completed application packages to the ANG Paralegal Career Field Functional
   Manager.
      23.2.1. In addition to the required materials described in paragraphs 18, 19, or 20 above,
      as applicable, SJAs or LOSs include the following materials in the application package:
          23.2.1.1. Applicant’s preferred Roster information.
          23.2.1.2. Official military photo (for current military applicants only).
24. Action on Applications for TJAGCR Paralegal Positions.
   24.1. For USAFR paralegal positions, the approval authority is TJAG. The AFRC Command
   Paralegal Manager reviews completed applications and recommends approval or disapproval
   to TJAG, through the IMA to AF/JAY, AF/JAY, and the Mobilization Assistant to TJAG.
      24.1.1. If the application is approved, the AFRC Command Paralegal Manager notifies
      the applicant and forwards to the application package to HQ AFRC/JAR for completion
      of the accession process.
      24.1.2. If the application is disapproved, the AFRC Command Paralegal Manager
      notifies the applicant.
   24.2. For ANG paralegal positions, the approval authority is TJAG. The ANG Paralegal
   Career Field Functional Manager reviews completed applications and recommends approval
   or disapproval to TJAG, through AF/JAY and the ANG Assistant to TJAG.
      24.2.1. If the application is approved, the ANG Paralegal Career Field Functional
      Manager notifies the applicant and the unit for completion of the accession process.
      24.2.2. If the application is disapproved, the ANG Paralegal Career Field Functional
      Manager notifies the applicant and returns the application package to the unit.
25. TJAGCR Paralegal Assignments and Attachments.
 10                                                                AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011


   25.1. TJAG is the approval authority for determining the assignment or attachment of all
   TJAGCR paralegals.
   25.2. USAFR Paralegals submit requests for change in assignment or training attachment to
   HQ AFRC/JAR, with a copy to the LOS at their current unit. HQ AFRC/JAR coordinates
   with gaining and losing units. The AFRC Command Paralegal Manager then recommends
   approval or disapproval to TJAG, through the IMA to AF/JAY, AF/JAY, and the
   Mobilization Assistant to TJAG.
   25.3. ANG paralegals submit requests for change in assignment to the ANG Paralegal
   Career Field Functional Manager, with a copy to the LOS at their current unit. The ANG
   Paralegal Career Field Functional Manager then recommends approval or disapproval to
   TJAG, through AF/JAY and the ANG Assistant to TJAG.

Section E—Additional TJAGCR Management Policies.

26. Judge Advocate Air Force Specialty Codes and Duties; Wear of Judge Advocate and
Paralegal Badges.
   26.1. Judge advocates assigned to TJAGCR may hold only a judge advocate AFSC (51JX).
   They may not hold a secondary AFSC in any other career field. Never award a judge
   advocate AFSC as an individual’s secondary or tertiary AFSC.
   26.2. Judge advocates may not be assigned to duties other than those of a judge advocate,
   except with TJAG’s express written permission.
   26.3. Only currently-designated judge advocates may wear the judge advocate badge.
   Former judge advocates who have transferred to other career fields may not wear the judge
   advocate badge at any time.
      26.3.1. Retired judge advocates whose last duty assignment prior to retirement was as a
      member of TJAGCR may wear the judge advocate badge on their uniforms when
      otherwise authorized to wear any Air Force uniform combination on which judge
      advocate badges may be worn.
   26.4. Paralegals refer to the Career Education and Training Plan for guidance on wearing the
   paralegal badge.
27. Certification of Compliance with Applicable Rules and Standards.
   27.1. Judge advocates and paralegals assigned to The Judge Advocate General’s Corps,
   including those assigned to TJAGCR, are required to complete annual certifications of their
   compliance with various professional standards. TJAG periodically publishes policies
   setting forth these requirements.
   27.2. TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals must complete certifications as required by
   applicable TJAG policies.
   27.3. TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals keep written acknowledgments of
   certifications in their ARC Participation Folders.
   27.4. TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals who fail to comply with applicable
   certification requirements are subject to removal from assignment to TJAGCR.
AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011                                                                       11


28. TJAGCR Force Development Teams
   28.1. TJAG convenes annual Quality Review Panels (QRPs), which will be conducted in
   accordance with written procedures, policies, and applicable directives. QRP results will be
   reported directly to TJAG.
   28.2. In the event of any force-shaping action, QRP results may be used to assess any
   appropriate personnel actions. These actions will be in compliance with other personnel
   policies and procedures.
29. Removal or Suspension from Assignment to TJAGCR. TJAG may remove or suspend a
member from assignment to TJAGCR for cause or when, in the exercise of discretion, TJAG
determines that removal or suspension is in the best interest of the Air Force.
30. Termination of Assignment to TJAGCR.
   30.1. Termination of assignment to TJAGCR occurs when any of the following events
   occurs:
      30.1.1. TJAG removes the member from assignment to TJAGCR (see paragraph 29).
      30.1.2. (Judge advocates only) The TJAGCR member retires, resigns, or separates
      from the Air Force. The reason for, or voluntariness of, the retirement, resignation, or
      separation is immaterial.
      30.1.3. (Paralegals only) The TJAGCR member retires or separates from the Air Force,
      or does not re-enlist upon the expiration of the member’s term of service. The reason for,
      or voluntariness of, the retirement, separation, or lack of re-enlistment is immaterial.
   30.2. Termination of assignment to TJAGCR has the following effects for judge advocates:
      30.2.1. The member’s primary AFSC is deleted. Never award a judge advocate AFSC as
      an individual’s secondary or tertiary AFSC.
      30.2.2. The member’s designation as a judge advocate is terminated.
      30.2.3. The member will not appear in TJAG’s annual designation order.
      30.2.4. Except as provided in paragraph 26.3.1, the member may no longer wear the
      judge advocate badge.
   30.3. Termination of assignment to TJAGCR has the following effect for paralegals:
      30.3.1. The member’s primary AFSC is deleted. Never award a legal AFSC as an
      individual’s secondary or tertiary AFSC.




                                           ROBERT G. KENNY, Major General,
                                           USAFPerforming the Duties of The Judge Advocate
                                           General
 12                                                                AFI51-802 16 JUNE 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
10 U.S.C. § 806
10 U.S.C. § 8037
AFPD 51-8, Assignment, Training, and Management of Members of the Judge Advocate
General’s Corps Reserve (TJAGCR), 19 April 2011
AFI 36-2005, Appointment in Commissioned Grades and Designation and Assignment in
Professional Categories – Reserve of the Air Force and United States Air Force, 15 May 2003
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 June 2010
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 1 July 2010
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 24 September 2009
AFI 51-801, Training of Air Reserve Component Judge Advocates and Paralegals, 16 June 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
ANGI 36-2005, Appointment of Officers in the Air National Guard of the United States and as
Reserves of the Air Force, 15 March 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 24, Application for Appointment as Reserve of the Air Force or USAF Without
Component
AF Form 1288, Application for Ready Reserve Assignment
AF Form 2030, USAF Drug and Alcohol Abuse Certificate
Standard Form 86, Questionnaire for National Security Positions
