                     DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                 HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                         WASHINGTON DC 20330




                                                                             AFI51-504_AFGM1

                                                                                 24 January 2013

                                                                                 22 October 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: AF/JA

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary,
         and Preventive Law Programs

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

        By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this AF Guidance Memorandum (AFGM)
immediately changes AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary, and Preventive Law Programs
(dated 27 October 2003). Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

        In advance of a rewrite of AFI 51-504, the Attachment to this Memorandum is updated to
provide new guidance for implementation of the Special Victim’s Counsel (SVC) Program that
is effective immediately. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) Units. An asterisk (*) indicates newly revised material.

        Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

         This Memorandum becomes void after 360 days have elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon incorporation by interim change to, or rewrite of AFI 51-504, whichever
is earlier.


                                     RICHARD C. HARDING
                                     Lieutenant General, USAF
                                     The Judge Advocate General

Attachment
Guidance Change
                          AFI51-504_AFGM1 24 JANUARY 2013

                                      22 OCTOBER 2014

                                          ATTACHMENT
                                          Guidance Changes

The below changes to AFI 51-504, dated 27 October 2003, are effective immediately.

1.2.1. Official matters in which the Air Force has an interest or is involved in the final resolution,
unless acting as a SVC.

1.2.2. Criminal law issues under the UCMJ or any local state or federal criminal law, unless
acting as a SVC.

1.2.9. Representation of the client in a court-martial or administrative proceeding, unless acting
as a SVC.

(Added) 1.3.13. Eligibility for appointment of SVC.

(Added) 1.3.13.1. All Air Force Active Duty, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard
victims, who are in Title 10 status at the time of the offense, and report they are a victim of a
sexual assault under the UCMJ or state and federal laws criminalizing sexual assault (as
specified in the Special Victims’ Counsel Rules of Practice and Procedure).

(Added) 1.3.13.2. All adult dependents of Active Duty Air Force members who report that they
are a victim of sexual assault under the UCMJ, when an Air Force commander may exercise
jurisdiction over the alleged offender. For purposes of eligibility for appointment of SVC, the
non-spouse dependents, as defined in AFI 36-3026, Identification Cards for Members of the
Uniformed Service, their Eligible Family Members, and Other Eligible Personnel, must be
unmarried between the ages of 18 and 20, a full-time student between the ages of 18 and 22, or
an incapacitated child over the age of 21.

(Added) 1.3.13.3. All Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Coast Guard Active Duty, Reserve, and
National Guard victims, who are in a Title 10 status at the time of the offense, and file an
unrestricted report that they are the victim of sexual assault under the UCMJ, when an Air Force
commander may exercise jurisdiction over the alleged offender.

(Added) 1.3.13.4. All adult dependents of Active Duty members of other Services who file an
unrestricted report that they are the victim of sexual assault under the UCMJ, when an Air Force
commander may exercise jurisdiction over the alleged offender.

(Added) 1.3.13.5. All remaining categories of adult individuals eligible for legal assistance
under paragraph 1.3 who file an unrestricted report that they are the victim of sexual assault
under the UCMJ, and the Air Force may exercise jurisdiction over the alleged offender.

(Added) 1.3.13.6. All entry-level status Air Force Active Duty, Air Force Reserve, and Air
National Guard members who are in Title 10 status at the time of the offense, and are alleged to
have been involved in an unprofessional relationship, as defined by Air Education and Training
                          AFI51-504_AFGM1 24 JANUARY 2013

                                     22 October 2014
Command policy, that involves physical contact of a sexual nature with basic military training or
technical training faculty or staff.

(Added) 1.3.13.7. Clients appointed SVC under paragraph 1.3.13 remain eligible for assistance
under this provision even if they would otherwise lose their eligibility for legal assistance under
the provisions of paragraphs 1.3.1 through 1.3.11. However, assistance in these circumstances is
limited to matters directly related to the alleged sexual assault. Such assistance will terminate
when case disposition is complete, when the client releases the SVC, or as otherwise limited in
the Representation Letter signed by the client and the SVC at the time representation
commenced. For courts-martial, case disposition is considered complete at action or earlier
termination of charges.

1.9.2. Except as provided herein, do not keep formal files on legal assistance clients. Return
original documents to clients as soon as possible.

(Added) 1.9.2.1. SVC may maintain client files necessary to effect the representation of clients
under the SVC Program.
BY ORDER OF THE                                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-504
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           27 OCTOBER 2003
                                                   Incorporating Through Change 3, 24 May 2012

                                                                                                 Law

                                                          LEGAL ASSISTANCE, NOTARY, AND
                                                             PREVENTIVE LAW PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFLSA/JACA                                                           Certified by: AFLSA/JAC
(Lt Col Timothy Alan Guiden)                                               (Col Evan L. Haberman)
                                                                                          Pages: 37
Supersedes:    AFI 51-504, 1 May 1996.


This instruction implements AFPD 51-5, Military Legal Affairs, and DoDD 1350.4, Legal
Assistance Matters, April 2001. It describes the Air Force legal assistance, notary, and
preventive law programs. It implements 10 U.S.C. 1044, which authorizes legal assistance as
resources permit; 10 U.S.C. 1044a, which authorizes certain military personnel to act as notaries
public and identifies the eligible beneficiaries for military notary services; 10 U.S.C. 1044b,
which establishes the legal effect of military powers of attorney without regard to state law,
exempting them from any requirement as to form, substance, formality, or recording; 10 U.S.C.
1044c, which establishes the legal effect of military advance medical directives, exempting them
from any requirement as to form, substance, formality, or recording; and 10 U.S.C. 1044d, which
defines the requirements for preparation of military testamentary instruments and establishes
their legal effect, exempting them from any requirement as to form, formality, or recording.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change removes the reference to rescinded Department of Defense guidance on
providing legal assistance to contractor personnel, incorporates congressional authorization for
providing legal assistance to agents of service members who die on active duty or as a result of
an injury incurred while on active duty, incorporates Department of Defense guidance regarding
legal assistance for family care planning, clarifies the responsibility to provide legal assistance to
victims of crime, provides guidance on the use of the Air Force Legal Assistance Website, and
removes the minimum enlisted grade requirement for a paralegal to act as a notary.
2                                                                                            AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


Chapter 1—LEGAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM                                                                                                           3
     1.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................     3
     1.2.    Scope. .....................................................................................................................    3
     1.3.    Eligibility for Legal Assistance. ............................................................................                  4
     1.4.    Legal Services Provided. .......................................................................................                6
     1.5.    Supervisory Responsibilities. .................................................................................                13
     1.6.    Ethical Responsibilities and Rules. ........................................................................                   14
     1.7.    Referrals. ................................................................................................................    15
     1.8.    Legal Services Volunteers. ....................................................................................                18
     1.9.    Records/Reports. Effective 1 Jan 03, .....................................................................                     19
     1.10.   Personal Legal Readiness Briefings. ......................................................................                     19
     1.11.   Software Licenses. .................................................................................................           20
     1.12.   Communications. ...................................................................................................            20
     1.13.   Air Force Legal Assistance Website. .....................................................................                      20
     1.14.   Legal Assistance Training Requirements. .............................................................                          21

Chapter 2—NOTARIAL ACTS AND OATHS                                                                                                           23
     2.1.    Notarial Acts. .........................................................................................................       23
     2.2.    Oaths and Affirmations. .........................................................................................              27
     2.3.    Notary Restrictions. ...............................................................................................           27

Chapter 3—PREVENTIVE LAW PROGRAM                                                                                                            28
     3.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    28
     3.2.    Scope. .....................................................................................................................   28
     3.3.    Program Management. ...........................................................................................                30
     3.4.    Communication. .....................................................................................................           30
     3.5.    Preventive Law Resources. ....................................................................................                 30
     3.6.    Forms Prescribed. ..................................................................................................           30
     3.7.    Forms Adopted. .....................................................................................................           30

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              32

Attachment 2—DUAL REPRESENTATION AUTHORIZATION                                                                                              33

Attachment 3—STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE FOR EXECUTING WILLS                                                                               35
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                         3



                                            Chapter 1

                              LEGAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

1.1. Purpose. Legal offices provide legal assistance in connection with personal civil legal
matters to support and sustain command effectiveness and readiness. Under 10 U.S.C. §1044, the
ability to offer legal assistance and legal services to the eligible categories of personnel is
contingent upon the availability of legal staff resources and expertise. Although legal assistance
is not separately funded, it has been provided for members of the armed forces since 1943 and is
now perceived as one of the benefits of military service. Therefore, Staff Judge Advocates
(SJAs) should make every effort to satisfy legal assistance needs, assigning mobilization- and
deployment-related legal assistance the highest priority. Mobilization- and deployment-related
legal assistance is not determined by the subject matter of legal assistance provided, but by the
relationship between Command readiness and solving the member's specific legal issue(s). For
example, although wills and powers of attorney are generally associated with pre-deployment
legal assistance, a landlord-tenant issue is also mobilization- and deployment-related if it would
have an adverse effect on the member's ability to perform his or her duties if not solved prior to
deployment.
1.2. Scope. Legal assistance establishes an attorney-client relationship and consists of Air Force
attorneys providing advice on personal, civil legal matters to eligible beneficiaries. For any other
legal concern, the Air Force remains the client. On such other matters, do not provide advice to,
or enter into an attorney-client relationship with, individuals or entities. Air Force attorneys,
acting in an official capacity, may not enter into an attorney-client relationship in the following
areas:
   1.2.1. Official matters in which the Air Force has an interest or is involved in the final
   resolution.
   1.2.2. Criminal issues under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or any local,
   state or federal criminal law.
   1.2.3. Standards of ethical conduct issues.
   1.2.4. Law of Armed Conflict (LOAC) issues.
   1.2.5. Issues involving personal commercial enterprises (unless such advice is related to the
   Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act [SSCRA]).
   1.2.6. Legal issues or concerns raised on behalf of third parties, even if the third party is
   eligible for legal assistance.
   1.2.7. Drafting or reviewing real estate sale or closing documents, separation agreements or
   divorce decrees, and inter vivos (living) trusts. This limitation does not preclude a general
   review to identify potential problems for which the client may require more expert assistance
   or to protect a client from signing an unconscionable agreement. If the SJA determines that
   an attorney in the office, whether active duty or reservist, has the expertise to draft or review
   and edit these documents, then the SJA may authorize that attorney to do so.
   1.2.8. Private organizations (e.g., spouses clubs and squadron booster clubs) that have been
   chartered by appropriate authority to function on Air Force installations. Although prohibited
 4                                                                AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


     from entering into an attorney-client relationship with private organizations, under the
     auspices of the Civil Law program Air Force attorneys may provide legal guidance and
     advice through the base private organizations monitor to ensure private organizations are
     properly chartered and comply with pertinent statutes and regulations.
     1.2.9. Representation of the client in a court or administrative proceeding.
1.3. Eligibility for Legal Assistance. Among the eligible beneficiaries outlined in the
subparagraphs immediately following, the highest priority shall be given to Air Force personnel
who need mobilization- or deployment-related legal assistance that facilitates Command
readiness. Assigning this priority is especially important when the deployment is on short notice.
The following categories of personnel are eligible for legal assistance subject to the availability
of legal staff resources and expertise.
     1.3.1. Members of the armed forces who are on active duty, including reservists, National
     Guard members, and contract ROTC cadets on federal active duty under Title 10, United
     States Code.
        1.3.1.1. Air Reserve Component members performing Active Guard/Reserve (AGR)
        tours, including those under 10 USC § 10211, 10 USC § 12310 or 32 USC § 502(f), are
        eligible for legal assistance.
     1.3.2. Members entitled to retired or retainer pay or equivalent pay and former members of
     reserve components entitled to retired pay under 10 U.S.C. §12731 (formerly 10 U.S.C.
     §1331). Persons eligible under this provision include members and former members
     receiving retired pay as a result of retirement due to permanent disability or placement on the
     temporary disability retired list.
     1.3.3. Officers of the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service who are on active
     duty or entitled to retired or equivalent pay.
     1.3.4. Members of reserve components not covered in paragraph 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 following
     release from active duty under a call or order to active duty for more than 30 days issued
     under mobilization authority (as determined by the Secretary of Defense). Eligibility for such
     legal assistance shall begin on the date of the release and continue for a period of time equal
     to twice the length of the period served on active duty under that call or order to active duty.
     SJAs may require reservists and National Guard members to present a copy of the pertinent
     orders at the legal office to verify eligibility for legal assistance under this provision.
     1.3.5. Dependents of members and former members listed in 1.3.1, 1.3.2, 1.3.3, and 1.3.4,
     who are entitled to an identification card.
     1.3.6. Civilian employees deploying to or in a theater of operations are furnished the
     opportunity and assistance to prepare and execute wills and any necessary powers of
     attorney, in accordance with DoDI 1400.32, DoD Civilian Work Force Contingency and
     Emergency Planning Guidelines and Procedures.
     1.3.7. Civilian contractor personnel who are deploying to or in a theater of operations, and
     produce documentation of the contract that requires the government to give the contractor
     employees legal assistance, may be provided with limited legal assistance for wills and
     deployment related powers of attorney.
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                          5


  1.3.8. Inactive Reservists or National Guard Members. For members of the reserve
  components subject to federal mobilization (National Guard, Ready Reserves, contract
  ROTC cadets) in an inactive status, provide mobilization- and deployment-related legal
  assistance. Subject areas include wills, advance medical directives, powers of attorney,
  protections and responsibilities under the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act and
  Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, and notary services. This
  list is not exhaustive. SJAs retain discretion to determine whether the circumstances of a
  reserve component member warrant the provision of legal assistance to ensure readiness for
  mobilization and deployment. Provide no other legal assistance to members of the reserve
  components until the member is on federal active duty under Title 10, United States Code,
  and for the period of time after release from active duty noted in paragraph 1.3.4. Dependents
  of reserve component personnel are not authorized legal assistance except during the time the
  reserve component member is on federal active duty under Title 10, United States Code, or
  for the period of time after release from active duty noted in paragraph 1.3.1.4.
  1.3.9. Civilian employees of the Department of Defense and the military departments
  assigned outside the United States and its territories and their dependents residing with them.
  1.3.10. Foreign military personnel, and their dependents, assigned to the United States either
  permanently or temporarily under official orders for purposes of combined missions with
  United States personnel and for training in programs sponsored by the United States. This
  assistance does not extend to foreign military personnel present in the United States solely to
  carry out another nation’s unilateral mission, such as use of ranges on a United States
  installation to test the foreign nation’s weapons system without the participation of United
  States personnel in the training.
     1.3.10.1. Assistance provided under this section should be limited in scope to matters
     involving the interpretation or application of United States domestic law only. Such
     matters involve issues pertinent to a person’s relocation and requirement to be present in
     the United States to carry out official duties. Examples include but are not limited to
     landlord-tenant, consumer affairs, driver’s licenses, customs, tax relief, and similar
     assistance. Assistance should not be provided for matters implicating the laws of the
     sending state, such as wills and domestic relations, nor should any legal assistance be
     provided on matters that would impact the person’s status in the United States.
  1.3.11. Unique Situations. When it benefits the command, SJAs may authorize legal
  assistance to persons not specifically identified above as an eligible beneficiary. These
  situations must involve people who have a present, past and future military obligation
  relevant to the legal problem. Examples are reservists or National Guard members who have
  demobilized; Reserve Office Training Corps Cadets who must meet dependent care
  responsibilities; and next-of-kin of someone killed on active duty.
  1.3.12. Provide legal assistance, including tax assistance, on an expedited, prioritized basis
  to the executor, personal representative, administrator, or legally recognized estate
  representative for matters relating to the settlement of estates of service members who die on
  active duty or as a result of an injury or disability that resulted in retirement from active duty.
  When uncertainty exists about the status of those listed in this paragraph, or when otherwise
  appropriate, legal assistance shall be provided to the primary next-of-kin to the same degree
  as noted in this paragraph.
 6                                                                 AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


1.4. Legal Services Provided. Legal assistance may be provided for personal civil legal matters
subject to the availability of legal staff resources and expertise. The subparagraphs in this section
provide guidance and context for personal civil legal matters commonly encountered in the legal
assistance program. They are not intended as an exhaustive list of the subject matter on which
clients may receive legal assistance.
     1.4.1. Wills. Wills distribute the property of the testator/testatrix after death. All
     Commanding Officers shall urge military personnel to seek legal counsel to assess their need
     for a will before mobilization, deployment, or similar activities. However, any testamentary
     instrument, to be legally effective, must be the free and voluntary act of the person making it.
        1.4.1.1. The basic will is the primary document attorneys in the Office of the Judge
        Advocate General (OTJAG) will prepare for legal assistance clients. This document
        effectively serves the needs of the vast majority of our clients, including the following:
        statement of residency; payment of final expenses of the estate; specific and residuary
        bequests with contingent beneficiaries; distributions to minors and appointment of
        guardians of minors; and appointment of executor/executrix and alternates. Additionally,
        the basic will contains the simplest of trusts, allowing assets intended for a minor
        beneficiary to be passed in trust to a trustee named in the will, who generally serves at no
        cost to the estate or the minor’s assets. If the basic wills legal assistance attorneys provide
        do not contain these simple trust provisions, state probate courts will appoint trustees to
        act on behalf of minor beneficiaries at a cost to the estate. The will-drafting program
        employed by legal offices must be able to prepare these simple testamentary trusts. When
        used properly, the DL Wills program will include the required provisions in the will.
        1.4.1.2. Every will shall be prepared and executed as a military testamentary instrument.
        In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044d and DoDD 1350.4, Legal Assistance Matters (April
        2001), a military testamentary instrument shall:
            1.4.1.2.1. Be executed by the testator/testatrix (or, if the testator/testatrix is unable to
            execute the instrument personally, executed in the presence of, by the direction of,
            and on behalf of the testator/testatrix).
            1.4.1.2.2. Be executed in the presence of a military legal assistance counsel as
            presiding attorney.
            1.4.1.2.3. Be executed in the presence of at least two disinterested witnesses (in
            addition to the presiding attorney), each of whom attests to witnessing the
            testator's/testatrix's execution of the instrument by signing it.
            1.4.1.2.4. Include a statement of preamble in form and content, substantially similar
            to the following:
            "This is a MILITARY TESTAMENTARY INSTRUMENT prepared pursuant to
            section 1044d of Title 10, United States Code, and executed by a person authorized to
            receive legal assistance from the Military Services. Federal law exempts this
            document from any requirement of form, formality, or recording that is provided for
            testamentary instruments under the laws of a State, the District of Columbia, or a
            commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States. Federal law specifies
            that this document shall receive the same legal effect as a testamentary instrument
            prepared and executed in accordance with the laws of the State in which it is
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                      7


        presented for probate. It shall remain valid unless and until the testator/testatrix
        revokes it."
        Programs such as DL Wills may produce preambles for wills substantially similar to
        the above. In the event the will preparation program used by the legal office does not
        include an acceptable preamble, insert a verbatim copy of this preamble at the top of
        the first-page of each will prepared.
        1.4.1.2.5. Include a self-proving affidavit. A self-proving affidavit is a notarized,
        written declaration signed by each witness and the testator/testatrix that attests to the
        circumstances under which the will was executed. Include (or have attached to the
        will), a self-proving affidavit, in form and content, substantially similar to the
        following:
        "We, the testator/testatrix and the witnesses, whose names are signed to the attached
        or foregoing instrument, being first duly sworn, do hereby declare to the undersigned
        authority that in the presence of a military legal assistance counsel and the witnesses
        the testator/testatrix signed and executed the instrument as the [testator's/testatrix's]
        military testamentary instrument and that [he][she] had signed willingly (or willingly
        directed another to sign for [him][her]), and that [he][she] executed it as [his][her]
        free and voluntary act for purposes therein expressed. It is further declared that each
        of the witnesses, in the presence and hearing of the testator/testatrix and a military
        legal assistance counsel, signed the military testamentary instrument as witness and
        that to the best of [his][her] knowledge the testator/testatrix was at that time eighteen
        years of age or older or emancipated, of sound mind, and under no constraint or
        undue influence."
        Programs such as DL Wills may produce self-proving affidavits substantially similar
        to the above. Self-proving affidavits that address all the basic elements of the above
        affidavit in a different order or that use different wording for some elements are
        considered substantially similar to the above. If the program used does not produce
        substantially similar language, use the above language verbatim to prepare the self-
        proving affidavit for each execution.
     1.4.1.3. Will questionnaires or worksheets should be used to record basic information as
     to domicile, family situation, designation of guardians and personal representatives, the
     nature and approximate value of assets owned so as to establish federal estate tax
     thresholds, and the testator’s/testatrix’s intentions for disposition of property and other
     assets. The questionnaire should be the starting point for the individual interview with the
     client.          See            the            AFLSA/JACA               website           at
     https://aflsa.jag.af.mil/GROUPS/AIR_FORCE/JAC/jaca/index.html for sample will
     questionnaires.
     1.4.1.4. Due to the potential for conflicts of interest during the representation, legal
     assistance attorneys should consider using a dual representation letter when providing
     advice on and drafting wills and related documents for married couples. The letter
     accomplishes a number of key objectives in the dual representation situation. It informs
     the married couple of the scope of matters that will be covered in the representation. It
     also alerts the married couple that information received from either client during the
     representation of both shall not be confidential between them. Finally, the dual
8                                                                AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


       representation letter advises the married couple that the attorney may withdraw from
       representation of either client and advise both to obtain individual representation in the
       event of a conflict of interest between them. If dual representation letters are used, legal
       offices should retain them in a file dedicated to that purpose for a period of at least 1 year
       from the date the clients endorse the letter. A sample dual representation letter is at
       Attachment 2 to this instruction.
       1.4.1.5. Will executions. The signing of the will and self-proving affidavit represents one
       of the most significant legal events a client will undertake. Conduct the execution
       ceremony with the dignity appropriate to the significance of these documents to the client
       and his or her family. To assist offices in this process, Attachment 3 to this instruction
       provides a Standard Operating Procedure for use in the execution of wills as military
       testamentary instruments. The procedure outlines the requirements for the execution
       ceremony and the questions to be asked of the testator/testatrix and witnesses. Documents
       signed following the will execution, such as advance medical directives and powers of
       attorney, will be completed in accordance with their particular requirements.
           1.4.1.5.1. Mass will executions involving large numbers of people exceed the
           presiding attorney’s and witness’ reasonable capacity to control the proceeding.
           These mass actions thus render a will susceptible to a challenge and therefore are
           strongly discouraged. However, separate execution ceremonies for each individual or
           couple are not required. Multiple persons may execute their wills simultaneously
           before the presiding attorney and the required two witnesses, provided the group is
           not so large as to exceed the ability of the attorney and witnesses to engage with the
           clients to ensure they understand and properly complete the execution procedures and
           to respond to any questions regarding the execution process. SJAs and their staffs
           exercise their discretion, governed by reasonableness and maintaining customer
           service standards and the dignity of the process, in determining the number of
           document executions to conduct simultaneously. Persons with questions about the
           content of their wills and related documents should be excused from the room where
           the execution is taking place to ensure confidentiality.
       1.4.1.6. If clients have sophisticated estate planning problems or complex financial
       situations that exceed the professional capabilities of a legal office, then refer them to
       other attorneys (paragraph 1.7).
    1.4.2. Advance Medical Directives. Advance medical directives include living wills and
    medical powers of attorney. A living will states a person’s desires regarding the termination
    of life support in the event of a terminal, incurable medical condition. A client uses a medical
    power of attorney to appoint a trusted person to make medical care decisions in the event of
    incompetence or inability to communicate decisions or desires. Although drafting programs
    such as DL Wills produce both living wills and medical powers of attorney, the legal
    assistance attorney remains responsible for reviewing these documents to ensure they effect
    the client’s intent and are consistent with each other or otherwise create confusion about the
    client’s desires.
       1.4.2.1. Advance medical directives shall be prepared in accordance with DoDD 1350.4
       and must include a statement or preamble, in form or content, substantially similar to the
       following:
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                       9


     "This is a military advance medical directive prepared pursuant to section 1044c of Title
     10, United States Code. It was prepared by an attorney authorized to provide legal
     assistance for an individual eligible to receive legal assistance under section 1044 of Title
     10, United States Code. Federal law exempts this advance medical directive from any
     requirement of form, substance, formality, or recording that is provided for advance
     medical directives under the law of a State. Federal law specifies that this advance
     medical directive shall be given the same legal effect as an advance medical directive
     prepared and executed in accordance with the laws of the State concerned."
     Programs such as DL Wills may produce preambles for military advance medical
     directives substantially similar to the above. If the program used does not, insert a
     verbatim copy of this preamble at the top of the first-page of each advance medical
     directive prepared. Also, check to ensure that preambles of living wills and powers of
     attorney to make health care decisions cite section 1044c, and not section 1044b of Title
     10, United States Code. The latter provision applies not to advance medical directives but
     to powers of attorney generally.
  1.4.3. Powers of Attorney. Section 1044b of Title 10, United States Code, requires
  recognition of general and special powers of attorney prepared for persons eligible for legal
  assistance. Although DL Wills produces general powers of attorney and WebLIONS
  produces general and special powers of attorney, the legal assistance attorney remains
  responsible for reviewing the documents produced by these programs to ensure they are
  accurate and effect the client’s intent.
     1.4.3.1. Powers of attorney shall be prepared in accordance with DoDD 1350.4, and must
     include a statement or preamble, in form and content, substantially similar to the
     following:
     "This is a military Power of Attorney prepared pursuant to section 1044b of Title 10,
     United States Code, and executed by a person authorized to receive legal assistance from
     the Military Services. Federal law exempts this power of attorney from any requirement
     of form, substance, formality, or recording that is prescribed for powers of attorney by
     the laws of a State, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, or possession
     of the United States. Federal law specifies that this power of attorney shall be given the
     same legal effect as a power of attorney prepared and executed in accordance with the
     laws of the jurisdiction where it is presented."
     Programs and forms such as DL Wills; Air Force WebLIONS; AF Form 165, General
     Power of Attorney; and AF Form 831, Special Power of Attorney may produce preambles
     for military general or special powers of attorney substantially similar to the above. If the
     program used to prepare powers of attorney does not, insert a verbatim copy of the
     preamble set forth immediately above at the top of the first-page of each power of
     attorney prepared.
     1.4.3.2. The Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act (SSCRA) at 50 U.S.C. App. §591
     mandates all powers of attorney for military personnel categorized as prisoners of war or
     missing-in-action are deemed durable for the entire period of such status.
  1.4.4. Notary Services. Notary services are authorized by 10 U.S.C. §1044a, and are
  discussed in Chapter 2.
10                                                             AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


  1.4.5. Dependent Care Issues. All Air Force members with families must have family care
  arrangements that reasonably cover all situations, both short- and long-term, in accordance
  with AFI 36-2908, Family Care Plans. Legal assistance is provided to assist members in
  making adequate family care arrangements. Legal assistance attorneys advise and assist
  clients in the drafting and execution of documents and with other preparations necessary for
  the effective transfer of care and custody of dependents in the event the family care plan must
  be executed.
     1.4.5.1. Legal assistance attorneys shall, when appropriate, provide a full explanation of
     the potential consequences of not including the non-custodial biological or adoptive
     parent in the creation of a family care plan.
     1.4.5.2. Legal assistance attorneys shall, when appropriate, discuss with the client the
     benefits of validating, with an appropriate court, temporary custody arrangements and the
     return of the child to the member upon the member’s return.
  1.4.6. Adoption. Legal assistance attorneys research and provide general information on
  state adoption laws and requirements, coordinate when appropriate with the relevant state
  adoption agency, and advise on questions derived from adoption documents. Attorneys,
  paralegals, and civilian notaries provide notarization services to assist members in the
  completion of adoption documents. Legal assistance attorneys also advise on the DoD’s
  adoption reimbursement program. Under 10 U.S.C. §1052, the DoD may reimburse
  “qualifying adoption expenses” incurred by a service member in the adoption of a child
  under 18 years of age. The statute identifies the expenses that qualify for reimbursement and
  distinguishes those expenses the program does not cover. DoDD 1341.9, DoD Adoption
  Reimbursement Policy (July 1993), implements the statute and addresses qualifying
  adoptions, qualifying expenses, eligible members, and procedures for requesting
  reimbursements. Reimbursement is authorized up to $2,000 per child with a maximum
  reimbursement to one service member or military couple not exceeding $5,000 in any
  calendar year. Expenses either not qualifying for reimbursement under the DoD program or
  exceeding the program’s reimbursement ceiling may be eligible for the adoption expenses tax
  credit when the member files his or her federal income tax return. Expenses reimbursed
  under the DoD Adoption Reimbursement program do not qualify for the adoption expenses
  tax credit and are not to be considered in its calculation.
  1.4.7. Financial Responsibility. Air Force members, retirees, and their dependents may
  receive advice and assistance on personal financial responsibilities under AFI 36-2906,
  Personal Financial Responsibility, such as adequate financial support to family members and
  responding to allegations of paternity. Additionally, legal offices provide assistance on issues
  of financial responsibility under federal and state laws, including involuntary
  allotments/garnishments to satisfy civil debts and the Uniformed Services Former Spouses"
  Protection Act (see 10 U.S.C. §1408).
  1.4.8. Domestic Relations. Subject to the limitations stated in paragraph 1.2.7 with respect to
  separation agreements and divorce decrees, legal assistance attorneys research applicable
  state laws and provide advice on marriage, dissolution of marriage or divorce, child support,
  child custody, property distribution, and related family law matters.
  1.4.9. Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act (SSCRA). The SSCRA, 50 U.S.C. App. §§501–
  593, codifies Congressional recognition of the need to protect persons in military service by
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                      11


  suspending the enforcement of certain civil obligations. For protection under most SSCRA
  provisions, service members must demonstrate: 1) a financial obligation initiated prior to
  entering active federal service and that service materially affects the service member's ability
  to meet the obligation; or 2) active federal service materially affects the service member's
  ability to participate and preserve rights in civil judicial proceedings, mortgage foreclosures,
  or lease evictions. Some categories of protection include: maximum interest rates of 6%
  (excluding student loans); stays of judicial proceedings and reopening default judgments;
  limitations on the enforcement of mortgage foreclosures, installment contracts (excluding
  automobile leases unless otherwise provided for in the lease--legal assistance attorneys
  should use §590 of the SSCRA to support a member’s effort to terminate an automobile lease
  entered prior to active duty where military service materially affects the member’s ability to
  continue payments or otherwise honor the terms of the lease), rents, and liens; continuation
  of commercial life insurance policies; and reinstatement of commercial health insurance
  policies upon release from active duty. The SSCRA at 50 U.S.C. App. §591 mandates all
  powers of attorney for military personnel categorized as prisoners of war or missing-in-action
  are deemed durable for the entire period of such status. Army Publication 260, Soldiers' and
  Sailors' Civil Relief Act Guide, provides detailed guidance on SSCRA issues.
     1.4.9.1. Legal assistance attorneys and paralegals may not file requests for stays of
     proceedings under the SSCRA with a civil court. Nor may legal assistance attorneys and
     paralegals send letters under their own signatures to a court requesting a stay of civil
     proceedings. These types of civil filings are outside the scope of the legal assistance
     program and may, if improperly handled in SSCRA cases, subject the member to the
     jurisdiction of the court or otherwise adversely affect the member's rights and options in
     the case. Legal assistance attorneys may draft or assist in drafting correspondence for the
     client's or relevant Commander's signature requesting or supporting a request for stay of
     civil proceedings.
  1.4.10. Veterans' Reemployment Rights. Sections 4301 through 4333, Title 38, United States
  Code, the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994
  (USERRA) and comparable state statutes afford eligible active and reserve component
  members the right to return to civilian jobs when they are released from active duty. Legal
  assistance attorneys advise service members on USERRA eligibility, their obligations to
  provide appropriate notice to their employers, and their reemployment rights and benefit
  entitlements under USERRA.
     1.4.10.1. Legal assistance attorneys should not contact service members’ employers
     concerning relief under USERRA. This action could cause the service member to forfeit
     assistance from the Department of Labor’s Veterans’ Employment and Training Service
     (VETS), the federal agency responsible for enforcement of USERRA. Instead, legal
     assistance attorneys should refer service members experiencing employment problems or
     concerns deriving from their military service to the Ombudsmen Services in the National
     Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR), a DoD entity, and
     the VETS for pursuit of relief under USERRA. Legal assistance attorneys may assist
     service members in preparing DOL Form VETS-1010, Eligibility Data Form: Veterans'
     Reemployment Rights Program, to open a file with VETS. Access information on ESGR
     assistance       at      http://www.esgr.org/         and      the      VETS         at
     http://www.dol.gov/vets/welcome.html.
12                                                              AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


  1.4.11. Casualty Affairs. Legal offices assist Casualty Assistance Representatives in
  providing casualty assistance to the primary next of kin of military members and retirees, in
  accordance with AFI 36-2002, Casualty Services. Casualty Assistance Representatives are
  responsible for counseling family members and other beneficiaries regarding rights, helping
  to file applications for benefits and privileges, and resolving problems and complaints. Legal
  assistance attorneys may provide dependents only preliminary advice on probate and
  settlement of estates, court appearances, preparation of inheritance tax returns, civil
  employment, and business matters. Since direct assistance to resolve these matters falls
  outside the scope of the legal assistance program, it may be necessary to refer dependents to
  civilian attorneys (see paragraph 1.7).
  1.4.12. Landlord-Tenant. Legal assistance practitioners review lease agreements prior to
  signing and propose changes to best protect the service member’s interest as either tenant or
  landlord, especially with respect to military clauses allowing for early termination on a
  tenant’s receipt of permanent change of station orders or reentry of a military landlord on
  receipt of orders to return to the property’s location. Of note, ownership and renting of
  property as a commercial enterprise exceeds the scope of the legal assistance program, as per
  paragraph 1.2.5 of this instruction. Legal assistance practitioners review the particular facts
  and circumstances of each military landlord’s situation in making this determination. Clients
  may also receive advice and assistance in resolving landlord/tenant disputes. Areas of
  particular concern include security deposits, pre- and post-lease inspections, lease terms,
  condition of premises, and early termination of leases.
  1.4.13. Consumer Affairs. Legal assistance attorneys provide counseling on a wide range of
  consumer issues such as bankruptcy, consumer fraud, identity theft, retail purchases, and
  vehicle leases. An exceptional tool in assisting clients in this area is the Military Sentinel web
  site, a joint operation by the DoD and Federal Trade Commission (FTC). This site allows
  service members and their families to file consumer fraud and identity theft complaints on-
  line directly with the FTC. Military Sentinel also provides easy access to a wealth of
  consumer education and fraud prevention material. Access the web site at
  http://www.consumer.gov/military/. In addition, the FTC’s main web site provides
  consumer protection educational materials and information on FTC and state consumer
  protection actions. Access the site at http://www.ftc.gov/.
  1.4.14. Taxes.
     1.4.14.1. Under the legal assistance program, Air Force attorneys provide advice and
     assistance on legal matters pertaining to federal, state, and local tax problems. Air Force
     attorneys also provide assistance filing current and prior year individual income tax
     returns throughout the year. Examples of this type of legal assistance include responding
     to letters from the IRS or state tax authorities, advising on responding to audits, and
     assisting in non-income tax matters, like real estate taxes or personal property taxes.
     Bases report this type of legal assistance in WebLIONS (see paragraph 1.9 of this
     instruction).
     1.4.14.2. In addition to the service provided under paragraph 1.4.14.1, Air Force tax
     assistance programs (which remain separate and distinct from the legal assistance
     program) involve JA staff, detailed service members, and base volunteers preparing and
     filing federal and state income tax returns for those eligible to receive this assistance.
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                       13


       SJAs will supervise and manage these programs at their bases, exercising discretion
       concerning the scope of assistance provided, eligible beneficiaries, and sources of support
       for training and electronic filing. All Air Force bases will operate individual income tax
       assistance programs, to include electronic filing services.
          1.4.14.2.1. Air Force tax assistance programs may take advantage of the Internal
          Revenue Service (IRS) Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) and electronic
          filing programs, or other viable sources of support, to effect training of tax assistance
          volunteers and provision of electronic filing services at their bases. Other sources
          include commercially available training programs and electronic filing software.
          1.4.14.2.2. Eligible beneficiaries include active duty service members and their
          dependents and retirees and their dependents. Additionally, SJAs may authorize
          preparation and electronic filing of tax returns for federal civilian employees, to the
          extent permitted by the IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program. In
          making this determination, SJAs must c onsider whether the resources available to the
          installation tax program are sufficient to support the increased demands such an
          extension of support would entail. When they seek tax assistance, federal civilian
          employees must adhere to applicable rules concerning use and accounting of their
          time.
       1.4.14.3. Bases file statistics for their tax assistance programs in the Tax Program
       Reporting                        System                     (TPRS)                 at
       https://aflsa.jag.af.mil/training/jaguar/tax/tax_home.php. Do not use WebLIONS
       either to input client information or tax program workload.
   1.4.15. Issues that The Judge Advocate General (TJAG), Major Command (MAJCOM)
   SJAs, Numbered Air Force (NAF) SJAs, Commanders, or the base SJAs deem connected
   with personal civil legal affairs.
   1.4.16. Victims of Crime. Provide legal assistance to victims of crimes, including sexual
   assault, consistent with the availability of resources, the expertise within the legal office as
   currently organized and staffed, and the SJA’s ability to manage conflicts of interest. If
   resources at the legal office do not permit providing legal assistance to a victim of crime, the
   SJA shall inform the next judge advocate in the functional chain of command.
1.5. Supervisory Responsibilities.
   1.5.1. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG):
       1.5.1.1. Establishes and manages the Air Force Legal Assistance and Preventive Law
       Programs.
       1.5.1.2. Communicates with the American Bar Association (ABA) and other associations
       TJAG deems necessary to further the legal assistance and preventive law programs.
       1.5.1.3. Delegates authority to operate these programs to the Legal Assistance and
       Preventive Law Division, Air Force Legal Services Agency (AFLSA/JACA).
   1.5.2. AFLSA/JACA:
       1.5.2.1. Monitors the Air Force Legal Assistance and Preventive Law Programs.
 14                                                               AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


       1.5.2.2. Carries out the overall administration of the Air Force Legal Assistance and
       Preventive Law Programs.
       1.5.2.3. Gives advice on legal assistance, notary, and preventive law matters that affect
       Air Force personnel worldwide.
       1.5.2.4. Monitors the Web-based Legal Information Online System (WebLIONS)
       outlined in paragraph 1.9, the DL Wills program, and the Tax Program Reporting System
       (TPRS).
   1.5.3. MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency (FOA), and Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) SJAs:
       1.5.3.1. Supervise functional program staffs within their Commands.
       1.5.3.2. Ensure compliance with this instruction.
       1.5.3.3. May add requirements for mobilization- and deployment-related legal assistance
       (paragraphs 1.1 and 1.3) and may impose limits on non-mobilization- and deployment-
       related legal assistance (AFPD 51-5 subparagraph 12.2).
   1.5.4. NAF SJAs: May add requirements for mobilization- or deployment-related legal
   assistance to ensure mission readiness.
   1.5.5. Wing/Base SJAs:
       1.5.5.1. Manage the personnel providing legal assistance and the operation of the legal
       assistance program at their offices consistent with this instruction.
       1.5.5.2. Brief the office staff, including reservists, on the purposes of legal assistance, the
       base program, and this instruction. Conduct this briefing as frequently as necessary to
       assure the quality of the legal assistance program but at least once annually.
       1.5.5.3. Communicate with local bar organizations, legal aid offices, and appropriate
       federal and state agencies.
       1.5.5.4. Publicize the office's limits on non-mobilization- and deployment-related legal
       assistance.
       1.5.5.5. Manage legal services volunteers (paragraph 1.8).
   1.5.6. AFLSA/JAS (Legal Information Services). AFLSA/JAS provides hardware and
   software support for WebLIONS.
   1.5.7. AF/JAZ (Strategic Plans and Policy). AF/JAZ provides software support for the Tax
   Program Reporting System (TPRS).
1.6. Ethical Responsibilities and Rules. SJAs administer the legal assistance program in strict
compliance with Air Force ethical responsibilities and rules such as TJAG Policy Memoranda
TJS-2, Air Force Rules of Professional Conduct and Standards for Civility in Professional
Conduct; TJS-5, TJAGD Professional Responsibility Program; and ARC-1, Rules and Standards
for Professional Conduct for Air Reserve Component Judge Advocates. Of note, in the event of
conflicts or differences between the applicable Air Force rules of professional responsibility and
the equivalent state rules, the Air Force provisions will control (TJS-2). TJAG’s Professional
Responsibility Administrator (AFLSA/PR) serves as the dedicated focal point for professional
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                         15


responsibility advice and counsel. Access Professional Responsibility Program information at
https://aflsa.jag.af.mil/cgi-bin/genwebhtml.pl?jagmail=profresp.
   1.6.1. Only attorneys give legal advice. Paralegals and clerical staff members shall not
   provide any legal advice to a client, or render any other services to a client that constitute the
   practice of law unless under the direct supervision of an Air Force legal assistance attorney.
       1.6.1.1. Paralegals and clerical staff members may question prospective clients to
       determine the subject matter of their concerns and whether it is within the scope of the
       legal assistance program. They may also prepare and maintain legal documents under the
       direct supervision of an attorney and perform such acts as notarizations and the
       preparation of routine powers of attorney using approved legal office forms.
       1.6.1.2. A paralegal may conduct an initial client interview, preliminary to an attorney-
       client meeting. During this interview, the paralegal should ascertain the general nature
       and pertinent facts of the client’s legal problem or concern. Because of the likelihood
       privileged information will be discussed, this interview should occur in a confidential
       setting. The paralegal may provide the client with handouts or references providing basic
       information about laws, regulations, rules, policies and procedures that may be relevant
       to the client’s situation.
   1.6.2. Information received from a client during legal assistance, attorney work-product, and
   documents relating to the client are confidential. Release them only with the client's express
   permission, pursuant to a court order, or as otherwise permitted by the Air Force Rules of
   Professional Conduct and the Air Force Standards for Civility in Professional Conduct and
   other Air Force rules pertaining to ethical conduct and professional responsibility. Such
   release should only be accomplished after contacting AFLSA/JACA through the appropriate
   supervisory chain.
   1.6.3. Judge advocates and civilian attorneys who perform legal assistance must have private
   offices.
   1.6.4. When contacting third parties, legal assistance attorneys must avoid creating the
   impression that they represent the Air Force's interests in resolving the client's concerns or
   that the Air Force has an interest in the outcome of the matter. When writing letters on a
   client's behalf, do not use Air Force letterhead. Include a statement in the letter making it
   clear the Air Force does not represent the client in resolving the matter.
   1.6.5. Legal assistance attorneys may not interfere with an existing attorney-client
   relationship. When a member is already represented by counsel, the legal assistance attorney
   ordinarily should refer the member to his or her attorney. In some cases, however, the legal
   assistance attorney can play a valuable supporting role for the member, such as in the
   identification of military-unique considerations or the interpretation and discussion of
   military-specific statutes, regulations, and instructions. In this situation, the legal assistance
   attorney may consult with the member represented by counsel provided the attorney
   communicates to the legal assistance attorney the desire for this support. Otherwise, advising
   a client already represented by an attorney, providing a “second opinion,” is not permitted.
1.7. Referrals. The nature of a client’s legal problem may exceed the competence of the initial
attorney consulted or the scope of the Air Force legal assistance program. In such cases, the legal
assistance attorney should refer the client to, as appropriate, another Air Force attorney, another
 16                                                               AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


Armed Forces legal assistance office, or civilian lawyer referral services. Follow these guidelines
when making referrals:
   1.7.1. For civilian criminal matters, refer military members to the appropriate military
   defense counsel and civilians to the local civilian criminal defense bar.
   1.7.2. For matters with the potential to involve the prospective client in adverse action under
   the UCMJ or adverse administrative action, refer the person to the appropriate military
   defense counsel. As the client provided the information to the legal assistance attorney in an
   attorney-client relationship, the legal assistance attorney may not disclose information
   concerning past criminal acts or other acts of misconduct to investigators or other attorneys
   in the legal office who may work on a case involving this person.
   1.7.3. For a prospective client seeking assistance in filing a complaint under Article 138,
   UCMJ, refer the person to the appropriate military defense counsel or the Office of the
   Inspector General.
   1.7.4. For military members who are or may be the subject of court-martial charges or other
   disciplinary action, the appropriate military defense counsel shall coordinate any need for
   legal assistance with the appropriate SJA, even if the matter would ordinarily fall within the
   scope of legal assistance.
   1.7.5. For matters in which the person has already retained a civilian attorney, refer to that
   civilian attorney. Serving as a source of a “second opinion” for a client already represented
   by an attorney is not appropriate. However, as noted in paragraph 1.6.5 of this instruction, in
   some cases the legal assistance attorney can play a valuable supporting role for the member
   represented by a civilian attorney, such as in the identification of military-unique
   considerations or the interpretation and discussion of military-specific statutes, regulations,
   and instructions. Where the civilian attorney communicates to the legal assistance attorney
   the desire for this support, the legal assistance attorney may consult with the client.
   1.7.6. In foreign areas, with the consent of consular officials and after consultation with the
   national bar, if appropriate, prepare a list of attorneys in accordance with the applicable status
   of forces agreement or implementing instruction. Refer persons who may face charges before
   a foreign court to the military legal advisor (see AFI 51-703, Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction).
   1.7.7. Referral Guidelines. It is essential that each office establish referral guidelines that are
   free from favoritism or other impropriety. When referring persons to other attorneys, use the
   following guidelines:
       1.7.7.1. Referrals should be made to the source best able to assist the client in the
       resolution of the particular problem or concern at the earliest time. For matters exceeding
       the particular legal assistance attorney’s expertise, there is no need to exhaust military
       referrals, such as another legal assistance attorney, either active duty or reservist, or legal
       assistance attorneys in another military legal office, before referring a client to civilian
       bar referral services. The goal is to facilitate the client’s consulting with an attorney
       competent to provide the required assistance. Options include another attorney on the
       legal office staff whether civilian or military, active or reserve; another military legal
       office, regardless of service; and the civilian bar.
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                        17


     1.7.7.2. Where the client’s situation requires specialized expertise beyond the scope of
     the military legal assistance programs, refer to bar referral services operated by the
     American Bar Association (ABA) or state or local bar associations. If an organized bar or
     lawyer referral service does not exist in a base’s area, refer the client to a local listing of
     attorneys who have expressed interest in serving military clients.
     1.7.7.3. Make referrals based on the knowledge of or experience with the particular
     military attorney, military legal assistance office, civilian bar referral service, or, in the
     case of locations lacking a referral service, the local legal community.
     1.7.7.4. Ensure the client understands that the decision to consult with or be represented
     by another legal assistance attorney, or to consult with and retain the services of a civilian
     attorney recommended through a bar referral service, is solely that of the client. The
     client is free to consult with and retain any lawyer.
     1.7.7.5. Make clear to the client that referral to bar referral services operated by the ABA
     or state or local bar associations, or to a list of local attorneys maintained by the legal
     office in locations not covered by a referral service, does not constitute a federal or Air
     Force endorsement of any of the individual attorneys participating in these services.
  1.7.8. Referral Services.
     1.7.8.1. The American Bar Association (ABA) and many state and local bar associations
     operate bar referral services. Legal assistance attorneys should familiarize themselves
     with the services available through these bar associations. Contact with representatives of
     the bar associations is encouraged to determine how the lists are compiled and
     maintained and what standards apply for an attorney’s inclusion on the lists. Providing
     information of this sort to clients enhances their ability to make informed decisions about
     use of the referral service. Prior contact will also yield information on any special
     programs the bar association may operate to assist military legal assistance attorneys and
     military clients and ensures the bar association is willing to accept referrals of military
     clients.
         1.7.8.1.1. Operation Enduring LAMP is one example of a bar referral service. In
         2001, the ABA Standing Committee on Legal Assistance for Military Personnel
         (LAMP) launched Operation Enduring LAMP, a project to help organize and educate
         civilian attorneys who wish to provide pro bono legal assistance to military personnel
         who are mobilized for military service and their family members who will be left
         behind. Most state bar associations participate in Operation Enduring LAMP;
         however, each state's program differs. Therefore, SJAs are encouraged to contact the
         base's state bar association regarding the registration and referral of participating
         Operation Enduring LAMP attorneys. Access information on this program at
         http://www.abanet.org/legalservices/helpreservists/home.html.
         1.7.8.1.2. The ABA and state and local bar associations may maintain listings of
         attorneys who have volunteered to provide advice and guidance to military legal
         assistance attorneys. For example, Operation Stand-By is a project of the ABA
         Family Law Section's Military Committee through which attorneys agree to take
         calls, e-mail or other correspondence from JAG officers and answer inquiries about
         family law issues in their state. Access information on Operation Stand-By and a list,
 18                                                             AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


           by       state,      of       the         participating             attorneys         at
           http://www.abanet.org/family/military/opstandby.doc.
           1.7.8.1.3. State and local bar associations may maintain lists of attorneys who have
           expressed interest in providing military clients with either pro bono service or service
           at reasonable fees.
1.8. Legal Services Volunteers. SJAs may accept the services of a licensed attorney, paralegal,
or other legal professional to provide legal assistance under 10 U.S.C. §1044 and in accordance
with 10 U.S.C. §1588(a)(5); DoDI 1100.21, Volunteer Services in the Department of Defense;
and TJS-8, Use of Legal Services Volunteers. DoDI 1100.21, TJS-8 and the AFLSA/JACA web
site provide detailed guidance on the process of accepting voluntary legal services and the scope
and limitations of voluntary legal services. General guidance consistent with DoDI 1100.21
follows.
   1.8.1. Volunteer services agreement and volunteer confidentiality agreement. All volunteers
   shall read and sign the appropriate part of DD Form 2793, Volunteer Agreement for
   Appropriated Activities or Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities. Also, legal services
   volunteers must be briefed on, understand, and comply with the same confidentiality
   requirements applicable to all members of the legal office staff, such as TJAG Policy
   Memorandums TJS-2, Air Force Rules of Professional Conduct and Standards for Civility in
   Professional Conduct and TJS-3, Air Force Standards for Criminal Justice. All legal services
   volunteers shall read and sign the Legal Services Volunteer Confidentiality Agreement
   attached to TJAG Policy Memorandum TJS-8. Acceptance of the volunteer services and
   confidentiality agreements shall be acknowledged before an individual is allowed to provide
   volunteer services. Copies of the signed agreements should be given to the volunteer prior to
   commencing volunteer services.
   1.8.2. When required, volunteers must be licensed, privileged, appropriately credentialed or
   otherwise qualified under applicable laws, regulations, or policy to provide the voluntary
   services involved. Prior to acceptance as a volunteer, attorneys must provide a letter of good
   standing from each state Bar of which they are a member.
   1.8.3. Supervision and scope of legal assistance. Legal services volunteers, even if licensed
   attorneys, may not be permitted to provide direct, unsupervised advice to Commanders or
   other agency clients on matters affecting Air Force interests, or to legal assistance clients.
   Also, legal services volunteers cannot perform the functions of a judge advocate or other
   inherently governmental services, such as representing clients in an area defense counsel
   office. They can, however, perform paralegal-type functions or provide other legal services,
   including advice and assistance to legal assistance clients, if acting under the direction,
   supervision, and control of an Air Force military or civilian attorney. Supervisory authority
   with respect to volunteers will be through designation of authorized duties, training,
   counseling, assessment of the quality of service provided, and determinations regarding
   continuation of acceptance of voluntary services. The degree of supervision of volunteers
   will be comparable to that provided with respect to paid employees providing similar
   services. Examples of permissible uses include researching, drafting legal opinions for
   review and signature by an Air Force attorney, and helping with legal assistance matters.
   1.8.4. Legal services volunteers are not employees of the United States or any
   instrumentality thereof, except for certain purposes relating to compensation of injuries
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                         19


   occurring during the performance of approved volunteer services, tort claims, the Privacy
   Act, criminal conflicts of interest, and defense of suits arising out of legal malpractice.
   1.8.5. Expenses. The Air Force may not compensate legal services volunteers. However,
   legal services volunteers may use dedicated legal office or desk space, equipment, supplies,
   computers, and telephones as needed to accomplish assigned duties. Expenses directly
   connected to assigned duties that are incurred off base, such as long distance telephone calls,
   may be reimbursed as incidental expenses. Submit Standard Form 1164, Claim for
   Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business, to the servicing finance office for
   reimbursement of incidental expenses. Installations may accept voluntary services from host-
   nation or third-country citizens so long as the installation determines that acceptance of
   voluntary services from such persons will not subject the United States to potential liability
   or unauthorized expenses. This includes payment of employment benefits for a volunteer due
   to host-nation labor or voluntary service laws, U.S.-host-nation treaties, Status of Forces
   Agreements, or other arrangements.
1.9. Records/Reports. Effective 1 Jan 03, offices must record legal assistance visits and
workload in the Web-based Legal Information Online System (WebLIONS). As a web-based
program, WebLIONS eliminates the requirement for base legal offices and higher headquarters
to prepare and compile the annual report of legal assistance. Statistical data of each office will be
available to that office and its higher headquarters through WebLIONS on demand. Offices are
not permitted to employ alternative automated data management and workload tracking systems
for legal assistance. (RCS: JA(A)7501) This report is designated emergency status code C-2.
Continue reporting during emergency conditions, normal precedence. Access WebLIONS at
https://lions.jag.af.mil.
   1.9.1. Offices should retain AF Forms 1175, Legal Assistance Record, for temporary use in
   the event of interruption of WebLIONS access or service. On these occasions, information
   recorded on the cards must be entered into WebLIONS when service resumes.
   1.9.2. Do not keep formal files on legal assistance clients. Return original documents to
   clients as soon as possible.
1.10. Personal Legal Readiness Briefings. SJAs support readiness at their installations by
ensuring personnel tasked for deployment at their bases are personally contacted and briefed on
preparing their personal and family legal affairs for deployment. Subject areas include, but are
not necessarily limited to, wills; SGLI designations; general and special powers of attorney;
medical planning, including advance medical directives (living wills and medical or health care
powers of attorneys), and designation of anatomical gifts; guardians or in loco parentis powers of
attorney to ensure care of minor children; landlord-tenant matters; income exclusions and/or tax
return filing extensions applicable to potential deployment locations; property and financial
affairs management; protections under the Soldiers" and Sailors" Civil Relief Act (SSCRA);
protections under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act
(USERRA) for reserve personnel deploying; and ensuring important documents are maintained
in safe, secure, and reasonably accessible locations.
   1.10.1. According to requirements described in AFPD 51-5, attachment 2, offices must
   report the percentage of personnel tasked for deployment who are personally contacted and
   briefed on their personal legal needs or who receive mobilization- and deployment-related
   legal assistance every 15 months. This period aligns with the standard Aerospace
 20                                                            AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


   Expeditionary Force (AEF) cycle. Base legal offices report this information by letter, through
   the MAJCOM, to be received by AFLSA/JACA upon entering their AEF window for
   deployment.
1.11. Software Licenses. DL Wills software is currently used to prepare documents such as
wills, advance medical directives, and powers of attorney, and is licensed and copyrighted by a
non-governmental corporate entity. Use of the software is governed by a licensing agreement
that requires a separate license for each computer the program is installed upon. The
AFLSA/JACA web site provides strict guidance on license acquisitions, controls and restrictions.
Base SJAs and LOMs should ensure their offices have licenses for each computer on which DL
Wills software is installed.
1.12. Communications. Legal assistance practitioners may communicate directly with other
legal assistance officers or paralegals. When necessary, seek guidance from your higher
headquarters legal offices before contacting AFLSA/JACA.
1.13. Air Force Legal Assistance Website. Every legal office shall incorporate the Air Force
Legal Assistance Website (LAWS) into its legal assistance program. The LAWS provides a
valuable preventive law education tool through its “Legal Assistance Topics” section. The
LAWS enhances the provision of legal assistance by allowing clients to complete online
worksheets for wills, healthcare documents and powers of attorney. Finally, the LAWS collects
online feedback that allows us to identify areas of strength and weakness in our legal assistance
program and to make adjustments as needed.
   1.13.1. The Judge Advocate General established the Legal Assistance Website Honor Roll to
   recognize legal offices that excel at integrating the document production and feedback
   features of the LAWS into their legal assistance program. The Honor Roll recognizes both
   feedback and efficiency honorees.
       1.13.1.1. A legal office must meet two requirements to be recognized for excellence in
       garnering feedback as a “Feedback Honoree.” First, the average customer satisfaction
       rating on website surveys for the preceding month must be 4.0 or higher. Second, the
       office must receive website surveys for 10 percent or more of the office visits in the
       previous month. The office visits are tracked in WebLIONS, and can be viewed on the
       annual report.
       1.13.1.2. "Efficiency Honorees" are those offices that use the website to produce 20
       percent or more of their special powers of attorney, general powers of attorney, advanced
       medical directives and wills. The document numbers are tracked in WebLIONS, and can
       be viewed on the annual report. It is important that if the office utilizes a LAWS will
       worksheet to produce more than one document it select the appropriate indicators in
       WebLIONS.
   1.13.2. The LAWS enhances legal assistance by increasing the efficiency of the process of
   obtaining legal assistance documents. The system is designed so that a client can consider
   the necessary decisions, and obtain the necessary information, for their legal documents from
   the comfort of their home. Legal offices can utilize the client’s “Legal Worksheets” function
   of the LAWS in their legal offices in order to educate clients about the advantages of the
   LAWS. Legal offices shall not force clients to utilize the LAWS prior to receiving legal
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                         21


   assistance, and shall not institute procedures that decrease efficiency for the client in order to
   obtain recognition on the Honor Roll.
   1.13.3. Feedback should be personally submitted by the client directly into the LAWS, and
   shall not be input by members of the legal office.
1.14. Legal Assistance Training Requirements. The below requirements will ensure legal
assistance attorneys possess the requisite training for excellent legal assistance representation,
and all judge advocates maintain currency in this core practice area.
   1.14.1. Annual Refresher Webcast. Each January, The Air Force Judge Advocate
   General’s School broadcasts a webcast with updates and changes to the law impacting the
   provision of legal assistance. Viewing the webcast is mandatory for all active duty and Air
   Reserve Component (ARC) judge advocates and for any civilian attorneys whose core
   document or position description references legal assistance. Those unable to view the
   webcast live must watch the recorded version by 15 April of the same year.
   1.14.2. Advanced Core Training (ACT). Starting in 2012, four ACT modules will be
   released on CAPSIL Learning Management System (CAPSIL): Estate Planning, SCRA,
   Consumer Law, and Family Law. Certain judge advocates and civilian attorneys will be
   required, as follows, to complete the training.
       1.14.2.1. Active duty judge advocates assigned to an office that provides legal assistance
       must complete all four ACT modules within 120 days of assignment.
       1.14.2.2. ARC judge advocates assigned or attached to an office that provides legal
       assistance, as well as judge advocates assigned at Air National Guard state headquarters
       offices, must complete all four ACT modules within one year of assignment or
       attachment.
       1.14.2.3. Any civilian attorney whose core document or position description references
       legal assistance must complete all four ACT modules within 120 days of employment in
       the position.
       1.14.2.4. During the initial release of the ACT modules in 2012, the required timelines in
       paragraphs 1.14.2.1 through 1.14.2.3 apply from the date of module release. The ACT
       modules are a one-time requirement that may be completed during any period of military
       service or employment with The Judge Advocate General’s Corps. For example, a
       civilian attorney who completed the ACT modules while previously serving as a judge
       advocate would not have to complete them again.
   1.14.3. Military Continuing Legal Education (MCLE) in Legal Assistance. MCLE is
   legal assistance training provided, sponsored, or co-sponsored by the judge advocate
   component of a military Service. Legal assistance in-residence courses, annual refreshers,
   webcasts, CAPSIL training modules, SJA approved office-wide training, sessions at
   Keystone and Annual Survey of the Law, and ABA LAMP CLE are examples of MCLE.
   Training not affiliated with the military, such as estate planning training offered by a state
   bar, would not qualify as MCLE.
       1.14.3.1. All active duty judge advocates, as well as any civilian attorney whose core
       document or position description references legal assistance, must certify completion of
       four hours of MCLE in legal assistance each year.
22                                                         AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


     1.14.3.2. All ARC judge advocates must certify completion of four hours of MCLE in
     legal assistance every other year.
     1.14.3.3. MCLE certification will be accomplished through PR CERT, an automated
     program used to annually certify certain professional responsibility requirements. Each
     year the certification period is publicized in advance by AF/JAA-PR.
     1.14.3.4. Training completed via CAPSIL will be tracked automatically.
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                      23


                                           Chapter 2

                              NOTARIAL ACTS AND OATHS

2.1. Notarial Acts.
   2.1.1. Federal Authority. Section 1044a of Title 10, United States Code, grants the specific
   categories of persons listed in paragraphs 2.1.3 and 2.1.7 of this instruction the general
   powers of a notary public and of a consul of the United States. This authority derives from
   the federal statute and is distinct from the notary authority created by each state’s laws.
   Notarial acts performed under 10 U.S.C. §1044a are legally binding throughout the world for
   federal and non-federal purposes.
   2.1.2. Role of Notary. A notary acts as an official, unbiased witness to the identity and
   signature of the person who comes before the notary. A notary has the authority to administer
   oaths and affirmations. Every notary act affects the legal rights of others. SJAs will make
   sure notaries do not abuse their authority.
   2.1.3. Persons with Notary Authority. Under the authority of 10 U.S.C. §1044a, the
   following persons have the general powers of a notary public and of a consul of the United
   States for notary acts executed for eligible legal assistance beneficiaries:
       2.1.3.1. All judge advocates, including judge advocates of the Air Force Reserve whether
       or not in a duty status.
       2.1.3.2. Civilian attorneys, licensed to practice law in the United States, employed by the
       Air Force and serving as legal assistance attorneys.
       2.1.3.3. All adjutants, assistant adjutants, and personnel adjutants, including reserve
       members on active duty or performing inactive duty training.
       2.1.3.4. Enlisted paralegals on active duty or performing inactive duty training (see
       paragraph 2.1.6).
       2.1.3.5. Active duty Air Force personnel who satisfy all three of the following criteria:
          2.1.3.5.1. A commissioned officer or senior non-commissioned officer (holding the
          rank of Master Sergeant or higher);
          2.1.3.5.2. Stationed at a geographically separated unit (GSU) or remote location
          where no judge advocate or paralegal notary is also assigned; and,
          2.1.3.5.3. Appointed in writing, by the unit’s servicing general court-martial (GCM)
          convening authority SJA to exercise notary authority under 10 U.S.C. 1044a and this
          instruction.
       2.1.3.6. At locations outside the United States, civilian Air Force employees appointed
       by the SJA servicing the base to serve as notaries under the authority of 10 U.S.C.
       §1044a(b)(5).
   2.1.4. Individuals Eligible To Use Military Notary Services. In accordance with 10 U.S.C.
   §1044a, the following persons may receive notary service:
       2.1.4.1. All members of the United States Armed Forces.
24                                                              AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


     2.1.4.2. All other individuals eligible for legal assistance under this instruction.
     2.1.4.3. All individuals serving with, employed by, or accompanying the armed forces
     outside the United States and outside Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
     2.1.4.4. All individuals subject to the UCMJ outside the United States.
     2.1.4.5. Where a document requires signatures of multiple persons, notarize only the
     signatures of those persons eligible for military notary services per the above four
     classifications.
  2.1.5. Civilian Employees as State Notaries (other than civilian legal assistance attorneys).
  Staff Judge Advocates may designate civilian employees to serve as notaries as part of their
  official duties. The notarial authority created by 10 U.S.C. Section 1044a does not cover this
  type of designation. Therefore, any designated civilian employee must qualify as a notary
  under the laws of the state where he or she will perform notarial duties.
     2.1.5.1. Designations of employees as notaries must be in writing and state that
     reimbursement for expenses is authorized. Title 5 U.S.C. Section 5945 authorizes
     reimbursement of commission expenses. These expenses may not exceed the actual cost
     of any fees, bonds, seals, perforating devices, and any other expenses actually incurred.
     Make reimbursements in accordance with local procedures.
     2.1.5.2. Where an installation has multiple SJAs, each SJA may make this designation
     for his or her respective Command or agency.
     2.1.5.3. As the notaries designated under this provision are reimbursed for commission
     expenses, they may only provide notary services for the eligible beneficiaries specified in
     paragraph 2.1.4 above.
  2.1.6. Paralegals as Notaries. Staff Judge Advocates will not allow paralegals to perform
  notary duties until they have received proper training. This limitation means that only those
  paralegals who have been trained to perform notary acts as specified by the Career Field
  Education and Training Plan (CFETP) will act as notaries.
  2.1.7. Non-JA Notaries at Geographically Separated Units (GSU). GCM SJAs are
  responsible for identifying those units where a non-JA notary should be appointed. Staff
  Judge Advocates are advised to appoint only the number of non-JA notaries necessary to
  avoid undue hardship to members at the GSU or remote site. All notary appointments must
  be in writing. The GCM SJA will maintain a copy of the written appointment letter for at
  least two years beyond the end of the notary’s assignment. The GCM SJA may revoke the
  non-JA notary's authority at any time, with or without cause.
     2.1.7.1. The base legal office that supports the GSU or remote site will provide all
     support to non-JA notaries. This support will include, at a minimum, training and
     supervision. The base legal office is responsible for notifying the GCM SJA when the
     non-JA notary is reassigned from the unit, an event that terminates the notary’s authority.
     2.1.7.2. Non-JA notaries are bound by the same rules set out for attorney, paralegal and
     civilian notaries under this instruction. In addition, non-JA notaries must comply with the
     following rules:
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                      25


         2.1.7.2.1. The notary shall not exercise notary authority until the servicing base level
         SJA has determined that the notary has been properly trained.
         2.1.7.2.2. The notary may not provide legal advice. The notary may not assist another
         in preparing or executing legal documents, including wills, deeds, contracts, leases,
         affidavits, separation agreements and powers of attorney, except for completing the
         notary jurat on such documents.
         2.1.7.2.3. The notary may only exercise notary authority while performing official
         duties at the duty site. The notary may not perform notary duties while in a TDY or
         leave status.
         2.1.7.2.4. The notary’s authority automatically terminates when the notary is re-
         assigned from the GSU or remote unit. The notary will deliver, or ensure delivery of,
         his or her personal notary log to the servicing base SJA. The notary seal or stamp will
         be retained at the duty location at which the notary worked for use by the notary
         appointed to succeed the departing notary. In the event a new notary is not appointed,
         the seal or stamp will be returned to the servicing base SJA.
  2.1.8. Authenticity and Seals. When signing documents in their official capacity, notaries
  specify the date and location, list their title and office, and use a raised seal or inked stamp
  citing 10 U.S.C. §1044a (for military notaries) or state authority (for civilian employee
  notaries designated pursuant to paragraph 2.1.5 of this instruction).
     2.1.8.1. Installations should employ a raised seal or inked stamp citing the authority of
     10 U.S.C. §1044a and including the identifiers “U.S. Air Force” and “Judge Advocate.”
     Experience with the Authentication Division of the Department of State demonstrates
     these identifiers are essential to acceptance of military notarizations on documents being
     presented to foreign governments. The issue arises most frequently in connection with
     international adoptions by military families. Use of the identifiers will ensure documents
     with military notarizations are accepted as authentic.
  2.1.9. Notary Guidelines.
     2.1.9.1. Before performing a notary act, verify the identity of each person whose
     signature you will notarize.
     2.1.9.2. Do not accept any signature as genuine on the word of a third person. The
     person whose act is the subject of the notary act must personally appear and sign
     the document before the notary.
     2.1.9.3. Administer oaths or affirmations for any sworn document. The person being
     sworn must appear before the notary.
     2.1.9.4. Notaries should familiarize themselves with state law requirements for
     acknowledgement of documents. Questions or concerns should be resolved by research of
     the appropriate state statutes or consultation with the entity requiring the document be
     notarized.
     2.1.9.5. Do not notarize incomplete documents. A client’s assurance to add missing
     information subsequent to the notarization is not adequate and must not be honored.
     Documents must include all required information at the time of signing and notarization.
     Please note some documents are completed in stages, requiring the addition of
26                                                             AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


     information and signatures subsequent to the signatures for which notarization is sought.
     In such cases, ensure the document is complete to the stage in the process at which the
     client is seeking notary services.
     2.1.9.6. Consistent with paragraph 2.1.4.5 of this instruction, notarize only the signatures
     of persons eligible for military notary service. The military notary program does not
     extend to other signators on a document not eligible for military notary service under
     paragraph 2.1.4 of this instruction.
     2.1.9.7. Certification of a document as a true and accurate copy of the original document
     is not a notarial act. Such a certification requires verification of the authenticity of the
     document represented by the client to be the original. Only the entity that created the
     document or maintains the original document or electronic record as part of its official
     responsibilities can make this verification. Therefore, notaries and other members of the
     legal office staff may not certify documents as true and accurate copies of original
     documents which are neither created by the office nor maintained by the office as part of
     its official responsibilities.
        2.1.9.7.1. Notaries may notarize the certification of authenticity and signature of the
        document custodian from the office responsible for maintaining the original
        document or electronic record. This act establishes the authenticity of the certification
        of the document or record as a true and accurate copy of the original version
        maintained by the responsible office. Additionally, if sufficient to meet the client’s
        needs, the notary may notarize the signed statement of the client that a document is a
        true and accurate copy of the original record he or she has received and maintained.
        For example, clients often request legal assistance practitioners to notarize copies of a
        DD Form 214 or NGB Form 22 as true and accurate reproductions of the original
        documents. Legal office notaries may not make this certification. Specific agencies
        can certify a copy of a DD Form 214 as a true and accurate reproduction of the
        original. JACA has published guidance to the field through The Judge Advocate
        General’s Online News Service. As another example, although a notary may not
        certify copies of a service member’s medical records to be true and accurate, the
        notary may notarize the statement and signature of the medical records custodian
        certifying the copies to be true and accurate.
     2.1.9.8. Maintain a notary log. All legal assistance notaries, both military and civilian,
     shall maintain a personal log of notary acts performed. The log must include the signer’s
     name and signature, the type of document, date, and location. Military notaries take their
     notary logs with them when they make a PCS move, except non-JA military notaries who
     provide the logs to the servicing base SJA consistent with paragraph 2.1.7.2.4 of this
     instruction. On separation or retirement, military notaries leave the notary log at their last
     duty station. Civilian employee notaries must follow the relevant state law regarding
     disposition of notary logs. If state law is silent, civilian employee notaries moving to a
     new position or location in federal civil service take their notary logs with them. Retiring
     civilian employee notaries and those leaving government will leave their notary logs at
     their last office of employment.
     2.1.9.9. Security of Notary Equipment. Notaries must maintain vigilance to prevent
     misuse, loss, or theft of notary seals, stamps, and log books. Persons not authorized to
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                    27


       serve as notaries under this instruction shall not use or maintain notary equipment. When
       not in use, secure notary seals, stamps, and log books in a desk drawer or file cabinet.
       Each notary shall ensure his or her notary equipment is similarly secured at the end of
       each duty day.
2.2. Oaths and Affirmations. The United States Code authorizes military members to
administer oaths and affirmations. SJAs will ensure that their staffs are familiar with the
following:
   2.2.1. Title 10 U.S.C. Section 936(a), which grants specific people the authority to
   administer oaths and affirmations for military administration, including military justice.
   2.2.2. Title 10 U.S.C. Section 936(b), which authorizes specific people to administer oaths
   and affirmations when necessary to perform their duties.
   2.2.3. Title 10 U.S.C. Sections 502 and 1031, which authorize United States Armed Forces
   commissioned officers to administer oaths of enlistment (section 502) and oaths of enlistment
   or appointment in the armed forces (section 1031).
2.3. Notary Restrictions.
   2.3.1. Compensation. Under 10 U.S.C. §1044a(c), no fee may be paid to or received by any
   person for the performance of a notarial act authorized under the legal assistance program.
 28                                                              AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


                                            Chapter 3

                               PREVENTIVE LAW PROGRAM

3.1. Purpose. No legal assistance program can succeed without a vigorous preventive law
program. Educating Commanders, members, and their families on legal issues prevents legal
problems and reduces the time and resources needed to resolve legal problems. Preventing legal
problems enhances Command effectiveness and readiness, especially during periods of
mobilization and deployment of personnel. Effective preventive law activities require full
communication and cooperation among Air Force legal office staff members, Commanders, and
base personnel, both uniformed and civilians.
3.2. Scope. Every base will have an active preventive law program. The SJA implements the
program for his or her installation or organization. All attorneys have a responsibility to integrate
preventive efforts into legal assistance consultations and presentations to base audiences on legal
programs.
   3.2.1. Preventive law programs focus on education and recommend preventive measures in
   legal areas where the Air Force has a direct interest in the outcome as well as those likely to
   impact base readiness and morale. At a minimum, include the following subject areas:
       3.2.1.1. Mobilization and Deployment Preparation. Educate members on their personal
       legal needs to ensure readiness for mobilization and deployment. Examples include
       preparing their personal and family legal affairs for the demands of and dislocations
       caused by mobilization and deployment, training on their rights under the SSCRA and the
       USERRA, and disseminating information through all effective media on other matters
       pertaining to legal readiness.
           3.2.1.1.1. Stress to Commanders the importance of making predeployment planning a
           priority within their units. For example, in accordance with DoDD 1350.4, Legal
           Assistance Matters, all Commanding Officers shall urge military personnel to seek
           legal counsel regarding wills, living wills, advance medical directives, and powers of
           attorney well before mobilization, deployment, or similar activities. Although not
           specifically cited in DoDD 1350.4, First Sergeants hold a similar responsibility.
           Ultimately, the decision to prepare and execute any of these documents must remain
           the free and voluntary act of the member. However, Commanders and First Sergeants
           play a vital role in highlighting and emphasizing the importance of seeking legal
           assistance as part of readiness preparations.
       3.2.1.2. Commander/First Sergeant Awareness. Educate Commanders, First Sergeants,
       and staff agency chiefs on the full range of legal services provided by the legal office (not
       just legal assistance matters); the advantages to the Command or organization of timely
       use of these legal services; and all legal matters affecting the installation, including, as
       examples, fraud, waste and abuse, standards of conduct, environmental issues, contract
       issues, military justice issues, and claims matters. Communicate with Commanders, First
       Sergeants, and staff agencies on the status of legal services. Advise unit Commanders and
       First Sergeants of the legal office's availability to present informational briefings
       concerning the scope of the legal assistance program and preventive law measures at
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                       29


     Commanders’ and First Sergeants’ seminars, Commanders" Calls, staff meetings, base
     committee meetings, and newcomers" orientations.
     3.2.1.3. Promote service member awareness of the importance of recognizing legal
     issues and seeking timely legal advice. Promote service member awareness of the
     importance of considering the legal consequences of their actions prior to signing legal
     documents such as purchase agreements, contracts, leases, and separation agreements.
     Ignoring legal issues or concerns and signing documents without advice on their terms
     and significance leads to legal problems later.
     3.2.1.4. Identify common legal problems encountered by service members and family
     members. With its capability to provide statistical reports on demand, WebLIONS is an
     excellent resource for developing this information. Develop materials providing
     information and guidance aimed at preventing or minimizing service member and family
     member exposure to these potential legal problems.
     3.2.1.5. Maintain vigilance to identify novel legal concerns, such as new consumer
     scams. Promptly develop and disseminate educational materials to help the base
     community make informed decisions and avoid potential legal problems.
     3.2.1.6. Encourage the following base-wide activities:
        3.2.1.6.1. Submission of articles for base newspapers, daily bulletin boards, and
        military legal publications on current legal assistance issues.
        3.2.1.6.2. Distribution of handouts or pamphlets on preventive law measures at legal
        offices or other appropriate offices, such as the Family Support Center and squadron
        orderly rooms.
        3.2.1.6.3. Development and maintenance of legal office web sites that provide office
        operating hours and contact information and that provide or link to current preventive
        law materials.
        3.2.1.6.4. Presentation of preventive law lectures and seminars.
     3.2.1.7. Law Day is observed each year on the first day of May to draw attention to the
     principles of justice and the practice of law, by an annual Proclamation of the President
     of the United States in accordance with Public Law 87-20 of April 7, 1961, as amended.
     Each year, in advance of 1 May, TJAG announces a Law Day theme. Staff Judge
     Advocates and preventive law officers join thousands of national organizations,
     businesses and schools and participate in innovative Law Day activities such as a high
     school mock trial, a middle school art and essay contest, or a community question and
     answer panel discussion.
     3.2.1.8. Encourage legal office attorneys to participate in state or local bar associations to
     gain information on support programs available through these associations to benefit
     military clients and preventive law efforts and to educate civilian attorneys on the
     military in general and military legal programs in particular.
     3.2.1.9. Seek support from bar associations to provide no-fee or reduced-fee legal
     services for service members and family members, particularly those with low incomes.
 30                                                          AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


      3.2.1.10. Encourage participation by local attorneys and state and local bar associations
      in programs sponsored by the ABA’s Standing Committee on Legal Assistance for
      Military Personnel (LAMP), such as Operation Enduring LAMP, and the Military
      Committee of the ABA’s Family Law Section, such as Operation Stand-By.
      3.2.1.11. Tax Assistance. The Internal Revenue Service operates the Volunteer Income
      Tax Assistance (VITA) Program. If approved by base Commanders, establish an active,
      aggressive, well-publicized tax assistance program as outlined in 1.4.14.2.
3.3. Program Management. See AFPD 51-5, Section C, for a full description of
responsibilities in the program.
   3.3.1. MAJCOM SJAs supervise the programs within their Commands.
   3.3.2. To manage the base-level preventive law program, base SJAs appoint a Chief of
   Preventive Law or preventive law officer, charged with developing and implementing
   educational initiatives as a primary duty. In performing these duties, the appointed leader
   should review preventive law materials disseminated by AFLSA/JACA, which are
   maintained on its web site (see paragraph 3.5.1 of this instruction). Also, he or she should
   communicate with other military legal offices, particularly those in the same state, higher
   headquarters legal offices, and appropriate federal, state, and local agencies, such as bar
   referral services and consumer protection agencies.
3.4. Communication. All judge advocates may communicate directly with each other and with
relevant organizations and persons about preventive law matters.
3.5. Preventive Law Resources.
   3.5.1. AFLOA/AFJAGS’ web site provides information on legal assistance subject areas
   covered under the legal assistance program, field guidance, and preventive law updates.
   Access the site at: https://aflsa.jag.af.mil/AF/lynx/afjags/.
   3.5.2. WebFLITE. AFLSA/JAS's WebFLITE includes a "Web Links" page that provides
   access to a wide-range of Air Force and legal assistance internet and intranet web sites.
   WebFLITE also provides helpful links to other agencies, statutes and regulations, and
   specific     legal    assistance       subject areas.   Access     these     links    at:
   https://aflsa.jag.af.mil/flite/links.php.
3.6. Forms Prescribed.
   3.6.1. AF Form 165, General Power of Attorney.
   3.6.2. AF Form 831, Special Power of Attorney.
   3.6.3. AF Form 1175, Legal Assistance Record.
3.7. Forms Adopted.
   3.7.1. DOL Form VETS-1010, Eligibility Data Form: Veterans’ Reemployment Rights.
   3.7.2. DD Form 2793, Volunteer Agreement for Appropriated Activities or
   Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities.
   3.7.3. SF 1164, Claim for Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business.
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                31




                            RICHARD C. HARDING
                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                            The Judge Advocate General
 32                                                               AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 U.S.C. 5945, Notary Public Commission Expenses
10 U.S.C. 502, Enlistment Oath: Who May Administer
10 U.S.C. 936, Art. 136. Authority to Administer Oaths and to Act as Notary
10 U.S.C. 938, Art. 138. Complaints of Wrongs
10 U.S.C. 1031, Administration of Oath
10 U.S.C. 1044, Legal Assistance
10 U.S.C. 1052, Reimbursement of Adoption Expenses
10 U.S.C. 1408, Payment of Retired or Retainer Pay in Compliance with Court Orders
10 U.S.C. 1588, Authority to Accept Certain Voluntary Service
10 U.S.C. 12731, Age and Service Requirements
38 U.S.C. 4301-4333, Employment and Reemployment Rights of Members of the Uniformed
Services
50 U.S.C. App. 501-593, Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act
AFI 36-2906, Personal Financial Responsibility
AFI 36-2908, Family Care Plans
AFPD 51-5, Military Legal Affairs
ARC-1, Rules of Professional Conduct for Air Reserve Component Judge Advocates
Army Pub. 260, Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act Guide
DoDI 1100.21, Voluntary Services in the Department of Defense
DoDD 1341.9, DoD Adoption Reimbursement Policy (Jul 93)
DoDD 1350.4, Legal Assistance Matters (Apr 01)
DoDI 1400.32, DoD Civilian Workforce Contingency and Emergency Planning Guidelines and
Procedures
DoDI 3020.37, Continuation of Essential DoD Contract Services During Crises
P.L. 87-20, Law Day, 7 April 1961
TJS-2, Air Force Rules of Professional Conduct and Standards for Civility in Professional
Conduct
TJS-3, Air Force Standards for Criminal Justice
TJS-8, Legal Services Volunteer Confidentiality Agreement
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                       33


                                          Attachment 2
                      DUAL REPRESENTATION AUTHORIZATION


Legal assistance attorneys may use the following form to inform clients of the parameters of, and
to secure their consent to, dual representation. Each client should independently read and sign a
letter to confirm that each wishes to be dually represented by a single attorney.

Dear Client:

        You and your spouse have indicated that you wish to meet with an attorney together to
discuss and execute both of your wills and related documents. There exists the potential for
conflicts of interest to arise between spouses concerning the division and distribution of their
property. For this reason, each may retain separate, independent counsel at the outset to avoid the
possibility that advice given to one of you is influenced by the representation of the other. Where
both spouses express the desire to be represented by a single attorney, it is the practice of this
office to raise the potential for conflicts of interest with you and require your independent
consent prior to proceeding with dual representation. Your signature below will confirm the
following:

1. You and your spouse have requested the same legal assistance attorney represent each of you
in advising on and preparing your wills and related documents.

2. You recognize that you and your spouse’s wills and related documents need not be uniform.
They may be entirely unique from each other in content. Each of you will review your
documents prior to execution to ensure they reflect your individual wishes.

3. The scope of this representation will include the following:

     - Analysis of the assets owned by each of you at the time of your marriage, including
     consideration of the fair market value of such property and the manner in which the title
     was then held;

     - Analysis of all property now owned by each of you, including consideration of its fair
     market value, the manner in which title to such property is now held, and a categorization of
     such property as separate, marital, community, or quasi-community property;

     - Discussion concerning the manner in which you wish to dispose of any property you may
     have the power to dispose of at the time of your death; and

     - Preparation of the documents necessary to accomplish the desired disposition of your
     property.

     4. You are aware that during the course of the representation, disagreements may arise
     between you and your spouse regarding ownership and disposition of property.
34                                                               AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


     5. Difference of opinion regarding the disposition of property does not, in and of itself,
     prevent an attorney from representing both husband and wife. However, during the course
     of the representation, conflicts of interest between you and your spouse may arise that might
     preclude me from further representing either of you.

     6. If a conflict of interest does occur, and it is of such a nature that I believe it impossible
     for me to ethically perform services for either of you, I will immediately cease all
     representation of both of you in this matter and advise that you both obtain independent
     counsel.

     7. You agree that there will be complete and free disclosure of all information I receive
     from either of you within the course of representing you and your spouse. You further agree
     that such information shall not be confidential between you and your spouse regardless of
     whether I obtain such information when you and your spouse are both present or when only
     one of you is present. This disclosure authorization includes any conferences that may have
     taken place before the date of this letter.

                                              Very Respectfully,


                                              SIGNATURE BLOCK
                                              Legal Assistance Attorney


     I, (print your name)_____________________________________________, have read and
     understand the foregoing letter and consent to being represented by
     _____________________________________________, our legal assistance attorney,
     together with my spouse, _____________________________________________, in the
     creation of our individual testamentary instruments. I likewise consent to the free disclosure
     and exchange between my spouse and I of information received by said attorney within the
     scope of his/her representation of us in the same.

     Signed the ___ day of ____________, 20XX



     _________________________
     Client
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                                        35


                                            Attachment 3
          STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE FOR EXECUTING WILLS

The following procedure, or one covering substantially the same points, is recommended as a
standard for the execution of wills. This procedure meets the requirements for execution of
military testamentary instruments, the standard for the execution of wills in the United States Air
Force.
       A. Present for the execution should be the following:
               (1) the testator/testatrix
              (2) two witnesses, who must be persons who have no interest, vested or
        contingent, in the property disposed of by the will or in the testator’s/testatrix’s
        estate in the event of intestacy. An attorney presiding over the execution
        ceremony may NOT act as a witness. Under 10 USC §1044d(c)(3), the two
        witnesses must be “in addition to the presiding attorney.”
               (3) the presiding attorney - 10 USC §1044d requires a military
        testamentary instrument to be “executed in the presence of a military legal
        assistance counsel acting as presiding attorney.”
              (4) notary - as the notary will notarize the signatures of the witnesses, the
        notary cannot serve as one of the witnesses.
                      a. Execution of the document as a military testamentary instrument
                does not require use of a military notary acting under 10 USC §1044a.
                       b. The statute does not preclude the presiding attorney from notarizing
                the will and other documents. Taking that approach would require
                notarization under the authority of 10 USC §1044a, with use of the
                appropriate captions in the documents. However, if questions are raised later
                concerning how the will was executed, this approach risks a significant
                problem. If an attorney served as notary, particularly a JAG, he or she will
                likely have PCSed or maybe even left the Air Force by the time questions
                come up. The witnesses will likely fall into similar situations. They will be
                difficult to find at best. Even when found, because they may have executed
                the will years ago, they will rely on distant memories of how the process was
                accomplished. In contrast, because civilian notaries often work in the same
                office for years they are most familiar with a particular office's will
                execution practices and are best placed to respond to questions concerning
                the execution of the documents.
        B. If the will consists of more than 1 page, the pages should be fastened together
securely. The will should specify the exact number of pages of which it consists (e.g., number
each page at the bottom “1 of 3,” “2 of 3,” “3 of 3”). This page numbering does not include the
self-proving affidavit, unless it has been incorporated as part of the will. The self-proving
affidavit should, however, be fastened to the will.
 36                                                               AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003


       C. The testator/testatrix should read the will and the self-proving affidavit in their entirety
and the legal assistance attorney should ensure understanding of all terms prior to the execution.
       D. The presiding attorney and/or notary should ask for and examine the identification
cards of the testator/testatrix and witnesses.
        E. The attorney or notary presiding at the execution ceremony should ask the
testator/testatrix the questions from the section below entitled “Will Execution Requisites.”
        F. Assuming appropriate responses to the questions, the testator/testatrix then initials and
dates in the margin at the bottom of each page of the will except the page including the
testator’s/testatrix’s signature at the end of the will. This step assures identification and prevents
subsequent addition and substitution of pages. The testator/testatrix also signs in the appropriate
space at the end of the will. The witnesses should be seated or standing in a position to observe
the signing and/or initialing.
        G. The attorney or notary presiding at the execution ceremony asks the witnesses the
listed questions from the section below entitled “Will Execution Requisites.”
        H. Each witness should read and then declare that the attestation clause is a true and
correct statement.
        I. Each witness then initials and dates in the margins in the same area as the
testator/testatrix (again, this step assures identification and prevents subsequent addition and
substitution of pages) and signs in the appropriate places at the end of the will. The witnesses
also read and sign the self-proving affidavit. The witnesses’ printed or typed name and rank (if
military) and printed or typed duty address should be included under or next to their signatures.


WILL EXECUTION REQUISITES

The presiding attorney or notary asks each Testator/Testatrix the following questions. The
witnesses must be assured the Testator/Testatrix understands the questions and responds to them
consistent with the intent to execute the document as his/her last will and testament.

For executions involving multiple clients, substitute the phrase “each of you” for “you” in each
question and request the clients to answer aloud and make the appropriate nod for affirmative or
negative.

(1) Do you (state full name of testator/testatrix) declare in the presence of (state the names
of the witnesses) that this document is your will?

(2) Are you at least 18 years of age?

(3) Do you consider yourself to be of sound mind?

(4) Have you read the will in its entirety and do you fully understand its terms?

(5) Do you have any additions or corrections you desire made to the will?
AFI51-504 27 OCTOBER 2003                                                               37



(6) Does the will as drafted represent your intentions as to how you wish your property to
be distributed in the event of your death?

(7) Have you prepared and are you executing this document voluntarily?

(8) Do you feel you have been under any sort of duress, coercion, or undue influence as you
discussed and provided information for the preparation of the will or now as you get ready
to sign the will?

(9) Do you publish and declare this document to be your last will and testament?

(10) Do you desire that we (state the names of the witnesses) witness your signature and
execution of this will?

Questions to the witnesses:

(1) Does the testator/testatrix appear to be at least 18 years of age?

(2) Does the testator/testatrix appear to be of sound mind?

(3) Does he/she appear to understand the nature of his/her actions?

(4) Does he/she appear to be acting under duress or coercion?
