BY ORDER OF THE                                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-109
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   2 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                                  Law

                                                        THE ARTICLE 6 INSPECTION SYSTEM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/JAI                                                         Certified by: HQ USAF/JA
                                                                        (Lt Gen Richard C. Harding)
                                                                                          Pages: 25


This instruction defines the Article 6 Inspection Process pursuant to Article 6 of the Uniform
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). This instruction further establishes the requirements for all
Article 6 Part I and Part II Inspections. It includes several references to an inspection checklist
for use during Part I Inspections, as well as additional inspection requirements. Unless otherwise
prescribed, this instruction applies to all active duty Air Force installation-level legal offices. Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Legal Offices inspection
requirements will be addressed in subsequent instructions. This instruction applies to all
inspections conducted by The Judge Advocate General, pursuant to Title 10 of the United States
Code, Sections 806 (Article 6, UCMJ) and 8037. For all other inspections and for clarification
of issues not covered by this instruction, refer to Air Force Instruction 90-201, The Air Force
Inspection System, dated 2 August 2013. Major Command (MAJCOM) legal offices may
supplement this instruction only with the prior, written approval of the Office of The Judge
Advocate General, Training and Readiness Directorate (HQ USAF/JAI), 1500 West Perimeter
Road, Suite 3340, Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762; DSN voice 612-5062, 5063, 5064.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).             Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                                                               AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items




Chapter 1—THE ARTICLE 6 INSPECTION SYSTEM                                                                                                    3
       1.1.    Overview. ...............................................................................................................     3
       1.2.    Authority and Background. ....................................................................................                3
       1.3.    Objectives. .............................................................................................................      3
       1.4.    Roles and Responsibilities .....................................................................................               4

Chapter 2—ARTICLE 6 PART I INSPECTIONS                                                                                                        9
       2.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    9
       2.2.    Organizations to be Inspected. ...............................................................................                 9
       2.3.    Synchronization with IG. .......................................................................................               9
       2.4.    Notification. ...........................................................................................................     10
       2.5.    Article 6 Part I Inspectors and Augmentees. .........................................................                         10
       2.6.    Access to Records. .................................................................................................          11
       2.7.    Preparation. ............................................................................................................     11
       2.8.    Article 6 Part I Inspection. .....................................................................................            13
       2.9.    Grading the Inspection. ..........................................................................................            13
       2.10.   The Article 6 Part I Report. ....................................................................................             17

Chapter 3—THE ARTICLE 6 PART II INSPECTION                                                                                                   20
       3.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   20
       3.2.    Organizations to be Inspected. ...............................................................................                20
       3.3.    Timing and Scope of the Inspection. .....................................................................                     20
       3.4.    Inspection Team Members. ....................................................................................                 20
       3.5.    Notification. ...........................................................................................................     20
       3.6.    Preparation. ............................................................................................................     20
       3.7.    Inspection Areas. ...................................................................................................         21
       3.8.    Article 6 Part II Inspection Required Events. ........................................................                        22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               24
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                        3



                                           Chapter 1

                         THE ARTICLE 6 INSPECTION SYSTEM

1.1. Overview. The Article 6 Inspection is a two-part inspection system. The System provides
an unparalleled opportunity for The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) to evaluate how effectively
Air Force legal professionals promote good order and discipline within our military justice
system through fair and candid advice provided to commanders. It also serves as a tool to assess
compliance and measure the quality of legal services supplied to commanders, personnel, and
organizations throughout the Air Force. Moreover, Article 6 Inspections provide a mechanism to
standardize the delivery of legal services and the support provided by Air Force Judge Advocate
General’s Corps (AFJAGC).
1.2. Authority and Background. Title 10 U.S.C. § 806(a) (Article 6, UCMJ) requires: “The
Judge Advocate General or senior members of his staff shall make frequent inspections in the
field in supervision of the administration of military justice.”
   1.2.1. Congress enacted this provision to ensure the Air Force military justice system is
   administered properly; supports good order, morale, and discipline; and operates free from
   unlawful command influence. The success of the military justice system and the mission of
   the Air Force depend in great measure upon the legality of its actions and the ability of legal
   professionals to satisfy command requirements for full spectrum advice and legal services.
   The Article 6 Inspection system serves as an invaluable resource to gauge the overall legal
   health of our installations by affording TJAG a comprehensive, firsthand assessment of legal
   personnel and the legal support provided to commanders, personnel, and organizations.
   1.2.2. Additionally, TJAG is required by law (10 U.S.C. § 8037(c)(2)) to “direct the officers
   of the Air Force designated as judge advocates in the performance of their duties.” The
   Article 6 Inspection system facilitates TJAG’s compliance with this statutory provision by
   providing the opportunity to evaluate the duty performance of judge advocates in the field
   and to provide timely guidance and direction, as appropriate.
   1.2.3. The Deputy Judge Advocate General (DJAG) or other members of AFJAGCmay be
   appointed by TJAG to serve as a senior member of his staff for the purposes of conducting an
   Article 6 Inspection, consistent with TJAG’s statutory authority.
   1.2.4. Article 6 Inspections are conducted under the authority of TJAG and scheduled at the
   sole discretion of TJAG. All Article 6 Inspections constitute a separate and distinct
   inspection process and will not be integrated into any other inspection process. Whenever
   possible, Article 6 Part I Inspections will be synchronized with a scheduled Inspector General
   (IG) Unit Effectiveness Inspection (UEI) or coordinated with the appropriate MAJCOM/IG
   Gatekeeper. 1.2.5 AF/JAE will be the office responsible for coordinating all Article 6 Part II
   Inspections with the respective MAJCOM/JA offices.                Additionally, MAJCOM/IG
   Gatekeepers will be notified of Article 6 Part II Inspections as part of the overall scheduling
   process. Gatekeeper approval is not required.
1.3. Objectives. TJAG’s statutory responsibility to conduct frequent inspections in the field and
direct the activities of judge advocates ensures that:
   1.3.1. Legal offices comply with all legal, regulatory, and policy requirements.
 4                                                                AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


     1.3.2. The military justice system is administered properly, effectively, and fairly with a
     specific emphasis on maintaining a justice process free from unlawful command influence.
     1.3.3. The quality of legal services remains consistent and the delivery of legal services is
     standardized across AFJAGC.
     1.3.4. Commanders at all levels are afforded an opportunity to communicate directly with
     TJAG regarding the administration of military justice as well as the effectiveness with which
     legal services are being provided to support the Air Force and installation missions.
     1.3.5. AFJAGC leadership understands the Air Force operational climate and can effectively
     advocate command issues requiring changes to laws, Department of Defense (DoD) and Air
     Force instructions and policies, or other directives to better support command prerogatives
     and mission objectives.
     1.3.6. TJAG is able to evaluate legal professionals in the field, providing an opportunity for
     personal discussion about issues affecting AFJAGC members and their families, and
     facilitating TJAG’s ability to make informed decisions about their professional development
     and overall force development within AFJAGC.
     1.3.7. TJAG and senior leadership observe, firsthand, the challenges facing Staff Judge
     Advocates (SJAs), their staffs, and their commands.
     1.3.8. Legal offices and Air Force legal professionals receive timely feedback and guidance
     directly from TJAG, as appropriate.
     1.3.9. Innovative legal programs are showcased, best practices identified, and ideas and
     concerns are appropriately addressed, enabling the cross-flow of useful information JAGC-
     wide.
1.4. Roles and Responsibilities
        1.4.1. The Air Force Judge Advocate General (TJAG)
        1.4.1.1. Is the senior judge advocate and is vested with the statutory authority to conduct
        frequent inspections of the field pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 806(a), commonly referred to as
        Article 6, UCMJ.
        1.4.1.2. Directs the activities of Air Force officers designated as judge advocates in the
        field, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 8037. (T-0)
        1.4.1.3. Establishes policy, direction, and guidance for judge advocates, paralegals, and
        civilian professionals to ensure readiness and standardization in the delivery of legal
        services, and timely advice to command in support of command prerogatives and the Air
        Force mission.
        1.4.1.4. Directs scheduling of all inspections conducted under Article 6.
        1.4.1.5. Delegates statutory responsibilities, as appropriate, to the Deputy Judge
        Advocate General.
        1.4.1.6. Designates members of AFJAGC to serve as a senior member of TJAG’s staff
        for the purpose of carrying out inspection responsibilities pursuant to Article 6.
     1.4.2. The Deputy Judge Advocate General (DJAG)
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                     5


     1.4.2.1. Carries out the statutory and administrative duties of the Office of The Judge
     Advocate General as directed by TJAG.
     1.4.2.2. Conducts Article 6 Part II Inspections of Air Force base-level legal offices, as
     required.
  1.4.3. The Mobilization Assistant to TJAG and the Air National Guard Assistant to
  TJAG
     1.4.3.1. Develops, on behalf of and as directed by TJAG, policies and programs for
     judge advocates and paralegals assigned to the Air Force Reserve and the Air National
     Guard. These duties include, but are not limited to, providing professional direction and
     management oversight for the proper training and mission readiness of all members of
     The Air Froce Judge Advocate General's Corps Reserve (AFJAGCR).
     1.4.3.2. Conducts Article 6 Part II Inspections of Air Force installation-level Air
     National Guard and Reserve component legal offices, as required.
     1.4.3.3. Nominates AFJAGCR members to serve as Article 6 Part I inspectors.
  1.4.4. Executive Officer to TJAG (AF/JAE)
     1.4.4.1. Exercises management oversight of the Article 6 Part II Inspection process.
     1.4.4.2. Provides appropriate updates to AF/JAI on changes in requirements concerning
     Article 6 Part II Inspections.
     1.4.4.3. Coordinates Article 6 Part II Inspections, pursuant to TJAG’s authority, with the
     MAJCOM/IG Gatekeeper through the appropriate MAJCOM/SJA.
  1.4.5. Training and Readiness Directorate (AF/JAI)
     1.4.5.1. Supports TJAG and DJAG in satisfying all statutory responsibilities pursuant to
     Article 6.
     1.4.5.2. Manages the Article 6 Inspection Program consistent with TJAG’s direction and
     this instruction.
     1.4.5.3. Establishes Article 6 Inspection guidance, policy, and requirements under the
     direction and with the approval of TJAG.
     1.4.5.4. Develops, maintains, and updates this instruction and Article 6 Inspection
     Checklist, as required.
     1.4.5.5. Attends MAJCOM/IG Gatekeepers inspection scheduling conferences to
     synchronize Article 6 Part I Inspections with the various IG UEIs.
     1.4.5.6. Coordinates with the appropriate IG Gatekeepers and communicates with
     MAJCOM/JA Chiefs of Training (CoTs) or alternate MAJCOM/JA point of contact
     (POC) in synchronizing all Article 6 Part I Inspections with IG UEIs.
     1.4.5.7. Leads Article 6 Part I Inspection teams and provides training to designated
     Article 6 Part I inspectors as needed.
     1.4.5.8. Analyzes inspection data and trends to improve delivery of services and enhance
     standardization of Air Force legal practices.
6                                                                 AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


       1.4.5.9. Finalizes a comprehensive Article 6 Part I Inspection report documenting a legal
       office’s performance to address issues and to assist in the preparation for the Article 6
       Part II Inspection.
       1.4.5.10. Oversees the management and closure of Article 6 Part I deficiencies in concert
       with each respective MAJCOM/SJA and the MAJCOM/JA CoT.
       1.4.5.11. Hosts the official CAPSIL AF/JAI Webpage, disseminates timely information,
       innovative ideas, and lessons learned, as well as the results of previous inspections to the
       field.
       1.4.5.12. Establishes, communicates, and validates inspection requirements to the field
       under the direction and with the approval of TJAG.
       1.4.5.13. Performs other training and readiness responsibilities for AFJAGC as directed
       by TJAG.
       1.4.5.14. Conducts post-Article 6 Part I Inspection “hot washes” with AF/JA and
       AFLOA staffs.
    1.4.6. Major Command Staff Judge Advocates (MAJCOM/SJA) and Command
    Paralegals
       1.4.6.1. Provide oversight and direction regarding all required training of judge
       advocates, paralegals, and civilian professionals within their MAJCOM.
       1.4.6.2. Nominate qualified candidates for designation by TJAG as Article 6 Part I
       Inspectors.
       1.4.6.3. Appoint CoTs or a single alternate POC for Article 6 Inspections to coordinate
       the logistics of Article 6 Part I Inspections conducted within the MAJCOM and to
       interface with AF/JAI and their respective Gatekeepers.
       1.4.6.4. Monitor the Judge Advocate (JA) self-inspection program within the MAJCOM,
       to include providing direction, guidance, and oversight.
       1.4.6.5. Exercise authority to close base-level deficiencies identified during Article 6
       Part I Inspections in concert with AF/JAI.
       1.4.6.6. Forward all concerns about the Article 6 Part I Inspection process, to include
       proposed changes to the Article 6 Inspection Checklist and identifies needs and JA
       training issues, to AF/JAI for resolution. If a training issue should be handled by another
       office within AFJAGC, JAI will forward the issue to that office for resolution.
       1.4.6.7. Ensure legal offices within their command are prepared for inspection. This
       includes monitoring AFJAGC’s Calendar, responding to Article 6 Part II Inspection
       notifications, and communicating regularly with AF/JAE. MAJCOM SJAs and
       Command Paralegal Managers may also accompany TJAG or DJAG on Article 6 Part II
       Inspections.
    1.4.7. Article 6 Inspectors
       1.4.7.1. Appointed by TJAG to conduct Article 6 Part I Inspections as a senior member
       of his staff and under the direction of AF/JAI. Once properly appointed by TJAG,
       AF/JAI is authorized to designate which augmentees will serve as JAI inspectors for
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                         7


     Article 6 Part I inspections based on availability and scheduling. Any request for LOS
     (Law Office Superintendent (LOS)/paralegal support will be properly routed through the
     individual’s supervision for approval. Request for an SJA to serve as a team lead will be
     forwarded directly to the SJA. The SJA should then provide a copy of the request to his
     or her commander. If the commander objects to the SJA participating in the inspection,
     the SJA should notify JAI promptly.
     1.4.7.2. Complete required Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) inspector certification
     training and receive AF/JAI training prior to conducting an Article 6 Part I Inspection.
     MAJCOM representatives may participate as Article 6 Inspectors only after meeting all
     the respective MAJCOM/IG requirements.
     1.4.7.3. Serve at the discretion of TJAG once properly qualified.
     1.4.7.4. Comply with all requirements and procedures contained in this instruction, to
     include all responsibilities of a trusted agent.
  1.4.8. MAJCOM/JA Chief of Training, Designee or other appointed MAJCOM Article
  6 Inspection POC
     1.4.8.1. Appointed by the MAJCOM/SJA.
     1.4.8.2. Serve as the primary liaison between AF/JAI and the MAJCOM/IG Gatekeeper.
     1.4.8.3. Participate as Article 6 Part I MAJCOM representative, consistent with
     paragraph 1.4.7.2, when designated by the MAJCOM/SJA; however, any travel funding
     must be provided by the respective MAJCOM.
     1.4.8.4. Serve as the primary point of contact for the MAJCOM/IG for pre-inspection
     scheduling, coordination of inspection activities, and the handling of various
     administrative matters in coordination with AF/JAI when appointed as a member of an
     Article 6 Part I Inspection team.
     1.4.8.5. Function as liaison with AF/JAI to close any deficiencies identified during an
     Article 6 Part I Inspection, when directed by the MAJCOM/SJA.
     1.4.8.6. Comply with all requirements and procedures contained in this instruction, to
     include the responsibilities of a trusted agent.
     1.4.8.7. Serve as point of contact for the MAJCOM/IG on closure of any regulatory
     compliance deficiencies placed in the Inspector General Electronic Management System
     (IGEMS), at the discretion of the MAJCOM/SJA.
  1.4.9. Numbered Air Force Staff Judge Advocates (NAF/SJAs) and Paralegal
  Managers. Facilitate Part II Inspections and accompany TJAG or DJAG on Article 6 Part II
  Inspections in place of the MAJCOM SJA or Command Paralegal Manager, as required by
  the MAJCOM SJA.
  1.4.10. Base-Level SJA and LOS
     1.4.10.1. Educate command on the statutory requirements, pursuant to Article 6 (T-1).
     1.4.10.2. Satisfy all pre-inspection requirements consistent with this instruction (T-3).
8                                                            AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


    1.4.10.3. Coordinate all Article 6 Inspection requirements with command and JA
    supervision (T-3).
    1.4.10.4. Provide any pertinent information concerning the findings of the Article 6 Part
    I Inspection to AF/JAI inspectors during daily outbriefs (T-3).
    1.4.10.5. Close out any deficiencies identified during an Article 6 Part I Inspection
    through the MAJCOM/SJA in accordance with this instruction (T-1).
    1.4.10.6. Forward all concerns about the Article 6 Part I Inspection process, to include
    proposed changes to the Article 6 Inspection Checklist and JA training issues through the
    MAJCOM/SJA, to AF/JAI for resolution. (T-3) If a training issue should be handled by
    another office within AFJAGC, JAI will forward the issue to that office for resolution.
    1.4.10.7. The SJA and the LOS of the inspected office normally take the lead in planning
    and coordinating an Article 6 Part II Inspection both locally and with higher headquarters
    legal offices. If more than one legal office is inspected or other AFJAGC activities are
    on or near an installation, and will be inspected/visited, unless otherwise directed, the
    senior judge advocate and the senior paralegal assigned to the senior staff will assume
    responsibility for planning and coordinating the entire Part II Inspection. This provision
    includes inspections conducted at the MAJCOM and NAF levels, as well as other legal
    offices or activities co-located or located near the inspected office.
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                          9


                                            Chapter 2

                             ARTICLE 6 PART I INSPECTIONS

2.1. Purpose. Article 6 Part I Inspections serve three main objectives. The first objective of an
Article 6 Part I Inspection is to ensure legal offices comply with all legal, regulatory, and policy
requirements. The second objective is to properly assess the leadership, health, effectiveness,
and efficiency of a legal office in meeting the needs of command and in supporting the
installation’s programs, people, and mission. The third objective is to identify in detail an
office’s strengths, weaknesses, and deficiencies, to afford an office the opportunity to remedy
any outstanding issues, and to highlight an office’s accomplishments in preparation for the
subsequent Article 6 Part II Inspection. The success of a legal office is ultimately recognized
within the framework of the controlling legal and regulatory authority consistent with the
direction of TJAG.
2.2. Organizations to be Inspected. Article 6 requires TJAG or a senior member of his staff to
conduct frequent inspections of the field, especially in the area of military justice; however, the
actual scope of each Article 6 Inspection will be determined by the mission of the organization to
be inspected.
   2.2.1. Operational Legal Offices. The Article 6 Part I Inspection process is primarily
   designed to inspect offices providing a full-range of legal services and support at an active
   duty Air Force installation, to include advising a command and subordinate leadership on
   military justice issues.
   2.2.2. Air Reserve Component (ARC) Legal Offices. Article 6 applies to ARC Legal
   Offices. The breadth, the scope, and the applicable compliance items for each of the ARC
   components will be addressed separately by representatives from the ARC in coordination
   with AF/JAI. Ultimately, the inspection requirements will be determined by the Air Force
   Reserve Mobilization Assistant to TJAG and the Air National Guard Assistant to TJAG,
   respectively, after consultation and coordination with TJAG.
   2.2.3. Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) and Field Operating Agency (FOA) Legal Offices.
   Most DRU and FOA legal offices, with a few exceptions, do not support a military justice
   function and although subject to inspections by AFIA, generally will not be subject to an
   Article 6 Part I Inspection. DRUs/FOAs are still subject to Article 6 Part II Inspections at the
   discretion of TJAG.
   2.2.4. MAJCOM and NAF Legal Offices. MAJCOM and NAF offices generally will not
   be subject to Article 6 Part I Inspections except at those installations where the NAF or
   Center SJA is dual-hatted as the base-level (wing) SJA and is providing legal advice in
   substantive areas to base-level organizations. However, MAJCOM/NAF offices are subject
   to an Article 6 Inspection in conjunction with the Part II Inspection of a co-located
   operational legal office.
2.3. Synchronization with IG. Article 6 Part I Inspections are separate and distinct from all
other Air Force inspections and, as such, will not be integrated into any other inspection process.
However, whenever possible and at the direction of TJAG, all Article 6 Part I Inspections will
either be synchronized with a UEI conducted by the IG as outlined in AFI 90-201, The Air Force
Inspection System or coordinated with the appropriate MAJCOM/IG Gatekeeper.
 10                                                              AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


2.4. Notification. Article 6 Part I Inspections will normally be synchronized with a MAJCOM’s
UEI schedule. Notwithstanding MAJCOM independent notification practices, the base legal
office to be inspected will receive a memorandum from AF/JAI approximately 45 days prior to a
scheduled Article 6 Part I Inspection. This 45-Day Memorandum will include the names of the
AF/JAI inspectors, a list of required items, and general guidance pertaining to the inspection
process. The MAJCOM CoTs will be copied on all the information sent from AF/JAI to the
installation as appropriate.
2.5. Article 6 Part I Inspectors and Augmentees. AF/JAI is responsible for all administrative
and substantive issues surrounding the Article 6 Part I Inspection process, to include assigning
and managing Article 6 Part I inspectors.
   2.5.1. All Article 6 Part I inspectors will initially be designated by TJAG. All TJAG-
   appointed Article 6 Part I inspectors must receive any required training as specified in AFI
   90-201. Once trained, TJAG-appointed inspectors serve at the discretion of TJAG.
   2.5.2. All Article 6 Part I Inspection teams will, at a minimum, include one judge advocate
   and one paralegal inspector designated by TJAG. Whenever possible, at least one inspector
   will be from AF/JAI.
   2.5.3. MAJCOM/SJAs may assign and fund up to one judge advocate and one paralegal to
   serve as additional augmentees and MAJCOM representatives on an Article 6 Part I
   Inspection team, subject to the guidance in paragraph 1.4.7. To ensure consistency it is
   recommended the same MAJCOM/JA inspector, normally the CoT, participate in all Article
   6 Part I Inspections within the command. MAJCOM/JA inspectors, at a minimum, must
   complete any MAJCOM-required IG training and are subject to any additional training
   requirements as determined by AF/JAI.
   2.5.4. Article 6 Part I inspectors will be contacted well in advance of an inspection to
   determine their availability to serve as AF/JAI augmentees. Once selected, AF/JAI will
   forward additional guidance on using the checklist, the interviewing process, grading of the
   compliance portion of the inspection, and drafting the report. The same information will also
   be provided to any assigned MAJCOM/JA augmentee.
   2.5.5. The senior TJAG-appointed inspector will serve as the team lead for all Article 6 Part
   I Inspections. AF/JAI will work directly with the MAJCOM/JA representatives prior to any
   scheduled inspection. The senior MAJCOM/JA augmentee and representative, when
   appointed, will normally function as the primary liaison with the inspecting MAJCOM/IG
   representative for pre-inspection requirements, coordination of activities, and the handling of
   various administrative matters during the inspection process.
   2.5.6. All inspectors and augmentees must be familiar with the Article 6 Inspection
   checklist.
   2.5.7. The Article 6 Part I Inspection process ensures a legal office is responding to the
   needs of command, maintaining Air Force standards, complying with the appropriate laws
   and regulations, and meeting the goals and objectives established by TJAG. To this end, it is
   critical that inspectors identify all regulatory and Article 6 compliance deficiencies.
   However, it is equally important that inspectors provide constructive comments, specific
   guidance, training, and feasible solutions to assist the inspected office in eliminating
   problems, improving processes, and preparing for the subsequent Article 6 Part II Inspection.
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                         11


   2.5.8. All appointed Article 6 Part I inspectors will be treated as trusted agents in relation to
   the inspection of a particular installation or office. With the exception of members of AF/JAI
   and the MAJCOM/SJA of the inspected installation, and, unless otherwise stated within this
   instruction, inspectors are prohibited from releasing any information pertaining to an Article
   6 Part I Inspection without the approval of the AF/JAI Director. This instruction places a
   continuing duty on all trusted agents to protect inspection information on a strictly “need-to-
   know” basis following the completion of an inspection.
   2.5.9. Although Article 6 Part I Inspections are conducted pursuant to TJAG’s statutory
   authority, Article 6 inspectors will work to the greatest extent possible with IG team
   members to further the overall objectives of the Air Force inspection system and to minimize
   any adverse effects on the mission or the unnecessary duplication of effort or use of
   installation resources.
2.6. Access to Records. Inspectors shall be granted full access to all records within the control
of the inspected legal office and relevant to the areas on the Article 6 Inspection checklist, as
well as any records needed to provide a full assessment of the inspected office. If pertinent
records are held by other base agencies, the inspected office will work with those agencies to
obtain access to the records. Inspectors will be permitted access to classified materials, subject
to their possession of the appropriate clearance. Any issues regarding access to materials during
an inspection will be elevated to AF/JAI for resolution.
2.7. Preparation. Given the standing requirement for regularly conducted self-inspections, the
actual preparation time required for an Article 6 Part I Inspection should not be overly onerous.
An office's thorough and honest assessment of the inspection items over the entire inspection
period coupled with appropriate documentation allows the inspection team to quickly evaluate
items, giving the team more time to spend with personnel in the office and increasing the overall
value to the legal office of the Part I Inspection. Offices should take a proactive approach in
identifying and addressing deficiencies through their self-inspections, as opposed to trying to
address deficiencies immediately preceding an Article 6 Part I Inspection. Aside from
assembling the source documents, the majority of the inspection will be centered on the legal
office’s day-to-day activities. All pre-inspection requirements will be contained in the 45-Day
Memorandum.
   2.7.1. Comprehensive Checklist. The Article 6 Inspection checklist is designed to cover
   every major legal program within an office. The questions are divided into sections to allow
   an office to distribute questions to the appropriate section or personnel within an office.
       2.7.1.1. Checklist Questions. The checklist contains two types of questions that are
       labeled as either regulatory compliance items (identified by bold typeface) or Article 6
       compliance items (distinguished by regular typeface).
       2.7.1.2. Responding to Questions. Article 6 checklist items are drafted to elicit a
       “compliant” or “non-compliant” response. However, responses should be accompanied
       by a narrative explanation of the office’s compliance over the entire inspection period, as
       well as the location where any source or supporting documents can be located. The
       applicable inspection period will be provided in the 45-Day Memorandum.
       2.7.1.3. Not Applicable (N/A) Questions. Some items contained on the Article 6
       checklist may not be applicable to a specific legal office. For example, overseas bases
12                                                              AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


     may have additional operations and international law responsibilities which do not apply
     to installations in the United States. There are also joint-base offices that, depending on
     the lead service, may not perform certain traditional legal office functions. If a checklist
     item refers to a program that is not the responsibility of an inspected office, the acronym
     “N/A” may be used in the response or selected within the CAPSIL checklist. The office
     should also include a brief statement as to why the particular item is not applicable to the
     inspected office. Any questions should be forwarded to AF/JAI prior to the inspection.
     2.7.1.4. Completed Checklists. No later than 10 calendar days prior to the scheduled
     Article 6 Part I Inspection, the inspected legal office will either complete the Article 6
     checklist in CAPSIL or forward the responses to the checklist from the Inspector
     General’s Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) to AF/JAI in an Excel file
     format (T-1). This will allow responses to be viewed by the inspection team in CAPSIL
     prior to the inspection. This requirement is limited to questions and answers on the
     checklist. Source documents and supporting information should not be forwarded to
     inspectors prior to their arrival.
 2.7.2. Source Documents. Frequently, questions on the Article 6 checklist will reference a
 larger body of documentation, such as continuity binders and courts-martial records. Any
 source documents referenced in responding to the checklist questions should be available for
 inspection. It is recommended that all source or supporting documents be pre-staged prior to
 the inspection. Given the self-inspection requirements, offices should not create extensive
 documents for an Article 6 Part I Inspection and should spend minimal time pre-staging
 inspection materials. All documents should be organized by sections and easily accessible
 for inspectors. For larger record sets, like military justice files, bases will be directed as to
 what materials need to be available. However, inspectors are not limited to the samples
 provided and may request additional information or records after the inspection begins.
 Documentation may also be presented electronically provided all inspection team members
 have easy access and the information is readily available. Additional guidance on
 presentation of documentation is provided in the 45-Day Memorandum.
 2.7.3. Interviews of Non-Legal Office Personnel. Speaking with commanders, first
 sergeants, customers, and office personnel is an integral part of the Article 6 Part I
 Inspection. Frequently, these discussions will define leadership, eliminate issues, and
 highlight the quality and quantity of work being accomplished in an office. Individuals
 selected to speak with the inspection team should be able to demonstrate sufficient contact
 with the inspected office and/or knowledge of the specific programs to be discussed to make
 the interview meaningful. The 45-Day Memorandum will identify potential candidates to be
 interviewed. Inspectors may request to speak with additional individuals as the inspection
 progresses.
 2.7.4. Facilities. Inspectors do not require separate offices. Normally a conference room,
 deliberation room, or an office library will be sufficient. Interviews can be conducted in a
 separate office. However, provided adequate transportation exists, there is no problem with
 inspectors meeting individuals at a separate location. Inspectors are prohibited from
 accepting any free food or drinks. However, they may purchase items from a unit snack fund
 available to others in the office. No special meals or social gathering should be scheduled
 during an Article 6 Part I Inspection.
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                       13


2.8. Article 6 Part I Inspection.
   2.8.1. Responsibilities. The AF/JAI team lead will participate in any inspection in-brief, to
   include explaining JA’s role in the inspection process and providing materials as required. A
   member of the Article 6 Part I Inspection team (normally the MAJCOM/JA representative)
   will liaise with, and participate in, the IG’s daily battle rhythm, as required. Prior to
   beginning the inspection process, the Article 6 Inspection team will review the checklist and
   determine how the inspection responsibilities should be divided among the inspectors in
   relation to checklist items and interviews. ISome areas of the checklist may need to be
   reviewed by more than one inspector. The inspection team should meet with the inspected
   legal office early in the process to introduce the team as a group and briefly outline the
   purpose and plan for the inspection.
   2.8.2. Coordination. The inspection team should regularly discuss potential deficiencies,
   recommended improvement areas (RIAs), strengths, or potential best practices identified
   over the course of the inspection. These discussions should flesh out details sufficient to
   internally identify any finding(s). At the close of each day, the inspection team will meet
   with office leadership to provide their observations and potential findings. These sessions
   will also serve as an avenue for an office to identify any additional documentation or to
   clarify a specific issue. Barring an extension granted by the Article 6 Part I Inspection team
   lead, all additional documentation or information to either explain or dispute a finding must
   be provided to the inspection team lead prior to the conclusion of the inspection (T-1). Once
   all relevant information is received, the team should discuss each issue and reach a consensus
   on how to handle any potential deficiencies. Any issue(s) the inspection team cannot resolve
   will be referred to AF/JAI for final resolution.
   2.8.3. Interviews of Legal Office Personnel. In addition to covering the Article 6 checklist,
   inspectors should schedule interviews with office personnel to further assess the climate,
   morale, and leadership within an office, as well as define the strengths and weakness of any
   programs.
   2.8.4. Office Outbrief. The inspection should close with a brief meeting with the inspected
   office to explain the next step in the inspection process, to share any observations the team
   may have for the office, and to answer any questions office personnel may have about the
   inspection process. Inspectors will not discuss the final results of an inspection or the range
   of possible scores an office may receive. The Part I Inspection team should remain available
   to meet with the installation commander or MAJCOM/IG if requested. Unless the
   commander is unavailable, TJAG or DJAG will meet with the installation commander during
   the Article 6 Part II Inspection.
2.9. Grading the Inspection. Upon completion of an Article 6 Part I Inspection, the installation
commander will receive a preliminary inspection report with a five-tiered rating for the inspected
legal office along with a copy of all deficiencies, recommended improvement areas (RIAs), and
strengths (see paragraph 2.10.1). This preliminary report may be provided to the commander
directly from AF/JAI or it may be forwarded through the MAJCOM IG. A more detailed written
report with the numeric score will be completed following the Article 6 Part I Inspection and
forwarded to TJAG for approval. Once approved, the report will be sent to the installation
commander. The numeric scoring methodology, as well as the process employed to reach the
initial five-tiered rating, will be determined by TJAG and posted on the AF/JAI CAPSIL
 14                                                                     AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


Learning Center. While a number of factors may drive a numeric score, a lower score is not
always indicative of the health of an office or the strength of its leadership. It should primarily
serve as a baseline to motivate a legal office to focus its efforts on those issues identified during
the Part I Inspection. During the Part II Inspection, the most important measure of the office’s
success will be determined by how well the office responds to the challenges identified during
the initial inspection and whether the office corrected the deficiencies or RIAs (see paragraph
2.9.1.1.6) noted in the Part I Inspection report.
      2.9.1. Regulatory Compliance Items. These are items identified by Headquarters (HQ)
      USAF directorates, MAJCOM/SJAs, and functional managers as key areas for successful
      mission accomplishment, including, but not limited to, items where non-compliance could
      result in serious injury, loss of life, excessive cost, litigation, or affect system reliability. The
      regulatory compliance items may be mandated by law, Executive Order, Department of
      Defense (DoD) Directive, safety, and Air Force and MAJCOM Instructions. Regulatory
      compliance items are items requiring direct evaluation and are identified by a bold typeface
      on the Article 6 Inspection Checklist. Bolded regulatory compliance items represent a
      minimum standard. Accordingly, differing practice/focus areas will have no effect on the
      maximum score.
          2.9.1.1. Applicable Definitions.
              2.9.1.1.1. Deficiency. A validated inspection discrepancy, finding, inadequacy, or
              observation. One of the main purposes of the Article 6 Inspection is to ensure base
              legal offices are meeting the needs of commanders and delivering consistent, top
              quality legal services to an installation. Deficiencies should be used as avenues to
              improve processes and programs, not as an avenue to punish an office. Accordingly,
              deficiencies should be characterized at the lowest possible level commensurate with
              the problem.
              2.9.1.1.2. Critical Deficiency. A validated deficiency that results in, or could result
              in, widespread, negative mission impact or failure. While it may be difficult to
              imagine a situation where the activity or the advice of a legal office could result in a
              deficiency of this magnitude, an office could be a contributing factor to a critical
              deficiency finding for an installation.
              2.9.1.1.3. Significant Deficiency. A validated deficiency that has or could have
              negative mission impact. This definition is broad; however, characterizing a
              deficiency as a significant deficiency should only be used in situations when an issue
              is systemic and has the real potential to impact the installation’s mission, the legality
              of advice provided by an office, or in situations where an individual has been
              deprived a significant fundamental legal right.
              2.9.1.1.4. Minor Deficiency. A validated deficiency that does not meet the definition
              of a critical or significant deficiency, but requires corrective action. The majority of
              deficiencies identified in the inspection of a legal office will likely fall into this
              category. Minor deficiencies are normally attributable to inexperience, a lack of
              training, or inattention to detail.
              2.9.1.1.5. Repeat Deficiency. Any and every recorded deficiency from a previous
              Article 6 inspection and/or a deficiency resulting from a failure to comply with the
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                      15


         same guidance that has been noted on a previous Article 6 Part I or compliance
         inspection of the same legal office. An issue with the same basic process or program
         is not necessarily a repeat deficiency. To properly constitute a repeat deficiency, the
         previously identified issue was not corrected or the catalyst for the deficiency is the
         same as that previously identified.
         2.9.1.1.6. Recommended Improvement Area (RIA). An identified process, product,
         or capability which could be improved by a suggested course of action. Frequently,
         inspectors will be faced with a process or program that is on the cusp of constituting a
         deficiency, but one that could be remedied by some simple adjustments or an
         improvement to the current process or program. A RIA is one tool available to
         inspectors to appropriately capture the issue. However, RIAs should never be used in
         lieu of a minor deficiency when the issue is properly defined as a minor deficiency.
         2.9.1.1.7. Strength. A strength identifies those personnel or programs within a base
         legal office making a significant contribution to morale, the working environment, or
         a program or service within a legal office. Strengths may also apply to those
         programs that just fall short of warranting a potential best practice. Individuals who
         enhance the relationship between the legal office and other base agencies, or those
         making a difference on an installation may also be recognized. The inspection team
         has the discretion to nominate individuals as outstanding performers to be approved
         by TJAG.
     2.9.1.2. Additional Considerations. There are several of the regulatory compliance items
     that are interrelated. As such, several deficiencies may be generated from a single issue
     or root-cause. An office will have the opportunity to comment on all deficiencies and
     present additional documentation during the inspection. Keeping in mind that
     maximizing the number of points deducted from an office’s score is not the purpose of
     the inspection process, AF/JAI may favorably adjust a score, if such an adjustment is
     warranted. For example, an office may receive partial credit if the deficiency was
     identified during a previous self-assessment and the office has either fixed the deficiency
     or taken substantial steps to eliminate the deficiency.
  2.9.2. Article 6 Compliance Items. These are items requiring special vigilance and are
  critical to the overall performance of the unit or are of special interest to TJAG in terms of
  the vision and goals for AFJAGC. Noncompliance with these items could result in some
  negative impact on mission performance but is not likely to result in injury, unnecessary
  costs, or litigation. Article 6 compliance items are identified by a regular (non-bolded)
  typeface on the Article 6 Inspection Checklist.
     2.9.2.1. Definitions. The same definitions applicable to this portion of the report are
     consistent with those contained in paragraph 2.9.1.1. above.
     2.9.2.2. Additional Considerations. Although equally important to running an efficient
     and successful office, Article 6 compliance items do not receive the same total point
     value as regulatory compliance items. The lesser value of these compliance items is
     largely attributed to the fact that Article 6 compliance items are specifically designed to
     inspect unique aspects of the legal office, to ensure programs in place are properly led
     and managed, and to provide robust services to commanders and clients. Additionally,
     these items are integrated into, and further complimented, by the overall assessment of
16                                                                  AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


        the special interest areas. Again, despite the differences in scoring, the importance of
        Article 6 compliance items should not be minimized. Many of the areas covered in the
        Article 6 compliance specifically relate back to the special interest areas and will impact
        the number of points awarded in these areas. Moreover, the results of the Article 6
        Compliance Items inspection may have a direct impact in determining the appropriate
        rating for an office.
     2.9.3. TJAG Special Interest Areas. These areas, designated by TJAG, represent the
     fundamental principles and programs essential to the success of a legal office with a special
     emphasis on dedicated leadership, foundational principles, and legal services provided in
     support of commanders and clients seeking advice from a legal office.
        2.9.3.1. Scoring. Inspectors will assess each special interest area. The assessment will
        include a review of the pertinent checklist items, feedback from interviews conducted,
        and personal observations over the course of the inspection. Inspectors should consider
        the guidance provided by AF/JAI and whether the analysis of the special interest area
        clearly supports the points awarded for that area. All scores must be clearly supported by
        a detailed narrative. The point values for each special interest area may be changed with
        TJAG’s approval. The Current scoring information, including the point values for each
        special interest area, will be available on the JAI CAPSIL Learning Center. The final
        numeric scores for each special interest area will be determined by AF/JAI based on the
        rating provided by the inspectors, the strength of the supporting narrative, and how the
        inspected office compares to previously inspected installations of comparable size.
        2.9.3.2. Additional Considerations. It is critical to understand that while the items listed
        on the Article 6 checklist can influence a special interest item score, it is not a controlling
        factor. For example, an office could be deficient on several regulatory compliance items,
        but effectively advise and educate commanders; promote a productive and cooperative
        relationship with installation investigative agencies; expertly train its trial counsel and
        case paralegals; and aggressively pursue the fair and impartial administration of military
        justice. These factors would positively influence the office’s overall score in the special
        interest area of military justice.
     2.9.4. Best Practices. An important piece of the Article 6 Inspection process is to highlight
     those programs that enhance the quality and efficiency of legal services and enhance the
     advice provided by an office, recognize judge advocates, paralegals, and our civilian
     professionals making a difference, and cross feed useful information across AFJAGC.
        2.9.4.1. Definition. Best practices are innovative programs or practices that significantly
        contribute to improving a process or greatly enhance the quality of legal services
        provided by an office. Many programs may represent strengths of an office, but best
        practices enhance leadership, streamline the use of resources, or improve the delivery of
        legal services. Best practices should have utility outside the inspected office or be of
        such quality that it clearly stands out as having a major impact in a given area at the
        inspected installation. It is possible to accrue additional points for identified potential
        best practices. Any points awarded for identified best practices will be added to the legal
        office’s final score.
        2.9.4.2. Additional Considerations. Best practices are approved by TJAG. Best
        practices may be identified by an inspection team as noteworthy and included in the
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                        17


       inspection report for approval by TJAG. In addition, base level SJAs should work
       through their respective JA supervisory chain to forward noteworthy programs to AF/JAI
       for further staffing to TJAG for approval as best practices. Best practices will be made
       available on the AF/JAI CAPSIL Learning Center for other offices to incorporate or to
       use as a resource to improve any existing programs.
2.10. The Article 6 Part I Report. One of the goals of the Article 6 Inspection System is to
standardize how legal offices are assessed and ensure the uniform delivery of quality legal
services. This is accomplished by providing commanders and SJAs timely feedback on the
results of an inspection. There are several steps in the Article 6 Part I Inspection process before
the report is final.
   2.10.1. Preliminary Article 6 Part I Inspection Report. Prior to concluding the Article 6
   Part I Inspection, a preliminary report will be provided to the installation commander and,
   when appropriate, to the MAJCOM/IG, containing the deficiencies, RIAs, and strengths
   identified during the inspection. The preliminary Article 6 Part I Inspection report will
   include the regulatory and Article 6 compliance item number from the Article 6 checklist,
   together with a short explanation for each deficiency, the severity of the deficiency, and the
   applicable reference to the document or standard mandating compliance. In order to provide
   an overall assessment of the inspection, the commander will also receive a five-tiered rating
   for the legal office.
       2.10.1.1. Five-Tiered Designations.
           2.10.1.1.1. Outstanding. This rating indicates that an office’s leadership, operations
           and/or legal services far exceed mission requirements and are of an extremely high
           quality, noticeably superior to other base offices. Every aspect of leadership and
           inspected special interest areas should be executed at the highest level of
           performance. Further, people and/or resources should be superbly managed and
           programs should be of exceptional quality. An outstanding rating should be
           extremely rare, one not easily achieved, and clearly supported by the inspection
           findings.
           2.10.1.1.2. Excellent. This rating indicates that an office’s leadership, operations
           and/or legal services far exceed mission requirements, are of a high quality and are
           superior to other base offices. All aspects of leadership and inspected special interest
           areas should be executed at high level of performance. Further, people and/or
           resources should be efficiently managed and programs should be of high quality.
           While the standards for achieving an excellent rating are less rigorous, this rating
           should only be given when clearly warranted and must be supported by the inspection
           findings.
           2.10.1.1.3. Satisfactory. This rating indicates that an office’s leadership, operations
           and/or legal services meet mission requirements, is of acceptable quality and is
           comparable to other base offices. The leadership, the majority of legal services,
           programs, and processes are executed at the required level of performance.
           Moreover, people and/or resources are sufficiently managed and programs are of
           average or better quality. This characterization is appropriate for those offices
           meeting requirements or transitioning with the right people and/or processes in place
           to move to Excellent or Outstanding prior to the Article 6 Part II Inspection.
18                                                               AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


         2.10.1.1.4. Marginal. This rating indicates that an office’s leadership, operations
         and/or legal services either minimally meet or do not meet all mission requirements,
         and are at the lowest acceptable quality level. The leadership, majority of services,
         processes, and activities are executed at a less than optimal level of performance.
         Further, people and/or resources are inefficiently managed and programs are of below
         average quality.
         2.10.1.1.5. Unsatisfactory.      This rating indicates that an office’s leadership,
         operations and/or legal services do not meet mission requirements, and is below an
         acceptable quality level. The leadership, majority of services, procedures and
         activities are executed inadequately. Further, people and/or resources are improperly
         managed and programs are of poor quality. Inspectors must consult with AF/JAI
         prior to rating an office as unsatisfactory.
     2.10.1.2. IG Inspection Report. At the MAJCOM/IG’s discretion, the regulatory
     compliance results of an Article 6 Part I Inspection may also be included in IGEMS.
     MAJCOM/JA representatives will enter the items into IGEMS and any IGEMS inputs
     must comply and be closed consistent with the requirements contained in AFI 90-201. If
     regulatory compliance deficiencies are placed in IGEMS, it is the responsibility of the
     base and the MAJCOM/JA to work with the IG in addressing and closing these
     deficiencies (see paragraph 2.10.4.2.1).
  2.10.2. Final Article 6 Part I Inspection Report. The Final Article 6 Part I Inspection
  Report is a comprehensive document, thoroughly explaining all inspection findings and
  properly supporting any assessment of an office or its leadership with descriptive narratives.
  As the inspection report will serve as a guide to a successful Part II Inspection, a base office
  should not be left to speculate or guess as to the significance of a finding or an observation
  by the inspection team.
     2.10.2.1. Timeline. The draft of the final inspection report will normally be completed
     and forwarded to AF/JAI no later than seven calendar days following the conclusion of
     the inspection. The report will not be provided directly to any other individual or office
     prior to AF/JAI’s review. If additional time is needed to complete the report, AF/JAI is
     the proper authority to grant any extension.
     2.10.2.2. Format. Inspectors are required to document the results of the Article 6 Part I
     Inspection using the predetermined standard format provided by AF/JAI. Inspectors are
     not permitted to deviate from the established report format; however, if potential areas for
     improving the report format are identified, recommendations may be submitted to AF/JAI
     for consideration.
     2.10.2.3. Inspection Items. Inspected offices will rely on the inspection report to address
     the deficiencies identified over the course of the Part I Inspection. Therefore, it is critical
     the write-up on each of the deficiencies clearly delineates the issue or problem with
     enough specificity to allow an office to remedy the issue or problem.
     2.10.2.4. Narratives. A narrative should easily capture a team’s overall assessment, as
     well as the quality of personnel and programs. All comments should be constructive and
     adequately supported by the documentation or observations of the inspection team. Any
     critical comments should be drafted with an eye toward recommending viable solutions
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                      19


     and encouraging productive results. It should be underscored that AF/JAI will use the
     inspection team’s narratives to score an office in each of these special interest areas.
     Although each rating carries a point range, the actual points assigned within that range
     will be a direct reflection of the quality of the word picture created by the inspection
     team’s narrative.
     2.10.2.5. Approval Process. AF/JAI will finalize the Article 6 Part I Inspection Report,
     assigning a numeric score based on the contents of the report before forwarding the report
     to TJAG for approval.
     2.10.2.6. Distribution. Once approved, the report will be sent to the commander and
     command chief of the inspected installation with a courtesy copy to the MAJCOM/SJA
     and Command Paralegal Manager of the inspected legal office. The overall assessment
     (five-tier grade), numeric score, and results of the inspection for the legal office will
     subsequently be posted on the AF/JAI CAPSIL page. The narratives for the special
     interest items will not be posted on CAPSIL. These entries are designed to provide the
     inspected legal office direct feedback to prepare for the Article 6 Part II Inspection.
  2.10.3. Post-Inspection Corrective Action on Article 6 Part I Inspection Deficiencies.
     2.10.3.1. Tracking Deficiencies. All regulatory and Article 6 compliance item
     deficiencies identified during an Article 6 Part I Inspection will be placed and tracked in
     CAPSIL and closed consistent with the Article 6 Inspection process and this instruction.
     Note: The guidance contained in AFI 90-201 as it relates to deficiencies, grading,
     validation, or corrective and tracking procedures does not apply to the Article 6
     Inspection process.
     2.10.3.2. Closing Deficiencies. All open inspection items will remain open in CAPSIL
     until resolved. MAJCOM/JA offices will be responsible for monitoring open deficiencies
     of legal offices within their command. The MAJCOM/SJA or a designee may approve
     closing an open deficiency at any time prior to the Article 6 Part II Inspection; AF/JAI
     will close each deficiency in CAPSIL after communication to do so from the
     MAJCOM/JA office. Even if a deficiency is closed, an office is required to address the
     deficiency and brief how it was remedied during the Article 6 Part II Inspection (T-1).
     AF/JAI must be notified of all closed inspection items prior to or following a Part II
     Inspection. If a deficiency remains open following the Article 6 Part II Inspection, the
     legal office is required to submit a realistic plan to fix the deficiency to the appropriate
     MAJCOM/SJA along with an anticipated get-well date (T-1). A copy of the plan will be
     forwarded to AF/JAI. Although AF/JAI will closely monitor the process following the
     Article 6 Part II Inspection, the MAJCOM will remain the primary POC for oversight and
     determining when to close each deficiency. If a decision is made to also include any
     regulatory compliance findings in IGEMS, the item must be closed consistent with
     requirements contained in AFI 90-201. This does not relieve MAJCOM/JA offices of the
     responsibility to properly close both regulatory and Article 6 compliance deficiencies in
     CAPSIL with AF/JAI as described above.
 20                                                               AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


                                            Chapter 3

                          THE ARTICLE 6 PART II INSPECTION

3.1. Purpose. Article 6 Part II Inspections provide an avenue for TJAG to fulfill the statutory
obligations of inspecting AFJAGC and directing the duties of judge advocates in the field. The
Part II Inspection allows TJAG an opportunity to discuss issues and gauge leadership, as well as
assess the health, effectiveness, and efficiency of an office in meeting the needs of command and
in supporting the installation’s programs, people, and mission. When conducted in concert with
a Part I Inspection, TJAG ensures that legal offices are pursuing issues identified during the
previous inspection and recognizes personnel and programs positively impacting AFJAGC.
Moreover, the Part II Inspection affords TJAG the opportunity to meet with commanders to
identify and address concerns of command.
3.2. Organizations to be Inspected. All legal offices receiving an Article 6 Part I Inspection
are eligible to receive an Article 6 Part II Inspection. Additionally, DRU, FOA, NAF and
MAJCOM legal offices are subject to being inspected at TJAG’s discretion.
3.3. Timing and Scope of the Inspection. Article 6 Part II Inspections are normally scheduled
approximately six to eight months following an Article 6 Part I Inspection. An Article 6 Part I
Inspection is not required prior to TJAG conducting an Article 6 inspection. Aside from
providing information to AF/JAE, JAI has little involvement in the Part II process. All the
requirements and logistical considerations for an Article 6 Part II Inspection will be provided in a
30-Day Notification Memorandum forwarded by AF/JAE. When an Article 6 Part I Inspection
is conducted prior to an Article 6 Part II Inspection, the office undergoing the Part II Inspection
is expected to address all deficiencies, RIAs, strengths, and best practices noted during the
Article 6 Part I Inspection.
3.4. Inspection Team Members. An Article 6 Part II Inspection will be conducted by TJAG or
DJAG, or TJAG may designate another senior staff member to conduct Article 6 Part II
Inspections. The Article 6 Part II Inspection teams will also normally include the Senior
Paralegal Manager, an executive officer, and personnel from the MAJCOM or the NAF. The
team on occasion may also include a representative from the Professional Development
Directorate (AF/JAX). Occasionally, an Article 6 Part II Inspection will include representatives
from both the MAJCOM and the NAF.
3.5. Notification. A long-range schedule of projected Article 6 Part II Inspections can be found
on the AFJAGC Calendar, located on the TJAG Home Page. However, as the calendar is fluid
and subject to change, a 30-Day Notification Memorandum will be forwarded to the appropriate
MAJCOM SJA, NAF, and base-level offices prior to a scheduled Article 6 Part II Inspection.
Specific requirements for the visit will be highlighted in the 30-Day Notification Memorandum,
to include information concerning the official party’s travel plans, pre-inspection requirements,
administrative and logistical considerations, and suspenses. Although the MAJCOM Gatekeeper
will be notified of an Article 6 Part II Inspection, the base legal office should also promptly
notify appropriate commanders of the pending inspection.
3.6. Preparation. The results from the Article 6 Part I Inspection are the template for those
areas, programs, and people that must be addressed during the Article 6 Part II Inspection. The
inspected office should highlight the results of a previous Article 6 Part I Inspection with an
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                         21


explanation on how each deficiency was addressed. Additionally, the office should speak to the
required fields of practice, any RIAs, strengths, and potential best practices identified during the
Part I Inspection. Ultimately, the success of an Article 6 Part II Inspection will depend upon
how well the office and its leadership support command, its missions, and its people, and how
well it addressed deficiencies and RIAs.
   3.6.1. Draft Itinerary. A detailed itinerary should be provided consistent with the guidance
   provided by JAE and include all scheduled briefings, visits with senior base leadership, and
   any special events, such as speaking engagements and requests to present awards or preside
   over any military ceremonies.
   3.6.2. Public Affairs Information. All biographies of senior base officials, especially those
   the official party will be meeting, as well as all fact sheets on the base, units, weapon
   systems, and general base information, such as the location and hours of the fitness facilities,
   should be provided to AF/JAE in advance.
   3.6.3. Personnel Information. All Roster information should be current, including
   biographies and required information, as well as updated inputs for all required training and
   developmental educational programs for AFJAGC members. Additionally, send copies of
   Individual Training Plans contained in CAPSIL on all office personnel.
   3.6.4. Office Briefing. The briefing should primarily focus on the findings from the Article
   6 Part I Inspection, but be supplemented with a generalized overview of the legal office,
   manning and personnel issues, and commendable achievements involving an office’s
   services, programs, or people. Briefings should be provided by the personnel responsible for
   the program. Additionally, unless otherwise stated in the 30-Day Notification Memorandum,
   the time allotted for office briefings should be planned for no more than two hours. This will
   provide more time for actual dialogue with office personnel and leadership in and outside the
   legal office.
3.7. Inspection Areas. Article 6 Part II Inspections will generally cover AFJAGC mission
readiness, Air Force legal readiness, and special interest areas.
   3.7.1. AFJAGC Mission Readiness. Mission readiness is the degree to which legal
   professionals are ready to support operational and deployment requirements and to provide
   for Air Force legal readiness. Mission readiness includes personnel, facilities and resources,
   operational readiness, and an understanding of the military-legal environment.
       3.7.1.1. Personnel. Training and experience are essential to providing high-quality legal
       services. Article 6 Part II Inspections evaluate the education, training, and experience of
       an office’s legal professionals through office briefings and dialogues, as well as
       discussions with commanders and clients. It also evaluates the readiness of AFJAGC
       personnel to deploy.
       3.7.1.2. Facilities and Resources. Properly equipped legal professionals operating in
       professional and efficient facilities are best able to provide timely, accurate, and
       responsive services. Article 6 Part II Inspections examine the resource requirements of
       legal offices to ensure they are properly funded, equipped, and configured. The
       Inspection also evaluates the facility, furnishings, equipment, information technology
       systems, and related areas. It includes an evaluation of the office budget, particularly the
       availability of temporary duty (TDY) funding for training. On-scene inspections of legal
 22                                                                  AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


         offices enable TJAG to make informed comparisons with legal facilities across the Air
         Force.
         3.7.1.3. Operational Readiness. Article 6 Part II Inspections evaluate personnel
         readiness and the specific measures implemented to ensure staff readiness to deploy and
         to support other home station operations. Article 6 Part II Inspections enable TJAG to
         determine first hand whether legal offices have fully achieved an expeditionary focus.
         3.7.1.4. Military-Legal Environment. Nearly all fields of practice may be influenced by
         the military-legal environment with military justice, international law, operations law,
         and environmental law being prominent examples. Article 6 Part II Inspections enable
         TJAG to determine whether legal offices fully appreciate and respond to the factors that
         affect them and their supported organizations.
      3.7.2. Air Force Legal Readiness. Air Force legal readiness is the ability of Air Force
      personnel and organizations to deal with any aspect of the military-legal environment. Legal
      readiness evaluation areas encompass all legal programs and processes in order to accurately
      gauge the overall effectiveness of legal services.
         3.7.2.1. Legal Programs and Processes. Article 6 Part II Inspections evaluate program
         organization; process efficiency and responsiveness; statistical indicators and trends;
         major cases; special interest items; and problem areas. The on-scene inspection enables
         TJAG to fully appreciate pertinent circumstances and factors; provide immediate
         feedback and guidance; resolve problems; and identify priority action items for local,
         intermediate, or HQ JA legal offices.
         3.7.2.2. Commanders and Other Clients and Participants in Legal-Related Programs. A
         critical element of the Article 6 Part II Inspection is the opportunity for the official party
         to meet with key participants in the military justice system, participants in legal-related
         programs and other clients to obtain their evaluations on the status of discipline and to
         discuss their observations, questions, problems, and concerns. On-scene discussions with
         these personnel enable TJAG to provide immediate feedback, resolve problems, and
         identify priority action items for local, intermediate, or headquarters legal offices and
         directorates.
   3.7.3. Special Interest Areas. Article 6 Part II Inspections evaluate special interest areas as
   may be designated by TJAG. Special interest areas are normally highlighted and inspected
   during the Article 6 Part I Inspection.
3.8. Article 6 Part II Inspection Required Events. The Article 6 Part II Inspection is
primarily focused on leadership and the performance of an office in the administration of
military justice, delivery and effectiveness of legal services, personnel, and operational
readiness. As each office is different, the execution of inspection requirements, where possible,
should be tailored to that particular installation. All scheduling questions and Article 6 Part II
Inspection issues should be forwarded to AF/JAE for resolution.
   3.8.1. Facility Tour. The inspection should normally begin with a brief tour of the legal
   office and its facilities. This provides the office with an opportunity to discuss the facilities
   and resources of an office, which may be explained further during the briefing or become
   pertinent to meetings between TJAG and commanders during the inspection.
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                     23


  3.8.2. Leadership Meetings. Office calls should be scheduled with the installation’s senior
  leadership, to include any convening authorities. These meetings should be scheduled after
  TJAG or DJAG has received the office briefing, unless circumstances or scheduling issues
  make this impossible. Efforts should also be made to schedule a group meeting with
  commanders and first sergeants, and a separate meeting with AFOSI and/or S2I during the
  inspection.
  3.8.3. Other JAGC Offices. Article 6 Part II Inspections should always provide time to
  meet with the local Area Defense Counsel and Defense Paralegal. Many times there are
  other AFJAGC members residing on an Air Force installation with tenant units. Meeting
  with other active duty AFJAGC offices and legal personnel should be discussed with
  AF/JAE to determine if time permits visiting other legal offices. If time permits, Reserve
  and ANG units will also be included on the schedule.
  3.8.4. Special Requests and Presentations. Requests for participation in activities outside
  of inspection-related activities must be cleared through AF/JAE, to include promotions,
  award presentations, and visits outside of those specifically referenced. In addition, the
  prohibition against social gatherings and refreshments does not apply to the Article 6 Part II
  Inspection.




                                           RICHARD C. HARDING
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           The Judge Advocate General
 24                                                          AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-1, The Judge Advocate General’s Department, 19 November 1993
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013
Title 10 United States Code, Section 806
Title 10 United States Code, Section 8037
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AF/JA—The Air Force Judge Advocate General
AF/JAI—The Training and Readiness Directorate
AF/JAE—Executive Officer to TJAG
AF/JAX—Professional Development Directorate
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
AFJAGC—The Air Force Judge Advocate General's Corps
AFJAGCR—The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s Corps Reserve
AFJAGS—The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CoT—Chiefs of Training
DJAG—Deputy Judge Advocate General
DOD—Department of Defense
AFI51-109 2 JANUARY 2014                                                                      25


DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HQ—Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
IGEMS—Inspector General Electronic Management System
JA—Judge Advocate
LOS—Law Office Superintendent
MAJCOM—Major Command
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIA—Recommended Improvement Area
S2I—Security Forces Investigations
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TDY—Temporary Duty
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UEI—Unit Effectiveness Inspection

Terms
CAPSIL—A user-friendly interface with effective search capabilities and efficient user tracking
to provide the ability to access and share information, Article 6 Inspection data, and e-learning
resources across the JAG Corps.
