BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-103
SECRETARY OFTHE AIR FORCE
                                                                         3 SEPTEMBER 2013
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 10 JUNE 2014

                                                                                              Law

                                                        JUDGE ADVOCATE PROFESSIONAL
                                                                       DEVELOPMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/JAX                                                                  Certified by: AF/JA
                                                                     (Lt Gen Richard C. Harding)
                                                                                        Pages: 13
Supersedes: AFI 51-103, 7 December 2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-1, The Judge Advocate
General's Department. It establishes procedures and requirements for Air Force (AF) judge
advocate designation and certification and establishes professional development programs. It
applies to judge advocates in The Air Force Judge Advocate General's Corps (AFJAGC),
including The Judge Advocate General’s Reserve (TJAGCR) and Air National Guard (ANG)
judge advocates. This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended.
Requests for waivers must be submitted through judge advocate supervisory channels to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed above for The Judge Advocate General’s (AF/JA)
consideration and approval.

Failure to comply with paragraphs 3.2, 3.3, or 3.4 of this instruction is punishable as a violation
of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). All judge advocates, subject to the
UCMJ, who fail to comply with the reporting requirements of paragraphs 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4, are
subject to prosecution under the UCMJ. All judge advocates, including those not subject to the
UCMJ, who fail to comply with paragraphs 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4, are subject to withdrawal of their
designation, military administrative action, or civil action, to include civilian criminal
prosecution and disciplinary action by their licensing jurisdiction.

Ensure that all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This instruction requires collecting and
 2                                                            AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, System of Records Notices
(SORN) F033 AF B, Privacy Act Request File, F051 AFJA C, Judge Advocate Personnel
Records, and F036 AF PC Q, Personnel Data Systems (PDS) apply.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFI 51-103 by prescribing two forms; (1) the Certificate of
Designation, AF Form 1105, and (2) the Certificate of Competency, AF Form 1106. A bar (|)
indicates revision from the previous edition.
1. Roles and Responsibilities
1.1. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG), AF/JA, is specifically responsible for the
following judge advocate professional development programs and activities:
       1.1.1. Fulfilling responsibilities outlined in Title 10 United States Code Section 8037, to
       include directing the officers of the Air Force designated as judge advocates in the
       performance of their duties.
       1.1.2. Recruiting and selecting all officers and officer candidates for active duty as judge
       advocates.
          1.1.2.1. Prescribing procedures, requirements, and serving as the final selection and
          approval authority for, the following judge advocate accession programs: Funded
          Legal Education Program, Excess Leave Program, United States Air Force Academy-
          Excess Leave Program,        Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps judge advocate
          accession programs (including educational delay), intraservice transfer, interservice
          transfer, recall, direct appointment or any other judge advocate accession program in
          accordance with AFI 51-101, Judge Advocate Accession Program.
       1.1.3. Assigning judge advocates (Title 10 United States Code Section 806[a]). No judge
       advocate may be assigned to positions or duties outside the judge advocate career field or
       be released from the judge advocate career field and Air Force Specialty Code without
       TJAG's prior approval.
       1.1.4. Designating judge advocates (Title 10 United States Code Section 8067[g]).
       1.1.5. Certifying judge advocates as trial and defense counsel (Title 10 United States
       Code Section 827[b][2]).
       1.1.6. Certifying judge advocates as military judges (Title 10 United States Code Section
       826[b]).
       1.1.7. Supervising and managing education and training, including supervising the Air
       Force Judge Advocate General’s School (AFJAGS), resident and distance education
       courses, graduate education (e.g., Master of Laws degrees), continuing legal education,
       professional development, developmental education course selection, and other programs
       for all members of AFJAGC and TJAGCR (to include judge advocates, Airmen in the
AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                       3


      legal services career field or assigned duties in judge advocate offices, civilian attorneys,
      and legal services civilians supporting the mission of AFJAGC and TJAGCR).
      1.1.8. Enforcing ethical and professional responsibility standards in Air Force military
      legal practice, including receiving, investigating and disposing of allegations involving
      breaches of ethical or professional standards applicable to Air Force attorneys.
      1.1.9. Conducting the annual AFJAGC awards program, in accordance with AFI 36-
      2855, Judge Advocate General Awards.
   1.2. The Director, Professional Development Directorate (AF/JAX), as AFJAGC’s judge
   advocate career field manager, assists AF/JA in the execution of AF/JAs responsibilities
   outlined in paragraph 1.1, to include:
      1.2.1. Overseeing judge advocate professional development.
      1.2.2. Managing judge advocate recruiting.
      1.2.3. Managing the accession of all active duty judge advocates.
      1.2.4. Managing active duty judge advocate assignments.
      1.2.5. Managing AFJAGC deployments (including most paralegal deployments).
      1.2.6. Managing AFJAGC force, to include AFJAGC promotion and personnel policy.
      1.2.7. Managing AFJAGC retention and financial incentives programs.
      1.2.8. Managing judge advocate designation and certification.
      1.2.9. Managing AFJAGC awards program.
      1.2.10. Managing AFJAGC professional continuing education and all other education
      opportunities provided by Air Education and Training Command, Air University,
      AFJAGS, sister Service judge advocate general schools, and other federal agencies, to
      include the Department of Defense (DOD) and Department of Justice.
      1.2.11. Chairing the Attorney Licensing Committee (see paragraph 3.1.3.2).
   1.3. The Training and Readiness Directorate (AF/JAI) assists AF/JA in analyzing and
   establishing training requirements.
   1.4. AFJAGS provides the highest-quality distance and resident education and training to
   judge advocates, civilian attorneys, paralegals, and other Air Force, DOD and federal agency
   personnel to meet Air Force and DOD requirements.
   1.5. ARC Advisor to TJAG (AF/JAR) formulates TJAGCR management policies, including
   training policies, for TJAG decision, in coordination with the Mobilization Assistant to
   TJAG and the ANG Assistant to TJAG, as appropriate.
2. Judge Advocate Designation
   2.1. Only AF/JA is authorized to designate officers as judge advocates and to remove that
   designation.
   2.2. To be designated, officers must meet the following requirements:
 4                                                              AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


        2.2.1. Be a graduate of a law school that was accredited or provisionally accredited by
        the American Bar Association at the time of graduation; and
        2.2.2. Be in active (or equivalent) status, in good standing, and admitted to practice
        before the highest court of a United States (US) state, commonwealth or territory, or the
        District of Columbia.
     2.3. AF/JA may designate ARC officers not on extended active duty as judge advocates, and
     assign them to TJAGCR, per AFI 51-802, Management of the Judge Advocate General’s
     Corps Reserve.
     2.4. Only designated judge advocates assigned to AFJAGC or TJAGCR who have graduated
     from the Judge Advocate Staff Officer Course (JASOC) or an equivalent in-residence sister
     Service basic judge advocate course, may wear the judge advocate badge.
     2.5. Officers will be designated as judge advocates by written order and memorialized on AF
     Form 1105, Certificate of Designation.
3. Maintenance of Designation
     3.1. Once designated, a judge advocate must maintain compliance with their legal licensing
     requirements and be in active (or equivalent) status in good standing to practice before the
     highest court of a US state, commonwealth or territory, or the District of Columbia, such that
     the judge advocate is currently eligible to engage in the active practice of law in that
     jurisdiction.
        3.1.1. "Currently eligible to engage in the active practice of law" is defined as having the
        current ability to practice law on a continuing and full-time basis under the rules of the
        licensing jurisdiction. Being listed as a member in “good standing” alone will not satisfy
        paragraph 3.1 unless the “good standing” status confers full eligibility to practice law in
        the jurisdiction concerned.
        3.1.2. State licensure categories such as “inactive,” “retired,” “non-practicing,”
        “emeritus”, or “ineligible,” which do not permit the active practice of law, will not satisfy
        the licensing requirement.
        3.1.3. Judge advocates may hold an active (or equivalent) license and claim exemptions
        from dues and continuing legal education (CLE); proof of malpractice insurance waivers;
        or waivers of pro bono requirements. However, judge advocates may not claim any
        exemption that precludes active (or equivalent) status. For example, a "non-practicing
        CLE exemption" or an “active, but not eligible to practice” status that requires the judge
        advocate to affirm he or she is not engaged in the practice of law will not satisfy the
        active requirement. A license that precludes representing individuals or institutions in a
        private capacity, but otherwise permits the active practice of law in the jurisdiction, meets
        the requirement for Air Force practice.
            3.1.3.1. In the event it is unclear whether a jurisdiction’s licensing status or
            exemption meets the above criteria, a judge advocate may request an authoritative
            determination by AF/JA.
            3.1.3.2. The judge advocate submits the request through judge advocate supervisory
            channels to the Attorney Licensing Committee, which includes AF/JAX (Chair), The
            Civilian Career Development, Plans and Program Directorate (AF/JAZ), and AF/JA’s
AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                        5


           Professional Responsibility Administrator (AF/JAA-PR). For cases involving ARC
           members, the Committee will consult with AF/JAR. The Committee will review the
           request and forward the recommendation to TJAG for final determination.
   3.2. Judge advocates must certify annually compliance with their licensing standards to
   remain in active (or equivalent) in good standing status (T-1). In addition, judge advocates
   must certify on an annual basis whether they have been the subject of professional discipline
   or may be pending such action (T-1).
   3.3. Active duty judge advocates must report through judge advocate supervisory channels
   to AF/JAX, in writing, notice of the commencement of any formal disciplinary complaint or
   proceeding by their licensing jurisdiction, or the termination, revocation or suspension of
   their license to practice law or admission to practice law before any court of a US state,
   commonwealth or territory, or the District of Columbia, within 30 days of initial knowledge
   of such action (T-1). They must also report through judge advocate supervisory channels to
   AF/JAX, in writing, the return, surrender or termination of any license to practice law or
   admission to practice law before any court of a US state, commonwealth, or territory, or the
   District of Columbia, whether voluntary or involuntary, within 30 days of initial knowledge
   of such action (T-1).
   3.4. ARC judge advocates must report through judge advocate supervisory channels, in
   writing, to the Mobilization Assistant to TJAG and the ANG Assistant to TJAG, as
   applicable, notice of the commencement of any formal disciplinary complaint or proceeding
   by their licensing jurisdiction, or the termination, revocation or suspension of their license to
   practice law or admission to practice law before any court of a US state, commonwealth, or
   territory, or the District of Columbia, within 30 days of initial knowledge of such action (T-
   1). They must also report through judge advocate supervisory channels, in writing, to the
   Mobilization Assistant to TJAG and the ANG Assistant to TJAG, as applicable, the return,
   surrender or termination of any license to practice law or admission to practice law before
   any court of a US state, commonwealth or territory, or the District of Columbia, whether
   voluntary or involuntary, within 30 days of initial knowledge of such action (T-1).
   Mobilization Assistant to TJAG and the ANG Assistant to TJAG will coordinate with
   AF/JAX, as Attorney Licensing Committee Chair.
3.5. All judge advocates, subject to the UCMJ or state military code, who fail to comply with the
reporting requirements of paragraphs 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4, are subject to prosecution under the UCMJ
or state military code. All judge advocates, including those not subject to the UCMJ or state
military code, who fail to comply with paragraphs 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4, are subject to withdrawal of
their designation, military administrative action, or other action deemed appropriate by their
licensing jurisdiction.

4. Judge Advocate Certification
   4.1. Only AF/JA can certify a judge advocate as competent to perform the duties of trial and
   defense counsel.
   4.2. To qualify for certification, a judge advocate must demonstrate competence to perform
   the duties of trial and defense counsel, graduate from JASOC (or in the case of TJAGCR
   judge advocates or other judge advocates who transfer from another service, an equivalent
6                                                               AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


    sister Service basic judge advocate resident course), and be recommended for certification by
    his or her supervisory staff judge advocate (SJA) and a military judge.
    4.3. The judge advocate must also have served as trial counsel or assistant trial counsel on
    courts-martial to qualify for certification. Generally, judge advocates will serve as trial
    counsel or assistant trial counsel in at least three courts-martial to demonstrate competence in
    fundamental litigation skills. However, AF/JA may consider judge advocates recommended
    for certification after serving as counsel in fewer than three courts-martial. In accordance
    with 10 U.S.C. § 827, a judge advocate who has not been certified may be detailed as trial
    counsel or assistant trial counsel for a special court-martial or as assistant trial counsel for a
    general court-martial. A judge advocate who has not been certified may not be detailed as
    trial counsel for a general court-martial. Furthermore, a judge advocate who has not been
    certified must take an oath before performing the duties of trial counsel or assistant trial
    counsel for any court-martial in accordance with Title 10 United States Code Section 842.
    4.4. Supervisory SJAs will consider the following factors to determine if certification is
    warranted:
       4.4.1. The quality, complexity and difficulty of any court-martial experience;
       4.4.2. Demonstrated competence in fundamental trial skills, such as case preparation,
       motion practice, voir dire, opening statement, direct and cross examination, making
       objections, findings argument, and sentencing argument;
       4.4.3. Demonstrated comprehension of fundamental principles of military criminal law
       and procedure, and the Military Rules of Evidence;
       4.4.4. Demonstrated competence in other litigation forums, such as Magistrate’s Court,
       labor and employment hearings, administrative discharge boards, and pretrial
       confinement hearings;
       4.4.5. Performance in trial advocacy courses, training and workshops, including JASOC,
       Trial and Defense Advocacy Course or TRIALS Team programs; and
       4.4.6. Demonstrated maturity, professionalism, and officership of the judge advocate
       throughout the entire court-martial process, to include an ability to team with paralegals
       and to work effectively with defense counsel.
    4.5. Supervisory SJAs must provide uncertified judge advocates with litigation training and
    opportunities to serve as trial counsel or assistant trial counsel on courts-martial.
       4.5.1. Major command SJAs and general court-martial convening authority (GCMCA)
       SJAs will assist subordinate SJAs in identifying suitable courts-martial for uncertified
       judge advocates and, as necessary, fund temporary duty (TDY) orders for uncertified
       judge advocates to travel to other installations to obtain experience as trial or assistant
       trial counsel.
       4.5.2. SJAs will aim to certify active duty judge advocates within their first two
       assignments as judge advocates. Certification of ARC judge advocates is highly
       desirable, but active duty judge advocates will receive priority in obtaining trial
       experience.
       4.5.3. There is no requirement that all judge advocates be certified.
AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                      7


   4.6. When an SJA determines that a judge advocate has satisfied the above requirements, the
   SJA forwards to AF/JAX a written recommendation for certification through judge advocate
   supervisory channels. The request must be forwarded through the GCMCA SJA, with an
   information copy to the respective major command SJA. In the case of an ARC judge
   advocate, the SJA forwards the request through AF/JAR to the Mobilization Assistant to
   TJAG or the ANG Assistant to TJAG, as applicable for coordination, and then to AF/JAX.
   The recommendation will include the following:
      4.6.1. A description of how the judge advocate meets the minimum qualifications listed
      in paragraph 4.2. The description will include the number of courts-martial in which the
      judge advocate has acted as trial counsel or assistant trial counsel and the judge
      advocate’s role and duties performed during the court-martial.
      4.6.2. A written recommendation from at least one military judge.
      4.6.3. Any other matters bearing on suitability for certification, including but not limited
      to the considerations listed above.
   4.7. Judge advocates will be certified by written order and memorialized on AF Form 1106,
   Certificate of Competency.
5. Withdrawal of Designation or Certification and Wear of the Judge Advocate Badge
   5.1. A judge advocate’s designation and certification is automatically withdrawn upon:
      5.1.1. Retirement,
      5.1.2. Separation from the AF, or
      5.1.3. Transfer out of AFJAGC or TJAGCR.
   5.2. A judge advocate's designation or certification or both may be withdrawn for good
   cause, including, but not limited to, the following:
      5.2.1. The officer fails to maintain professional licensing standards;
      5.2.2. The officer fails to maintain ethical or professional responsibility standards;
      5.2.3. The officer violates the UCMJ;
      5.2.4. The officer violates state or federal criminal statute(s); or
      5.2.5. AF/JA determines that withdrawal is in the best interest of the AF.
   5.3. A judge advocate’s certification may be withdrawn if AF/JA determines that the judge
   advocate is no longer competent to perform the duties of trial and defense counsel.
   5.4. SJAs, or other AFJAGC supervisors, as applicable, submit recommendations to
   withdraw a judge advocate’s designation or certification or both through judge advocate
   supervisory channels to AF/JA. SJAs and other AFJAGC supervisors at each intermediate
   level may add pertinent information and documents to assist AF/JA in deciding the matter.
      5.4.1. When AF/JA receives a recommendation or has sufficient basis to consider
      withdrawal, the judge advocate is notified of the proposed action and is afforded an
      opportunity to present information to show cause why the action should not be taken. The
      judge advocate will be given at least three duty days to respond.
 8                                                            AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


        5.4.2. If circumstances warrant, AF/JA may suspend certification or designation
        immediately, pending a final decision pursuant to the process described above.
        5.4.3. AF/JA makes the final decision on withdrawal of designation or certification.
     5.5. An officer whose designation has been withdrawn is not authorized to perform the
     duties of a judge advocate or to wear the judge advocate badge, unless authorized by TJAG.
     However, retired judge advocates whose designation has been automatically withdrawn due
     to retirement under paragraph 5.1.1, and not for cause under paragraph 5.2, may wear the
     badge whenever they are authorized to wear the uniform, in accordance with AFI 36-2903,
     Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
6. Professional Development Programs
     6.1. The goal of professional development is to develop a well-rounded, professionally
     competent officer corps to meet current and future mission requirements. Judge advocate
     professional development programs include programs designed to enhance and develop a
     judge advocate’s ability to provide professional, candid, independent counsel and full-
     spectrum legal capabilities to command and the warfighter. These programs may include
     resident and non-resident courses, distance education, webcasts and other training provided
     through AFJAGS, sister Service courses and other graduate education, continuing legal
     education, distributed learning, mobile teaching teams, internet-based learning, training
     workshops, symposia, and internships, as well as programs that satisfy state bar licensing
     requirements.
     6.2. Judge Advocate Foundational Courses
        6.2.1. JASOC. This course educates newly designated AFJAGC and TJAGCR judge
        advocates about AF legal practice and equips them to be effective officers during their
        first 18 months as judge advocates. The curriculum covers many areas of military law,
        including military justice, trial advocacy, and adverse administrative actions involving
        military members and civilian employees. The course also educates students on the wide-
        range of practice areas critical to daily operations at AF installations, including
        government contracts, environmental law, labor law, and legal assistance. Students also
        receive training in international and operations law topics such as the legal aspects of
        homeland defense, deployed military justice and civil law, the law of armed conflict, and
        rules of engagement. JASOC is a mission-critical requirement for all judge advocates.
        JASOC (or in the case of TJAGCR judge advocates or other judge advocates who
        transfer from another service, an equivalent in-residence sister Service basic judge
        advocate course) is a prerequisite to being certified as competent to perform the duties of
        trial and defense counsel, as described in paragraph 4.2.
        6.2.2. The Judge Advocate Advanced Law and Leadership Course (Gateway). This
        course prepares judge advocates in the grade of major for the leadership and legal
        challenges that field grade judge advocates face at every level. All active duty judge
        advocates, in the grade of major, will receive advanced instruction on critical and timely
        legal issues while participating in realistic exercises to hone leadership, management,
        communication, and problem-solving skills (T-1). Gateway is a mission-critical
        requirement for all active duty judge advocates in the grade of major and is required for
        all active duty judge advocate majors, unless excused by AF/JA or designee (T-1).
AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                      9


     6.2.3. Staff Judge Advocate Course (SJAC). SJAC provides skills training for SJAs
     (similar to training for squadron and group commanders). The course is designed to
     facilitate the transition of judge advocates to the position of SJA, the senior legal counsel
     to AF commanders. Emphasis on managing all legal programs under their purview is
     highlighted through lectures, seminars, working groups, and exercises. SJAC is
     mandatory for all first-time active duty SJAs, as initial skills training (T-1). ARC SJAs
     and Individual mobilization augmentees to active duty SJAs may attend as determined by
     AF/JA or designee.
     6.2.4. The Colonel Course (TCC). TCC prepares judge advocates, serving in the grade of
     colonel or selected for promotion to the grade of colonel, for senior leadership and legal
     challenges. All active duty judge advocates, newly promoted, or selected for promotion,
     to colonel, will receive advanced instruction on critical legal and leadership issues and
     participate in exercises to hone leadership, management, communication, and problem-
     solving skills at the strategic level (T-1). TCC is required for all active duty and ARC
     judge advocates who are newly promoted, or selected for promotion, to colonel unless
     excused by AF/JA or designee (T-1).
  6.3. Other Continuing Education. This education is authorized for judge advocate
  professional development and legal licensing maintenance.
     6.3.1. CLE. Judge advocates may attend CLE programs to enhance professional
     competencies and to maintain compliance with their licensing jurisdiction. Permissive
     TDY may be authorized in accordance with AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program.
     6.3.2. Military Continuing Legal Education (MCLE). Judge advocates must complete
     MCLE as required (T-1). Requirements are contained in AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance,
     Notary, and Preventive Law Programs, provided by field of practice offices of primary
     responsibility.
  6.4. LL.M. Program. This mission-critical program develops specialized skills to increase
  AFJAGC capabilities and to meet DOD or AF requirements.
     6.4.1. AF/JA selects and assigns a number of judge advocates to earn LL.M. degrees in
     disciplines critical to the AF mission, to include, but not limited to, air and space, cyber,
     environmental, government procurement, international and labor law. Other disciplines
     may be offered when requirements arise.
     6.4.2. Judge advocates selected to attain procurement and international law LL.M.s may
     attend The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center and School, in Charlottesville,
     Virginia, while the remainder attends civilian institutions, as determined by AF/JA.
     6.4.3. Students selected for the program are assigned to the Air Force Institute of
     Technology (AFIT) and must comply with all AF, AFIT and AFJAGC deadlines and
     requirements.
  6.5. Developmental Education (DE). SJAs will encourage and mentor judge advocates to
  participate in all appropriate levels of DE including Basic DE (BDE), Intermediate DE (IDE)
  and Senior DE (SDE), to include, but not limited to, Squadron Officer School (SOS), Air
  Command and Staff College (ACSC), and Air War College (AWC), in either resident or non-
  resident status. DE’s role in professional development is to prepare individuals to take on
10                                                          AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


  increased responsibilities appropriate to their grade, and to enhance their contribution to the
  AF.
        6.5.1. Active duty judge advocate resident BDE includes seats at SOS. Active duty judge
        advocate IDE includes seats at ACSC, and may include seats as an Air Force Legislative
        Fellow and Strategic Policy Intern. Judge advocate resident SDE opportunities generally
        include education at National War College, The Dwight D. Eisenhower School for
        National Security and Resource Strategy at National Defense University, and Air War
        College. AF/JAX selects active duty judge advocates to attend BDE based on
        nominations submitted in the Course Nomination System (CNS). AF/JA selects and
        assigns active duty judge advocates to attend IDE and SDE in residence and submits
        selectees for approval to the Developmental Education Designation Board for
        coordination.
        6.5.2. Judge advocates applying for IDE and SDE must comply with eligibility criteria
        set forth in AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education.
  6.6. Service Commitments. Judge advocates must fulfill any service commitments incurred
  from participating in developmental or specialized education programs, as directed by AFI
  36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC).
     6.7. Professional Development Information (WebPDI) Requirements. The WebPDI is the
     primary method by which active duty judge advocates communicate to AF/JAX and AF/JA
     their personal professional development preferences regarding jobs, locations, long-term
     career goals, and short-term career objectives. Judge advocates submit WebPDIs through
     FLITE ROSTER. These forms may be submitted at any time, but must be submitted no later
     than 60 days after arrival in a new assignment, or when individuals experience changes in
     professional, medical, family, or other matters that might impact assignments. TJAGCR
     judge advocates are encouraged to use WebPDI to communicate their professional
     development goals and preferences.




                                            RICHARD C. HARDING
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            The Judge Advocate General
AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                          11


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 Feb 2013
AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC), 30 Apr 2012
AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, 16 Jul 2010
AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional
Continuing Education), 11 Jul 2001
AFI 36-2306, Voluntary Education Program, 13 Aug 2010
AFI 36-2611, Officer Professional Development, 1 Apr 1996
AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 16 Dec 2008
AFI 36-2855, Judge Advocate General Awards, 6 Aug 2012
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 Jul 2011
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 26 Oct 2009
AFI 36-3401, Air Force Mentoring, 1 Jun 2000
AFI 51-101, Judge Advocate Accession Program, 12 Oct 2000
AFI 51-102, The Judge Advocate General’s Department, 19 Jul 1994
AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary, and Preventive Law Programs, 27 Oct 2003
AFI 51-802, Management of the Judge Advocate General’s Corps Reserve, 16 Jun 2011
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 Sep 2011
AFPD 51-1, The Judge Advocate General’s Department, 19 November 1993
Title 10 United States Code, Section 806
Title 10 United States Code, Section 826
Title 10 United States Code, Section 827
Title 10 United States Code, Section 8013
Title 10 United States Code, Section 8037
Title 10 United States Code, Section 8067
Title 10 United States Code, Section 842
Prescribed Forms:
AF Form 1105, Certificate of Designation
AF Form 1106, Certificate of Competency
 12                                                     AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
ADSC—Active Duty Service Commitment
AF—Air Force
AF/JA—The Air Force Judge Advocate General
AF/JAA—PR—The Jude Advocate General’s Professional Responsibility Administrator
AF/JAI—The Training and Readiness Directorate
AF/JAR—The Air Reserve Component Advisor to AF/JA
AF/JAX—The Professional Development Directorate
AF/JAZ—The Civilian Career Development, Plans and Program Directorate
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFJAGC—The Air Force Judge Advocate General's Corps
AFJAGS—The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
AWC—Air War College
BDE—Basic Developmental Education
CLE—Continuing Legal Education
CNS—Course Nomination System
DE—Developmental Education
DOD—Department of Defense
GCMCA—General Court-Martial Convening Authority
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
JASOC—Judge Advocate Staff Officer Course
LL—.M.—Master of Laws
MCLE—Military Continuing Legal Education
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
AFI51-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                          13


PA—Privacy Act
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SDE—Senior Developmental Education
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SJAC—Staff Judge Advocate Course
SOS—Squadron Officer School
TCC—The Colonels’ Course
TDY—Temporary Duty
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
TJAGCR—The Judge Advocate General’s Corps Reserve
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
