BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-1001
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               28 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                              Law

                                                    DELIVERY OF PERSONNEL TO UNITED
                                                     STATES CIVILIAN AUTHORITIES FOR
                                                         TRIAL COMPLIANCE WITH THIS
                                                          PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFLOA/JAJM                                                             Certified by: AF/JAA
                                                                            (Mr. Gregory Girard)
Supersedes: AFI 51-1001, 20 October 2006                                                Pages: 28


This instruction establishes procedures for making Air Force members, civilian personnel, and
family members available to US civilian authorities for trial or specified court appearances. It
implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 5525.09, Compliance of DoD Members,
Employees, and Family Members Outside the United States With Court Orders; DoD Instruction
5525.11, Criminal Jurisdiction Over Civilians Employed By or Accompanying the Armed Forces
Outside the United States, Certain Service Members, and Former Service Members; AFPD 51-
10, Making Military Personnel, Employees, and Dependents Available to Civilian Authorities.
This directive applies to all Air Force military personnel, including Air Force Reserve members
while serving on active or inactive duty training and the Air Nation Guard of the Unites States
(Title 10 status); Department of the Air Force civilian employees (including nonappropriated
fund employees); DoD civilian employees, DoD contractor personnel, and other persons
accompanying the armed forces overseas during declared war and in contingency operations.
This instruction does not confer any rights, benefits, privileges, or form of due process procedure
upon any individuals. This publication may not be supplemented or further
implemented/extended. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication
are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated
with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered
compliance items. Send all recommended changes or comments about this publication to
AFLOA/JAJM, 1500 West Perimeter Road, Suite 1130, Joint Base Andrews Navy Air Facility
Washington, MD 20762, through appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
 2                                                                                               AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has added tiered waiver authorities IAW AFI 33-360.

Section A—Procedures for Individuals Wanted by Federal or State Authorities for Crimes
             Allegedly Committed within CONUS                                                                                                  3
       1.      Authority. ...............................................................................................................      3
       2.      Request. ..................................................................................................................     4
       3.      Restraint or Confinement Pending Delivery. .........................................................                            5
       4.      Release on Bail or Recognizance. ..........................................................................                     5
       5.      Requests For and Delivery of Military Personnel Located Within the United
               States. .....................................................................................................................   6
       6.      Requests For and Delivery of Military Personnel Located Outside the United
               States. .....................................................................................................................   6
       7.      Requests for Employees and Family Members. .....................................................                                7

Section B—Procedures For Notice, Training, And Coordination Under The Military
              Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA), 18 U.S.C. 3261 et seq.                                                                 7
       8.      Notice of Potential United States Criminal Jurisdiction Under MEJA. .................                                           7
       9.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................         8
       10.     Temporary Detention. ............................................................................................               10
       11.     Initial Proceedings. ................................................................................................           11
       12.     Witness Testimony by Former or Current Air Force Personnel. ...........................                                         11

Section C—Procedures for Jurisdiction, Command Law Enforcement Authority, Notice, and
              Courts-Martial for DoD Civilian Employees, DoD Contractor Personnel, and
              Other Persons Serving With or Accompanying the Armed Forces Overseas
              During Declared War and in Contingency Operations (Article 2(a)(10), UCMJ)                                                       11
       13.     Article 2(a)(10) Jurisdiction. ..................................................................................               11
       14.     Command Law Enforcement Authority. ................................................................                             12
       15.     Command Discretion. ............................................................................................                12
       16.     Notification Requirements and Procedures. ...........................................................                           13
       17.     Court-Martial Rights and Procedures. ...................................................................                        14
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                     3


Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                               15

Attachment 2—COMMANDER’S INSTRUCTION LETTER TO MEMBER                                        17

Attachment 3—ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LETTER                                                          18

Attachment 4—EXCERPT OF DODI 5525.11                                                         19

Attachment 5—EXCERPT OF DODI 5525.11                                                         24

Attachment 6—ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF LIMITED LEGAL RESPRESENTATION
             LETTER                                                                          27


Section A—Procedures for Individuals Wanted by Federal or State Authorities for Crimes
Allegedly Committed within CONUS

1. Authority.
   1.1. Approval. A general court-martial convening authority (GCMCA) may authorize
   delivery of a military member subject to his or her command to Federal, state, or local
   civilian authorities that have requested the member’s appearance in order to carry out the
   enforcement of an order issued by a Federal or state court of competent jurisdiction.
      1.1.1. Military members include active duty, Reserve members on active or inactive duty
      training, or Air National Guard members while in Federal (Title 10, U.S.C.) status.
      1.1.2. The Federal, state, or local civilian authorities and the Federal or state court of
      competent jurisdiction must be of the United States, District of Columbia, American
      Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands,
      or any commonwealth, territory, possession, or insular area of the United States.
      1.1.3. The GCMCA may delegate approval authority to an installation or equivalent
      commander.
      1.1.4. On or before delivery, the commander authorizing the delivery will provide to the
      military member an Instruction Letter in substantially the form set out at Attachment 2.
      (T-3) A copy of the Instruction Letter will be provided to the requesting civilian
      authorities and the Air Force unit, activity, or recruiting office designated in the
      Instruction Letter.
      1.1.5. On or before delivery, the commander authorizing the delivery will:
      1.1.5.1. Work with the servicing Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) and Military Personnel
      Flight (MPF) to determine the appropriate duty status for the member and the appropriate
      Personnel Tempo Code for any orders issued. (T-2)
          1.1.5.2. Coordinate with the Air Force Personnel Center, Directorate of Assignments
          (AFPC/DPA) and Air Force Legal Operations Agency, Military Justice Division
          (AFLOA/JAJM). (T-2)
   1.2. Denial for return of member to United States. Only the Under Secretary of Defense for
   Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) may deny a request for delivery of a military member
 4                                                                 AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


     to Federal, state, or local civilian authorities for a felony or contempt involving the unlawful
     or contemptuous removal of a child from the jurisdiction of a court or the custody of a person
     awarded custody by court order. A felony is defined in paragraph 6.2.1. Such requests should
     be forwarded through The Judge Advocate General (TJAG)). TJAG may deny a request in all
     other cases. A GCMCA or commander designated under paragraph 1.1.3 may request a
     denial based on one or more of the following reasons:
        1.2.1. Loss of the member from the unit would have an adverse impact on operational
        readiness or mission accomplishment.
        1.2.2. An international agreement or other overriding legal requirement precludes the
        member's delivery.
        1.2.3. The member is the subject of foreign judicial proceedings, a court-martial, or a
        United States military investigation such that the member cannot be immediately made
        available to civilian authorities.
        1.2.4. The member has demonstrated that non-compliance with the court order that is the
        subject of the request for delivery is legally justified, or sanctioned by supplemental court
        orders, equally valid court orders of other jurisdictions, good-faith legal efforts to resist
        the original orders, or other legal reasons.
2. Request.
     2.1. Federal, state, or local civilian authorities enforcing a court order may request delivery
     of a military member, employee, or family member.
        2.1.1. An employee is a Department of Defense civilian employee, including a non-
        appropriated fund employee.
        2.1.2. The Air Force expects military personnel, employees, and family members to
        comply with orders issued by Federal, state, and local courts of competent jurisdiction
        unless non-compliance is legally justified, meaning the apparent non-compliance is
        actually sanctioned by supplemental court orders, equally valid court orders of other
        jurisdictions, good-faith legal efforts to resist the original orders, or other legal reasons.
     2.2. A request for delivery of a military member to Federal authorities must be accompanied
     by a warrant issued pursuant to Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure or a
     representation by a properly identified Federal marshal or agent that such a warrant has been
     issued.
     2.3. A request for delivery of a military member to state or local authorities must be
     accompanied by a copy of the official document (e.g., warrant or court order) used by the
     requesting authorities to reflect the charges against the member.
     2.4. On or before delivery of a military member to an officer or agent of the requesting
     civilian authorities, the requesting officer must execute an Acknowledgement and Agreement
     in substantially the form set out at Attachment 3. (T-1) The commander authorizing the
     delivery will ensure that a copy of the Acknowledgement and Agreement is provided to the
     member and the Air Force unit, activity, or recruiting office designated in the
     Acknowledgement and Agreement. (T-1)
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                           5


   2.5. Every request by civilian authorities for a military member, employee, or family
   member located outside the United States must be immediately reported to AFLOA/JAJM,
   1500 West Perimeter Road, Suite 1130, Joint Base Andrews Naval Air Facility Washington,
   Maryland, 20762, via telephonically and/or electronic mail message. AFLOA/JAJM’s fax
   number is (DSN) 312-612-4837 or (Comm.) 240-612-4837, and the e-mail address is
   usaf.pentagon.af-ja.mbx.afloa-jajm-workflow@mail.mil.
       2.5.1. AFLOA/JAJM will ensure timely response to all requests and will coordinate
       actions by TJAG. (T-3)
       2.5.2. AFLOA/JAJM will notify and coordinate with SAF/GC, SAF/MR, Department of
       Defense General Counsel (DoD GC), and USD(P&R) on any request for delivery of a
       military member located outside the United States or action under paragraph 6. (T-3)
       2.5.3. Civilian authorities requesting delivery of a military member located outside the
       United States may send the request directly to AFLOA/JAJM, in which case
       AFLOA/JAJM will immediately notify the member's commander and the servicing SJA
       in addition to making any other necessary notifications. (T-3)
3. Restraint or Confinement Pending Delivery. A commander may restrain or confine a
military member whose delivery has been requested by civilian authorities on receipt of
information establishing probable cause that a member committed an offense, or upon reasonable
belief the member committed the offense related to the request and reasonable belief that
restraint or confinement is necessary.
   3.1. The military member must be subject to the command of the officer ordering restraint or
   confinement and the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). (T-0)
   3.2. To determine the existence of probable cause and a reasonable belief that restraint or
   confinement may be necessary, the commander should consult with the servicing SJA.
   3.3. To determine the existence of probable cause and a reasonable belief that confinement is
   necessary, the commander shall refer to and follow Rule for Courts-Martial (R.C.M.) 305 (a)
   – (i), specifically, R.C.M. 305(h)(2)(B) and the discussion following it. (T-0)
       3.3.1. The offense related to the request need not be an offense triable by court-martial;
       3.3.2. If the military member is not delivered to civilian authorities before the 48-hour,
       72-hour and 7-day point, reviews are required.
   3.4. Restraint or confinement may continue only as long as necessary to ensure delivery.
   3.5. Detained service members who hold dual citizenship in the country in which they are
   detained or who are foreign nationals serving with the U.S. forces may have a right to
   communicate with a Consul representative from their foreign country. U.S. military
   personnel detaining the service member within the United States or its territories may have
   an obligation to notify the relevant Consul. Consult AFJI 51-707 for guidance.
4. Release on Bail or Recognizance.
   4.1. By the Instruction Letter required under paragraph 1.1.4, the commander authorizing
   delivery of a military member to requesting civilian authorities directs the member to report
   to a designated Air Force unit, activity, or recruiting office in the event the member is
   released by the civilian authorities on bail or recognizance. The commander designates the
 6                                                                 AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


     member's unit of assignment if the unit is in close proximity to where the member is being
     held by the civilian authorities. Otherwise, the commander designates the Air Force unit,
     activity, or recruiting office closest to where the member is being held, and the commander
     informs the designated Air Force unit, activity, or recruiting office of the situation.
     4.2. On release by the civilian authorities, the military member will immediately report to
     the designated Air Force unit, activity, or recruiting office. The designated unit, activity, or
     recruiting office immediately sends the member's name, rank, Social Security Number, unit,
     and other pertinent information to the member's commander, who then provides instructions
     on the member's return. The member's commander notifies the servicing MPF of the
     member’s pending return and the MPF, in turn, notifies AFPC/DPA. (T-3)
5. Requests For and Delivery of Military Personnel Located Within the United States.
     5.1. Requests for, and delivery of, military personnel located within the United States will
     follow the procedures at paragraphs 1 and 2.
     5.2. “Located within the United States” is defined as physically present in one of the 50
     states, District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto
     Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any commonwealth, territory, possession, or insular
     area of the United States.
     5.3. With respect to interstate extradition, military personnel have the same status as
     nonmilitary personnel. Accordingly, if state or local civilian authorities located in one state
     request the delivery of a military member located in another state, the requesting civilian
     authorities must follow normal extradition procedures to arrange custody of the member in
     the state where the member is located. The Air Force should not transfer a military member
     to a base within one state to a base within another state for the sole purpose of making a
     member amenable to prosecution by civil authorities.
6. Requests For and Delivery of Military Personnel Located Outside the United States.
     6.1. “Located outside the United States” is defined as physically present in an area other than
     one of the 50 states, District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana
     Islands, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any commonwealth, territory,
     possession, or insular area of the United States.
     6.2. A GCMCA, or an installation or equivalent commander designated by the GCMCA,
     may order a military member subject to his or her command to return expeditiously, at
     government expense, to an appropriate port of entry in the United States for delivery to
     requesting civilian authorities if the member has been convicted of, or charged with, a felony
     in a court, have been held in contempt for failure to obey a court’s order, or have been
     ordered to show cause why the member should not be held in contempt for failing to obey a
     court order. DoD mission requirements, the provisions of applicable international
     agreements, and ongoing DoD investigations and courts-martial should be considered when
     determining the degree of cooperation required.
        6.2.1. A felony is a criminal offense punishable by incarceration for more than one year
        under the laws of the requesting jurisdiction, regardless of the sentence imposed for
        commission of the offense.
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                      7


      6.2.2. A warrant issued pursuant to Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, a
      representation by a properly identified Federal marshal or agent that such a warrant has
      been issued, or a copy of the official document (e.g., warrant or court order) used by the
      requesting authorities to reflect the charges must accompany a request by civilian
      authorities for a military member located outside the United States. The request should
      also indicate the following:
          6.2.2.1. The United States port of entry where the authorities will take custody of the
          military member;
          6.2.2.2. Whether interstate extradition, if necessary, has been arranged; and
          6.2.2.3. That the authorities accept responsibility for costs associated with
          transporting the member from the port of entry to the requesting jurisdiction.
      6.2.3. Before ordering the return of a military member to the United States, the GCMCA
      or designated commander will ensure that an attempt is made to resolve the matter to the
      satisfaction of the court without the return of the member and the member is allowed to
      provide evidence of legal efforts to resist the court order or show cause for non-
      compliance.
      6.2.4. On or before ordering the return of a military member to the United States, the
      GCMCA or designated commander will notify the requesting civilian authorities of the
      military member's scheduled travel itinerary, including port of entry and date and time of
      arrival in the United States. Notification should be provided at least 10 days before the
      member's arrival.
      6.2.5. Once the member has returned to the United States, the request will be processed
      in accordance with the procedures established in paragraphs 1 and 2.
   6.3. The GCMCA or designated commander may request a delay of not more than 90 days
   on a request for delivery of a military member located outside the United States to allow for
   efforts under paragraph 6.2.3 or consideration of a denial under paragraph 1.2. TJAG is the
   approval authority for such requests.
7. Requests for Employees and Family Members.
   7.1. Commanders ordinarily do not have authority to compel employees or family members
   to comply with court orders, but they should strongly encourage employees and family
   members to comply with court orders and cooperate with civilian authorities enforcing such
   orders.
   7.2. Failure of an employee to comply with a court order may be the basis for adverse action
   against the employee. Failure of a family member located outside the United States to
   comply with a court order may be the basis for withdrawal of command sponsorship from the
   family member.

Section B—Procedures For Notice, Training, And Coordination Under The Military
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA), 18 U.S.C. 3261 et seq.

8. Notice of Potential United States Criminal Jurisdiction Under MEJA.
 8                                                                 AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


     8.1. MEJA establishes a separate Federal offense under the United States Code for any act
     committed outside the United States that would constitute a felony-level Federal crime, the
     same as if such act had been actually committed within the Special Maritime and Territorial
     Jurisdiction of the United States, as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 7. MEJA applies to civilians
     employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States, members of the
     Armed Forces, and former members of the Armed Forces, including their dependents. These
     individuals may be returned to the United States for trial in Federal District Court. MEJA
     does not apply to host nationals but does apply to third-party nationals (those who are neither
     United States nor host nation nationals) who are employed by or accompanying the Armed
     Forces outside the United States. See Attachment 4 for a detailed explanation of individuals
     to whom MEJA applies. If there is a conflict between the local Status of Forces Agreement
     (SOFA) and MEJA regarding exercise of jurisdiction, the SOFA takes priority.
     8.2. MEJA provides that a person arrested under MEJA shall be delivered as soon as
     practicable to the custody of United States civilian law enforcement authorities for removal
     to the United States for related judicial proceedings. Military authorities will not remove that
     person to the United States or other foreign country except in limited circumstances. See
     Attachment 5 for an explanation of those limited circumstances.
     8.3. Close coordination and cooperation between the Department of Defense, the
     Department of Justice, and the Department of State are critical for successful investigations
     and prosecutions. The Domestic Security Section of the Criminal Division, Department of
     Justice (DOJ/DSS) is the Department of Justice section responsible for MEJA. DOJ/DSS will
     arrange for a Federal Magistrate Judge to preside over initial proceedings and assist in
     determining which United States Attorney’s office will prosecute the case.
9. Responsibilities.
     9.1. Overseas Force Support Squadron Commander (or Equivalent) will:
        9.1.1. Consult with the servicing SJA regarding MEJA training. (T-3)
        9.1.2. Train all individuals to whom MEJA applies. These individuals are identified in
        paragraph 8.1. Training will include an explanation of MEJA, a review of persons to
        whom MEJA applies, and the right of a civilian suspect to have civilian counsel at initial
        proceedings, at no cost to the government. (T-3)
        9.1.3. Incorporate MEJA training into Newcomers’ Orientation for both active duty and
        family members. (T-3)
        9.1.4. Incorporate MEJA training into New Employees’ Orientation. (T-3)
        9.1.5. Inform contractors of any other Federal Agency, or any provisional authority, of
        these briefings and permit them to attend on a voluntary basis. (T-3)
        9.1.6. Assist the Installation Security Forces (SF) Commander and Air Force Office of
        Special Investigations (AFOSI) Commander in determining an accused’s last known
        United States residence. (T-3)
     9.2. Overseas SF Commander and AFOSI Commander will:
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                      9


     9.2.1. Notify the Commander of the Combatant Command and the SJA, or designees, of
     an investigation of alleged MEJA violations that may lead to arrest or criminal
     prosecution. (T-3) Provide such notice as soon as practicable.
     9.2.2. Temporarily detain persons ordered detained by the Commander of the Combatant
     Command or designee. (T-3) Ask the detained person for information about his/her last
     residence in the United States as part of the initial intake questions. These persons shall
     be, to the extent practicable, detained in areas separate from sentenced military prisoners
     and pre-trial confinees of the Armed Forces. (T-0) Use separate temporary detention
     areas for men and women. (T-0) There are detailed requirements in DoDI 5525.11
     regarding detention of juveniles. Consult the SJA to ensure compliance if the detained
     person is a juvenile. (T-3)
     9.2.3. Comply with applicable Federal civilian employee rights and entitlements, if any,
     regarding collective bargaining unit representation under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 71, during
     pretrial questioning and temporary detention procedures. (T-0)
     9.2.4. Brief local law enforcement authorities of investigations and arrests under MEJA
     at the SF and/or AFOSI commander’s discretion. (T-3) Prior to this briefing, consult
     with the SJA to whether a briefing should be provided to local authorities, to ascertain the
     Host Nation’s position regarding the exercise of jurisdiction under MEJA and incorporate
     that information into the briefing. (T-3)
     9.2.5. Forward a copy of the Report of Investigation, or a summary, with an affidavit to
     the SJA of the Designated Commanding Officer (DCO) (as set out in AFJI 51-706). (T-
     3)
     9.2.6. Provide escorts and transfer detained persons to the custody of United States
     civilian law enforcement authorities, to appropriate authorities of the foreign country, or
     to the nearest United States military installation outside the United States adequate to
     temporarily detain the person and to facilitate the initial appearance (described in
     paragraph 10). (T-0) For additional information see DoDI 5525.11, paragraphs 6.2.6. and
     6.2.8.).
  9.3. Overseas SJA should:
     9.3.1. Upon receipt of notice of an investigation for a possible violation under MEJA,
     notify the DCO’s SJA; AFLOA/JAJM, 1500 West Perimeter Road, Suite 1130, Joint
     Base Andrews Naval Air Facility Washington, Maryland, 20762; and AF/JAO, 1420 Air
     Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1420. AFLOA/JAJM will notify SAF/GC and
     DoD/GC. TJAG may waive this requirement.
     9.3.2. Assist SF, AFOSI, and the Force Support Squadron with required briefings for all
     newly assigned SF and AFOSI personnel within 30 days of arrival. This training will
     include an explanation of MEJA, a review of persons to whom MEJA applies, SF and
     AFOSI authority to make arrests pursuant to MEJA, and the requirement to include
     questions about last United States residence in routine booking questions.
     9.3.3. Secure an affidavit from the criminal investigator working on the case detailing
     the probable cause basis for believing that a violation of MEJA has occurred and that the
     person identified in the affidavit committed the violation. Forward this affidavit with a
 10                                                              AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


         copy of the Report of Investigation or summary simultaneously to the Combatant
         Commander’s SJA, the DCO’s SJA, AFLOA/JAJM, AF/JAO, and DOJ/DSS.
         9.3.4. Maintain a current list of local civilian attorneys licensed to practice law in the
         United States who are willing to provide representation to an accused at the initial
         proceedings. This list will contain a disclaimer stating that no endorsement by the United
         States government or the command is expressed or implied by the presence of the
         attorney’s name on the list. Notify civilian defense counsel that their representation of
         persons under MEJA does not gain them DoD sponsorship or any diplomatic status.
         9.3.5. Maintain a current list of military attorneys available in the command to provide
         limited representation at initial proceedings in the event civilian attorneys are not
         available. Provide this list to Federal Magistrate Judge on request. Coordinate with
         AFLOA/JAJD, 1500 West Perimeter Road, Suite 1300, Joint Base Andrews Naval Air
         Facility Washington, Maryland, 20762, prior to placing attorneys assigned to defense
         positions on the list.
         9.3.6. Ensure the person arrested or charged signs the Acknowledgement of Limited
         Legal Representation (Attachment 6). Maintain the original in the legal office and give
         a copy to the military defense counsel.
         9.3.7. Appoint a judge advocate or civilian attorney-advisor to act as a military
         representative. The military representative will assist command, law enforcement,
         United States Attorney representatives, and the Federal Magistrate Judge during pretrial
         matters, initial proceedings, and other procedures required by MEJA and DoDI 5525.11.
         9.3.8. Arrange for videoconferencing support for the initial proceedings.               If
         videoconferencing is unavailable, arrange telephone conferencing.
         9.3.9. Each base legal office will forward a report to AFLOA/JAJM, 1500 West
         Perimeter Road, Suite 1130, Joint Base Andrews Naval Air Facility Washington,
         Maryland, 20762, detailing all cases involving the arrest of persons for violations of
         MEJA; persons placed in temporary detention for violations of MEJA; the number of
         requests for Federal prosecution under MEJA, and the decisions made regarding such
         requests. This report covers the preceding calendar year and is due to AFLOA/JAJM on
         15 February.
   9.4. AFLOA/JAJM Responsibilities:
         9.4.1. Serve as a liaison between base legal offices, command legal offices, SAF/GC,
         DoD/GC, and DOJ/DSS as necessary. TJAG may waive this requirement.
         9.4.2. Forward annual report to DoD/GC through SAF/GC. Report is due to DoD/GC on
         the last day of February. TJAG may waive this requirement.
10. Temporary Detention.
      10.1. The Commander of a Combatant Command may order the temporary detention of a
      person within the commander’s area of responsibility outside of the United States, who is
      arrested or charged with a violation of MEJA. The Commander of a Combatant Command
      should order temporary detention only when there is serious risk the person shall flee or
      engage in serious criminal misconduct. SF shall temporarily detain persons ordered detained
      by the Commander of the Combatant Command in accordance with procedures in paragraph
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                     11


   9.2. SF personnel will ask the detained person for information about his/her last residence in
   the United States as part of the initial intake. See DoDI 5525.11 for specific guidance and
   requirements. (T-0)
   10.2. The Commander of a Combatant Command may designate Component or DCO
   commanders as having the authority to order temporary detention under MEJA in accordance
   with DoDI 5525.11.
11. Initial Proceedings.
   11.1. Initial proceedings before a Federal Magistrate Judge are required when a person is
   arrested or detained by United States military authorities under MEJA while overseas and
   currently employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces.
   11.2. During initial proceedings a Federal Magistrate Judge will determine whether probable
   cause exists to believe that an offense under MEJA has been committed and that the
   identified person committed it. Initial proceedings will also include a detention hearing, as
   appropriate.
   11.3. Initial proceedings will be conducted within 48 hours of arrest to comply with County
   of Riverside v. McLaughlin, 500 U.S. 44 (1991).
12. Witness Testimony by Former or Current Air Force Personnel.
   12.1. AFI 51-301, Section 9C provides guidance for the approval and routing of witness
   requests from DOJ, including those relating to criminal proceedings convened pursuant to
   MEJA.
   12.2. Air Force personnel appearing as witnesses for the United States in criminal
   proceedings convened pursuant to MEJA whose travel is addressed by the provisions of AFI
   51-301, paragraph 9.23.3., may be funded by AFLOA/JAJM central witness funding.

Section C—Procedures for Jurisdiction, Command Law Enforcement Authority, Notice, and
Courts-Martial for DoD Civilian Employees, DoD Contractor Personnel, and Other Persons
Serving With or Accompanying the Armed Forces Overseas During Declared War and in
Contingency Operations (Article 2(a)(10), UCMJ)

13. Article 2(a)(10) Jurisdiction. Only the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) possesses the
authority to exercise court-martial convening authority and impose nonjudicial punishment (NJP)
over persons subject to Article 2(a)(10) with respect to: offenses committed within the "United
States," meaning the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the
commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States; persons who were not at all
times during the alleged misconduct located outside the "United States," as defined above; and
persons who are, at the time court-martial charges are preferred or notice of NJP proceedings is
given, located within the "United States," as defined above. See SECDEF Memorandum dated
10 Mar 08, “UCMJ Jurisdiction Over DoD Civilian Employees, DoD Contractor Personnel, and
Other Persons Serving With or Accompanying the Armed Forces Overseas During Declared
War and in Contingency Operations.”
   13.1. Only SECDEF, geographic combatant commanders (CCDRs), and commanders
   assigned or attached to geographic combatant commands who also possess GCMCA may
   exercise court-martial convening authority and impose NJP over persons subject to Article
 12                                                              AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


   2(a)(10) with respect to offenses committed outside the "United States," as defined in
   paragraph 13. Geographic CCDRs may withhold this authority within their command.
   13.2. Authority to prefer court-martial charges and offer NJP is withheld until the
   notification requirements outlined in paragraph 16 are accomplished. Law enforcement,
   criminal investigations, and other military justice procedures that precede the preferral of
   court-martial charges should continue, as applicable, during this notification process.
   13.3. Authority to prefer court-martial charges and offer NJP is withheld whenever DOJ
   provides notice that it intends to pursue federal criminal prosecution for what is substantially
   the same offense or a related offense, and such withholding of authority shall remain in effect
   while DOJ is pursuing its federal prosecution of the case until such prosecution is completed
   or terminated prior to its completion.
14. Command Law Enforcement Authority. Commanders at all levels have the authority to
investigate any crime allegedly committed by persons subject to the UCMJ, as well as persons
subject to MEJA jurisdiction until such time as civilian law enforcement officials have assumed
sole investigative responsibility. Such investigations shall be conducted in accordance with
recognized practices with host nation authorities, applicable international law, and international
agreements. (T-0)
   14.1. Apprehension and Arrest. Military law enforcement officers and military criminal
   investigators are authorized to apprehend persons subject to UCMJ jurisdiction, and arrest
   and temporarily detain persons subject to MEJA jurisdiction, when there is probable cause
   that an offense has been committed and that the person committed it, subject to the
   requirements of Rules for Court-Martial (RCM) 304 and 305. Although all commissioned,
   warrant, petty, and noncommissioned officers on active duty may apprehend persons subject
   to UCMJ jurisdiction, absent exigent circumstances, the apprehension of civilians should be
   done by law enforcement personnel.
   14.2. Pretrial Restraint and Confinement. Commanders may order the pretrial restraint or
   confinement of civilians subject to the limitations of RCM 304(b) and all applicable
   provisions of the Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM) and AFI 51-201, Administration of
   Military Justice. Absent exigent circumstances, Article 2(a)(10) personnel shall not be
   placed in pretrial restraint or confinement without first consulting with the SJA of the
   appropriate geographic CCDR. (T-0)
15. Command Discretion. The unique nature of exercising UCMJ jurisdiction over civilians
requires commanders to evaluate legal and policy considerations before initiating any punitive
disciplinary action. If a commander at any level determines UCMJ action is not warranted under
the circumstances, no further action is required under this Chapter.
   15.1. Legal Considerations. Article 2(a)(10) applies to individuals serving with or
   accompanying the Air Force, Army, Navy, Marines, or Coast Guard in the field during
   declared war or contingency operations. This generally includes DoD civilian employees
   and contractors, as well as individuals who are dependent on or connected to the armed
   forces in some manner. (See United States v. Burney, 21 C.M.R. 98 (1956); Perlstein v.
   United States et al, 151 F. 2d. 167 (3d Cir. 1945).) It can also include both U.S. citizens and
   foreign nationals, but international agreements will likely impact punitive action against any
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                      13


   foreign national. Before taking any steps to initiate UCMJ action, it is critical to establish
   that Article 2(a)(10) jurisdiction applies.
   15.2. Policy Considerations. Even if an individual is legally subject to the UCMJ, as a
   matter of policy the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 2(a)(10) must also be based on
   military necessity to support an effective fighting force and be called for by circumstances
   that meet the interests of justice, such as when federal criminal jurisdiction otherwise does
   not apply or federal criminal prosecution is not pursued, and/or when the person's conduct is
   adverse to a significant military interest of the United States (e.g., alleged misconduct that
   may jeopardize good order and discipline or discredit the armed forces and thereby have a
   potential adverse effect on military operations).
16. Notification Requirements and Procedures. Before initiating any disciplinary action
against any person under Article 2(a)(10), commanders, through their SJAs, shall comply with
the notification procedures outlined below.
   16.1. General Requirements. All levels of command must follow the notification
   requirements of DoD Instruction 5525.11 and DoD GC Memorandum Policy and Procedures
   Applicable to DoD and United States Coast Guard (USCG) Civilian Personnel Subject to
   Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) Jurisdiction in Time of Declared War or a
   Contingency Operation in all cases intended to be pursued under Article 2(a)(10), to include
   forwarding all reasonably available information regarding the investigation, the suspect’s last
   known residence in the United States, and the reasoning in support of a UCMJ
   disposition.(T-0)
   16.2. Non-GCMCA Notification Requirements. Commanders who are not GCMCAs shall,
   before initiating any UCMJ disposition under RCMs 306-308 or 401-406, forward
   expeditiously all available information regarding the alleged misconduct that is potentially
   subject to this jurisdiction to the first GCMCA in the chain of command that is attached or
   assigned to a geographic combatant command. (T-0)
   16.3. GCMCA Notification Requirements. GCMCAs assigned or attached to a geographic
   combatant command shall notify in writing (including by email or facsimile) their respective
   geographic CCDR of their intended disposition by court-martial or NJP over persons subject
   to Article 2(a)(10).
   16.4. CCDR Notification Requirements. Before preferring court-martial charges or offering
   NJP based on Article 2(a)(10), and regardless of whether the suspected offense may also be
   an offense under federal criminal laws, the geographic CCDR commander shall first provide
   notice of the case in writing (including by email or facsimile) in accordance with the
   procedures established in DoD Instruction 5525.11 through DoD channels so that DOJ may
   be afforded the opportunity to pursue federal criminal prosecution.
   16.5. DOJ-DoD Notification Requirements. After DoD's formal notification to DOJ, DOJ
   shall expeditiously (but in no case longer than 14 calendar days absent an extension) notify
   DoD whether it intends to exercise jurisdiction over the case. If DOJ elects to exercise
   jurisdiction over the case, authority to convene a court-martial or administer NJP is withheld.
   If DOJ does not exercise jurisdiction or terminates prosecution, or if permission to proceed is
   granted by SECDEF or his designee, UCMJ action may be initiated.
 14                                                              AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


17. Court-Martial Rights and Procedures. The MCM ensures a fair trial and due process of
law for all persons tried before a properly constituted court-martial. The following clarifications
will assist all parties with interpreting the MCM and applicable regulations.
   17.1. Military Defense Counsel. An accused under Article 2(a)(10) has the same rights to
   counsel as a military accused, including the right to be represented by a detailed military
   defense counsel, the right to request an individual military defense counsel, and the right to
   be represented by a civilian defense counsel at no expense to the government.
   17.2. Court Members. Any commissioned officer on active duty is eligible to serve on a
   court-martial for the trial of any accused under Article 2(a)(10). A convening authority may,
   but is not required to, consider rank equivalencies when selecting officer members for an
   accused who holds a federal civilian position. An accused under Article 2(a)(10) does not
   have the right to request enlisted court members.
   17.3. Punishments. Subject to the limitations of the MCM, a court-martial may adjudge only
   the following punishments for an accused under Article 2(a)(10): reprimand, fine, restriction
   to specified limits, confinement, and death.




                                             CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             The Judge Advocate General
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                     15


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
EXCERPT OF DOD GC MEMORANDUM Policy and Procedures Applicable to DoD and
United States Coast Guard (USCG) Civilian Personnel Subject to Uniform Code of Military
Justice (UCMJ) Jurisdiction in Time of Declared War or a Contingency Operation
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Administrative Change
AFDPO—Air Force Departmental Publishing Office
AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
DOD—Department of Defense
GCMCA—General Court Martial Convening Authority
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
P&R—Personnel and Readiness
RCM—Rules for Courts-Martial
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USD—Under Secretary of Defense

Terms
Accountable Forms—Forms that the Air Force stringently controls and which cannot be
released to unauthorized personnel, since their misuse could jeopardize DOD security or result in
fraudulent financial gain or claims against the government.
Armed Forces—Defined in section 101(4) of Reference (b).
Contingency Operation— Defined in section 101(a)(13)(A) or 101(a)(13)(B) of Reference (b).
Covered Civilian Employee—A DoD Component civilian employee who, pursuant to
References (a) and (b), becomes subject to military UCMJ jurisdiction during a declared war or a
qualifying contingency operation, when serving with or accompanying the Armed Forces in the
field.
 16                                                            AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


Declared War—A term that has been judicially construed to mean a congressionally-declared
war. (See Analysis to Rule 202, Appendix 21, “Analysis of Rules for Courts-Martial,” of
Reference (e).)
DoD Component Civilian Employee—DoD and USCG civilian employees (including the Coast
Guard at all times, including when it is a Service in the DHS by agreement with that
Department), including civilians paid with non-appropriated funds, direct and indirect hire
foreign national employees, other U.S. Government personnel assigned or detailed under an
arrangement in accordance with sections 3371-3375 of title 5, U.S.C. (also known as “the
Intergovernmental Personnel Act” (Reference (h))), and military technicians if working in their
civilian capacity.
In the Field—A term judicially construed to mean a military operation with a view toward
engaging the enemy or a hostile force. It is not determined by the locality in which the Armed
Force is found, but rather by the activity in which the Armed Force is engaged. (See Analysis to
Rule 202, Appendix 21, “Analysis of Rules for Courts-Martial,” of Reference (e).)
Qualifying Contingency Operation—For the purposes of Article 2(a)(10), UCMJ, jurisdiction,
a contingency operation, which by its purpose meets the Glossary definition of “in the field.”
Serving with or Accompanying an Armed Force—Terms judicially construed, as explained in
the Analysis to Rule 202, Appendix 21, of Reference (e), to mean a connection with or
dependence upon the activities of the Armed Forces or its personnel. A person’s presence must
be more than merely incidental. A person may be “accompanying” an Armed Force although not
directly employed by it or the Government. A person “accompanying” an Armed Force may be
“serving with” it as well, but the distinction is important because even though a civilian’s
contract with the Government ended before the commission of an offense, and hence the person
is no longer “serving with” an Armed Force, jurisdiction may remain on the basis that the person
is “accompanying” an Armed Force because of his or her continued connection with the military.
Subject to this Chapter—A general term used in the UCMJ and Reference (e) to refer to
persons who are subject to UCMJ jurisdiction (Reference (b)).
United States—As defined in Reference (c), the several States of the United States, the District
of Columbia, and the commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States.
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                     17


                                         Attachment 2
                COMMANDER’S INSTRUCTION LETTER TO MEMBER

Figure A2.1. Commander’s Instruction Letter


MEMORANDUM FOR (Member's name and rank)


FROM: (Commander's name and rank)


SUBJECT: Instructions in Case of Release by Civilian Authorities



1. You are being delivered to civilian authorities pursuant to court order and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 51-1001, Delivery of Personnel to United States Civilian Authorities for Trial.
This action does not constitute a discharge from the Air Force.


2. In the event of your release by civilian authorities on bail, your own recognizance, or other
circumstances, you must immediately report in person or by telephone to (designated Air Force
unit, activity, or recruiting office, address, and commercial telephone number). Advise
(designated Air Force unit, activity, or recruiting office) of your name, rank, Social Security
Number, and unit and provide the circumstances of your release and a copy of this
memorandum. If the civilian authorities have imposed restrictions in connection with your
release, include those restrictions in your report. If you are unable to contact (designated Air
Force unit, activity, or recruiting office), report to the nearest Air Force Military Personnel
Flight.


3. In accordance with AFI 51-1001, paragraph 4, (designated Air Force unit, activity, or
recruiting office) will notify your commander of your release and receive instructions on your
return to your unit.




                                                    (Commander's signature element)
 18                                                               AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


                                          Attachment 3
                              ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LETTER

Figure A3.1. Acknowledgement Letter

      ACKNOWLEDGEMENT BY CIVILIAN AUTHORITIES OF DELIVERY AND
        AGREEMENT TO NOTIFY COMMANDER OF MEMBER’S RELEASE




On behalf of (Federal, state, or local civilian authorities requesting delivery of military member),
I hereby acknowledge the delivery of (military member's name, rank, and Social Security
Number) pursuant to the enforcement of an order issued by (Federal or state court of competent
jurisdiction). A copy of the order and supporting documentation are attached.


In accordance with the authority vested in me by and on behalf of (Federal, state, or local civilian
authorities or Federal or state court of competent jurisdiction), I agree to the following:


(Commander's name, rank, unit, address, and commercial telephone number) will be kept
informed of the status of the case involving (member's name and rank) and immediately notified
should (member's name and rank) be released from custody for any reason, including but not
limited to release on bail or own recognizance, acquittal, dismissal of charges, or satisfaction of
sentence.


On release from custody, (member's name and rank) will be immediately returned to (designated
Air Force unit, activity, or recruiting office, address, and commercial telephone number) or
another location designated by the Air Force. (Member's name and rank) will not be returned to
the Air Force only if the Air Force informs (Federal, state, or local civilian authorities) that
return is not appropriate.


                                              (Signature element of officer or agent of requesting
                                              Federal, state, or local civilian authorities)
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                      19


                                         Attachment 4
                                EXCERPT OF DODI 5525.11

Figure A4.1 Excerpt of DoDI 5525.11
Criminal Jurisdiction Over Civilians Employed By or Accompanying the Armed Forces Outside
the United States, Certain Service Members, and Former Service Members
                                 Paragraphs 6.1.2 through 6.1.9



        6.1.2. Persons Subject to this Instruction. This Instruction applies to certain members of
the Armed Forces, former members of the Armed Forces, and persons employed by or
accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States, and their dependents, as those terms
are defined in enclosure 2 and referenced below, who are alleged to have committed an offense
under the Act while outside the United States. For purposes of the Act and this Instruction,
persons employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States are subject to
the "military law" of the United States, but only to the extent to which this term has been used
and its meaning and scope have been understood within the context of a SOFA or any other
similar form of international agreement.


        6.1.3. Members of the Armed Forces. Members of the Armed Forces subject to the Act’s
jurisdiction are:


                6.1.3.1. Only those active duty members of the Armed Forces who, by Federal
indictment or information, are charged with committing an offense with one or more defendants,
at least one of whom is not subject to the UCMJ. (See Section 3261(d)(2) of the Act.)

               6.1.3.2. Members of a Reserve component who commit an offense when they are
not on active duty or inactive duty for training (in the case of members of the Army National
Guard or the Air National Guard of the United States, only when in Federal service) are not
subject to UCMJ jurisdiction for that offense and, as such, are amenable to the Act’s jurisdiction
disregarding the limitation of Section 3261(d)(2) of the Act.


        6.1.4. Former Members of the Armed Forces. Former members of the Armed Forces
subject to the Act’s jurisdiction are:


               6.1.4.1. Former members of the Armed Forces who were subject to the UCMJ at
 20                                                             AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


the time the alleged offense was committed, but are no longer subject to the UCMJ with
regarding that offense because of their release or separation from active duty.


                6.1.4.2. Former members of the Armed Forces, having been released or separated
from active duty, who thereafter allegedly commit an offense overseas while in another
qualifying status (such as while a civilian employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces
outside the United States, the dependent of a civilian employed by or accompanying the Armed
Forces, or the dependent of a person subject to the UCMJ).


        6.1.5. Civilians Employed by the Armed Forces. Persons who are not a national of or
resident in the host nation, who are employed by the U.S. Armed Forces outside the United
States (as defined in enclosure 2), and who commit an offense under the Act while present or
residing outside the United States in connection with such employment, are subject to the Act
and the provisions of this Instruction. Such civilian employees include:


               6.1.5.1. Persons employed by the Department of Defense (including a non-
appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense).


              6.1.5.2. Persons employed as a DoD contractor (including subcontractor(s) at any
tier).


              6.1.5.3. Employees of a DoD contractor (including subcontractor(s) at any tier).


               6.1.5.4. Civilian employees, contractors (including subcontractor(s) at any tier),
and civilian employees of a contractor (or subcontractor(s) at any tier) of any other Federal
Agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the
mission of the Department of Defense overseas.


       6.1.6. Civilians Accompanying the Armed Forces. Subject to the requirements of
subparagraph 6.1.6.2., the following persons are civilians accompanying the Armed Forces
outside the United States who are covered by the Act and the provisions of this Instruction:


              6.1.6.1. Dependents of:


                      6.1.6.1.1. Active duty members of the Armed Forces.
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                         21




                       6.1.6.1.2. Members of the Reserve component while the Service member
was on active duty or inactive duty for training, but in the case of members of the Army National
Guard or the Air National Guard of the United States, only when in Federal service.


                     6.1.6.1.3. Former members of the Armed Forces who are employed by or
are accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States.

                     6.1.6.1.4. Civilian employees of the Department of Defense (including
non-appropriated fund instrumentalities of the Department of Defense).


                      6.1.6.1.5. DoD contractors (including subcontractor(s) at any tier).


                      6.1.6.1.6. Employees of a DoD contractor (including subcontractor(s) at
any tier).


              6.1.6.2. In addition to the person being the dependent of a person who is listed in
subparagraph 6.1.6.1., jurisdiction under the Act requires that the dependent also:


                      6.1.6.2.1. Reside with one of the persons listed in subparagraph 6.1.6.1.


                      6.1.6.2.2. Allegedly commit the offense while outside the United States;
and


                       6.1.6.2.3. Not be a national of, or ordinarily resident in, the host nation
where the offense is committed.


                6.1.6.3. Command sponsorship of the dependent is not required for the Act and
this Instruction to apply.


               6.1.6.4.        When the dependent is a juvenile, as defined in section 153.3 of
the Act, who engaged in conduct that is subject to prosecution under Section 3261(a) of the Act,
the provisions of chapter 403 of title 18, United States Code would apply to U.S. District Court
prosecutions.
 22                                                               AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


       6.1.7. Persons NOT Subject to the Act or the Procedures of this Instruction
               6.1.7.1. Persons who are the nationals of, or resident in, the host nation where the
offense is committed, regardless of their employment or dependent status.


               6.1.7.2. Persons who have recognized dual citizenship with the United States and
who are the nationals of, or resident in, the host nation where the offense is committed are not
persons "accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States" within the meaning of the
Act and this Instruction.


              6.1.7.3. Persons, including citizens of the United States who, at the time the
offense was committed outside the United States, were not members of the Armed Forces,
civilian employees of the Armed Forces outside the United States, or civilians accompanying the
Armed Forces outside the United States.


                       6.1.7.3.1. Persons (including members of a Reserve component) whose
presence outside the United States at the time the offense is committed, is solely that of a tourist,
a student, or a civilian employee or civilian accompanying some other non-Federal Agency,
organization, business, or entity (and thereby may not be said to be employed by or
accompanying the Armed Forces within the definitions of those terms as established by the Act,
as modified) are not subject to the Act. Civilian employees of an agency, organization, business,
or entity accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States may, by virtue of the
agency, organization, business, or entity relationship with the Armed Forces, be subject to the
Act and this Instruction.


                        6.1.7.3.2. Persons who are subject to the Act and this Instruction remain so
while present, on official business or otherwise (e.g., performing temporary duty or while in
leave status), in a foreign country other than the foreign country to which the person is regularly
assigned, employed, or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States.


               6.1.7.4. Juveniles whose ages are below the minimum ages authorized for the
prosecution of juveniles in U.S. District Court under the provisions of chapter 403 of title 18,
United States Code.


              6.1.7.5. Persons subject to the UCMJ (see Sections 802 and 803 of title 10, United
States Code) are not subject to prosecution under the Act unless, pursuant to Section 3261(d) of
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                     23


the Act, the member ceases to be subject to the UCMJ or an indictment or information charges
that the member committed the offense with one or more other defendants, at least one of whom
is not subject to the UCMJ. Retired members of a regular component who are entitled to pay
remain subject to the UCMJ after retiring from active duty. A member of the Reserve component
who commits a UCMJ offense while serving on active duty or inactive duty training is subject to
the UCMJ and is not, by virtue of the termination of a period of active duty or inactive-duty
training, relieved from amenability to UCMJ jurisdiction for that offense. Such retired members
of a regular component and members of the Reserve components are not subject to prosecution
under the Act unless Section 3261(d)(2) of the Act applies. In addition, other provisions of
Sections 802 and 803 of title 10, United States Code should be considered to determine whether
the person should be arrested or charged with a violation of Section 3261 of the Act.


6.1.8. The U.S. Coast Guard. Whether Coast Guard members and civilians employed by or
accompanying the Coast Guard outside the United States, and their dependents, are subject to the
Act and this Part depends on whether at the time of the offense the Coast Guard was operating as
a separate Service in the Department of Homeland Security or as a Service in the Department of
the Navy.


6.1.9. Persons Having a Tenuous Nexus to the United States. Third Country Nationals who are
not a resident in the host nation, and who meet the definition of "a person accompanying the
Armed Forces outside the United States," may have a nexus to the United States that is so
tenuous that it places into question whether the Act’s jurisdiction should be applied and whether
such persons should be subject to arrest, detention, and prosecution by U.S. authorities.
Depending on the facts and circumstances involved, and the relationship or connection of the
foreign national with the U.S. Armed Forces, it may be advisable to consult first with the
DOJ/DSS before taking action with a view toward prosecution. In addition, to facilitate
consultation with the government of the nation of which the Third Country National is a citizen,
the DoS should be notified of any potential investigation or arrest of a Third Country National.
 24                                                               AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


                                         Attachment 5
                                EXCERPT OF DODI 5525.11

Figure A5.1 Excerpt of DoDI 5525.11
Criminal Jurisdiction Over Civilians Employed By or Accompanying the Armed Forces Outside
the United States, Certain Service Members, and Former Service Members
                                        Paragraph 6.5

   6.5. Removal of Persons to the United States or Other Countries


        6.5.1. In accordance with the limitation established by Section 3264 of the Act, military
authorities shall not remove, to the United States or any other foreign country, a person
suspected of violating Section 3261(a) of the Act, except when:


               6.5.1.1. The person’s removal is to another foreign country in which the person is
believed to have committed a violation of Section 3261(a) of the Act; or


              6.5.1.2. The person is to be delivered, on request, to authorities of a foreign
country under Section 3263 of the Act and subparagraph 6.2.8., or


               6.5.1.3. The person is arrested or charged with a violation of the Act and is
entitled to, and does not waive, a preliminary examination under Federal Rule of Criminal
Procedure 5.1, in which case the person shall be removed to the United States for such
examination; or

               6.5.1.4. The person’s removal is ordered by a Federal Magistrate Judge (see
paragraph 6.5.2. of this Instruction); or


              6.5.1.5. The Secretary of Defense, or designee, directs the person be removed, as
provided in Section 3264(b)(5) of the Act and subparagraph 6.5.3. of this Instruction.


      6.5.2. Removal by Order of a Federal Magistrate Judge. The Military authorities may
remove a person suspected of violating Section 3261(a) of the Act to the United States when:


               6.5.2.1. A Federal Magistrate Judge orders that the person be removed to the
United States to be present at a detention hearing; or
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                         25




                6.5.2.2. A Federal Magistrate Judge orders the detention of the person prior to
trial (see Section 3142(e) of Title 18, United States Code, in which case the person shall be
promptly removed to the United States for such detention); or


               6.5.2.3. A Federal Magistrate Judge otherwise orders the person be removed to
the United States.


        6.5.3. Removal by Direction of the Secretary of Defense or Designee. The Secretary of
Defense, or designee, may order a person’s removal from a foreign country within the
Combatant Command’s geographic area of responsibility when, in his sole discretion, such
removal is required by military necessity. (See Section 3264(b)(5) of the Act.) Removal based on
military necessity may be authorized to take into account any limiting factors that may result
from military operations, as well as the capabilities and conditions associated with a specific
location.


               6.5.3.1. When the Secretary of Defense, or designee, determines that a person
arrested or charged with a violation of the Act should be removed from a foreign country, the
person shall be removed to the nearest U.S. military installation outside the United States where
the limiting conditions requiring such a removal no longer apply, and where there are available
facilities and adequate resources to temporarily detain the person and conduct the initial
proceedings required by the Act and this Instruction.


               6.5.3.2. The relocation of a person under this subparagraph does not authorize the
further removal of the person to the United States, unless further removal is authorized by an
order issued by a Federal Magistrate Judge under subparagraph 6.5.2.


                 6.5.3.3. Delegation. The Commander of a Combatant Command, and the
Commander’s principal assistant, are delegated authority to make the determination, based on the
criteria stated in subparagraph 6.5.3., that a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act
shall be removed from a foreign country under Section 3264(b)(5) of the Act and this Instruction.
Further delegation is authorized, but the delegation of authority is limited to a subordinate
Commander within the command who is designated as a general court-martial convening
authority under the UCMJ.
 26                                                               AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


        6.5.4. A person who is removed to the United States under the provisions of the Act and
this Instruction and who is thereafter released from detention, and otherwise at liberty to return to
the location outside the United States from which he or she was removed, shall be subject to any
requirements imposed by a Federal District Court of competent jurisdiction.


        6.5.5. Where a person has been removed to the United States for a detention hearing or
other judicial proceeding and a Federal Magistrate Judge orders the person’s release and permits
the person to return to the overseas location, the Department of Defense (including the Military
Department originally sponsoring the person to be employed or to accompany the Armed Forces
outside the United States) shall not be responsible for the expenses associated with the return of
the person to the overseas location, or the person’s subsequent return travel to the United States
for further court proceedings that may be required.
AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                        27


                                          Attachment 6
    ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF LIMITED LEGAL RESPRESENTATION LETTER

Figure A6.1. Acknowledgement of Limited Legal Representation Letter

          ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF LIMITED LEGAL REPRESENTATION


1. I, _____________________________________________, have been named as a suspect or
defendant in a matter to which I have been advised is subject to the jurisdiction of the Military
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000 (Section 3261, et. seq., of title 18, United States Code);
hereinafter referred to as "the Act." I have also been informed that certain initial proceedings
under 18 U.S.C. § 3265 may be required under this Act, for which I am entitled to be represented
by legal counsel.


2. I acknowledge and understand that the appointment of military counsel for the limited purpose
of legal representation in proceedings conducted pursuant to the Act is dependent upon my being
unable to retain civilian defense counsel representation for such proceedings, due to my indigent
status, and that qualified military defense counsel has been made available.


3. Pursuant to the Act, ___________________________________, a Federal Magistrate Judge,
has issued the attached Order and has directed that military counsel be made available:


____ For the limited purpose of representing me at an initial proceeding to be conducted outside
the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3265.


____ For the limited purpose of representing me in an initial detention hearing to be conducted
outside the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3265(b).

4. ______________________________, military counsel, has been made available in accordance
with DoD Instruction 5525.11 and as directed by the attached Order of a Federal Magistrate
Judge.

5. I (do) (do not) wish to be represented by _________________________, military counsel
________ (initials).


6. I understand that the legal representation of _______________________, military counsel, is
 28                                                              AFI51-1001 28 AUGUST 2014


limited to:


       a. Representation at the initial proceedings conducted outside the United States pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. § 3265. ________ (Initials)


         b. The initial detention hearing to be conducted outside the United States pursuant to the
Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000 (18 U.S.C. § 3261, et. seq.). _______________
(Initials)


       c. Other proceedings (Specify):


_________________________________________.                  _____________ (Initials)




                                                ________________________________________


                                    Signature of Person To Be Represented By Military Counsel



                                                ________________________________________


                                                                            Signature of Witness*


Attachment:
Federal Magistrate Judge Order



(*Note: The witness must be a person other than the defense counsel to be made available for
this limited legal representation.)
