BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-801
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                16 JUNE 2011
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 3 JUNE 2014

                                                                                            Law

                                               TRAINING OF AIR RESERVE COMPONENT
                                                 JUDGE ADVOCATES AND PARALEGALS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/JAR                                                                Certified by: AF/JA
                                                                    (Maj Gen Robert G. Kenny)
Supersedes:   AFI 51-801, 1 May 1999                                                  Pages: 14


This instruction implements AFPD 51-8, Assignment, Training, and Management of The Judge
Advocate General’s Corps Reserve (TJAGCR). It applies to members of the US Air Force
Reserve and the Air National Guard, as well as to individuals applying for assignment to
TJAGCR. It prescribes training and continuing legal education requirements and responsibilities
for members of TJAGCR, including Air National Guard (ANG), US Air Force Reserve
(USAFR) unit and individual mobilization augmentee (IMA) judge advocates and paralegals.
This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. Authority to collect and maintain records prescribed is 10 U.S.C. § 8013. Forms
affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System Notice
is F051 AFRES A, Reserve Judge Advocate Training Report, located at
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/F051AFRESA.shtml. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS), located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFI 51-801 by (1) changing the terms of the former Reserve
Orientation Course and ANG Law Office Course. (2) Adding exceptions for in-resident course
requirements for ARC instructors at the Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School (AFJAGS).
(3) Adding exceptions to certain training requirements for technicians. (4) Changed waiver
authority for paralegal training requirements. (5) Changed training guidelines for the use of the
Air Form 1989. An (*) indicates newly revised material.
 2                                                                  AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011


Section A—Authority.

1. Authority. 10 U.S.C. §§ 806, 8037; Department of the Air Force General Order No. 49, 13
July 1949; AFPD 51-8.

Section B—Education and Training: Requirements and Goals.

2. Mandatory Education and Training. Members of TJAGCR will be prepared, upon
mobilization and when otherwise required to support Air Force missions, to function as judge
advocates or paralegals in a wide variety of positions with a minimum of additional training. To
meet this requirement, The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) establishes training requirements
including those described in this section.
     2.1. Mandatory Judge Advocate Education.
        2.1.1. Judge Advocate Staff Officer Course. Unless one of the exceptions in paragraph
        2.1.1.1 applies, TJAGCR judge advocates must complete the Judge Advocate Staff
        Officer Course (JASOC) at the Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School within one
        year after accession to TJAGCR.
           2.1.1.1. TJAGCR judge advocates are not required to attend JASOC if they meet
           either of the following conditions:
               2.1.1.1.1. They have attended JASOC previously, as part of their accession to
               service as active duty Air Force judge advocates.
               2.1.1.1.2. They served on extended active duty as judge advocates in another US
               armed service and completed that armed service’s equivalent of JASOC, in
               residence.
        2.1.2. Individual Reserve Orientation Course (IROC)/Air National Guard/Category
        A Reserve Orientation Course (AROC). The Office of the Staff Judge Advocate,
        Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command (HQ AFRC/JA), plans, hosts, and conducts
        the IROC. AFRC/JA and the ANG Assistant to TJAG together, plan, host, and conduct
        the AROC.
           2.1.2.1. USAFR IMA judge advocates are encouraged to attend the first available
           session of the IROC after their accession to TJAGCR, but must attend not later than
           18 months after accession. (T-1)
           2.1.2.2. ANG and USAFR unit judge advocates are encouraged to attend the first
           available session of the AROC after accession to TJAGCR, but must attend not later
           than 18 months after accession. (T-1)
        2.1.3. Annual Survey of the Law. The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School
        develops and conducts the Annual Survey of the Law as a formal course to provide
        refresher training to all TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals. HQ AFRC/JA
        provides management and logistical support to the Annual Survey of the Law.
           2.1.3.1. TJAGCR judge advocates must attend the Annual Survey of the Law every
           two years.
AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011                                                                           3


       2.1.4. In-Residence Courses at the Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School. In
       accordance with procedures developed by AF/JAR, TJAGCR judge advocates, except as
       provided in paragraph 2.2.4, must attend an approved in-residence course at the Air Force
       Judge Advocate General’s School or approved sister-service school equivalent at least
       once every six years. (T-1) [EXCEPTION: Judge advocates who are assigned as
       instructors at The Judge Advocate General’s School are exempt from this requirement,
       provided they serve as course director for at least one approved course at The Judge
       Advocate General’s School at least once every six years.]
       2.1.5. Waiver of Educational Requirements. TJAG or designee may waive any of the
       requirements in paragraphs 2.1.1 through 2.1.4, in whole or in part.
       2.1.6. Failure to Comply. TJAGCR judge advocates who fail to comply with the
       educational requirements set forth in this section are subject to withdrawal of their
       designation as judge advocates or other administrative action.
2.2. Mandatory Judge Advocate Training. TJAGCR judge advocates need timely refresher
training, to best equip them to serve their units and to fully prepare them for mobilization and
active duty service. Current experience in installation-level operations is critical to the success
of the JA mission. To that end, TJAGCR judge advocates are subject to certain additional
training requirements.
       2.2.1. Quadrennial Installation-level Training for TJAGCR IMA Judge Advocates
       Assigned to Non-Installation-Level Offices. TJAGCR IMA judge advocates who are
       assigned, attached, or detailed for training to offices other than installation-level active
       duty legal offices must perform a minimum of two consecutive weeks of training at an
       installation-level active duty Air Force legal office at least once every four years. (T-1)
       2.2.2. Quadrennial Active Duty Legal Office Training for ANG and USAFR Unit Judge
       Advocates. TJAGCR judge advocates assigned in the ANG or at USAFR units must
       perform a minimum of two consecutive weeks of training at an active duty Air Force
       legal office at least once every four years.
       2.2.3. Assignment of Quadrennial Training. To ensure both that judge advocates receive
       appropriate training and that the needs of the active duty Air Force are best served,
       TJAGCR’s Home Station Support Coordinator assigns the quadrennial training set forth
       in paragraphs 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 for all TJAGCR judge advocates. TJAGCR judge
       advocates may not arrange quadrennial training on their own, but instead must work
       through the Home Station Support Coordinator. Judge advocates who attempt to arrange
       training on their own may not receive credit for completion of the quadrennial training
       requirements.
       2.2.4. Exemption from Training Requirements. TJAGCR judge advocates who occupy
       the following positions are exempt from the training requirements set forth in paragraphs
       2.2.1 and 2.2.2. AF/JAR may exempt additional TJAGCR duty positions from these
       training requirements, with the concurrence of the Mobilization Assistant to TJAG or the
       ANG Assistant to TJAG, as appropriate.
           2.2.4.1. Judge advocates assigned to general officer billets.
4                                                                     AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011


          2.2.4.2. Judge advocates serving in Active Guard and Reserve program (AGR) or
          technician positions.
          2.2.4.3. Judge advocates assigned or attached to perform duties as trial or appellate
          military judges.
          2.2.4.4. Judge advocates who are assigned as ANG Assistants, as Numbered Air
          Force SJAs, or as MAJCOM or Numbered Air Force Senior IMAs.
          2.2.4.5. (DELETED)
       2.2.5. Waiver of Training Requirements. AF/JAR may grant temporary waivers or
       deferrals of the training requirements set forth in paragraphs 2.2.1 and 2.2.2, in
       coordination with the Mobilization Assistant to TJAG or the ANG Assistant to TJAG, as
       appropriate.
       2.2.6. Failure to Comply. Judge advocates who fail to comply with the training
       requirements set forth in this section are subject to withdrawal of their designation as
       judge advocates and removal from TJAGCR.
    2.3. Mandatory Paralegal Education.
       2.3.1. Paralegal Apprentice Course. Unless one of the exceptions in paragraph 2.3.1.1
       applies, paralegals must complete the Paralegal Apprentice Course at the Air Force Judge
       Advocate General’s School within one year of accession to TJAGCR.
          2.3.1.1. TJAGCR paralegals are not required to attend the Paralegal Apprentice
          Course if they meet either of the following conditions:
              2.3.1.1.1. They have attended the Paralegal Apprentice Course previously, as part
              of their accession to service as active duty Air Force paralegals.
              2.3.1.1.2. They served on extended active duty as paralegals in another US armed
              service and completed that armed service’s equivalent of the Paralegal Apprentice
              Course, in residence. [NOTE: Application of this exception to the Paralegal
              Apprentice Course attendance requirement is subject to the approval, in each
              individual case, by the Senior Paralegal Manager to TJAG, as the Air Force
              Paralegal Career Field Manager.]
       2.3.2. Annual Survey of the Law. The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School
       develops and conducts the Annual Survey of the Law as a formal course to provide
       refresher training to all TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals. HQ AFRC/JA
       provides management and logistical support to the Annual Survey of the Law.
          2.3.2.1. TJAGCR paralegals must attend the Annual Survey of the Law every two
          years, starting two years after their accession to TJAGCR, or two years after their first
          attendance at the Reserve Forces Paralegal Course (see paragraph 2.3.3), whichever
          occurs sooner.
       2.3.3. In-Residence Courses at The Judge Advocate General’s School. TJAGCR
       paralegals who are in the grade of E-6 or lower, or who have AFSC skill levels of 5 or
       lower, must attend the Reserve Forces Paralegal Course at least once every four years.
AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011                                                                           5


     2.3.4. Waiver of Educational Requirements. The Senior Paralegal Manager to TJAG, as
     the Air Force Paralegal Career Field Manager, may waive or defer any of the
     requirements in paragraph 2.3.1 through 2.3.3, in whole or in part.
         2.3.4.1. (DELETED)
         2.3.4.2. (DELETED)
     2.3.4.3. Failure to Comply. Paralegals who fail to comply with the educational
     requirements set forth in this section are subject to removal from TJAGCR. Supervisors
     will initiate removal proceedings against paralegals who fail to comply with these
     educational requirements. TJAG, or TJAG’s designee, may grant relief from removal.
  2.4. Mandatory Paralegal Training. TJAGCR paralegals need timely refresher training, to
  best equip them to serve their units and to fully prepare them for mobilization and active duty
  service. Current experience in installation-level operations is critical to the success of the JA
  mission. To that end, TJAGCR paralegals are subject to certain additional training
  requirements.
     2.4.1. Quadrennial Installation-level Training for TJAGCR IMA Paralegals Assigned to
     Non-Installation-Level Offices. TJAGCR IMA paralegals who are assigned or attached
     for training to offices other than installation-level legal offices must perform at least two
     consecutive weeks of training at an installation-level active duty Air Force legal office at
     least once every four years.
     2.4.2. Quadrennial Active Duty Legal Office Training for ANG and USAFR Unit
     Paralegals. TJAGCR paralegals assigned in the ANG or at USAFR units must perform at
     least two consecutive weeks of training at an installation-level active duty Air Force legal
     office at least once every four years.
     2.4.3. Assignment of Quadrennial Training. To ensure both that paralegals receive
     appropriate training and that the needs of the active duty Air Force are best served,
     TJAGCR’s Home Station Support Coordinator assigns the quadrennial training set forth
     in paragraphs 2.4.1 and 2.4.2 for all TJAGCR paralegals. TJAGCR paralegals may not
     arrange quadrennial training on their own, but instead must work through the Home
     Station Support Coordinator. Paralegals who attempt to arrange training on their own
     may not receive credit for completion of the quadrennial training requirements.
     2.4.4. Exemption from Training Requirements. TJAGCR paralegals assigned or
     attached to perform duties as USAFR senior IMA paralegal managers or as ANG senior
     paralegal managers, or who are assigned to AGR positions, are exempt from the training
     requirements set forth in paragraphs 2.4.1 and 2.4.2. The Senior Paralegal Manager to
     TJAG, as the Air Force Paralegal Career Field Manager, may exempt additional
     TJAGCR duty positions from these training requirements.
     2.4.5. Waiver of Training Requirements. The Senior Paralegal Manager to TJAG, as the
     Air Force Paralegal Career Field Manager, may grant temporary waivers or deferrals of
     the training requirements set forth in paragraphs 2.4.1 and 2.4.2. (T-1)
     2.4.6. Failure to Comply. Paralegals who fail to comply with the training requirements
     set forth in this section are subject to removal from TJAGCR. Supervisors will initiate
 6                                                                     AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011


        removal proceedings against paralegals who fail to comply with these training
        requirements. TJAG, or TJAG’s designee, may grant relief from removal.
3. Recommended Education and Training.
     3.1. In addition to the required education and training set forth in paragraph 2, TJAGCR
     judge advocates and paralegals are encouraged to avail themselves of legal and professional
     military education and training. Such education and training enables TJAGCR members to
     upgrade their skills, to become and remain current on areas of Air Force-wide and
     Department of Defense-wide interest, and to broaden the knowledge base of TJAGCR as a
     whole. Supervisors should strive to foster an environment in which continuing education and
     training of TJAGCR members is encouraged, utilized, and appropriately recognized.
     3.2. Local Seminars. Legal offices, or groups of legal offices in close geographical
     proximity, are encouraged to include TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals in seminars or
     training conducted for their active duty counterparts. These seminars can provide continuing
     legal education, address issues of local interest, or instruct on emerging or recurring matters
     in the performance of judge advocate and paralegal duties.
     3.3. Mobilization Exercises. Legal offices are encouraged to invite all local TJAGCR
     members, including those attached or assigned to other offices, to attend and participate in
     local mobilization exercises, as appropriate.

Section C—Scheduling, Conducting, and Tracking Training of TJAGCR Members.

4. Scheduling Training.
     4.1. TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals coordinate the scheduling of all training with
     their Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) or equivalent, or with the SJA’s designated training
     supervisor (see paragraph 13.2).
     4.2. Training schedules will be consistent with the needs of the legal office and the
     availability of TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals, and will comply with the guidance
     contained in AFI 36-2254, Volume 2, Reserve Personnel Training, as applicable. To
     maximize efficiency and involvement in more extensive projects, TJAGCR judge advocates
     and paralegals are strongly encouraged to perform inactive duty training (IDT) during groups
     of multiple days whenever possible.
     4.3. Consistent with Air Force guidance, SJAs or designated training supervisors may
     develop (and are encouraged to develop, where they deem appropriate) alternative training
     schedule formats, such as weekend, evening, and telecommuting programs, to accomplish the
     missions of their offices and to satisfy training requirements.
     4.4. TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals perform IDT and annual training (AT) for
     their office of assignment or attachment, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2.2 and
     2.4, or when TJAG or designee determines that Air Force needs, or unusual individual
     circumstances, dictate otherwise.
        4.4.1. SJAs or designated training supervisors may authorize the use of IDT to support
        mission needs of other TJAGCR units or offices to meet training objectives, or the use of
        the “Share the Wealth” program or other volunteer Reserve Personnel Appropriation
        (RPA) or Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) man-day programs. This includes
AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011                                                                        7


      permitting IMAs to train on a limited basis with ANG or USAFR unit legal offices, if a
      training benefit for the IMA will be realized.
5. Conducting Training.
   5.1. Training Philosophy. Air Force judge advocates and paralegals, both on active duty and
   in the Air Reserve Component, are called upon to provide timely, accurate, and candid
   advice and assistance on a variety of issues. Training of TJAGCR judge advocates and
   paralegals should enhance their ability to provide such advice and assistance. To that end,
   SJAs and others in leadership positions in The Judge Advocate General’s Corps should strive
   to provide TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals with broad-based training in, and
   exposure to, the full range of issues handled by Air Force legal offices.
   5.2. Installation-level legal offices are normally organized into several functional areas,
   including military justice and adverse actions, general law, civil law, acquisition law,
   preventive law and legal assistance, etc.
      5.2.1. In planning training assignments, the SJA or designated training supervisor should
      consider the proficiency level of the TJAGCR member in the particular functional area,
      the TJAGCR member’s need for exposure to all office activities, and the day-to-day
      needs of the office. When possible, the SJA or designated training supervisor should
      assign work and training in the area in which the TJAGCR member is least proficient.
      When possible, the SJA or designated training supervisor ensures that TJAGCR judge
      advocates and paralegals work in each of the office’s functional areas within each three-
      year period.
      5.2.2. SJAs and designated training supervisors are encouraged to use AF Form 1988,
      Summary of Individual Training (TJAGCR). AF Form 1988 is intended as a convenient
      means of documenting the planning of specific training assignments for each judge
      advocate and paralegal scheduled to perform duty in the office.
          5.2.2.1. The SJA or designated training supervisor lists the assignments in Section I,
          “Work Assignments,” and then gives the form to the member at the beginning of the
          training period.
          5.2.2.2. At the end of the training period, the member completes Section II, “Work
          Performed,” and returns the form to the training supervisor.
          5.2.2.3. The SJA or designated training supervisor then completes Section III,
          “Evaluation and Comments,” providing feedback to the member on the completed
          work.
          5.2.2.4. Once completed, AF Form 1988 should be filed in the member’s ARC
          Participation Folder (see paragraph 6.2).
      5.2.3. TJAGCR judge advocates use AF Form 1989, Air Reserve Component Judge
      Advocate Training Guideline, as a general guide to the functions and tasks desired in
      well-rounded judge advocates. AF Form 1989 is intended as a self-paced training aid.
      TJAGCR judge advocates should strive to complete as many as possible of the items
      listed on AF Form 1989 at least once every four years.
      5.2.4. TJAGCR paralegals use the Career Field Education and Training Plan as a guide
      to their continuing professional development. All TJAGCR paralegals train to be fully
 8                                                                     AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011


        qualified in accordance with the Career Field Education and Training Plan, except where
        TJAG or designee waives or modifies such requirements. TJAGCR paralegals should
        complete appropriate upgrade training according to schedules set by the Senior Paralegal
        Manager to TJAG, the AFRC Command Paralegal Manager, or the Air National Guard
        Paralegal Career Field Functional Manager, as applicable.
            5.2.4.1. To document training, TJAGCR paralegals use automated training records,
            such as Training Business Area or other automated training record systems, as
            required by the AFRC Command Paralegal Manager or the Air National Guard
            Paralegal Career Field Functional Manager, as applicable.
6. Tracking Training. To ensure that TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals have received
the training they need, it is imperative to track each individual’s training. The following tracking
methods will be used:
     6.1. ARC Statistical Reporting System (ARC StaRS) is a computerized tool designed to
     track the workload of ARC judge advocates and paralegals. ARC StaRS compiles
     information including dates of work performed, types of work performed, and duty location.
        6.1.1. All TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals must use ARC StaRS to report and
        track all workload, whether training or otherwise, and whether paid or unpaid. Data must
        include all duties performed during a particular duty period, including but not limited to
        IDT, UTA, annual tour, special tour, or any other type of duty. Entering narrative
        comments is encouraged.
        6.1.2. TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals include printouts of ARC StaRS inputs
        in their ARC Participation Folders (see paragraph 6.2.).
     6.2. ARC Participation Folder. Keep an ARC Participation Folder for each TJAGCR judge
     advocate and paralegal at the office of assignment or attachment. This folder is a binder file
     folder (six-part), available through local supply channels.
        6.2.1. SJAs or designated training supervisors use the information in the ARC
        Participation Folder to verify a TJAGCR member’s professional and personal
        background data when scheduling training and preparing performance reports.
        6.2.2. The ARC Participation Folder contains the items listed in Attachment 2.
        MAJCOMs and the ANG may supplement the list of required items.
        6.2.3. Arrange the contents of the ARC Participation Folder in descending order within
        each section, as shown in Attachment 2.
        6.2.4. Affix a contents label to the front of the ARC Participation Folder, identifying the
        folder contents by section and listing the forms and documents, as shown in Attachment
        2.

Section D—Assignment of Duties and Responsibilities.

7. Mobilization Assistant to TJAG and ANG Assistant to TJAG.
     7.1. Develop and implement, on behalf of TJAG, policies and programs for judge advocates
     and paralegals in their respective components.
AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011                                                                       9


   7.2. Provide direction and oversight for legal training, force management, force
   development, and legal operations in support of current and future mission requirements in
   accordance with Article 6, UCMJ, as well as Air Force JA and other appropriate directives
   for their respective components.
8. AF/JAR. Coordinates the formulation and development of TJAGCR management policies
(including training policies) for TJAG decision.
9. HQ AFRC/JA.
   9.1. Schedules, monitors, and tracks attendance of USAFR judge advocates and paralegals at
   the required courses described in paragraph 2, consistent with the guidance of AF/JAR and
   available school quotas.
   9.2. Ensures that TJAGCR training programs are implemented according to AFPD 51-8, this
   instruction, and TJAG policy, for TJAGCR personnel assigned to USAFR units.
10. ANG Assistant to the Commandant, Air Force Judge Advocate General’s
School. Schedules and monitors attendance of ANG judge advocates and paralegals at the
required courses described in paragraph 2, consistent with guidance of the ANG Assistant to
TJAG, AF/JAR, and available school quotas.
11. Major Command (MAJCOM) SJAs and AFLOA Commander. Ensure that TJAGCR
training programs are implemented according to AFPD 51-8, this instruction, and TJAG policy,
for TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals assigned or attached to their commands.
12. Mobilization Assistants (MA) and Senior IMAs to MAJCOM SJAs, ANG Assistants to
MAJCOM SJAs, and ANG NAF Liaisons. Actively assist in oversight of the education and
training of TJAGCR personnel.
13. Installation-level SJAs, Headquarters AF and AFLOA Directors, Division Chiefs, and
Chief Trial and Appellate Judges.
   13.1. Implement the training program prescribed by this instruction for assigned or attached
   TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals and those members of TJAGCR performing special
   tours in their offices or units, by ensuring the completion of the following tasks:
       13.1.1. Plan training.
       13.1.2. Appoint trainers.
       13.1.3. Appoint Reserve Coordinators (at offices where IMAs are attached), as described
       in paragraph 14.
       13.1.4. Supervise the performance and documentation of training.
       13.1.5. Maintain training records. Periodically review records to ensure that members
       comply with minimum participation requirements, AFPD 51-8, and this instruction.
       13.1.6. Monitor enlisted members’ progress toward attainment of required paralegal
       proficiency.
       13.1.7. When a TJAGCR judge advocate or paralegal performs an active duty tour of
       five days or more at a legal office to which that member is not assigned or attached,
 10                                                                    AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011


         prepare an AF Form 77, Supplemental Evaluation Sheet, covering the tour and send it to
         the member’s performance rater.
      13.2. Designated Training Supervisors. Active duty SJAs, directors, division chiefs, and
      chief judges may appoint experienced active duty judge advocates and paralegals to serve as
      training supervisors for IMA judge advocates and paralegals, respectively. Designated
      training supervisors may be delegated responsibilities including those set forth in paragraph
      13.1. The appointment of a training supervisor does not relieve the SJA, director, division
      chief, or chief judge of the responsibilities described in paragraph 13.1.
14. Reserve Coordinators. Active duty SJAs, and Headquarters Air Force and AFLOA
directors and division chiefs, designate experienced IMAs assigned to their offices to serve as
Reserve Coordinator. The Reserve Coordinator should be an experienced IMA judge advocate
or paralegal, but not necessarily the most senior IMA attached to the office.
      14.1. Reserve Coordinator Duties. Service as Reserve Coordinator is an additional duty. In
      general, Reserve Coordinators help manage active duty offices’ IMA judge advocate and
      paralegal training programs. The Reserve Coordinator’s specific duties may vary, depending
      on the particular needs of the office, but generally include the following:
         14.1.1. Create and maintain a master schedule of IDT, AT, and ADT for all TJAGCR
         personnel attached to the office, plus any scheduled duty in the office by other TJAGCR
         personnel.
         14.1.2. Ensure that all duty is scheduled as far in advance as directed by the SJA, and
         that any changes to the projected duty schedule are submitted to the SJA as early as
         possible.
         14.1.3. Follow up with members who have performed duty, to ensure that appropriate
         ARC StaRS inputs have been accomplished.
         14.1.4. Create and maintain a matrix to track:
             14.1.4.1. Timely completion of OPRs and EPRs.
             14.1.4.2. Timely completion of Reserve Component Periodic Health Assessments
             and dental assessments.
             14.1.4.3. Timely completion of physical fitness test requirements.
             14.1.4.4. Timely completion of required ancillary training.
             14.1.4.5. Upgrade training progress of IMA paralegals.
             14.1.4.6. Timely consideration (and nomination, where appropriate) of IMAs for
             awards and decorations.
             14.1.4.7. Completion of appropriate levels of developmental education.
         14.1.5. Monitor the office’s compliance with record-keeping requirements.
         14.1.6. Advise attached IMAs on reserve issues and significant events occurring in the
         active duty office. Regular use of email or web-based updates is encouraged, as is
         maintenance of an in-office reserve read file.
AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011                                                                        11


       14.1.7. Mentor TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals who are new to the IMA
       program.
       14.1.8. Organize continuing legal education seminars, local seminars, and mobilization
       exercises.
       14.1.9. Coordinate with IMAs to ensure they have made timely and accurate inputs of
       their personal and contact information into the Roster database, and that they have timely
       certified those inputs.
15. TJAGCR Judge Advocates and Paralegals. TJAGCR judge advocates and paralegals
bear ultimate responsibility for ensuring their own compliance with requirements and with
managing their Air Force careers. With respect to his or her own training and readiness, each
TJAGCR judge advocate and paralegal ensures the following:
   15.1. Compliance with the training requirements set forth in this instruction, and with
   applicable requirements for readiness.
   15.2. Timely and accurate input of ARC StaRS data for all duty performed.
   15.3. Timely and accurate input of personal and contact information in the Roster database,
   and timely certification of those inputs.
   15.4. Completeness and currency of the ARC Participation Folder.




                                            ROBERT G. KENNY, Major General, USAF
                                            Performing the Duties of The Judge Advocate
                                            General
 12                                                              AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011


                                       Attachment 1
 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ACRONYMS, AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 51-802, Assignment to The Judge Advocate General’s Corps Reserve, [DATE]
AFI 36-2254, Volume 2, Reserve Personnel Training, 9 June 2010
AFPD 51-8, Assignment, Training, and Management of The Judge Advocate General’s Corps
Reserve (TJAGCR), 19 April 2011
Air Force General Order No. 49, 13 July 1949
Forms Prescribed
AF Form 1988, Summary of Individual Training (TJAGCR).
AF Form 1989, Air Reserve Component Judge Advocate Training Guideline.
Forms Adopted
AF Form 40a, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training
AF Form 77, Supplemental Evaluation Sheet
AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty/Training/Active Duty Tour

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT—Active Duty For Training
AF—Air Force
AF/JAR—Air Reserve Component Advisor to The Judge Advocate General
AF/JAY—Senior Paralegal Manager to The Judge Advocate General
AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ARC StaRS—Air Reserve Component Statistical Reporting System
AT—Annual Tour
BIMAA—Base Individual Mobilization Augmentee Administrator
EAD—Extended Active Duty
ECI—Extension Course Institute
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
FAQ—Frequently-Asked Question
IDT—Inactive Duty Training
AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011                                                                       13


IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
JA—Judge Advocate
JASOC—Judge Advocate Staff Officer Course
JAX—Professional Development Division
LOS—Law Office Superintendent
MA—Mobilization Assistant
MAJCOM—Major Command
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPR—Officer Performance Report
RFPC—Reserve Forces Paralegal Course
RPA—Reserve Personnel Appropriation
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
TJAGC—The Judge Advocate General’s Corps
TJAGCR—The Judge Advocate General’s Corps Reserve
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
U.S.C.—United States Code
UTAPSWEB—Unit Training Assembly Participation System – Web Version

Terms
The Judge Advocate General’s Corps Reserve (TJAGCR)—The organization comprised of
all the paralegals and judge advocates serving in an active status in the Air National Guard and
the United States Air Force Reserve, whether as Unit Reservists or as Individual Mobilization
Augmentees.
Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)—An individual filling a military billet identified as
augmenting the active component structure of the Department of Defense or other departments
or agencies of the U.S. Government, which must be filled to support mobilization (including pre-
and post-mobilization) requirements, contingency operations, operations other than war, or other
specialized or technical requirements for fill with individual members of the Selected Reserve.
 14                                                                 AFI51-801 16 JUNE 2011


                                        Attachment 2
ARRANGEMENT OF THE ARC PARTICIPATION FOLDER

Section I:

A. Printout of current Roster database input
B. Printout of current Data Verification Brief from Virtual MPF
C. Record of physical fitness test results

Section II:

A. AF Form 1989, Air Reserve Component Judge Advocate Training Guideline (judge
advocates only)
B. Most recent annual ANG/USAFR Point Credit Summary

Section III:

A. Letters of evaluation (AF Form 77, Supplemental Evaluation Sheet)
B. Correspondence relating to achievements
C. Citations for awards and decorations

Section IV:

A. Copies of completed AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty
Training/Active Duty Tour
B. Copies of completed AF Form 40a, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training

Section V:

A. ARC StaRS printouts for duty performed
B. AF Form 1988, Summary of Individual Training (TJAGCR) (optional but recommended)
C. Copies of work product

Section VI:

A. Certifications of compliance with professional standards (see AFI 51-802, para. 27)
B. Additional items at MAJCOM or local direction

NOTES:
1. Items in Section I should be updated at least every six months.
2. Items in Sections III, IV, and V should be removed and returned to the member when the
member’s performance report is completed, or when the member has been considered for a
military award or decoration, whichever is later.
