BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-702
AIR FORCE                                                                                3 OCTOBER 2007
                                                                      Certified Current 23 OCTOBER 2014
                                                                                                   Law

                                                                   FOREIGN TAX RELIEF PROGRAM




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
                 website at www.e-publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/JAO                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/JAO (Col Mary V. Perry)
Supersedes AFI 51-702, 28 April 1994                                                       Pages: 3

This instruction implements AFPD 51-7, International Law , 19 January 2001, an d DOD Instruction
5100.64, DOD Foreign Tax Relief Program, March 30 , 2006, and supersedes AFI 51-702, Foreign Tax
Relief, 28 April 1994. It outlines Air Force responsib ilities in supervising and monitoring programs to
obtain tax relief from foreign governme nts. Ensure that all records crea ted as a result of processes pre-
scribed in this publication are maintained in acc ordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN
22-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Refer recommended ch anges and questions about
this publication to HQ USAF/JAO using the AF IMT 847, Recommenda tion for Change of Publication.
This publication applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) only while in Title 10 status.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been re vised and must be review ed. Changes include upda ting terminology to align
Air Force responsibilities and procedures with DODI 5100.64 (formerly DODD 5100.64).

1. Air Force policy is to obtain, to the maximum extent practicable, effective relief from all foreign taxes
whenever the ultimate economic burden of those taxes would otherwise result in the expenditure of funds
appropriated or allocated to the Air Force or under the control of its nonappropriated fund activities. Tax
relief shall be considered impractical when the total economic burd en of a tax not read ily identifiable in
the normal course of business is so small that it ma y be considered a de minimis matter , or when the
administrative burden of securing effective relief from a tax in a particular instance is out of proportion to
the amount of the relief obtained.

2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Air Force Personnel involved in the expenditure of appropriated or nonappropriated Air Force
   funds will obtain, to the maximum extent practicable, effective relief from foreign taxes.
2                                                                        AFI51-702 3 OCTOBER 2007


    2.2. The Operati ons and International Law Division (HQ USAF /JAO) supervises and monitors the
    Air Force’s program for fo reign tax relie f and coordinates with the Office of the Air Force General
    Counsel (SAF/GC) on relevant foreign tax matters.
    2.3. Commanders of Combatant Commands designate a military commander to be responsible for tax
    matters for each foreign country.
    2.4. Designated Military Commanders are responsible for the Department of Defense foreign tax
    relief programs within their respective countries and are the single point of contact for U.S. contract-
    ing officers and foreign tax reli ef program activities. Designate d military commanders may appoint
    an in-country senior US officer, the US country representative (COREP), for each country within their
    command.
    2.5. Major Commands (MAJCOM). In countries where the designated military commander is not an
    Air Force commander, overseas MAJCOM commanders appoint an Ai r Force Liai son Officer
    (AFLO) to coordinate communication among all Ai r Force activities, the designated military com-
    mander, COREP, and other competent authorities about the Air Force tax relief program.
    2.6. Contracting Officers inform the servicing judge advocate offices of any attempts to impose for-
    eign taxes and whether the contract ors have fully and promptly comp lied with the foreign tax provi-
    sions of contracts.

3. Referrals.
    3.1. The a ppropriate Air Force of fice having responsibility for tax relie f in the country concerne d
    (designated military commander, COREP, AFLO) refers foreign tax problems involving the Air Force
    and its contractors or s ubcontractors for action to HQ USAF/JAO. Such refe rrals may be submitted
    through combatant command or Air Force channels.
    3.2. When the designated military commander , COREP, or AFLO refers a foreign tax problem
    involving a contractor to higher headquarters, cont racting officers must notify the contractor , unless
    doing so is not advisable due to overriding US national interests, such as those relating to negotiating
    positions or security requirements.

4. Foreign Tax Relief Reports. Submit a copy of any report or summary of significant foreign tax relief
program activities prepared by or for the air component of a combatant command with HQ USAF/JAO.



                                                JACK L. RIVES, Major General, USAF
                                                The Judge Advocate General
AFI51-702 3 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                     3


                                               Attachment 1

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
References
DOD Instruction 5100.64, DOD Foreign Tax Relief Program, 30 March, 2006
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 19 January 2001
Acronyms
AFLO – Air Force Liaison Officer
COREP – US Country Representative
MAJCOM – Major Command
Terms
Relief—Includes any method, technique, or procedure by which the ultimate economic burden of a tax on
DOD funds may be avoided or otherwise remedied, such as exemptions, refunds, or drawbacks.
Tax—Includes all foreign customs dut ies, import and export taxes, exci ses, fees, and any other char ges,
except for services rendere d or other consideration ac tually received for th em. Taxes may be direct or
indirect, and imposed at the national, local, or an intermediate level of a foreign country. It doesn’t matter
how the tax is denominated in fore ign law or regulation. These taxes may include, but are not limited to
purchase tax, sales tax, use tax, gross receipts tax, stamp tax, transfer tax, tr ansaction tax, turnover tax,
value added tax, service tax, trade tax, business tax, license tax, transportation tax, circulation tax, luxury
tax, possession tax, production tax, registration tax, consumption tax, gasoline tax, real property tax, per-
sonal property tax, and gross income tax.
