                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                         HEADQUARTERS 412TH TEST WING (AFMC)
                         EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, CALIFORNIA




                                                    AFI51-1201_EDWARDSAFBGM2014-05

                                                                               12 August 2014


MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 412TH TEST WING PERSONNEL

FROM: 412 TW/CC
      195 E Popson Ave
      Edwards AFB, CA


SUBJECT: Edwards Air Force Base (AFB) Guidance Memorandum, Alternative Dispute
         Resolution (ADR) Program

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the 412th Test Wing Commander, this Edwards AFB Guidance Memorandum
implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 51-1201, Alternative Dispute Resolution Processes in
Workplace Disputes, Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory except for AFGE
Council 214 Bargaining Unit Employees. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other
Air Force publications; the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management.

2. Consistent with Air Force Instruction 51-1201, Alternative Dispute Resolution Processes in
Workplace Disputes, I am committed to the use of ADR as an effective and efficient
management tool to resolve disputes at the lowest level. Many disputes arise from lack of
communication or misunderstandings and can result in costly litigation and lengthy arbitration.
The cost in resources is significant, but more significantly, long-term damage to working
relationships and negative mission impact is often the result.

3. Whether the dispute is over a bargaining issue or employee complaint, honest and open
communication is crucial to resolve conflict. As the advocate for the ADR Program at the 412th
Test Wing, I urge all managers, supervisors and employees to support my commitment to
expanding the use of ADR in resolving disputes such as: administrative grievances, negotiated
grievance procedures, discrimination complaints, unfair labor practices and other workplace
disputes.

4. It is important to remember that in workplace disputes, it is the Agency, rather than the
individual management official, who is party to the dispute. Management officials who
participate in mediation represent the Agency’s interests, not their own. For this reason, I am
reaffirming our policy which requires managers and supervisors to attempt ADR when the
dispute is considered appropriate for the ADR process.
5. For information regarding the ADR program, you may contact the 412 TW ADR Program
Managers, Mr. Alfred Wilson or Ms. Carla Cannington, 412 TW/EO, 277-7985. AFGE BUEs
should contact their union representative for additional information.

6. This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon publication of an interim change or rewrite of AFI 51-1201, Alternative
Dispute Resolution Processes in Workplace Disputes or upon incorporation into an Edwards
AFB Instruction, whichever is earlier.




                                               MICHAEL T. BREWER
                                               Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Commander
