Administrative Changes to AFI51-904_AFMCSUP, Complaints of Wrongs Under Article 138,
Uniform Code of Military Justice

OPR: AFMC/JA

Reference to AFMC/JAG should be changed to HQ AFMC/JAA.


11 January 2012
BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-904
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                30 JUNE 1994

                                                                 AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                                   Supplement 1
                                                                                   29 DECEMBER 1994

                                                                                                     Law

                                                     COMPLAINTS OF WRONGS UNDER ARTICLE
                                                     138, UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/JAG (Lt Col Carole Cheatham)                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/JAG
                                                                                (Mr Richard A. Peterson)
Supersedes AFR 110-19, 7 November 1988.                                                          Pages: 5
                                                                                          Distribution: F

                                                (AFMC)
OPR: HQ AFMC/JAG (Col Craig L. Head)                                        Certified by: HQ AFMC/JA
                                                                           (Brig Gen James C. Roan, Jr.)
Supersedes AFR 110-19/AFMC Supplement 1,                                                        Pages: 1
           1 July 1992                                                                   Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals. It explains how to make, send, and
consider made under Article 138, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). This instruction does not
apply to Air National Guard members when not on active duty and not subject to the UCMJ.

(AFMC) AFI 51-904, 30 June 1994, is supplemented as follows
(AFMC) This supplement implements AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, and AFI 51-904. It
expands on the guidance provided in the Air Force instruction, and applies to all offices of record within
AFMC. It does not apply to Air National Guard members when not on active duty and subject to the Uni-
form Code of Military Justice.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the initial publication of AFI 51-904, replacing AFR 110-19. It adds several definitions.
(AFMC) This supplement supersedes AFR 110-19/AFMC Sup 1, and provides updated instructions.
2                                                   AFI51-904_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994


1. Statutory Authority. This instruction implements Article 138, UCMJ which states: "Any member of
the armed forces who believes himself wronged by his commanding officer, and who, upon due applica-
tion to that commanding officer, is refused redress, may complain to any superior commissioned officer,
who shall forward the complaint to the officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the
officer against whom it is made. The officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction shall examine
into the complaint and take proper measures for redressing the wrong complained of; and shall, as soon as
possible, send to the Secretary concerned a true statement of that complaint, with the proceedings had
thereon."

2. Terms Explained:
    2.1. Application for Redress. The member's written request to the commander for redress of the
    perceived wrong.
    2.2. Commander or Commanding Officer. A commissioned officer commanding an installation or
    organization to which the member is assigned or attached. The Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force and
    Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Commandant of the Marine Corps are not commanding
    officers.
    2.3. Member of the Armed Forces. A member of the US Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or
    Coast Guard on active duty or inactive duty for training and subject to the UCMJ. Only a member of
    the Armed Forces may submit applications for redress under Article 138.
    2.4. Officer Exercising General Court-Martial Authority (GCMA). The officer exercising gen-
    eral court-martial authority over the commander against whom the complaint is made.
    2.5. Redress. Any lawful action which restores to the member any rights, privileges, property, or sta-
    tus to which the member would have been entitled had the wrong not occurred.
    2.6. Superior Commissioned Officer. Any commissioned officer who is senior, by grade or rank, to
    the commanding officer who refused the member's request for redress.
    2.7. Wrong. A discretionary act or omission by a commander, that adversely affects the member per-
    sonally, and that, for example, is:
       2.7.1. In violation of law or regulation.
       2.7.2. Beyond the legitimate authority of that commander.
       2.7.3. Arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion.
       2.7.4. Clearly unfair (for example--selective application of administrative standards/action, either
       in the type of standard/action applied or in the severity of the penalty imposed, which results in a
       clearly unfair application of the administrative standard/action).

3. Scope of the Complaint Process. The following complaints are not recognized as Article 138 com-
plaints:
    3.1. Acts or omissions affecting the member that are not initiated or ratified by the member's com-
    mander.
    3.2. Complaints relating to military discipline under the UCMJ, including Article 15 nonjudicial pun-
    ishment, except complaints involving deferral of post-trial confinement.
AFI51-904_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994                                                                   3


   3.3. Complaints relating to an action initiated against any Air Force member, where the governing
   directive for such action requires that the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force take final action.
   3.4. Complaints against GCMAs for failing to resolve Article 138 complaints properly. However, a
   complaint may be filed for not forwarding a complaint to the Secretary.
   3.5. Complaints filed to seek disciplinary action against another.
   3.6. Complaints about a commander's action when that action implements the recommendation of a
   board authorized by Air Force regulations and AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers, governs the board.
   3.7. Complaints Not Normally Reviewed under Article 138. Under Article 138, the officer exer-
   cising general court-martial authority over the commander complained of must take proper measures
   to resolve the complaint. In many cases, there already exist by law or regulation, specific established
   channels to accomplish this objective. Such areas include, but are not limited to, a complaint concern-
   ing:
      3.7.1. A performance report or evaluation system.
      3.7.2. An assessment for pecuniary liability.
      3.7.3. A suspension from flying status.
      3.7.4. While recognizable, such complaints generally are not reviewed through the Article 138
      process. Even though the wrong complained of could be redressed by the Board for Correction of
      Military Records or the Air Force Discharge Review Board, that fact does not make an Article 138
      complaint inappropriate.

4. Procedures and Responsibilities:
   4.1. Member's Application for Redress. A member who believes himself or herself wronged by the
   action of his or her commander, before submitting a complaint under Article 138, must apply in writ-
   ing through channels to that commander for redress of the grievance. A complaint (in writing) to that
   commander, or his or her designated representative, is sufficient. Absent unusual circumstances, the
   member must apply for redress within 180 days of the member's discovery of the wrong complained
   of. The complaint should contain all available supporting evidence.
   4.2. Commander's Responsibilities. The commander complained of may consider other reliable
   evidence, in addition to matters submitted by the member. Attach such additional evidence to the file
   so the member and the commander's GCMA can review it. Promptly notify the member in writing
   that:
   4.2. (AFMC) Commander’s Responsibilities. Immediately upon learning of the existence of an
   Article 138 complaint, staff judge advocates advise HQ AFMC/JA of the name, rank, and organiza-
   tion of the parties; the general nature of the complaint; and the proposed method of investigating the
   complaint.
      4.2.1. The redress requested is granted.
      4.2.2. The redress is denied because, in the commander's opinion, it is not warranted, the com-
      plaint is not recognized under Article 138 (see paragraph 3.), the complaint is recognized but not
      reviewed under Article 138 because there is another complaint channel available (see paragraph
      3.7.), or the complaint is untimely (see paragraph 4.1.).
4                                                   AFI51-904_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994


       4.2.3. The commander lacks authority at the time to grant the redress because the subject matter
       is pending before another authority. Hold the request for further consideration at the conclusion of
       the other authority's action.
       4.2.4. The commander lacks authority to grant the redress for a reason other than noted in 4.2.3.
       Return the application, including supporting evidence, and inform the member which office or
       officer, if any, has authority to grant the redress sought.
       4.2.5. In all cases, keep a copy of the request, the supporting evidence, and the action taken.
    4.3. Member's Complaint of Wrongs. If the commander refuses a properly submitted request for
    redress, the member may then submit the complaint directly, or through any superior commissioned
    officer, to the officer exercising general court-martial authority over the officer against whom the
    complaint is made.
       4.3.1. Unless there are unusual circumstances, the member must submit this complaint within 90
       days of receiving the commander's refusal of redress.
       4.3.2. The member must attach to the complaint a copy of the application for redress with its
       attachments, if any, and the commander's refusal of the redress.
    4.4. Forwarding the Complaint. An intermediate commander or any other superior commissioned
    officer receiving such a complaint will immediately forward the file to the GCMA over the officer
    against whom the complaint is made. In so doing, the individual will:
       4.4.1. Add pertinent documentary evidence, if not already in the file.
       4.4.2. Make no comment on the merits of the complaint in the forwarding letter, but, where appro-
       priate, include information about availability of witnesses or evidence.
    4.5. GCMA's Responsibilities. The GCMA will conduct or direct further investigation as deemed
    appropriate and will act, based on the facts and circumstances of the complaint and any investigation.
    In addition:
    4.5. (AFMC) GCMA’s Responsibilities. Staff judge advocates review any investigation before the
    officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction takes final action. Use AFI 90-301, Inspector
    General Complaints, as a guide for any investigation or inquiry.
       4.5.1. If a complaint concerns nonrecognized areas described in paragraph 3., the GCMA will so
       inform the member according to paragraph 4.5.3.
       4.5.2. When the complaint concerns areas, such as those described in paragraph 3.7., the GCMA
       must make an informal review to determine whether the complaint is, in fact, subject to resolution
       in other established channels. In those cases where other channels exist, the commander may refer
       the member to those channels. This does not make such complaints nonrecognizable under Arti-
       cle 138, UCMJ, but rather identifies, for appropriate processing, existing channels for grievances
       where relief is routinely granted in meritorious cases. In such cases, the subject matter of the com-
       plaint may already be under consideration within those channels. A decision to refer the member
       to those channels constitutes final action and paragraph 4.5.3. and paragraph 4.5.4. must be fol-
       lowed.
       4.5.3. In all cases, the GCMA must inform the member in writing of both the action taken on the
       complaint and the reasons for that action. The GCMA returns any documentary evidence or other
AFI51-904_AFMCSUP1_I 29 DECEMBER 1994                                                                 5


       material submitted by the member and retains two complete copies of the file, including copies of
       the response to the member.
       4.5.4. After taking final action and notifying the member, the GCMA sends one of the complete
       copies of the file to HQ USAF/JAG, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1420, for
       Secretarial review and disposition.
       4.5.4. (AFMC) Forward one additional copy of the entire case file to HQ AFMC/JAG.

5. Delegation Prohibited. The GCMA may not delegate the authority to act on complaints under Article
138, UCMJ.




                                    NOLAN SKLUTE, Maj General, USAF
                                    The Judge Advocate General

                                    (AFMC)

                                    JAMES C. ROAN, JR., Brig Gen, USAF
                                    Staff Judge Advocate
