BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-701
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               16 AUGUST 2011

                                                          PACIFIC AIR FORCES COMMAND
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                          15 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                             Law

                                                            NEGOTIATING, CONCLUDING,
                                                          REPORTING, AND MAINTAINING
                                                          INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/JAO                                                                 Certified by: AF/JAO
                                                                               (Col Craig Miller)
                                                                                        Pages: 30
Supersedes:    AFI 51-701, 6 May 1994
                                           (PACAF)
OPR: HQ PACAF/A4XP                                                Certified by: HQ PACAF/A4X
                                                                         (Mr. Russell R. Grunch)
                                                                                        Pages:14
Supersedes:    AFI 51-701_PACAFSUP1,
               3 JUNE 2009


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-7, International Law. It
delegates the authority to negotiate and conclude certain categories of international agreements
and sets guidelines for processing these agreements. It also explains how to gain the approval to
negotiate and conclude international agreements that are beyond the listed delegations. It details
reporting and record-keeping requirements and is consistent with Department of Defense
Directive (DODD) 5530.3, International Agreements and Title 1 United States Code (USC)
Section 112b (Case-Zablocki Act). This publication applies to all United States Air Force
(USAF), Air Force Reserve (USAFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) military and civilian
personnel.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
 2                                                            AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


AF Form 847 from the field through appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the     Air       Force      Records     Disposition      Schedule    (RDS)      located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.             This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. No waivers may be granted for
any part of this publication.

(PACAF) This publication applies to Headquarters Pacific Air Forces and all subordinate units.
It does not apply to the Air National Guard or the US Air Force Reserve Units. It delegates the
authority to enter, negotiate, and conclude certain types of international agreements to Numbered
Air Force (NAF) Commanders. It explains how to obtain approval for entering, negotiating, and
concluding those agreements for which authority is not delegated and how to terminate
agreements. New or revised material is indicated by an (*).

(PACAF) Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System     (AFRIMS)       Records     Disposition      Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It provides a
current listing of offices requiring reports, and it describes the process for appropriate
notifications when negotiating, concluding and terminating international agreements.

(PACAF) This supplement implements AFI 51-701, NEGOTIATING, CONCLUDING,
REPORTING, AND MAINTAINING INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS and establishes PACAF
procedures. It delegates authority to enter into, negotiate and conclude international agreements
to NAF commanders with limited authority to re-delegate negotiation and conclusion authority.
It updates organizational symbols and provides clarification of roles and responsibilities of the
agreement manager and functional experts including additional SJA and FM review and approval
requirements. Twice a year reporting requirements, more detailed explanations of joint
committee generated documents, record keeping, and handling an administrative agreement are
also added.


       1.     Scope of Authority. ................................................................................................         3
       2.     Procedures. .............................................................................................................    8
       2.     (PACAF) Coordination with appropriate functional managers at all levels,
              including MAJCOM and other Air Force and DoD agencies ................................                                       8
       3.     Amendments. .........................................................................................................       12
       4.     Oral Agreements. ...................................................................................................        12
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                                                     3


       5.     Agreements in Foreign Languages. .......................................................................                    12
       6.     International Agreements Containing Advance Payment Terms. ..........................                                       13
       7.     Reporting Agreements. ..........................................................................................            13
       7.     (PACAF) . To ensure time limits for notification of agreement consummation to
              Congress: ...............................................................................................................   14
       8.     Negotiating History of Agreements. ......................................................................                   14
       9.     Office of Record. ...................................................................................................       15
       10.    Compliance. ...........................................................................................................     15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            17

Attachment 2—PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING TO NEGOTIATE OR CONCLUDE
             AN INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT                                                                                                   20

Attachment 2—(PACAF) SAMPLE TRANSMITTAL LETTER FORMAT                                                                                     21

Attachment 3—REPORTING INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS                                                                                           22

Attachment 3—(PACAF) SAMPLE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT FORMAT                                                                                24

Attachment 4—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH
             POLICY SIGNIFICANCE                                                                                                          25

Attachment 4—(PACAF) SAMPLE FISCAL MEMORANDUM FORMAT                                                                                      27

Attachment 5—(Added-PACAF) SAMPLE OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE
             CERTIFICATION                                                                                                                28

Attachment 6—(Added-PACAF) SAMPLE ADDENDUM FORMAT                                                                                         29

Attachment 7—(Added-PACAF) SAMPLE DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY FORMAT                                                                          30


1. Scope of Authority. This Instruction is procedural only. Substantive legal authority for each
obligation the United States will assume must reside in constitutional, statutory, or other legal
authority applicable to the subject matter of the proposed agreement.
   1.1. Authority. Air Force personnel, or those serving with the Air Force, must obtain written
   approval from one of the following authorities before they may initiate, negotiate, or
   conclude international agreements:
       1.1.1. The Secretary of the Air Force or an authorized representative.
       1.1.2. The head of an organizational element of the Air Force, or designee, who has
       proper delegated authority.
       1.1.3. The head of another organizational element of the Department of Defense (DoD),
       or an authorized representative, with delegated authority with respect to the particular
       type of international agreement involved under AFPD 51-7 and DODD 5530.3.
4                                            AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


    1.2. Delegation of Authority. This paragraph reflects long-standing Secretary of the Air
    Force delegations of authority. Subject to paragraph 1.5, commanders of major commands
    (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and the heads of Headquarters Air Force
    (HAF) organizations are delegated the authority to negotiate and conclude international
    agreements, or to approve the negotiation and conclusion of such agreements, involving
    predominantly Air Force matters that are within the authority and responsibility of such
    commanders and heads, in the following categories:
       1.2.1. Technical, operational, working, or similar agreements or arrangements concluded
       pursuant to a treaty or executive agreement that entails implementing arrangements.
           1.2.1.1. Note: Do not assume that if an agreement merely implements an existing
           agreement it is not a new international agreement and that the requirements of AFPD
           51-7 and DODD 5530. 3 do not apply. Also, do not assume previously delegated
           authority remains valid for implementing agreements. Narrowly interpret the
           delegation of authority for this category of agreements.
           1.2.1.2. In particular, authority is not delegated for implementing agreements which
           in any way expand or deviate from the basic agreement, or which address Status of
           Force Agreement (SOFA) rights or place restrictions on operating rights for military
           forces outside of the US. If there is any question as to proper procedures or any
           question whether properly delegated authority to negotiate an agreement exits, obtain
           advice from Deputy General Counsel, International Affairs (SAF/GCI) or the
           responsible staff judge advocate.
       1.2.2. Cooperative or reciprocal operational, logistical, training or other military support
       including the shared use or licensing of military equipment, facilities, services, or
       nonphysical resources.
       1.2.3. Combined military planning, command relationships, military exercises and
       operations, minor and emergency force deployments, or exchange programs. (For USAF
       officer exchanges with air forces of other governments, see AFI 16-107, Military
       Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP). The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense
       (Policy) (USD(P)) must approve the negotiation and conclusion of personnel exchange
       agreements.
       1.2.4. Collection and exchange of military information or data, other than military
       intelligence.
       1.2.5. Health and medical matters, including cooperative research, development, testing,
       evaluation, technical data exchange, and related standardization agreements concerning
       health and medical matters, provided that such agreements are not implemented through
       the security assistance program.
       1.2.6. Sharing or exchange of DoD communications equipment, facilities, support,
       services, or other communications resources with a foreign country or alliance
       organization such as North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) (including agreements
       pursuant to 10 USC §2350f, Procurement of Communications Support and Related
       Supplies and Services), the use of US military frequencies or frequency bands, and the
       use of US communications facilities and systems by foreign organizations, whether
       overseas or in the United States. Obtain approval in advance from the Under Secretary of
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                         5


     Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)) if such an agreement does not consist mainly of Air
     Force matters.
     1.2.7. EXCEPTION: Agreements about operational command of joint forces require
     prior approval from the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff (CJCS).
  1.3. Exercise of Delegated Authority. Appropriate individuals must exercise this authority
  in compliance with laws and regulations that apply to the particular subject matter of the
  international agreement involved and are authorized to communicate through command
  channels with the DoD entity responsible for approving such agreements. Also, when
  authority has been delegated to a DoD element to negotiate an agreement, either specifically
  or by category, it does not relieve the DoD element of the requirement to fully coordinate the
  agreement.
     1.3.1. Exercise this authority in full consultation with other Air Force and DoD
     organizations that have an interest in the subject matter of the agreement. In particular,
     an Air Force command or organization assigned to or located within the geographic area
     of a unified command must advise that command of any international negotiations which
     affect the unified command's plans and programs. The Air Force negotiators must give a
     copy of each agreement they conclude to the affected unified command. See Attachment
     3 for other organizations which must receive copies of the agreement.
     1.3.2. Coordinate with the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) or its designee any agreement in
     paragraph 1.1.2. that involves significant changes in logistics support for US Armed
     Forces and that affects joint plans and programs (including base adjustments).
  1.4. Redelegation of Authority. The authority delegated in paragraph 1.2. may be
  redelegated to subordinate commanders. However, redelegation does not relieve the
  delegating commander of the final responsibility for compliance with this Instruction and
  AFPD 51-7, Section 1A. Delegating commanders must send copies of all directives,
  messages, or correspondence redelegating authority or otherwise implementing this
  Instruction to the Operations and International Law Directorate, Office of The Judge
  Advocate General, HQ USAF/JAO. Staff actions "for the commander" are not redelegations.
  1.4. (PACAF) HQ PACAF/A4 is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for
  administering all HQ PACAF agreements with the exception of intelligence exchange related
  agreements that are exclusively administered by A2. HQ PACAF-assigned personnel will
  not undertake any actions which could result in an international agreement (to include even
  the most basic discussions) without prior coordination with and approval from the
  international agreement program manager assigned to HQ PACAF/A4 and PACAF/JAO.
  Installation and Numbered Air Force (NAF) support agreement managers (SAM) are the
  OPRs for administering wing and NAF international agreements. However, NAF and
  Installation Commanders may appoint separate International Agreement Managers if they so
  desire. International agreement actions involving wing and NAF units should not be
  undertaken without prior coordination with the appropriate agreement manager.
     1.4.1. (Added-PACAF) Authority to negotiate and conclude international agreements
     or approve the negotiation and conclusion of such agreements which are not excluded by
     limitations contained in paragraphs 1.2 and 1.5 and for which PACAF/CC has authority
     to negotiate and conclude, is delegated to NAF commanders. NAF commanders may re-
6                                          AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


       delegate their authority on an agreement-by-agreement basis after reviewing a proposal
       of the agreement. This must be done before any official negotiations take place.
       1.4.2. (Added-PACAF) Requests by wing commanders for the authority to negotiate
       and conclude international agreements must be submitted in writing to the NAF/CC
       through the NAF international agreement manager who will coordinate with appropriate
       NAF key functional offices and Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA). In order to
       minimize confusion, the NAF/CC’s delegation letter should be specific as to the authority
       delegated (see atch 7).
       1.4.3. (Added-PACAF) The authority to conclude an international agreement may be
       requested and granted simultaneously with the authority to negotiate that agreement.
       1.4.4. (Added-PACAF) Full negotiation and conclusion authority for mutual aid and
       fire protection support agreements is hereby delegated (within regulatory limits) to
       installation commanders, provided the format in AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services
       Program, Attachment 5 for US or Attachment 6 for Foreign is used. Minor changes (i.e.,
       format, administrative wording) to this format may be approved by installation
       commanders. Major changes (i.e., content, provisions) must be approved by HQ
       PACAF/A7X and HQ PACAF/JAO in writing and coordinated through the installation
       agreement manager.
       1.4.5. (Added-PACAF) Authority to forward requests on behalf of PACAF/CC for
       agreements to be negotiated for which PACOM or higher headquarters is the proponent
       for action is delegated to PACAF/A4. Examples include but are not limited to requests
       for Acquisition and Cross Servicing Agreements, Acquisition Only Agreements, basing
       agreements, and status of forces agreements or diplomatic notes related to status of
       forces. Such requests will be coordinated with PACAF/JAO prior to forwarding.
       1.4.6. (Added-PACAF) Terms explained:
           1.4.6.1. (Added-PACAF) Preliminary or Exploratory Discussions. Refer to AFI
           51-701, Attachment 1, Terms, “Negotiation”.
           1.4.6.2. (Added-PACAF) Conclusion. The act of signing, initialing, responding, or
           otherwise indicating the acceptance of an international agreement by the United
           States. An international agreement must not be concluded without proper authority.
    1.5. Specific Limits on Delegated Authority. The authority delegated in paragraph 1.2. does
    not apply to the negotiation or conclusion of the following international agreements. See
    paragraph 1.1. for handling proposals for the negotiation or conclusion of such agreements,
    even though they may otherwise fall within the scope of a category of agreements listed in
    paragraph 1.3.
       1.5.1. International Agreements That Have Policy Significance. Prior approval from the
       Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Policy) (USD(P)) is required before
       negotiating or concluding these agreements. The term "policy significance" is to be
       broadly interpreted. Any subject which has reached the Assistant Secretary of Defense
       level in either government should be considered to have policy significance. If there is
       any doubt about the policy significance of a proposed agreement, it should be sent
       informally through command channels to AF/JAO and SAF/GCI for determination.
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                      7


     Agreements that have "policy significance" include, but are not limited to, those
     identified in Attachment 4, International Agreements and Agreements with Policy
     Significance.
        1.5.1.1. International Agreements That Would Rely on The Authority of 10 USC
        §2304, Contracts: Competition Requirements, paragraph (c)(4) For Use of Other
        Than Competitive Contracting Procedures. Obtain the prior approval of the Under
        Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology & Logistics) (USD(AT&L)) before
        negotiating or concluding such agreements.
        1.5.1.2. International Agreements Requiring New Legislative Authority For
        Implementation. Obtain the prior approval of the General Counsel of the Department
        of Defense (DoD/GC) before negotiating or concluding such agreements.
        1.5.1.3. International Agreements That Obtain Foreign Operating or Military Rights,
        As Defined in Attachment 1, "Foreign Operating Rights" and "Foreign Military
        Rights." The negotiation and conclusion of such agreements requires the approval of
        USD(P).
        1.5.1.4. International Agreements That Involve or Are Likely To Involve The
        Release of Classified Military Information, Classified Technology, or Classified
        Materiel. Coordinate the security provisions of such agreements with the USD(P)
        and the USD(I) before making any commitment to representatives of a foreign
        government or international organization.
        1.5.1.5. International Agreements Involving Security Assistance Programs. Obtain
        the prior approval of the Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) before
        negotiating and concluding such agreements.
        1.5.1.6. International Agreements Concerning Intelligence and Related Matters.
        Obtain the prior agreement of the Director, Defense Intelligence Agency, with the
        concurrence of USD(I), before negotiating and concluding agreements involving the
        collection and exchange of intelligence information (except signals intelligence
        agreements). Consult Defense Intelligence Agency Instruction 2000.01, International
        Military Intelligence Relationships, for additional guidance. The negotiation and
        conclusion of signals intelligence agreements also requires the prior approval of the
        Director, National Security Agency (NSA).
        1.5.1.7. International Agreements Involving Coproduction, Licensed Production, or
        Related Standardization Matters. DSCA must approve negotiating and concluding
        agreements implemented through the security assistance program (e.g., under a
        provision of the Arms Export Control Act). USD(AT&L) must give prior approval of
        all other such agreements.
        1.5.1.8. International Military or Industrial Security Agreements Under The
        Provisions of DoD Directive 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information
        to Foreign Governments and International Organizations, paragraph E.1.d.
        USD(AT&L) must give prior approval of such agreements.
        1.5.1.9. International Agreements Relating to On-Base Financial Institutions (E.G.,
        Military Banking Facilities And Credit Unions) and International Financial
 8                                            AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


            Agreements Requiring Coordination With the Treasury Department Under DoD
            7000.14-R Volume 5. The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)) must
            give prior approval of such agreements. For approval, forward copies through
            command channels to SAF/ FMP (Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial
            Operations). Send information copies to SAF/GCI and AF/JAO.
            1.5.1.10. International Agreements Related to Communications Security Technology,
            Services, Support, Research, or Equipment Development and Production. Such
            agreements require the prior approval of the NSA.
            1.5.1.11. International Agreements Related To Mapping, Charting, Or Geodesy.
            Such agreements require the prior approval of the Director, National Geospatial-
            Intelligence Agency (NGA), with USD(I) and USD(P) concurrence
            1.5.1.12. Agreements Related to Cooperative Research and Development and
            Acquisition (Except For Those Relating to Health and Medical Matters of the Air
            Force). The Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/IA) is the office of
            primary responsibility for proposals relating to cooperative research, development,
            testing, evaluation, technical data exchange, and related standardization matters.
            Forward all proposals for the negotiation of such agreements through command
            channels to SAF/IA.
            1.5.1.13. Agreements (including those agreements for which authority is delegated
            under paragraph 1.2. above) for which HAF has directed additional or special
            coordination/approval requirements.
2. Procedures. Air Force personnel will not make any unilateral commitment to any foreign
government or international organization (either orally or in writing), tender to a prospective
party thereto any draft of a proposed international agreement, nor initial or sign an international
agreement, before obtaining the concurrence of either SAF/GCI or the responsible staff judge
advocate as set forth below.
2. (PACAF)Coordination with appropriate functional managers at all levels, including
MAJCOM and other Air Force and DoD agencies having an interest in the agreement
subject matter, must be accomplished.It is the responsibility of the agreement subject matter
OPR to accomplish coordination with subject matter OCR’s. The agreement manager will
facilitate coordination and assist subject matter OPR as necessary. History of negotiations and
coordination can be maintained by the subject matter OPR based on locally established policy.
Such local policy must be developed and maintained in writing by the agreement manager
regardless who maintains agreement files. Advise appropriate subordinate unified commands
and PACOM/J06/J41of all negotiations which have an impact on plans and programs.
     2.1. Submit for SAF/GCI concurrence all proposals for the negotiation or conclusion of
     international agreements originating or received in the Secretariat of the Air Force, or the Air
     Staff, including:
        2.1.1. Requests for authority to negotiate or conclude agreements.
        2.1.2. Proposed international agreements referred to the Secretariat of the Air Force or
        Air Staff for coordination by any Air Force command or agency, the Office of the
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                        9


     Secretary of Defense, JCS, another DoD component, the Department of State, or another
     US Government agency.
  2.2. Submit all proposals for the negotiation or conclusion of international agreements which
  are within the authority of major commanders or field operating agencies (or their
  subordinate commands if properly redelegated) to the staff judge advocate of that command
  or agency for concurrence. Coordinate determinations that an agreement solely defines
  administrative procedures with the staff judge advocate of the command or agency involved
  prior to entering into any negotiation.
     2.2.1. (Added-PACAF) PACAF units shall coordinate any international agreement
     requirements (from any level of foreign government or military) with the appropriate
     level (Wing, NAF, or MAJCOM) SJA as soon as they are known. The agreement
     manager and the SJA work closely for coordination and staffing. Prior to concluding an
     international agreement, the agreement manager will obtain a legal memorandum that
     will address:
         2.2.1.1. (Added-PACAF) The substantive and procedural authority to negotiate and
         conclude such an agreement
         2.2.1.2. (Added-PACAF) Whether the proposed agreement is consistent with US
         law, regulations, and policies
         2.2.1.3. (Added-PACAF) That the text of the agreement is legally sufficient to
         accomplish the desired objective
         2.2.1.4. (Added-PACAF) Whether any obligations that the US Government will
         incur as a result of the agreement are authorized under fiscal or appropriations law
         2.2.1.5. (Added-PACAF) Whether the proposed signatory has authority to negotiate
         and conclude the agreement.
         2.2.1.6. (Added-PACAF) Whether or not the agreement is an international
         agreement requiring Case Act reporting or is merely an administrative/procedural
         agreement with no reporting requirement.
     2.2.2. (Added-PACAF) PACAF personnel negotiating on behalf of non-PACAF
     commands are not authorized to obligate USAF facility or resources without prior
     coordination with the appropriate USAF installation commander.
     2.2.3. (Added-PACAF) If the responsible SJA concurs that a proposed agreement is an
     administrative agreement rather than an international agreement defined under DODD
     5530.3, International Agreements, a written statement from the SJA to that effect will be
     included in the agreement’s history file. Administrative agreements can be maintained
     by any functional OPR as determined locally. However, the agreement manager should
     at least maintain a list of known international agreements that affect his/her commander
     at the Wing/NAF/MAJCOM central repository for the purpose of visibility and
     continuity.
     2.2.4. (Added-PACAF) International agreements (except Mutual Aid and Fire
     Protection international agreements, which comply with AFI 32-2001) will ordinarily
     contain the following articles as a minimum (deviations may be approved by the
     appropriate SJA): I. Authority; II. Purpose; III. Mutual Responsibilities of Parties (if
10                                       AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


     any); IV. USAF Responsibilities; V. (Other Party) Responsibilities; VI. Property (if
     any); VII. Claims; VIII. Resolution of Conflicts; IX. Revision, Review and
     Termination; X. Effective Date and Duration; Signature Block. Typed names, Titles,
     Dates, and Locations. Attachments should include a legal memorandum, fiscal
     memorandum, language certification (if needed), and technical assessment (if needed).
     (See Attachments 2, 3, 4, and 5 for samples.)
     2.2.5. (Added-PACAF) Duration, Review, Revision, and Termination. International
     agreements may be negotiated for any length of time or may be of indefinite duration. As
     a minimum, unilateral agreement reviews within PACAF must be initiated at least every
     three years from the signature date but not once they are expired. Reviews will document
     coordination with the SJA, FM, and all affected functional areas. If there are no changes
     required after unilateral review, the FM and SJA may endorse the agreement indicating
     they have reviewed it and no changes are required.
        2.2.5.1. (Added-PACAF) For those international agreements tied to USG-
        Japan/Korea Joint Committee generated tasks, the following exception applies: FM
        and SJA reviews can wait as long as pending actions are being worked by a Joint
        Committee and functional OPRs are aware of such actions. File a memo for record
        with the agreement noting to the effect that triennial functional review was completed
        pending Joint Committee action.
        2.2.5.2. (Added-PACAF) Review and termination requirements specified in this
        supplement do not apply to administrative agreements. It is the functional OPR’s
        responsibility to review, revise, and terminate such agreements.
        2.2.5.3. (Added-PACAF) Bilateral reviews are not required but are recommended.
        If bilateral reviews are desired, include the terms for review in Article IX of the
        agreement. Use written correspondence to document attempts to conduct a bilateral
        review with the foreign party. Amendments to agreements will be accomplished by
        addendum (see Attachment 6) and attached to the agreement. Addenda should be
        numbered in sequence and processed the same as the primary agreement.
        Amendments can be initiated upon request of either party. Minor administrative
        changes can be accomplished by written notification to affected parties by the
        agreement manager without a formal addendum. However, the SJA must determine
        in writing that proposed changes are administrative in nature and that an amendment
        is not required.
        2.2.5.4. (Added-PACAF) If an amendment is accomplished, the date of the
        amendment can be counted as an agreement review provided all functional managers
        involved with the agreement have reviewed the entire document and so coordinated.
        Agreements shall be terminated by addendum at the time determined by the terms of
        the agreement. Agreements shall require a reasonable amount of time (90-180 days)
        for notification of the intent to unilaterally terminate the agreement via an official
        memorandum signed by an official in a position equivalent to the current signatory.
        However, if mutual consent is obtained, the agreement can be terminated sooner.
        Ensure distribution of the addendum/official memorandum terminating the agreement
        is provided to the same addressees as the original agreement.
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                      11


     2.2.6. (Added-PACAF) Distribution. Following signing of the agreement, forward the
     transmittal letter (see Attachment 3, para A3.2 of AFI 51-701), copies of the agreement,
     fiscal and legal memoranda to addressees as indicated in Attachment 3, para A3.1 of AFI
     51-701; PACOM/J06, Camp H. M. Smith, HI 96861-5025; HQ PACAF/A4’s
     international agreement manager, 25 E. Street, Suite H-310, Joint Base Pearl Harbor-
     Hickam, HI 96853-5427. Copies of the transmittal letter and agreement should be sent
     to appropriate subordinate units, sub-unified theater commands (USFJ/USFK/PACOM
     REP), and affected functional managers. At a minimum, functional managers include the
     SJA and FM. Fiscal and legal memoranda are for US official use only. PACOM and
     PACAF will accept scanned copies via e-mail.
  2.3. Submit to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management
  and Comptroller (SAF/FM)) for concurrence all proposals for the negotiation or conclusion
  of international agreements that include US financial obligations or have any other cost or
  fiscal implication, and that require SAF/GCI concurrence. Submit to the comptroller of a
  MAJCOM, FOA, or subordinate command for concurrence all such proposals that require the
  concurrence of the staff judge advocate of such command or agency.
     2.3.1. (Added-PACAF) Fiscal Memorandum.            The Installation Comptroller will
     approve and sign a Fiscal Memorandum prepared using the format contained herein
     (Attachment 3) in accordance with the requirements and procedures found in the DoD
     7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulation, Volume 12, Chapter 9. The
     Comptroller will ensure review of past reimbursement data, determine method and
     frequency of billing, coordinate with the appropriate staff and HQ PACAF/FM for
     support provided, and prepare the memorandum. Functional organizations responsible
     for the subject matter of the proposed agreement shall provide inclusive reimbursement
     data to the Comptroller. If historical reimbursement or other cost data is not available,
     then costs will be estimated and provided to the Comptroller for inclusion in the fiscal
     memorandum.
  2.4. Request for Authority To Negotiate or Conclude. When a proposed agreement is
  beyond the delegated authority, or approval by HAF is required under paragraph 1.5.1.14,
  submit a request for authority to negotiate or conclude the agreement to the appropriate HAF
  functional element (Attachment 2). HAF organizations will ensure that SAF/GCI and
  AF/JAO receive copies of any proposals. In instances when no HAF functional office is
  apparent, send the proposal directly to AF/JAO for dissemination to the appropriate HAF
  offices. These offices will coordinate within the Air Staff, with SAF/GCI, and, as
  appropriate, with other elements of the SAF. Before approving any request to negotiate or
  conclude an international agreement, these offices will obtain any required coordination or
  approval from appropriate DoD offices.
     2.4.1. (Added-PACAF) When a proposed agreement is beyond the authority delegated
     to PACAF/CC, submit a request for authority to negotiate and/or conclude the proposed
     agreement to the appropriate USAF or air staff functional element through HQ
     PACAF/A4 (e-mail accepted), 25 E. Street, Suite H302, Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam,
     HI 96853-5427. HQ PACAF/A4 will ensure that HQ PACAF/JAO receives copies of
     any proposals. Requests originating at the wing will be submitted through the
     appropriate chain of command.
 12                                         AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


       2.4.2. (Added-PACAF) When an administrative agreement, implementing arrangement,
       MOU, or other similar agreement is proposed under the auspices of a Joint Committee
       composed of representatives of the US and a host country, care must be taken to properly
       identify the source of authority to negotiate a particular agreement. For instance, an
       agreement that is limited to the provision of land to the USG under a SOFA or basing
       agreement would be an agreement relying on the US joint chain of command’s authority.
       However, an agreement that involves the provision of goods or services belonging to a
       single Service at an installation to another country’s armed forces would be concluded
       under authority granted under the Service procedures found in AFI 51-701 and this
       Supplement. It is the SJA’s responsibility to determine the source of authority.
   2.5. (Added-PACAF) Legal Memorandum. The appropriate SJA will advise on the legal
   sufficiency of proposals for international agreements; assure their legal sufficiency once
   written and participate as required in negotiations as the legal representative. The legal
   memorandum will be signed and dated by the SJA or delegee. To assist in determining legal
   sufficiency, subject matter experts from relevant organizations will provide information
   requested by the SJA and his or her staff.
3. Amendments. The negotiation and conclusion of an amendment to an international
agreement must be approved in accordance with the requirements of this Instruction by the same
US headquarters or office (or its successor) that approved the original agreement, or by another
US official who has been expressly delegated authority to approve amendments to the
agreement.
   3.1. (Added-PACAF) . Amendments to international agreements will be accomplished via
   an addendum in the format shown in Attachment 6. It will be processed in accordance with
   para 2.2.5.and their subparagraphs above.
4. Oral Agreements. Any oral agreement that meets the international agreement criteria in
Attachment 4 is an international agreement that is fully subject to the requirements of this
Instruction and DoD Directive 5530.3. The DoD representative who enters into an oral
agreement must reduce that agreement to writing. A memorandum for the record may fulfill this
requirement. After reducing the agreement to writing, immediately report the agreement in
accordance with paragraph 7. Oral agreements, however, should be the exception and not the
rule. Upon conclusion of an oral agreement, enter the reasons for employing the oral rather than
written form into the negotiating history under paragraph 8 and also summarize those reasons in
the transmittal letter (see Attachment 3, A3.2.).
   4.1. (Added-PACAF) . Oral international agreements are not authorized within PACAF.
   In the event such an agreement is concluded, the concluding official must reduce that
   agreement to a written document within 5 days, forward it to PACAF/CC via HQ
   PACAF/JAO, and explain in writing the reason an oral agreement was necessary. See AFI
   51-701, para 4, for additional guidance.
5. Agreements in Foreign Languages. Air Force personnel will not conclude any international
agreement in a foreign language text unless the agreement meets one of the following criteria:
   5.1. The agreement expressly provides that the English language text is the governing text in
   the event of conflict between the different language texts; or
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              13


   5.2. The agreement expressly provides that the English language text and the foreign
   language text are equally authentic, and each foreign language text of the agreement is the
   subject of a certification, executed before conclusion of the agreement in any language,
   stating that the foreign language text and the English language text are in conformity with
   each other and have the same meaning in all substantive respects. A civilian, military, or
   local national translator, designated as qualified, consistent with local practices, by the Air
   Force official authorized to negotiate and conclude the agreement or by an appropriate
   Department of State official, shall sign and date the certification. Transmit the certification,
   along with the agreement, to the addressees in Attachment 3, A3.1.
6. International Agreements Containing Advance Payment Terms. Only 10 USC 2396,
Advances for payment for compliance with foreign laws, etc. or 10 USC §2307, Contract
financing authorize advance payments to foreign governments and international organizations.
Advance payments are the least desirable method of financing; therefore, use advance payments
only when necessary to comply with the foreign country's laws and ministerial directives. When
advance payments are appropriate, the negotiator must negotiate terms and conditions that are
consistent with prudent cash management. The advance payment procedures should minimize
the amount of cash outlays and the duration of the prepayment time period. Coordinate advance
payment requests through command comptroller channels to SAF/ FMP, Washington DC 20330.
SAF/FMP will obtain the concurrence of SAF/GCI. The advance payment request should
contain, as a minimum, the following information (Note: Because circumstances vary, SAF/FMP
may require additional information):
   6.1. The foreign law or ministerial directive that requires payment in advance.
   6.2. Location and description of project being financed.
   6.3. Cost of the project and amount of advance needed.
   6.4. Name and location of the organization designated as recipient of the advance.
   6.5. Scheduled dates for the advance payments and the start of the project.
   6.6. Detailed description of the payment and recoupment/reconciliation procedures.
   6.7. Provisions for interest, if any, to be accrued from the funds advanced.
   6.8. Name and address of the organization negotiating the advance.
   6.9. Appropriation funding the project.
   6.10. Statement indicating project funding status (that is, fully, partially, or not funded).
7. Reporting Agreements. 1 USC §112b(a), (Case-Zablocki Act), requires the Secretary of
State to report to the Congress all international agreements other than treaties within 60 calendar
days after their entry into force with respect to the United States. According to Title 22, Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 181.5, Twenty-day rule for concluded agreements, each
organizational element of the Air Force that concludes an international agreement must send the
original or certified copies (or both) of the international agreement, in time to arrive at the Office
of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Department of State, not later than 20 calendar
days after signature of the agreement. (EXCEPTION: Submit international intelligence
agreements in time to arrive at Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) or NSA, as appropriate, not
later than 15 calendar days after signature of the agreements.) Use the format in Attachment 3.
 14                                            AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


7. (PACAF). To ensure time limits for notification of agreement consummation to
Congress: are met, US parties to agreements will sign the agreement after all other parties have
signed, when possible.
   7.1. Provide a copy of any annual list of terminated international agreements prepared by or
   for the air component of a unified command to AF/JAO.
   7.2. (Added-PACAF) . When an agreement is signed at the NAF level, the NAF
   agreement manager will forward the transmittal letter and copies in accordance with AFI 51-
   701, Attachment 3, paras A3.1 and A3.2. If a wing commander signs an agreement, the
   installation agreement manager will forward the transmittal letter as per above.
   7.3. (Added-PACAF) . Wing agreement managers will submit a list of agreements to their
   NAF agreement managers twice a year during the months of January and July. NAF
   managers will in turn, forward a list of Wing/NAF agreements to MAJCOM agreement
   manager. List will contain: Agreement Number, Signatories, Basic description, Effective
   Date, Last Review Date, Next Review Date, and Remarks (e.g., termination process,
   impasse, current, etc.)
8. Negotiating History of Agreements. The organization that actually negotiates an
international agreement is responsible for compiling, keeping, and being able to retrieve a
complete negotiating history file on it. Maintain this historical file at least for the duration of the
agreement, or until it no longer has legal significance.
   8.1. (Added-PACAF) . Individual file folders will be maintained for each agreement to
   ensure a complete record is maintained in support of the USAF position throughout the life
   of the agreement. Six-part folders are recommended, but not mandatory as long as files are
   kept in an organized, consistent manner. If 6-part folders/binders are used, the following
   organization is recommended: Part One will contain the current agreement and attachments.
   These documents should also be stored in an off-line storage medium to be included in Part
   One, if practical. Part Two will contain correspondence and coordination applicable to the
   current agreement. Part Three will contain copies of superseded agreements. Part Four may
   contain historical data or a document identifying the functional office who maintains the
   negotiating history (notes and minutes from negotiation sessions) portion of the files. Part
   Five will contain contact lists and milestones as applicable to the agreement. The functional
   OPR is the primary keeper of negotiation history. Part Six will contain at least one extra
   copy of the current agreement.
   8.2. (Added-PACAF) . An administrative agreement with SJA coordination can be
   maintained by any functional OPR’s as determined locally. Real Estate tasks generated by a
   SOFA Joint Committee (for example, a Facilities and Areas Sub Committee (FASC)) will be
   staffed and tracked either by the wing real estate officer or agreement manager, as
   determined locally, until the agreed recommendation is signed by both parties and
   transmitted to the SOFA Secretariat for final action. The SOFA Joint Committee is the
   exclusive entity through which matters of grant and return of real-estate or of change in use
   can be affected. To aid the SOFA Joint Committee in real estate matters, the Joint
   Committee has created a subcommittee, the Facilities (and Areas) Subcommittee that the
   Joint Committee can task to deliberate on such matters, and provide recommendations on
   action to the Joint Committee.
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                         15


       8.2.1. (Added-PACAF) USG-Japan/Korea           Joint   Committee      (JC)    related
       documents/discussions leading to a Joint Committee signed document (such as Facilities
       Sub-Committee documents leading to a signed JC memo) do not fall under this
       supplement or AFI. For specific JC guidance, use USFJ/USFK guidance.
       8.2.2. (Added-PACAF) Installation commanders are not required to obtain delegation
       of authority from NAFs (through PACAF) to work on the Joint Committee generated
       land-use agreements that are limited to grants of land or facilities, or returns or use of
       same. However, agreements that involve costs, e.g., provision of/reimbursement for
       utilities, maintenance responsibilities, etc., require authority to negotiate and conclude
       using Service procedures set out in AFI 51-701 and this Supplement.
       8.2.3. (Added-PACAF) . Lower level “land-use” agreements that are not approved by
       the respective Joint Committee are not authorized under this provision. Such agreements
       require staffing using Service procedures found in AFI 51-701 and this Supplement.
       8.2.4. (Added-PACAF) . Because these tasks are codified in the form of international
       agreements with potential wing mission impacts, Real Estate must work closely with the
       Installation agreement manager and installation SJA in the coordination process.
9. Office of Record. AF/JAO is the single office of record for the Air Force by maintaining
copies of each agreement covered by this Instruction. Each Air Force organization that exercises
delegated authority under this Instruction must name a single office to carry out the required
recordkeeping, and provide AF/JAO with one copy of its implementing directive.
   9.1. (Added-PACAF) . HQ PACAF/A4 International Agreements OPR is the office of
   record for HQ PACAF international agreements. The office of record for NAF and wing
   level international agreements is the applicable activity agreement manager.
10. Compliance. According to DODD 5530.3, the Air Force must oversee compliance with
those international agreements for which it is responsible. The Air Force must keep the DoD/GC
up to date and fully informed on compliance with such international agreements.
   10.1. Resolving Compliance Issues. When a question arises concerning compliance by a
   party with the terms of an international agreement that cannot be resolved by informal
   discussion between responsible working level authorities of the parties, send a report of the
   full particulars of the circumstances relevant to such question to SAF/GCI, with a copy to
   AF/JAO (except for such questions governed by the procedures set forth in AFJI 51-706,
   Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and Information).
16                                         AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013



  10.2. Resolving Policy Issues. Unless previously authorized by the Secretary of Defense,
  Air Force personnel shall not take any action to resolve or otherwise deal with such questions
  having policy significance before obtaining the written concurrence of both USD(P) and
  DoD/GC. Submit any request for the concurrence of USD(P) and DoD/GC concerning such
  a question through command channels and HAF to SAF/GCI, who shall consult with SAF/IA
  and other appropriate HAF offices regarding appropriate action.




                                           RICHARD C. HARDING
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           The Judge Advocate General

                                           (PACAF)

                                           MARK M. MCLEOD, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director of Logistics
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              17


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-PACAF) AFI 13-204, Volumes 1, 2, and 3, Air Traffic Control, 1 September 2010
(Added-PACAF) AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
(Added-PACAF) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 5 February 2009
AFJI 51-706, Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and Information, 14 January 1990
AFI 16-107, Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP), 2 February 2006
(Added-PACAF) DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 12, Chap 9, DoD Financial Management Regulation,
International Agreements, Oct 2008
(Added-PACAF) DoD Directive 5530.3, International Agreements, 11 June 1987
(Added-PACAF) JO 7210.3V, Facility Operation and Administration, 14 February 2008
Title 1 United States Code Section 112b (a), Case-Zablocki Act
Title 10 United States Code Section 2304, Contracts: competition requirements
Title 10 United States Code Section 2307, Contract financing
Title 10 United States Code Section 2341, Authority to acquire logistic support, supplies, and
services for elements of the armed forces deployed outside the United States
Title 10 United States Code Section 2350f, Procurement of communications support and related
supplies and services
Title 10 United States Code Section 2396, Advances for payment for compliance with foreign
laws, rent in foreign countries, tuition, public utility services, and pay and supplies of armed
forces of friendly foreign countries
Title 10 United States Code Section 2667, Leases: non-excess property of military departments
and Defense Agencies
Title 10 United States Code Section 2675, Leases: foreign countries
Title 22 United States Code Section 2796, Leasing Authority
Title 22, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 181.5, Twenty-day rule for concluded agreements,
current edition
DoD Directive 2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements, November 24, 2003
DoD Directive 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments
and International Organizations, June 16, 1992
DoD Directive 5530.3, International Agreements, June 11, 1987
DoD Financial Management Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 5, current edition
 18                                         AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


Defense Intelligence Agency Instruction 2000.001, International Military Intelligence
Relationships, December 2, 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASCC—Air Standardization Coordination Committee
ANG—Air National Guard
CJCS—Chairman Joint Chief of Staff
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
JCS—Joint Chief of Staff
MAJCOM—Major Command
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NAVSTAGS—Naval Standardization Agreements
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NSA—National Security Agency
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
QSTAG—Quadripartite Standardization Agreements
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
STANAG—Standardization Agreements
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
USC—United States Code
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              19


Terms
Conclusion—The act of signing, initialing, responding, or otherwise indicating the acceptance of
an international agreement by the United States.
Foreign Military Rights—These rights are a foreign government's approval to conduct US
operations or activities of a longer duration and of a more permanent nature in its territory.
These rights are the subject of government-to-government negotiations. They permit operating
US bases overseas, stationing US units overseas, establishing lines of communication, etc.
Requirements for these rights are set up as part of US-worldwide programs and requirements.
Foreign Operating Rights—These rights are a foreign government's approval to conduct US
operations or activities of short duration in or over its territory. Such rights permit (subject to
restrictions imposed by the foreign government) surveys, temporary support facilities, entry of
personnel, etc. In some situations, a foreign operating right may permit entry into a foreign
territory without a subsequent foreign clearance. In others, foreign operating rights may only
pertain to proposed activities in general, and one or more foreign clearances may be needed to
enter, transit, or exit the foreign territory.
Negotiation—Communication by any means of a position or an offer, on behalf of the United
States, the Department of Defense, or on behalf of any officer or an organizational element
thereof, to an agent or representative of a foreign government, including an agency,
instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, or of an international organization, in such detail
that the acceptance in substance of such position or offer would result in an international
agreement. The term "negotiation" includes any such communication even if it is conditioned on
later approval by higher authority. The term "negotiation" also includes provision of a draft
agreement or other document, the acceptance of which would constitute an agreement, as well as
discussions concerning any US or foreign government or international organization draft
document whether or not titled "agreement." The term "negotiation" does not include
preliminary or exploratory discussions or routine meetings where no draft documents are
discussed, so long as such discussions or meetings are conducted with the understanding that the
views communicated do not and shall not bind or commit any side legally or otherwise.
 20                                           AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 2
       PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING TO NEGOTIATE OR CONCLUDE AN
                     INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT

A2.1. Procedures. When a proposed international agreement goes beyond the delegated
authority, written authority to negotiate or conclude the agreement is required. A request to
negotiate may be by letter or message and must include:
   A2.1.1. A draft text, outline, or complete description of the proposed international
   agreement.
   A2.1.2. A legal memorandum stating the Constitutional, statutory, or other legal authority
   for each proposed obligation that the United States would assume in the agreement and an
   explanation of other relevant legal considerations.
   A2.1.3. A fiscal memorandum stating the estimated cost of each proposed obligation that the
   DoD would assume in the agreement, the source of funds to be obligated, and reference to
   foreign currency payment provisions, if applicable.
   A2.1.4. A Technology Assessment and Control Plan per DoD Directive 5530.3.
   A2.1.5. A quid pro quo analysis that fully addresses the benefit to be derived by each
   signatory to all proposed agreements involving cooperative research, development, testing,
   evaluation, technical data exchange, and related standardization matters.
A2.2. Procedures Unique to International Intelligence Agreements. All proposals for
collection and exchange of intelligence information (except signals intelligence) must be
approved by the Director, DIA before the Air Force intelligence organization makes any
commitments to a foreign organization. Refer to DIA Instruction 2000.001, for guidance on how
to contact a foreign organization about the possibility of starting intelligence relationship; how to
establish, change or terminate an intelligence relationship; how to meet semi-annual reporting
requirements on the status of these relationships; and how to acknowledge any electronic
communications systems supporting these relationships. DIA International Engagement (IE), is
the DoD office of primary responsibility for international intelligence exchange agreements for
general military intelligence agreements (except signals intelligence agreements). The DIA
Defense Counterintelligence and HUMINT Center (DX) is the DoD Office of primary
responsibility for operational defense human intelligence (HUMINT) collection agreements with
foreign partners. [Note: Other types of collection agreements (i.e. for non-HUMINT collection
programs) will be coordinated and processed through DIA/IE as if they were traditional
intelligence exchange agreements].
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              21


                                     Attachment 2 (PACAF)
                       SAMPLE TRANSMITTAL LETTER FORMAT

Figure A2.1. Sample Transmittal Letter Format
MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION LIST

FROM: HQ PACAF/A4P
      (Address)

SUBJECT: International Agreement (AGREEMENT Number)

1. In accordance with DoD Directive 5530.3, Sections D and E, and AFI 51-701, paragraph 7, the
following is submitted:

    a. Title: (Agreement Title) (Number)
    b. Security Classification: (As applicable)
    c. Subject:
    d. Country Involved:
    e. Summary: (One-line summary of AGREEMENT provisions)
    f. Signature Date: (Day, Month, Year)
    g. Date in Force: (Day, Month, Year)
    h. Duration: (of the AGREEMENT terms)
    i. Legal Authority: See Attachment 3
    j. Responsible Office for Maintaining the Negotiating History: (the local support agreements
manager SAM)
    k. Background Information: (Include statements as to why the agreement is required and why
it was concluded at this time)
    l. Effect of the Agreement: (Explain the benefits to be gained by each party)
    m. Geographic Location: (Where the agreement was signed)
    n. Name and Title of All Individuals Signing the Agreement:

2. This letter and the following attachments are certified to be true and complete copies of the
originals.


6 Attachments:
1. Distribution List
2. Agreement (Number)
3. Legal Review
4. Fiscal Memorandum
5. Foreign Language Certificate (if applicable)
6. Addendum (If applicable)
 22                                           AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 3
                    REPORTING INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS

A3.1. Addressees. Each organizational element of the Air Force that concludes an international
agreement must submit reproducible copies of the agreements to the following addressees:
   A3.1.1. Department of State, Attn Assistant Legal Adviser, Treaty Affairs, Washington DC,
   USA, 20520. (The original and one certified copy, or two certified copies)
   A3.1.2. DoD General Counsel, 1600 DEFENSE PENTAGON, WASHINGTON DC, 20301-
   1600. (Two certified copies)
   A3.1.3. Office of the Deputy General Counsel, International Affairs (SAF/GCI), 1740 AIR
   FORCE PENTAGON, WASHINGTON DC, 20330-1740. (One certified copy)
   A3.1.4. Operations and International Law Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General
   (HQ USAF/JAO, 1420 AIR FORCE PENTAGON, WASHINGTON DC 20330-1420. (One
   certified copy)
   A3.1.5. Any other offices required by unified or specified command directives or deemed
   appropriate by the component Air Force commands or their designee.
A3.2. Letter of Transmittal. Include a letter of transmittal with each international agreement,
that:
   A3.2.1. Identifies type of agreement: bilateral or multilateral.
   A3.2.2. Specifies the countries or international organization(s) that are party to the
   agreement.
   A3.2.3. Lists all US and foreign governmental agencies or units or international
   organizations responsible for carrying out the agreement.
   A3.2.4. Specifies the full title and security classification of the agreement.
   A3.2.5. Specifies the subject of the agreement and summarizes the agreement.
   A3.2.6. Explains why the agreement was concluded now and what the effect of the
   agreement is likely to be, including benefits to each party.
   A3.2.7. Indicates geographic location where the agreement was signed.
   A3.2.8. Specifies the legal authority that authorized the DoD to enter into and carry out the
   agreement (specifying both the procedural authority under this Instruction and the
   substantive legal authority for each obligation undertaken on behalf of the United States
   under the agreement).
   A3.2.9. States the date of entry into force.
   A3.2.10. States the date of termination.
   A3.2.11. Contains the names of all signing officials, their titles and the offices they
   represent, and their countries or international organization.
   A3.2.12. States the full titles and dates of any agreements, if any, upon which the agreement
   is based or amends.
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                         23


  A3.2.13. States the date of signature of the agreement.
  A3.2.14. States any conditions for entry into force.
  A3.2.15. Specifies the organizational element responsible for maintaining the negotiating
  history (see paragraph 1.9).
  A3.2.16. Note: If the transmitted text is a copy of the original, certify the copy to be a true
  copy of the original. If transmitting the text of the agreement more than 20 calendar days
  after its signature, the transmittal document shall fully and completely describe the reasons
  for the late transmittal.
 24                                         AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


                                   Attachment 3 (PACAF)
                 SAMPLE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT FORMAT

Figure A3.1. Sample International Agreement Format
                                                                           FB52XX-11001-001

              MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING INTERNATIONAL

                                         BETWEEN

                         (USAF COMPONENT AND LOCATION)

                                             AND

                       (FOREIGN COMPONENT AND LOCATION)

                                       CONCERNING

                                     (SHORT SUBJECT)

I. AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT. (Specific section of SOFA, Treaty, MBA,
etc.) (If AGREEMENT supersedes prior agreement, identify agreement)

II. GENERAL PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT. (What, Why, Where, When)

 III. MUTUAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES. (Coordinating/liaison committees,
groups, functions, meetings, etc.) If none, so state.

IV. SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES OF USAF.

V. SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OTHER PARTY.

VI. PROPERTY INVOLVED - IF ANY. (Ownership, maintenance, replacement, removal,
accounting, etc.)

VII. CLAIMS. (General, SOFA specific, how registered, how settled, who has jurisdiction, etc.)

VIII. RESOLUTION OF CONFLICTS UNDER THE AGREEMENT.

IX. REVISION, REVIEW AND MODIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT.

X. EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION. (Who approves, terminates - mutual, unilateral -
effective date and term (may be indefinite).)
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                           25


                                          Attachment 4
       INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH POLICY
                          SIGNIFICANCE

A4.1. International Agreement—As used in this Instruction, an international agreement is any
agreement concluded with one or more foreign governments (including their agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions) or with an international organization, that:
A4.1. (PACAF)The following are not normally considered international agreements for the
purpose of this regulation. However, coordinate with the appropriate SJA before concluding
such an agreement:
      (PACAF) Arrangements for the acquisition of real estate or installations and facilities
      according to procedures prescribed in existing treaties or Status of Forces Agreements
      (SOFAs), such as Facilities and Areas Subcommittee (FASC) tasks.

      (PACAF) Air Traffic Control (ATC) Letters of Agreement (LOAs) that supplement ATC
      operational or procedural instructions and to standardize operations. JO 7210.3V, Facility
      Operation and Administration, and AFI 13-204, Volumes 1, 2, and 3, Air Traffic Control,
      apply and for which HQ PACAF/A3 is the final approval authority.

      (PACAF) Exercise Support Agreements (ESA) that outline exercise procedures and
      administrative details. However, care must be taken not to include verbiage appropriate
      for basing type agreements, which are considered international agreements.
   A4.1.1. Is signed or agreed to (including oral commitments) by personnel of any DoD
   component, or by representatives of the Department of State or any other department or
   agency of the US Government.
   A4.1.2. Signifies the intention of its parties to be bound in international law.
   A4.1.3. Is denominated as an international agreement or as a memorandum of
   understanding, memorandum of agreement, memorandum of arrangements, exchange of
   notes, exchange of letters, technical arrangement, protocol, note verbale, aide-memoire,
   agreed minute, plan, contract, arrangement, statement of intent, letter of intent, statement of
   understanding, standard operating procedure, CONPLAN, or any other name connoting a
   similar legal consequence.
   A4.1.4. Is not among the following categories of agreements which, for the purposes of this
   Instruction, are not considered international agreements:
       A4.1.4.1. Contracts made under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).
       A4.1.4.2. Foreign Military Sales Credit Agreements.
       A4.1.4.3. Foreign Military Sales Letters of Offer and Acceptance (LOAs).
       A4.1.4.4. Standardization Agreements, NATO Standardization Agreements (STANAG),
       Quadripartite Standardization Agreements (QSTAG), Air Standardization Coordination
       Committee Air Standards (ASCC Air Standards), and Naval Standardization Agreements
       (NAVSTAGS) that record the adoption of like or similar military equipment,
 26                                        AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


      ammunition, supplies and stores or operational, logistic, and administrative procedures.
      (EXCEPTION: A STANAG which provides for mutual support or cross-servicing of
      military equipment, ammunition, supplies and stores or for mutual rendering of defense
      services, including training, does constitute an international agreement).
      A4.1.4.5. Leases under 10 USC §2667, Non-excess Property; 10 USC §2675, Leases:
      foreign countries; and 22 USC §2796, Leasing Authority
      A4.1.4.6. Agreements concluded solely to establish administrative procedures.
      Coordinate the determination that an agreement solely establishes administrative
      procedures with the staff judge advocate of the command or agency involved prior to
      entering into any negotiation.
      A4.1.4.7. Acquisitions or orders pursuant to cross-servicing agreements made under the
      authority of the NATO Mutual Support Act (10 USC §2341 et seq.) and DoD Directive
      2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements.              Umbrella agreements,
      implementing arrangements and cross-servicing agreements under these authorities are
      international agreements.
A4.2. Agreements That Have "Policy Significance"—Include, but are not limited to
agreements that:
   A4.2.1. Specify national disclosure, technology-sharing or work-sharing arrangements,
   coproduction of military equipment, or offset commitments as part of an agreement for
   international cooperation in the research, development, testing, evaluation, or production of
   defense articles, services, or technology;
   A4.2.2. Would directly and significantly affect foreign or defense relations between the
   United States and another government because of their intrinsic importance or sensitivity;
   A4.2.3. Would by their nature, require approval, negotiation, or signature at the OSD or
   diplomatic level; or
   A4.2.4. Would create security commitments not currently assumed by the United States in
   existing mutual security or other defense agreements and arrangements, or which would
   increase US obligations with respect to the defense of a foreign government or area.
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                            27


                                    Attachment 4 (PACAF)
                       SAMPLE FISCAL MEMORANDUM FORMAT

Figure A4.1. Sample Fiscal Memorandum Format
                                                                               FB52XX-11001-001

Agreement Title/Number                                                        Date:

1. Providing Organization (s) __________________________________

   a. Support to be provided involving:

       APPROPRIATION(S)             ESTIMATED    REIMBURSABLE
                                    ANNUAL COST (OR REPLACEMENT-IN-KIND)

                                                         (Yes/No)

   b. Support will be provided and billed on an as required basis.

2. Recipient will finance the program as follows:

     Financing Appropriation(s)                          Dollar Amount(s)

3. Reimbursement:

   a. Billing Method: SF Form 1080
   b. Billing Frequency: As required
   c. Billing Address: DFAS-Limestone-JAAA
                       Suite 207
                       27 Arkansas Road
                       Limestone, ME 04751-6216

4. Remarks:
                                                Comptroller Signature


Note: Enter information and cost estimates as appropriate; add additional entries as required. All
dollar amounts, whether reimbursable or not will be identified and entered. If any item does not
apply, so state. Costs to be identified in the fiscal memorandum should include, but not be limited
to, transportation, supplies, engineering services (facility maintenance, utilities, etc.),
communications, and personnel costs (military and civilian). Host nation cost sharing should also
be considered when determining costs.
 28                                            AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


                                 Attachment 5 (Added-PACAF)
                  SAMPLE OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE CERTIFICATION

Figure A5.1. Sample of Foreign Language Certification

                                                                                 FB52XX-11001-001


Subject: Certification of Foreign Language Text Concerning International Agreement (FB52XX-
04001-001)

I have personally reviewed the English and (foreign country) language texts of International
Agreement (FB52XX-04001-001) between (USAF Component) and (Foreign Component). As the
designated translator, I certify that the English and (foreign country) texts thereof are in conformity
with each other and that both texts have the same meaning in all substantive respects.




(Designated translator signature)
Date:
AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013                                                           29


                                Attachment 6 (Added-PACAF)
                              SAMPLE ADDENDUM FORMAT

Figure A6.1. Sample Addendum Format
                                                                             FB52XX-11001-001

                            ADDENDUM NUMBER: ____________

                        To Memorandum of Understanding International

                                      (FB52XX-04001-001)

                                           BETWEEN

                           (USAF COMPONENT AND LOCATION

                                              AND

                         (FOREIGN COMPONENT AND LOCATION)

                                         CONCERNING

                                     (SUBJECT MATTER)

This addendum (terminates/revises) international agreement identified above, originally dated
__________, and is hereby agreed to by both parties.

The changes are (as appropriate):

                           OR FOR UNILATERAL TERMINATION


This addendum is the notice required by para _______ of this AGREEMENT, which establishes a
termination date of ______.


(US REPRESENTATIVE SIGNATURE)                        (FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVE
SIGNATURE)

DATE:                                                DATE:


Note: If the number of addendums exceeds three, re-accomplish the agreement at the review date
or earlier, if appropriate.
 30                                          AFI51-701_PACAFSUP_I 15 NOVEMBER 2013


                                Attachment 7 (Added-PACAF)
                   SAMPLE DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY FORMAT

Figure A7.1. Sample Delegation of Authority Format

MEMORANDUM FOR ___/CC

FROM: NAF/CC

SUBJECT: Delegation of Authority to Negotiate Memorandum of Understanding, FB52XX-
11001-001

*1. Authority is hereby delegated to the xth Wing/CC (and/or Rank/Name) to negotiate,
conclude, review, and terminate as relevant and appropriate on behalf of NAF/CC, the
Memorandum of Understanding between xth Wing and the Government of ___ .

2. The xth Wing/CC is further authorized to select, detail and direct such personnel as he/she
deems appropriate to assist in negotiations. (This authority also includes reviews and
termination of this agreement without future delegation of authority from NAF/CC.)

(Optional: 2. Authority is limited to negotiations of the proposed agreement. Authority to
conclude this agreement will be provided when functional reviews are completed at NAF. A
separate delegation of authority from NAF/CC is required for reviews and termination of this
agreement.)

*3. This letter supersedes all previous delegation of authority letters regarding this agreement.



                                              NAF/CC Signature
