BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-701
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                           AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                       Supplement 1
                                                                                             8 MAY 1995

                                                                                                      Law

                                                      NEGOTIATING, CONCLUDING, REPORTING,
                                                          AND MAINTAINING INTERNATIONAL
                                                                             AGREEMENTS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AMC/JA (Lt Col Kevin K. Spradling)                                    Certified by: HQ AMC/JA
                                                                           (Colonel Gordon B. Finley, Jr.)
                                                                                                 Pages: 3
                                                                                          Distribution: F

AFI 51-701, 6 May 1994, is supplemented as follows: (This instruction does not apply to Air National
Guard and United States Air Force Reserve units.)
1.1. Bullet 4(Added). HQ AMC/XPD for all international agreements involving AMC activities.
1.1.4. Change the reference to paragraph 1.2 in line 4 to read paragraph 2.4.
2.2. Submit all proposed written agreements, however characterized (memorandum of agreement, mem-
orandum of understanding, implementing arrangement, etc.) between AMC (including subordinate units)
and a foreign entity (government, military service, agency, etc.), including an international organization,
to HQ AMC/JA for review prior to the start of negotiations with the foreign entity. HQ AMC/JA will
make determinations relating to the status of agreement (international or administrative), the proper
authority to negotiate or conclude the agreement if it is an international agreement, and the appropriate
processing of an international agreement.
2.3. Change references to paragraphs 1.2, 1.2.1, and 1.2.2 to 2, 2.1, and 2.2.
2.4. After coordination with HQ AMC/JA, HQ AMC/XP will submit requests to higher headquarters for
authority to negotiate or conclude an agreement made under this paragraph. In instances when no OSAF
or Air Staff functional office is apparent, HQ AMC/JA will submit the request to HQ USAF/JAI after
coordination with HQ AMC/XP.
2.5. (Added) The AMC, Director of Plans (HQ AMC/XP), provides staff supervision over the develop-
ment, coordination, negotiation, and conclusion of international agreements when responsibility for such
functions are delegated to the Commander, AMC, by Air Force headquarters, USCINCTRANS, or other
appropriate authority. Within AMC headquarters, the Strategy, Planning, and Doctrine Division (HQ
AMC/XPD) is the office of primary responsibility for international agreements. In this capacity, HQ
AMC/XPD:
2                                                                  AFI51-701_AMCSUP1 8 MAY 1995


2.5.1. (Added) Assists in preparing draft agreements and negotiating positions; heads negotiating teams,
as appropriate.
2.5.2. (Added) Provides advice and assistance on international affairs; clarifies, or sends for higher level
attention, questions or problems that cannot be resolved at command level.
2.5.3. (Added) Redelegates authority to negotiate and or conclude agreements after coordination with HQ
AMC/JA, when such activities are to be performed by other AMC agencies or directorates.
2.5.4. (Added) Obtains necessary coordination and approval from Department of Defense and Air Force
agencies on international agreements requiring higher headquarters review and approval.
2.5.5. (Added) When appropriate, ensures proper authorization to negotiate and or conclude international
agreements is obtained from the Commander in Chief, United States Transportation Command (CINC-
TRANS).
2.5.6. (Added) Ensures HQ AMC/JA is kept fully apprised of the status of each pending or planned inter-
national agreement.
2.5.7. (Added) Annually reviews all in-force international agreements relevant to command operations
for which the command is OPR.
2.6. (Added) In addition to responsibilities in the basic instruction and this supplement, HQ AMC/JA:
2.6.1. (Added) Reviews requests for redelegation of approval authority and requests for authorization to
negotiate and conclude international agreements.
2.6.2. (Added) Assists in drafting agreements and participates as required in negotiations.
2.6.3. (Added) Acts as AMC's conduit for information relating to international agreements and issues,
transmitted to, or received from the DoD General Counsel (OSD/GC), Legal Advisor to the Chairman,
Joint Chiefs of Staff (OCJCS/LA), Air Force General Counsel— International (SAF/GCI) and the Inter-
national and Operations Law Division of the Air Force Judge Advocate General (HQ USAF/JAI).
2.6.4. (Added) Ensures compilation, retention, and retrievability of complete negotiating history file for
each international agreement for which the command is OPR. The negotiating team retains all correspon-
dence, internal working papers, and minutes of meetings in order to preserve the negotiating history. HQ
AMC/XP will submit the negotiating file with the completed agreement to HQ AMC/JA.
2.6.5. (Added) Maintains a central repository and inventory of all agreements negotiated or concluded by
the command and its organizational elements, as well as copies of all international agreements negotiated
or concluded by US government agencies having a significant effect on the plans and programs of the
command.
2.6.6. (Added) Reviews all agreements negotiated by command agencies and directorates to ensure com-
pliance with international and US laws and regulations.
2.6.7. (Added) Reports international agreements, as required, in accordance with paragraph 7 of the basic
instruction and other DoD directives.
4. AMC personnel will neither negotiate nor conclude oral international agreements.
8. HQ AMC/JA is responsible for maintaining the required negotiating history file.
9. HQ AMC/JA is the AMC office of record.
AFI51-701_AMCSUP1 8 MAY 1995                                                                      3


10. Contact with the DoD General Counsel will be accomplished by, or coordinated in advance with, HQ
AMC/JA.
10.1. Reports required by this paragraph will be written, staffed, and forwarded to SAF/GCI and HQ
USAF/JAI, by HQ AMC/JA.
10.2. Requests for the concurrence of USD(P) and DOD/GC will be coordinated, in advance, with HQ
AMC/JA.
11. (Added) Contact with OSD/GC, OCJCS/LA, SAF/GCI, or HQ USAF/JAI on matters arising under
the basic instruction, will be accomplished by or after advance coordination with HQ AMC/JA.



                                                     GORDON B. FINLEY, JR, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Deputy Staff Judge Advocate
