BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-906
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          25 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                             Law

                                                            REPRESENTATIONAL AND
                                                   ORGANIZATIONAL ACTIVITIES OF AIR
                                                                 FORCE PERSONNEL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THISPUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/JAA                                             Certified by: AF/JA (Maj Gen Rockwell)
                                                                                     Pages: 13
Supersedes:    AFI 51-906, 21 July 1994


This Instruction implements DoDI 1354.01, DoD Policy on Organizations that Seek to Represent
or Organize Members of the Armed Forces in Negotiation or Collective Bargaining and AFPD
51-9, Civil Law for Individuals. It provides guidance and procedures for responding to
individuals and organizations on a military installation whose objective is to represent or
organize military members of the Air Force for the purpose of negotiation or collective
bargaining over terms or conditions of military service. It describes both prohibited and
permissible conduct of Air Force civilian and military personnel (including Air Reserve
Component personnel) with respect to representational and organizational activities. This
Instruction also applies to Air National Guard personnel performing duty or training in any Title
32 status. Military members subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) (i.e., in
Title 10 status), who violate the prohibitions, or fail to comply with the mandatory requirements,
as applicable, in paragraphs 2.1 through 2.5.2 of this Instruction may be prosecuted under Article
92, UCMJ, as well as any other applicable articles of the UCMJ or provisions of federal law.
Violations may result in administrative disciplinary action in addition to otherwise applicable
criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Violations by civilian employees (to
include Air Reserve Component Military Technician employees) may result in administrative
disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws. Any organization may supplement this publication: Major commands
(MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU) notify AF/JAA;
other organizations notify the next higher headquarters. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, or T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
 2                                                          AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Compliance
waiver requests must be submitted through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver
approval authority. All other waivers will be submitted to the publication OPR. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between
this and other publications to AF/JAA, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1420,
on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include extending the applicability of the AFI to Reserve and Air National Guard personnel;
tiering the publication; removing the prohibition on recruitment; eliminating redundancies; and
updating terminology. Paragraph 2.4.3.1distinguishes between activities of traditional veterans
organizations and those of military labor organizations, and paragraph 4.5.4 changes the required
reporting method for requests or attempts to engage in activities prohibited by this Instruction.
Table 1 was modified to delineate between actions taken by the unit and installation
commanders, and to require installation commanders to report solicitations made through the
U.S. mail. Attachment 1 was revised to include a list of references, and Attachment 2 was
changed to reflect the new requirements found in paragraph 4.5.4.
1. Unionization of Military Personnel. The traditional union functions of collective or
concerted actions would impair the control of Air Force commanders over military personnel and
thereby threaten the security of the United States. Unionization of the Air Force would be
incompatible with the military chain of command because it would undermine the role, authority,
and position of the commander and impair the morale and readiness of the Air Force. Air Force
commanders could not maintain readiness, be responsive to contingency plans, or accomplish
their missions if required to bargain over their orders, consult over decisions, or be subject to
collective actions of any sort.
     1.1. Any individual or organization which seeks to intrude on the relationship between
     commanders and military members of the Air Force in matters relating to mission
     accomplishment or terms or conditions of military service presents a clear danger to
     discipline, loyalty, and obedience to lawful orders of command. Such interference is not
     permitted.
     1.2. The processes of conventional collective bargaining and labor-management negotiation
     cannot apply to the relationships between members of the Air Force and their military and
     civilian superiors. Strikes, slowdowns, picketing, and other traditional forms of job action
     have no place in the Air Force.
2. Prohibited Activities: Failure to obey any prohibition or failure to comply with
mandatory requirements in paragraphs 2.1 through 2.5.2 is a violation of Article 92,
UCMJ.
     2.1. General Prohibitions. Military members and civilian employees will not attempt to
     engage in or solicit the commission of any act prohibited by this Instruction, nor will they
AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    3


  conspire with or aid and abet any person or organization in the commission of any act
  prohibited by this Instruction.
  2.2. Prohibited Membership or Enrollment in Certain Organizations:
     2.2.1. Military members, knowing of the activities or objectives of a particular military
     labor organization, may not:
         2.2.1.1. Join or maintain membership in such organization; or
         2.2.1.2. Attempt to enroll or enroll any other member of the Armed Forces as a
         member of such organization.
     2.2.2. No person on a military installation may enroll any member of the Armed Forces
     in a military labor organization, or solicit or accept dues or fees for such an organization
     from any member of the Armed Forces.
  2.3. Negotiation or Collective Bargaining.
     2.3.1. No person on a military installation and no military member may negotiate or
     bargain, or attempt through any coercive act to negotiate or bargain, with any member of
     the Armed Forces or civilian employee, on behalf of members of the Armed Forces,
     concerning the terms or conditions of service of such members.
     2.3.2. Military members and civilian employees will not engage in negotiation or
     collective bargaining on behalf of the United States concerning terms or conditions of
     military service of members of the Armed Forces with any person who represents or
     purports to represent members of the Armed Forces.
     2.3.3. For Air Reserve Component Military Technician employees, the military aspects
     of technician employment and policies, procedures, and conditions of employment
     related to or affecting those military aspects will not be subject to collective bargaining.
  2.4. Strikes and Other Concerted Activities. No person on a military installation, and no
  military member may organize or attempt to organize, or participate in, any strike, picket,
  march, demonstration, or other similar form of concerted action (e.g., distributing leaflets,
  making speeches) involving members of the Armed Forces that is directed against the
  Government of the United States and that is intended to induce any civilian employee or
  member of the Armed Forces to:
     2.4.1. Negotiate or bargain with any person concerning the terms or conditions of service
     of any member of the Armed Forces.
     2.4.2. Recognize any military labor organization as a representative of individual
     military members in connection with a member's complaint or grievance arising out of
     the terms or conditions of the member's service.
     2.4.3. Make any change with respect to the terms or conditions of service of individual
     members of the Armed Forces.
         2.4.3.1. This provision is not intended to prohibit the mere attendance at speeches
         hosted by traditional veterans’ organizations, whose lobbying and public affairs
         objectives and efforts on behalf of retired military personnel, may have an ancillary
         impact on military pay and benefits for active duty personnel.
 4                                                           AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


     2.5. Improper Use of a Military Installation.
        2.5.1. No person may use any military installation to meet, march, picket, demonstrate or
        for any other similar activity (e.g., distributing leaflets, making speeches, etc.) for the
        purpose of engaging in any activity prohibited by this Instruction.
        2.5.2. No civilian employee or military member may permit or authorize the use of any
        military installation for any meeting, march, picketing, demonstration, or other similar
        activity (e.g., distributing leaflets, making speeches, etc.) which is for the purpose of
        engaging in any activity prohibited by this Instruction.
3. Permissible Activities.
     3.1. Civilian employees may join or be a member of any organization that engages in
     representational activities with respect to terms or conditions of civilian employment,
     provided no other restrictions apply.
     3.2. Military members may.
        3.2.1. Present complaints or grievances over terms or conditions of military service
        through established military channels, including the Office of the Inspector General.
        3.2.2. Petition Congress for redress of grievance or communicate with any member of
        Congress.
        3.2.3. Seek or receive information or counseling from any source.
        3.2.4. Be represented by qualified counsel, whether or not retained by an organization on
        his or her behalf, in any judicial or administrative proceeding with respect to which there
        is a right to counsel of choice.
        3.2.5. Belong to lawful organizations other than military labor organizations.
        3.2.6. Take any other administrative action to seek administrative or judicial relief as is
        authorized by applicable laws and regulations.
     3.3. Commanders or supervisors will give due consideration to the views of military
     members presented individually or as a result of participation on command-sponsored or
     authorized advisory councils, committees, or organizations for the purpose of improving
     conditions or communications at the Air Force installation involved.
4. Responsibilities.
     4.1. AF/JAA and AF/A1P are the primary Air Staff contacts for matters related to this
     Instruction. AF/JAA and AF/A1P will be information addressees on all correspondence and
     messages related to this Instruction.
     4.2. Military members and civilian employees must comply with 10 U.S.C. 976 and with this
     Instruction. While the Air Force will make every effort to inform its members and
     employees about which organizations are military labor organizations, the failure of the Air
     Force to inform its members that a particular organization is a military labor organization
     will not shield those members from liability under 10 U.S.C. 976 or under this Instruction.
     4.3. Air Force personnel assist installation commanders in identifying incidents or conduct
     prohibited by this Instruction.
AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                           5


    4.4. Unit Commanders take actions consistent with this Instruction and DoDI 1354.01. See
    Table 1 for situational guidance. (T-0)
    4.5. Installation Commanders.
       4.5.1. Enforce the prohibitions of paragraphs 2.1. through 2.5.2. of this Instruction. See
       Table 1 for situational guidance. (T-0)
       4.5.2. Make administrative determinations whether an organization is a military labor
       organization on a case-by-case basis. See the guidelines in Attachment 3. Coordinate with
       the servicing staff judge advocate as appropriate. (T-0)
       4.5.3. Publicize information through command channels when an organization has been
       determined to be a military labor organization which inform military members:
             4.5.3.1. That the identified organization poses a clear danger to discipline, loyalty, or
             obedience to lawful orders, (T-0) and
             4.5.3.2. That knowing, active membership in that organization by a military member,
             with the intent to promote conduct prohibited by this Instruction, is not permitted. (T-
             0)
       4.5.4. Immediately report through intermediate commanders to their MAJCOM
       commander, all incidents concerning requests for permission or attempts to engage in
       activities prohibited by this Instruction (See Table 1). Provide information copies to
       AF/JAA and AF/A1P. AF/A1P will immediately forward the report to SAF/MR through
       AF/A1 for transmission to the SECAF and SECDEF in accordance with DoDI 1354.01.
       See the minimum required reporting information at Attachment 2. (T-0)
    4.6. Intermediate commanders or higher authority provide guidance to installation
    commanders as appropriate.
5. Situational Guidance. Guidance for dealing with activities prohibited by this Instruction is
in Table 1. This guidance is for example only and does not override the judgment of individual
commanders or the advice of their staff judge advocates.

Table 1. Situational Guidance for Commanders.
R                      A                         B                       C                        D
U
L
E

        If                               and                  the unit commander the installation
                                                              or installation         commander
                                                              commander
1       an individual or                 the purpose is for   advises the individual reports the incident
        organization claims to           negotiation or       or organization that he
        represent military members       collective           or she is prohibited
        of the Armed Forces              bargaining over      from negotiating or
                                         terms or             collectively bargaining
                                         conditions of        over terms or
 6                                                       AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                    military service    conditions of military
                                                        service
2    an individual or                                   denies the request        reports the incident
     organization requests
     permission to negotiate or
     collectively bargain on
     behalf of military members
3    an individual or                                   takes disciplinary or     reports the incident
     organization attempts to                           administrative action,
     negotiate or collectively                          when appropriate,
     bargain on behalf of                               against those who
     military members of the                            engaged in prohibited
     Armed Forces                                       activity
4    an organization that claims                        advises the               reports the incident
     to represent military                              organization and all
     members of the Armed                               military personnel that
     Forces threatens a strike,                         they are prohibited
     slowdown, work stoppage                            from engaging in
     or other collective job-                           strikes, slowdowns,
     related action, or picketing                       work stoppages, or
                                                        other collective job-
                                                        related actions, or
                                                        picketing
5    an organization that claims    the organization    takes necessary action    reports the incident
     to represent military          and military        to return to normal
     members of the Armed           members have        operation and takes
     Forces engages in a strike,    been advised that   disciplinary or
     slowdown, work stoppage        such activity by    administrative action,
     or other collective job-       military            when appropriate,
     related action, or picket      personnel is        against those who
                                    prohibited          engaged in prohibited
                                                        activity
6    an individual or                                   takes disciplinary or     takes necessary
     organization pickets for the                       administrative action,    action to stop such
     purpose of causing or                              when appropriate,         activity on base and
     coercing military members                          against those who         reports the incident
     of the Armed Forces to                             engaged in prohibited
     engage in a strike,                                activity
     slowdown, work stoppage
     or other collective job-
     related action
AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     7


7    an individual or               the purpose is to     informs the               denies the individual
     organization requests          solicit military      installation              or organization
     permission to conduct a        members of the        commander                 access to the base
     demonstration, meeting or      Air Force to join                               and/or denies
     protest, or engage in          an organization                                 permission to
     speechmaking picketing or      that participates,                              conduct such
     leafleting, or other such      or is substantially                             activities and reports
     activity                       likely to                                       the incident
                                    participate, in
                                    negotiation or
                                    collective
                                    bargaining,
                                    strikes or other
                                    concerted actions
8                                   the organization
                                    proposes or holds
                                    itself out as
                                    proposing to
                                    engage in
                                    negotiation or
                                    collective
                                    bargaining on
                                    behalf of military
                                    members of the
                                    Armed Forces
9    an individual or               permission has        halts distribution,       reports the incident.
     organization attempts on-      not been              reviews the literature
     base distribution of           requested             for violations of this
     literature soliciting                                Instruction or AFI 51-
     membership or promoting                              903, takes disciplinary
     an organization which                                or administrative
     purports or proposes to                              action, when
     represent military members                           appropriate, against
     in negotiation or collective                         those who engaged in
     bargaining                                           prohibited activity
                                    permission to         takes disciplinary or     halts further
                                    distribute was        administrative action,    distribution,
                                    previously denied     when appropriate,         confiscates available
                                                          against those who         literature, removes
                                                          engaged in prohibited     violators from the
                                                          activity                  base, and reports the
                                                                                    incident
10   an individual or               distribution is       takes no action           reports the incident
     organization distributes       through the US
     literature soliciting          mail
     membership or promoting
 8                                                 AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


     an organization which
     purports or proposes to
     represent military members
     in negotiation or collective
     bargaining
11   a military member asks                      advises member active     takes no action
     about the legality of joining               membership is
     a union or other                            prohibited in
     organization                                organizations that
                                                 violate AFI 51-906
                                                 when the member
                                                 knows the
                                                 organization engages
                                                 in prohibited conduct
                                                 and the member
                                                 intends to promote
                                                 such conduct and
                                                 further advises
                                                 member that it is
                                                 permissible to belong
                                                 to an organization
                                                 which engages in
                                                 representational
                                                 activities with respect
                                                 to terms or conditions
                                                 of off-duty
                                                 employment




                                     CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                     Lieutenant General, USAF
                                     The Judge Advocate General
AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 9


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORING INFORMATION

References
Title 5, United States Code, Section 2105
Title 5, United States Code, Section 3101
Title 10, United States Code, Section 976
Title 10, United States Code, Section 10216
Title 32, United States Code, Section 709
DoD Instruction 1354.01, DoD Policy on Organizations that Seek to Represent or Organize
Members of the Armed Forces in Negotiation or Collective Bargaining, January 19, 2007
DoD Directive 5200.27 Acquisition of Information Concerning Persons and Organizations not
Affiliated with the DoD, January 7, 1980
AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, 5 November 1993
AFI 51-903, Dissident and Protest Activities, 1 February 1998
AFI 71-101, Volume 1, Criminal Investigations, 1 December 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
 10                                                        AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


Terms
Aid and Abet—Means to be present during, or have knowledge of, the commission of any act
prohibited by this Instruction and to assist, command, counsel, or otherwise encourage such an
act.
Air Force Installation—Includes bases, stations, sites, facilities, aircraft, and other property
controlled by the Department of the Air Force. On Joint Bases, this Instruction will apply when
the Air Force is the supporting component.
Civilian Employee—An employee as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105. This includes Air Reserve
Component Military Technician employees who may be wearing a military uniform.
Collective Job-Related Action — Any activity by two or more persons that is intended to and
does obstruct or interfere with the performance of a military duty assignment.
Conspire—To join or agree with one or more persons to commit an act prohibited by this
Instruction.
Installation Commander—The officer so identified by administrative order or command
directive and as such is responsible for duties assigned to the "Installation Commander" by
United States statutes and Air Force directives.
Military Labor Organization—Any organization that engages in or attempts to engage in:
   • Negotiating or bargaining with any civilian employee or Air Force member, on behalf of
   Air Force members, concerning the terms or conditions of military service of such members.

   • Representing individual Air Force members before any civilian employee or any Air Force
   member, in connection with any grievance or complaint of any such represented member
   arising out of the terms or conditions of that member's military service.

   • Striking, picketing, marching, demonstrating, or any other similar form of concerted action
   directed against the Government of the United States and which is intended to induce any
   civilian employee, or any Air Force member to:

   • Negotiate or bargain with any person concerning the terms or conditions of military service
   of any Air Force member.

   • Recognize any organization as a representative of individual Air Force members in
   connection with complaints and grievances of such members arising out of the terms or
   conditions of such members' military service.

   • Make any change with respect to the terms or conditions of military service of individual
   Air Force members.
Member of the Armed Forces—A member of any uniformed service in a Title 10 status, to
include members of a reserve component. Additionally, for purposes of this Instruction, the term
includes members of the Air National Guard performing duty or training in any Title 32 status.
AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     11


Military Member—A member of the Air Force, to include members of an air reserve
component serving on active duty and members of the Air National Guard performing duty or
training in any Title 32 status.
Negotiation or Collective Bargaining—A process whereby a commander or supervisor,
military or civilian, acting on behalf of the United States, engages in discussions with a military
member or members of the Air Force (purporting to represent such members), or with an
individual group, organization, or association purporting to represent such members, for the
purpose of resolving bilaterally, terms or conditions of military service.
Solicit—To use words or any other means to request, urge, advise, counsel, tempt, or command
another to commit any act prohibited by this Instruction.
Terms or Conditions of Military Service—Terms or conditions of military compensation or
duty, including, but not limited to, wages, rates of pay, duty hours, assignments, grievances, or
disputes.
 12                                                           AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                          Attachment 2
                                       SAMPLE REPORT

A2.1. Reports made under paragraph 4.5.4 should at a minimum include the information
described in the table below.
A2.2. Review DoDI 1354.01 for requirements to report actions to SECAF and SECDEF.

Figure A2.1. Sample Report.

 TO: Intermediate Commanders and [MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU] Commander

 CC: AF/A1P, AF/JAA

 SUBJECT: Military Union Incident

 1. Name of installation

 2. Type of incident (request or attempt for negotiation or collective bargaining, strike or
 other concerted action, distribution of literature, active membership, or other prohibited
 activity.)

 3. Name(s) of individual(s) or organization

 4. Narrative statement of incident

 5. Brief summary of constitution, bylaws, statement of purpose submitted by the individual
 or organization, or other information and the source.

 6. Summary of commander’s action
AFI51-906 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   13


                                         Attachment 3
        GUIDELINES FOR MAKING ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS

A3.1. To determine whether an organization is a military labor organization, whether a person is
a member of a military labor organization, or whether such person or organization is in violation
of any provision of this Instruction, consider the history and operation of the organization
(including its constitution and bylaws, if any) and the person. Consider evidence of conduct
constituting a prohibited act.
A3.2. To determine whether the commission of a prohibited act by a person can be imputed to
the organization, consider factors such as the frequency of such act; the position in the
organization of persons committing the act; whether the commission of such act was known by
the leadership of the organization; and whether the commission of the act was condemned or
disavowed by the leadership of the organization.
A3.3. Gather any information about persons and organizations not affiliated with the
Department of Defense needed to make the determinations required by this Instruction in strict
compliance with the provisions of DoDD 5200.27, Acquisition of Information Concerning
Persons and Organizations not Affiliated with the DoD, January 7, 1980, and AFI 71-101,
Volume 1, Criminal Investigations, 1 December 1999. Counterintelligence or security
investigative personnel shall not acquire this information. The organization itself shall be
considered a primary source of information.
