BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 52-102,
SECRETARYOF THE AIR FORCE                                                   VOLUME 2

                                                                                1 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                        Chaplain

                                                   CHAPLAIN ASSISTANT PROFESSIONAL
                                                                      DEVELOPMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/HCC                                                              Certified by: AF/HCC
                                                                 (CMSgt Alton B. Clemmons III)
Supersedes:    AFI52-102V2, 24 April 2009                                             Pages: 14


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 52-1, Chaplain Service. It
directs the structure and programs for Chaplain Assistant professional development and
describes the process for vectoring and accessing Chaplain Assistants. This instruction applies to
active duty, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. Send comments and suggested
improvements on an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through
channels, to AF/HC, 1380 AF Pentagon, Rm 4E260, Washington DC 20330-1380. Any
organization may supplement this volume. Major commands (MAJCOM), field operating
agencies (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU) send one copy of their supplement to
afhcc.workflow@pentagon.af.mil for review and coordination before publishing. Other
commands furnish one copy of each supplement to the next higher headquarters for review and
coordination before publishing. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include reorganization and prioritization of core capabilities; codification of retraining
interview process, professional development courses, professional/continuing education
requirements and the enlisted vectoring/mentoring process; and relieving Chaplain Assistants
from duty.
 2                                                                AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012


1. Chaplain Assistant – Heritage to Horizons.
     1.1. The War Department issued General Order No. 253, dated 28 December 1909,
     establishing the official military occupational specialty of the Chaplain Assistant ―for the
     purpose of assisting the Chaplain in the performance of his duties.‖
     1.2. Today, Chaplain Assistants proudly serve first and foremost as American Airmen; they
     possess the skills to resource and manage spiritual care and the free exercise of religion for
     Airmen, their dependents and other authorized personnel. These skills represent the
     uniqueness of the Chaplain Assistant Air Force Specialty and distinguish it from all other
     American Airmen.
     1.3. As non-clergy members of the Air Force Chaplain Corps, Chaplain Assistants assist and
     partner with Air Force Chaplains to form Religious Support Teams (RSTs) to provide
     spiritual care and facilitate the free exercise of religion at home base and deployed locations.
     Chaplain Assistants perform in a manner respectful of a pluralistic religious environment and
     support all faith groups. Chaplain Assistants must perform duties linked to serving the
     spiritual and religious needs of Airmen; assigning Chaplain Assistants to duties counter to
     these skills degrades the Air Force Chaplain Corps’ capability in accomplishing the
     commander’s mission.
2. Core Capabilities. Chaplain Assistants provide the following core capabilities to the US Air
Force:
     2.1. Religious Program Management. Chaplain Assistants partner with Chaplains to
     develop, manage, control and evaluate religious programs to ensure effectiveness. This
     capability is critical to Airmen and their dependents in contingency and steady state
     environments.
        2.1.1. Religious Observances. Chaplain Assistants resource and manage support of
        religious observances to include worship, liturgies, rites and other religious requirements
        for all faith groups.
        2.1.2. Resources. Chaplain Assistants, in conjunction with other Chaplain Corps
        personnel (e.g., Chaplains, GS employees) manage enlisted manpower positions,
        personnel, volunteers, appropriated funds, Chapel Tithes and Offerings Funds (CTOF),
        non-appropriated and/or MWR funds, religious facilities, supplies and equipment.
        2.1.3. Administration. Chaplain Assistants manage chapel administration to include
        records management, forms, publications, publicity, professional correspondence,
        background checks, operating instructions, suspense actions and other administrative
        needs of the Chaplain Corps mission.
     2.2. Advising Leadership. Chaplain Assistants are highly trained and qualified to provide
     advice to leaders at all levels on religious accommodation, ethical, moral, morale issues and
     needs, primarily for, and regarding, the enlisted force. Commanders, Command Chiefs,
     group superintendents, first sergeants and supervisors at all levels should know the issues
     affecting their Airmen and how to best address them. Chaplain Assistants are a trusted
     source for valid, real-time information. As the faces and voices of our enlisted Airmen,
     Chaplain Assistants integrate into units and appropriately advise leaders on the issues and
     challenges Airmen face.
AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012                                                                      3


   2.3. Crisis Intervention Counseling. The Chaplain Corps enjoys privileged
   communication when a person makes a confidential communication to a Chaplain Assistant
   in his/her official capacity as a formal act of religion or as a matter of conscience (see
   Military Rules of Evidence, Rule 503, Manual for Courts-Martial, United States (2012)).
   Moreover, Chaplain Assistants are commonly the first line of care for Airmen in need.
   Facilitating care for Airmen early in a crisis enhances resiliency, mission readiness and
   capability. Crisis intervention counseling is an immediate, interventional approach to
   providing mental and moral support with the aim of restoring the person to the level of
   function prior to the crisis. This capability includes counseling in moments of crisis,
   response to crises and suicide prevention/intervention. While every NCO performs
   counseling (see AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide, Section 10E), Chaplain
   Assistants possess the core capability to care for Airmen at the point of crisis. They are
   specially trained to identify potential problems and assist individuals in finding the
   professional help they need. Through crisis intervention counseling, Chaplain Assistants
   mitigate crises such as suicide, grief, traumatic stress or other forms of crisis. Chaplain
   Assistants will not, at any time, conduct spiritual counseling and will immediately refer
   people in need of spiritual counseling to a Chaplain. Chaplain Assistants may make referrals
   to other agencies for issues not of a spiritual nature as appropriate.
   2.4. Unit Engagement. As part of the RST, Chaplain Assistants are intentionally integrated
   into unit ministry and engagement plans as a resource for meeting the spiritual needs of
   Airmen. Unit Engagement is best realized when unit members embrace Chaplain Assistants
   as ―one of them‖ through participation in unit meetings, commander calls, training with the
   unit and other unit activities. Chaplain Assistants conduct unit engagement jointly with their
   RST partner(s) or independently.
3. Organizational Responsibilities.
   3.1. Air Force Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC). The Chief of Chaplains develops and
   implements policy for professional development of all Chaplain Corps personnel under 10
   U.S.C. § 8067(h).
   3.2. Chaplain Assistant Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) (AF/HCC). The
   AFCFM organizes and manages the Chaplain Assistant career field by overseeing all aspects
   of career field education and training. Additionally, the AFCFM manages manpower and
   personnel actions to ensure the effective utilization of Chaplain Assistants. The AFCFM
   provides functional direction for the Chaplain Corps College regarding issues affecting the
   career field. The AFCFM also chairs the Chaplain Assistant Force Development Team
   (FDT), Chaplain Assistant Functional Advisory Council, Chaplain Assistant Utilization and
   Training Workshops (UTW) and Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT).
   3.3. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Chaplain Assistant Functional Manager (MFM/HCC). MFMs
   manage the Chaplain Assistant Career Field within their MAJCOM/FOA/DRU and serve as
   liaisons to the AFCFM. MFMs manage the health and manning of the career field within
   their command and elevate concerns to the AFCFM. They manage command training,
   manpower, and utilization issues with their MAJCOM/FOA/DRU staff and the AFCFM.
4                                                              AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012


    3.4. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Chaplain Assistant Functional
    Manager (AETC/HCC). The AETC MFM serves as the liaison between Air Staff, AETC
    and Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) on manpower and personnel actions affecting AETC
    formal courses. In addition, the AETC MFM serves as the Assistant AFCFM.
    3.5. Technical Training Office (ECPD/MSOT). This office is responsible for the design,
    development, and fielding of technical training courses to fulfill the AETC contractual
    agreement with the AFCFM as documented in the Specialty Training Standard (STS).
    ECPD/MSOT coordinates scheduling, normally on a three-year cycle, and hosts U&TWs and
    STRTs. ECPD/MSOT monitors student enrollment and/or cancellation from technical
    training courses. Additionally, this office manages Trained Personnel Requirements (TPR),
    training management, training development, registrar functions, evaluations and faculty
    development programs.
    3.6. Chief, Chaplain Corps College (ECPD/HCC). The Chief oversees the
    implementation of technical training courses to ensure requirements identified in the STS are
    met. Additionally, he/she oversees the development of professional continuing education
    courses as directed by the AFCFM. In this position, the Chief works in concert with
    ECPD/MSOT on technical training matters and works closely with the Career Development
    Course (CDC) Writer and the Manager, Chaplain Corps College Education Division to
    ensure cohesive education and training programs.
    3.7. Manager, Chaplain Corps Resource Development Center (AF/HCXR). The
    Manager develops professional resources for the Chaplain Assistant career field.
    Additionally, he/she researches and recommends opportunities that meet education and
    training requirements to the AFCFM. He/she coordinates Chaplain Assistant professional
    development requirements with the AFCFM and AF/HCX. He/she works closely with the
    Career Development Course (CDC) Writer and Chief, Chaplain Corps College to ensure
    cohesive education and training programs.
    3.8. Manager, Chaplain Corps College Education Division (ECPD/HCP). The Manager
    executes the education and training mission for the Chaplain Assistant career field.
    Additionally, he/she researches and recommends education and training options to the
    Chaplain Assistant AFCFM.         He/she coordinates Chaplain Assistant professional
    development requirements with the AFCFM and AF/HCX.
    3.9. Career Development Course (CDC) Writer. The CDC Writer plans and develops
    CDC program materials that correspond with the Chaplain Assistant Career Field Education
    and Training Plan (CFETP) and STS. Additionally, the CDC Writer works closely with the
    Manager, Chaplain Corps Resource Development Center and the Chief, Chaplain Corps
    College to ensure cohesive training programs.
    3.10. Wing Chaplain and Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations. This wing-level
    leadership team actively pursues professional development opportunities for Chaplain
    Assistants in response to Chaplain Corps requirements and local needs. They forward
    training deficiencies to MAJCOM/FOA/DRU//HC within 30 days of initial identification and
    annually thereafter during the month of March until the deficiency is satisfied. The Wing
    Chaplain ensures the role of the Superintendent/NCOIC is focused primarily on leadership,
    management and supervision. The Superintendent/NCOIC must organize and lead Chaplain
AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012                                                                       5


   Assistants in the execution of assigned duties utilizing concepts specified in AFI 36-2618,
   The Enlisted Force Structure.
   3.11. Chaplain Assistant Force Development Team (FDT). This is the primary advisory
   group to the Chief of Chaplains on all Chaplain Assistant Force Development and utilization
   issues. The FDT ensures the Chaplain Assistant career field is postured to facilitate spiritual
   care and the free exercise of religion across the full spectrum of the Air Force mission.
4. Retraining.
   4.1. Lateral Career Field. Chaplain Assistants are recruited and retrained from other career
   fields. Enlisted Airmen who desire to serve in the Chaplain Corps as Chaplain Assistants
   must volunteer and fulfill all requirements as specified in the Enlisted Classification
   Directory (see AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, for specialty and entry
   qualifications, and AFI 36-2626, Airman Retraining Program, for additional retraining
   guidance).
   4.2. Interview Process. Official retraining guidance is available on the Air Force Chaplain
   Corps website and the Enlisted Retraining Advisory available on the AFPC website.
      4.2.1. The local Wing Chaplain and Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations will
      conduct all retraining interviews and make recommendations to their respective MFM.
          4.2.1.1. Wing Chaplains and Superintendents/NCOICs are critical to the selection
          process. As part of the retraining interview process, they must review Enlisted
          Performance Reports, individual duty history RIPs, talk to current supervisors and
          verify that ASVAB scores meet minimum requirements.
          4.2.1.2. High value should be placed on previous successes and the ability to be
          sensitive in providing for the needs of all faith groups.
      4.2.2. The MFM reviews retraining packages and takes one of two actions,
      RECOMMEND APPROVAL or DISAPPROVE. In either action, the MFM will sign the
      retraining letter and forward to the Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations that
      conducted the interview. The Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations forwards the
      letter to the retraining applicant for processing.
   4.3. Selection to the AFSC.
      4.3.1. Upon selection to the AFSC, members are retrained into the 5R0X1 career field.
      4.3.2. After successful completion of the Chaplain Assistant Apprentice Course, students
      are awarded the 5R031 skill level, assigned to a wing-level chapel program, and enrolled
      in the 5-level CDC and upgrade training.
      4.3.3. Members possessing a 3-skill level are not assigned to Air Staff, MAJCOM Staff,
      USAF Chaplain Corps special duty positions (including the Chaplain Corps College),
      Joint Bases or to locations with only one Chaplain Assistant authorization.
5. Chief Master Sergeant Crossflows into 5R0. The Chief of Chaplains and AFCFM conduct
all interviews for applicants under the CMSgt crossflow program. Upon acceptance, they are
assigned to the Chaplain Corps as MFMs.
 6                                                               AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012


6. Professional Development.
     6.1. Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). The CFETP is a
     comprehensive education and training document that identifies life-cycle education and
     training requirements, training support resources and minimum core task requirements for the
     5R0 specialty. This plan identifies the mandatory and optional skill level training that
     Chaplain Assistants must receive during their military careers and provides a clear career
     path to success in all aspects of career field training.
     6.2. Formal Training. Chaplain Assistants attend formal training courses as identified
     below. Course descriptions, content and prerequisites are found in the Education and
     Training Course Announcements (https://etca.randolph.af.mil). Refer to the CFETP for
     detailed requirements for skill level upgrade. Formal training covers a variety of tasks listed
     under specific categories. (See the Chaplain Assistant 5R0X1 CFETP, Part II, Specialty
     Training Standard, for detailed tasks and references.)
        6.2.1. Chaplain Assistant Apprentice Course. All Chaplain Assistant candidates attend
        this in-residence, initial skills training for award of the 3-skill level.
        6.2.2. Chaplain Assistant Journeyman CDC. All 3-level Chaplain Assistants must
        successfully complete this correspondence course, as well as on-the-job training
        requirements, for award of the 5-skill level.
     6.3. Professional Continuing Education (PCE) Courses.
        6.3.1. Chaplain Assistant Strategic Leadership Course. This course is a mandatory
        requirement for all SNCOs based on the follow prioritization:
            6.3.1.1. Any SNCO who has assumed the role of MFM within the past 12 months.
            6.3.1.2. Any SNCO who is projected to assume the role of MFM within the next 12
            months.
            6.3.1.3. Any AFCFM/MFM-nominated S/NCO.
        6.3.2. Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations Course. This PCE is a mandatory
        requirement for all Superintendents/NCOICs, Chapel Operations based on the following
        prioritization:
            6.3.2.1. Any S/NCO who has graduated the Apprentice Course within the past 12
            months and assumed the role of Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations.
            6.3.2.2. Any S/NCO who has assumed the role of Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel
            Operations within the past 12 months.
            6.3.2.3. Any MFM-nominated S/NCO in need of refresher qualification.
     6.4. Continuing Education. Continuing Education is any type of education that advances a
     specific skill set; it can take the form of workshops, seminars, home-study, online courses,
     conferences or reading publications/journals. As part of deliberate force development,
     Chaplain Assistants are required to obtain a minimum number of hours of continuing
     education during the course of a calendar year (see Table 1). The minimum number of hours
     is based on the enlisted tier system and, as such, is driven by the member’s rank/grade at the
     beginning of the reporting period (Example: A TSgt who is promoted to MSgt during the
AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012                                                                      7


   calendar year will be expected to acquire the minimum number of Continuing Education
   hours for NCOs for that reporting period).
      6.4.1. Supervisors verify continuing education credits in any of the following ways
      (mandatory reporting is indicated below):
         6.4.1.1. (MANDATORY) Annually, on 15 February, MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
         Functional Managers will report to AF/HCC (afhcc.workflow@pentagon.af.mil) the
         Continuing Education hours for each member of his/her command (see Table 2 in
         Attachment 2).

         6.4.1.2. (Optional). Member’s training records

         6.4.1.3. (Optional). Performance Feedback process (see AFI 36-2406, Officer and
         Enlisted Evaluation Systems, Chapter 2).

         6.4.1.4. (Optional). Enlisted Performance Reports (see AFI 36-2406, Chapter 3).

                6.4.1.4.1. For MSgt-CMSgt, hours can be recorded on AF Form 911, Enlisted
                Performance Report (AB thru TSgt), Section III, Part 5, Training, Education,
                Off-Duty Education, PME, Professional Enhancement and Communication.

                6.4.1.4.2. For SrA-TSgt, continuing education hours can be recorded on AF
                Form 910, Enlisted Performance Report (MSgt thru CMSgt), Section III, Part
                4, Training Requirements.

Table 1. Continuing Education Requirements
                  Religious      Advising            Crisis           Unit         Minimum
                  Program       Leadership        Intervention     Engagement      Number
                Management                         Counseling                      of Hours
Senior NCOs          10            10                  10               10            50
NCOs                  8             8                   8                8            40
Amn                   5             5                   5                5            30

      6.4.2. Religious Program Management. Topics include, but are not limited to, program
      management, strategic planning, needs assessments, world religions, accounting,
      personnel management and administration.
      6.4.3. Advising Leadership. Topics may include, but are not limited to:
         6.4.3.1. Employing Military Capabilities: Operational and strategic art; unit, Air
         Force, Joint and coalition capabilities; and non-adversarial crisis response.
         6.4.3.2. Enterprise Perspective: Enterprise structure and relationships; government
         organization and processes; global, regional and cultural awareness; and strategic
         communication.
         6.4.3.3. Managing Organizations and Resources: Resource stewardship, change
         management and continuous improvement.
8                                                              AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012


           6.4.3.4. Strategic Thinking: Vision, decision making and adaptability.
           6.4.3.5. Leading People: Developing and inspiring others, taking care of people and
           diversity.
           6.4.3.6. Fostering Collaborative Relationships: Building teams and coalitions and
           negotiating.
           6.4.3.7. Embodying Airman Culture: Ethical leadership, followership, Warrior Ethos
           and developing self.
           6.4.3.8. Communicating: Speaking/writing and active listening.
       6.4.4. Crisis Intervention Counseling. Topics include, but are not limited to, crisis
       intervention strategies, suicide intervention/prevention, active listening/screening
       techniques and traumatic stress response.
       6.4.5. Unit Engagement. Topics include, but are not limited to, organizational dynamics,
       teamwork, communication, team construct/development and strategic planning. This
       may also include learning the unit’s history, mission and capability.
    6.5. Training      Summits/Symposiums. Chaplain        Corps    sponsored     training
    summits/symposiums are designed to meet professional development requirements that
    directly support successful Chaplain Corps mission accomplishment. Official Temporary
    Duty (TDY) is authorized to attend these summits/symposiums and to non-Chaplain Corps
    sponsored summits/symposiums that meet a training need or professional development
    requirement.
    6.6. Care for the Caregiver/Resiliency Training. This training provides personal growth,
    development and renewal opportunities. Active duty Chaplain Assistants are required to
    attend at least one such training event every three to five years.
    6.7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Chaplain Assistants should obtain an
    Associate Degree in Applied Science in Social Services through the CCAF. This degree is
    required for any Airmen to be vectored to Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM or Chaplain
    Corps College assignments.
    6.8. CCAF Professional Manager Certification Program. Chaplain Assistants should
    pursue the CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). The PMC is a professional
    credential awarded by CCAF that formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of
    education and experience in leadership and management, as well as professional
    accomplishments. The program provides a structured professional development track that
    supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) and CFETP. While primarily
    designed for Air Force SNCOs, any enlisted Airmen who meet program requirements may be
    nominated and awarded the PMC.
    6.9. Advanced College/University Degrees. Advanced education is encouraged for
    enhancing professional qualifications and competency. It increases leadership skills and
    helps prepare Chaplain Assistants for senior leadership positions.
    6.10. Force Development Vectoring and Mentoring. Career-minded Airmen should serve
    in a variety of duty positions, through the vectoring process, that promote professional
    development. These positions are important reflections of one’s career knowledge and
AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012                                                                    9


  experience as an Airman and Chaplain Assistant as he/she progresses to SNCO positions of
  leadership. Mentoring is an inherent responsibility of supervision and leadership. It is an
  essential ingredient in developing well-rounded, professional and competent future leaders.
  Chaplain Assistants are encouraged to actively seek mentors both internal and external to the
  Chaplain Corps. Follow instructions for mentoring provided in AFI 36-3401, Air Force
  Mentoring.
     6.10.1. The AFCFM:
         6.10.1.1. Manages the force development vectoring and mentoring process.
         6.10.1.2. Establishes all suspenses.
         6.10.1.3. Requests MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MFMs nominate eligible S/NCOs and
         Airmen for vectoring/mentoring process.
         6.10.1.4. Informs nominees of their selection and provides guidance regarding the
         process.
         6.10.1.5. Chairs SNCO vectoring panel and selects CMSgts to chair NCO/Airmen
         vectoring/mentoring panels.
         6.10.1.6. Selects SNCOs for membership on vectoring/mentoring panels.
         6.10.1.7. Reviews all reports for discrepancies or inconsistencies.
         6.10.1.8. Analyzes cumulative data from panels and provides Chief of Chaplains and
         Chaplain Corps Council (including FDT) with results.
     6.10.2. MFMs:
         6.10.2.1. Nominate eligible S/NCOs and Airmen for vectoring/mentoring process.
         6.10.2.2. Identify SNCOs for membership on vectoring/mentoring panels.
         6.10.2.3. Actively engage with Wing Chaplains and Superintendents/NCOICs,
         Chapel Operations regarding vectoring/mentoring process to clarify responsibilities of
         nominee and supervisory chain.
         6.10.2.4. Review nominee packages upon receipt and validate accuracy of data.
         6.10.2.5. In conjunction with the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Command Chaplain,
         ―concur‖ or ―non-concur‖ with Wing Chaplain and Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel
         Operations vector.
             6.10.2.5.1. If ―concur,‖ report is finalized and submitted based on established
             suspense.
             6.10.2.5.2. If ―non-concur,‖ coordinate with Wing Chaplain and Superintendent/
             Chapel Operations in an effort to reach concurrence. If concurrence cannot be
             reached, ―non-concur‖ and offer justification for ―non-concurrence.‖
         6.10.2.6. Once nominee receives final report, in conjunction with Wing Chaplain
         and/or Superintendent, Chapel Operations, review report with nominee in an effort to
         explain or clarify results.
     6.10.3. Wing Chaplain and Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations:
 10                                                              AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012


           6.10.3.1. Ensure all suspenses are met.
           6.10.3.2. Ensure all submitted forms, reports and correspondence are accurate.
           6.10.3.3. Actively engage with nominee vectoring/mentoring process to clarify
           responsibilities.
           6.10.3.4. Review nominee package(s) upon receipt and validate accuracy of data.
           6.10.3.5. ―Concur‖ or ―non-concur‖ with nominee’s vector.
              6.10.3.5.1. If ―concur,‖ report is finalized and submitted based on established
              suspense.
              6.10.3.5.2. If ―non-concur,‖ coordinate with nominee in an effort to reach
              concurrence. If concurrence cannot be reached, ―non-concur‖ and offer
              justification for ―non-concurrence.‖
           6.10.3.6. In conjunction with MFM, review report with nominee in an effort to
           explain or clarify results.
       6.10.4. Nominees:
           6.10.4.1. Ensure all suspenses are met.
           6.10.4.2. Ensure all submitted forms are accurate.
           6.10.4.3. Actively engage with supervisory chain in an effort to understand
           responsibilities.
           6.10.4.4. Review report with operational (Wing Chaplain and Superintendent/
           NCOIC, Chapel Operations) and functional (MFM) chains of command.
7. Enlisted Force Structure. Using the principles of centralized management and decentralized
execution, the Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations is the central manager for all wing-
level Chaplain Corps operations. He/she is in the best position to guide subordinates along their
career paths.
   7.1. Operational Supervision.
       7.1.1. The Wing Chaplain directly supervises the Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel
       Operations.
       7.1.2. The Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations exercises operational supervision
       of all Chaplain Assistants on the staff, either by direct supervision or as the supervisor to
       their supervisor. He/she serves as rater or additional rater for Enlisted Performance
       Reports (EPR), conducts official feedback, drafts awards and decoration packages, and
       performs other duties normally associated with supervision of individuals, including
       mentoring. He/she coordinates duty requirements for Chaplain Assistants with functional
       leaders (see next paragraph) as necessary to avoid work conflicts and maintain unity of
       command.
   7.2. Functional Authority. Chaplains or Chaplain Assistants who are given functional
   responsibilities for a process or project exercise functional authority over that process or
   project and others assigned to support it. For example, a Chaplain in charge of Flightline
   Ministries, and has a Chaplain Assistant assigned as an RST partner, is the functional leader
AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012                                                                    11


   of the flightline process and exercises functional authority. The Superintendent/NCOIC,
   Chapel Operations maintains operational supervision and responsibility for official feedback,
   EPRs, awards and decorations, etc. Functional leaders coordinate requirements for Chaplain
   Assistants with the Superintendent/NCOIC, Chapel Operations (see previous paragraph) or
   immediate supervisor as necessary to avoid work conflicts and maintain unity of command.
8. Relieving Chaplain Assistants from Duty. Chaplain Assistants may be relieved from duty
and from the Chaplain Assistant Career Field for any of the following reasons (see Air Force
Enlisted Classification Directory):
   8.1. Displaying religious bias that negatively impacts the Chaplain Corps mission.
   8.2. Violating privileged communication/confidentiality.
   8.3. Any history of emotional instability, personality disorder or other unresolved mental
   health problem.
   8.4. Any convictions by courts-martial, or convictions by a civilian court, except for minor
   traffic violations and similar infractions listed in AFI 36-2002, Regular Air Force and
   Special Category Accessions.
   8.5. Any record of substance abuse, financial irresponsibility, domestic violence or child
   abuse.
   8.6. Any conviction in civil or UCMJ proceedings (to include judicial and nonjudicial
   punishment) for any type of drug abuse or drug-related offense.
   8.7. Any record of disciplinary action (Article 15 or courts-martial) for engaging in an
   unprofessional or inappropriate relationship as defined in AFI 36-2909, Professional and
   Unprofessional Relationships.
   8.8. Any record of disciplinary action (Letter of Reprimand or Article 15) for failure to
   exercise sound leadership with respect to morale or welfare of subordinates.




                                    HOWARD D. STENDAHL, Chaplain, Brig Gen, USAF
                                    Deputy Chief of Chaplains
 12                                                           AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 Jan 2009
AFI 36-2002, Regular Air Force and Special Category Accessions, 7 Apr 1999
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 Jun 2010
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 15 Apr 2005
AFI 36-2618, Enlisted Force Structure, 27 Feb 2009
AFI 36-2626, Airman Retraining Program, 1 Jul 1999
AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, 1 May 1999
AFI 36-3401, Air Force Mentoring, 1 Jun 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service Planning and Organizing, 10 May 2005
Manual for Courts Martial, 2012
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 910, Enlisted Performance Report (AB thru TSgt)
AF Form 911, Enlisted Performance Report (MSgt thru CMSgt)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ASVAB—Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CDC—Career Development Course
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CTOF—Chapel Tithes and Offering Fund
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012                       13


EPME—Enlisted Professional Military Education
FDT—Force Development Team
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HC—Chaplain Directorate or Division
MAJCOM—Major Command
MFM—MAJCOM Functional Manager
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
PCE—Professional Continuing Education
PMC—Professional Manager Certification
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RST—Religious Support Team
STRT—Specialty Training Requirements Team
STS—Specialty Training Standard
TDY—Temporary Duty
TPR—Trained Personnel Requirements
USAF—United States Air Force
U&TW—Utilization and Training Workshop
 14                                                                          AFI52-102V2 1 AUGUST 2012


                                                  Attachment 2
       CHAPLAIN ASSISTANT CONTINUING EDUCATION REPORTING TOOL

Table A2.1. Chaplain Assistant Continuing Education Reporting Tool
  USAFE                   Member (Category)                      RPM         AL       CIC         UE        Total
Lakenheath        MSgt Nick Fury (SNCO)                           13         12       11          15         51
Ramstein          SSgt Iron Man (NCO)                              8         10        9           8         35
Alconbury         SrA Thor Sonofoden (Amn)                         9          6        8           7         30
(NOTE: RPM – Religious Program Management; AL – Advising Leadership; CIC – Crisis Intervention Counseling; UE – Unit
Engagement)
