BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 64-106
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                25 MARCH 1994
                                                                        AIR EDUCATION AND
                                                                        TRAINING COMMAND
                                                                                  Supplement
                                                                            23 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                                      Contracting

                                                            AIR FORCE INDUSTRIAL LABOR
                                                                   RELATIONS ACTIVITIES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publciations and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQCO                                                             Certified by: SAF/AQC
Supersedes: AFR 79-1, 31 March 1992                                 (Brig Gen Robert W. Drewes)
                                                                                         Pages: 13
                                             (AETC)
OPR: HQ AETC/A7KB                                                   Certified by: HQ AETC/A7K
Supersedes: AFI64-106_AETCSUP,                                                  (Col T. Robinson)
            3 April 2007                                                                  Pages:6


This instruction implements AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System. It describes authorized union
activities on installations and the duties and responsibilities of Air Force personnel when a labor
dispute occurs. It tells what the Air Force does about labor dispute demonstrations on Air Force
installations and at overseas commands and activities. To ensure a full understanding of
industrial labor relations activities, contact your servicing Regional Labor Office. A listing of
Regional Labor Offices is in Attachment 1.

This is the first issuance of AFI 64-106, revising AFR 79-1.

(AETC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 64-106, Air Force
Industrial Labor Relations Activities, 25 March 1994. It does not apply to Air National Guard
or Air Force Reserve Command units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the office of primary responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route forms from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
2                                              AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010


are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The reporting requirement in paragraph 2.1 is exempt from licensing in
accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program;
Controlling Internal, Public and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, paragraph
2.11.8. Attachment 3 (Added) provides a glossary of references and supporting information used
in this publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(AETC) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It
clarifies requirements (paragraphs 1.6.4.1 (Added), 1.6.4.2 (Added), 2.1, 2.3.2.7 (Added),
2.3.2.7.1 (Added), and 2.3.2.7.4 (Added)); changes the Web site for the AETC strike guide
(paragraph 1.7 (Added)); updates labor relations working group members (paragraph 2.1.1.3
(Added)); moves individual responsibilities for security forces, staff judge advocate, public
affairs, communications squadron, civil engineer (CE), comptroller, force support squadron and
contractor-supported functional areas from paragraph 1.4 to paragraph 2.3.2.2 (Added) through
paragraph 2.3.2.9 (Added); adds requirement to provide legal assistance and guidance for
commanders and staff leadership (paragraph 2.3.2.3.1 (Added)); adds information pertaining to
ready reservists and individual mobilization augmentees (paragraph 2.3.2.9.1 (Added)); changes
mission support squadron to force support squadron throughout; and deletes requirement for CE
to assure signs identifying reserved gate routing are posted.
1. Responsibilities:
    1.1. Deputy Assistant Secretary (DAS) for Contracting. SAF/AQC approves, publishes,
    and implements all industrial labor relations policy and assigns a labor relations focal point
    from existing personnel strength.
    1.2. Labor Relations Coordinator. Is the liaison with the regional labor advisor and has
    ready access to the installation commander. Appointment of a labor relations coordinator
    does not prevent direct communications between the regional labor advisor and the
    installation commander or other staff members when the situation requires it.
    1.3. Regional Labor Advisors. Are identified in Attachment 1 and are assigned by
    geographic area. The regional labor advisor:
       • Advises the SAF/AQC labor relations focal point of any actions or activities that may
          impact SAF/AQC, contracting offices, or labor relations policies.
       •   Coordinates on all industrial labor relations actions and Air Force responses not
           covered by this instruction.
       •   Monitors and reports status of major collective bargaining agreements and labor
           management relations affecting significant Air Force programs.
       • Guides and assists Air Force commands and installations on labor issues.
       • Coordinates program operations.
AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010                                                         3


  1.4. Major Command, Field Operating Agency, and Installation Commander. Each
  appoints a labor relations coordinator and alternate from existing personnel strength and
  advises the regional labor advisor of the names. Installation commanders communicate with
  local union officials as the need arises and include local labor organizations in their
  community relations programs.
     1.4.1. (Added-AETC) HQ AETC/A7K, or someone he or she designates in writing,
     acts as the labor relations coordinator (HQ-LRC) within this command for direct contact
     and liaison on labor-relations problems. Associated HQ AETC staff agencies will provide
     guidance and assistance to installation organizations in the development of supporting
     plans and during actual labor disputes.
     1.4.2. (Added-AETC) Installation commanders will ensure a base strike plan is
     developed.
  1.5. Air Force Personnel. Air Force personnel do not interfere with or try to influence
  collective bargaining or labor disputes between contractors and labor unions representing
  contractor employees. Air Force personnel cooperate with Federal and state agencies relating
  to industrial labor relations activities. Air Force personnel maintain neutrality in labor
  disputes. Air Force personnel refer all contractor labor relations matters to the head of the
  contracting office. Such matters include:
     • Potential contact with national or international level labor union organizations.
     • Notice of potential or actual labor disputes.
     • Notice of potential or actual picketing or other demonstrations.
  1.6. Contracting Officers. Comply with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) part 22 and
  its supplements concerning industrial labor relations matters. The contracting officer
  coordinates with the regional labor advisor on all actions and responses not covered by this
  instruction or the FAR.
  1.6. (AETC) The contracting squadron commander (CONS/CC) is the point of contact for
  base labor dispute planning, communication, and actions. Upon notification of a potential or
  actual labor dispute, the CONS/CC will:
     1.6.1. (Added-AETC) Assess the situation, advise the installation commander and the
     agencies listed in paragraph 2.1 of the basic publication, and notify HQ AETC/A7K.
     1.6.2. (Added-AETC) Advise all affected neutral contractors of any labor disputes.
     1.6.3. (Added-AETC) Advise the parties to the dispute (struck contractor and striking
     union) on the use of reserved gate procedures.
     1.6.4. (Added-AETC) Assist organizations in developing a base strike plan and ensure
     all affected areas are covered. Contracting officers will:
         1.6.4.1. (Added-AETC) For those contracts that contain a requirement for a
         contractor strike plan, review contractor strike plans for realism, and ensure
         contractors implement strike plans to the maximum extent possible.
         1.6.4.2. (Added-AETC) To the maximum extent practical, ensure the parties to the
         dispute use all available methods for resolving the dispute, including the services of
4                                               AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010


           the National Labor Relations Board, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the
           National Mediation Board, and other appropriate Federal, State, local, or private
           agencies.
           1.6.4.3. (Added-AETC) Ensure functional areas assess the potential for sympathy
           strikes. (Note: A base-level labor relations coordinator (LRC) may be designated and
           assigned to assist with any of the duties as provided in paragraph 1.2 of the basic.)
    1.7. (Added-AETC) Base Strike Plan. Each base shall develop a base strike plan to cover
    all contracted areas covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBA). HQ AETC/A7KA
    and the AETC strike guideError! Hyperlink reference not valid.ilter=OO-LG-AE-27) may
    be used to assist in developing the b
2. Labor Disputes:
    2.1. Reporting. The cognizant contracting activity reports and takes action in accordance
    with FAR 22.101-3 and its supplements when notice of a potential or actual labor dispute is
    received from any source. Such labor disputes include those:
       • At contractor facilities with significant Air Force contracts.
       • Operating on Air Force installations as the result of Air Force contracts or subcontracts.
       • On Air Force installations but not operating under an Air Force contract, such as
         schools, banks, and credit unions, or contractors operating under contract with other
         agencies.
    2.1. (AETC) Installation contracting activities will report all potential and actual labor
    dispute actions (except those under Title 7, Civil Service Reform Act, Labor-Management
    Relations in the Federal Service) to HQ AETC/A7K and the appropriate regional Air Force
    labor relations advisor (LRA). The contracting officer, HQ AETC/A7K, and the regional Air
    Force LRA will immediately evaluate the situation for base organizational impact.
    Throughout the labor dispute, the contracting officer will report all applicable information to
    HQ AETC/A7K and the regional Air Force LRA.
       2.1.1. (Added-AETC) Upon notification of a potential labor dispute that could impact
       the mission, or result in a strike, HQ AETC/A7K or designee:
           2.1.1.1. (Added-AETC) Immediately advises HQ AETC/A4/7, HQ AETC/PA, and
           HQ AETC/FM of the situation, provide recommendations regarding higher command
           notifications based on the significance of the situation, and keep these offices
           informed until the issue is settled.
           2.1.1.2. (Added-AETC) Prepares reports of significant labor dispute events,
           including a final report on the settlement derived from inputs from the installation
           contracting officer and the regional Air Force LRA. Each follow-on report will
           contain a summary of information given previously and an outline of the current
           status.
           2.1.1.3. (Added-AETC) Assembles a labor relations working group (LRWG)
           comprised of members from HQ AETC/A7S, HQ AETC/JA, HQ AETC/PA, HQ
           AETC/A4PM, HQ AETC/FM, regional Air Force LRA, and members from
AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010                                                             5


         functional areas that could be affected. The LRWG will monitor the situation and
         provide guidance to the affected installation when notified of an impending strike.
         2.1.1.4. (Added-AETC) Ensures effective liaison is maintained between the
         installation personnel, the HQ-LRC, and the regional Air Force LRA.
     2.1.2. (Added-AETC) During labor negotiations or an actual strike situation, the
     LRWG will meet as often as necessary to evaluate the organizational impact of the
     situation and provide daily reports to HQ AETC/A4/7.
  2.2. Performance During a Dispute. If work is necessary for health, sanitation, safety, or
  other reasons, and a contractor can not work as required because of a labor dispute, the
  installation commander may authorize the use of in-house personnel instead of contractor
  personnel after coordination with the regional labor advisor. In no event will commanders
  use Air Force military or civilian personnel to supplement the contractor's nonstriking work
  force. The contract services must be performed exclusively by contractor employees or
  exclusively by Air Force employees.
  2.3. Picketing and Other Demonstrations:
     2.3.1. The installation commander minimizes impact on the Air Force mission by
     (generally) not permitting picketing or other demonstrations on Air Force installations
     and by limiting picketing outside installations to one or more gates. By restricting a
     struck contractor's base entry and exit to specific gates, and enforcing that restriction, the
     union is obliged to limit its picketing to those same gates. Neutral contractor employees
     and others not involved in the dispute can access the installation without crossing a picket
     line by using other gates.
     2.3.2. When pickets appear, or when the installation commander receives notice of
     possible picketing, the commander:
         • May request the presence of the regional labor advisor if justified.
         • Consults with the labor relations coordinator and the regional labor advisor on a
            course of action to minimize the impact of the picketing.
         • Decides if a reserve gate or gates should be established.
         • Informs all military and civilian personnel of the labor situation, gives the Air
            Force policy of strict neutrality, instructs personnel to refrain from expressing an
            opinion on the merits of the labor-management dispute, and emphasizes the need
            to obey any special traffic instructions.
         • Notifies local civil law enforcement officials that pickets may congest public access
            routes adjacent to the installation and request their assistance in keeping routes
            clear. Reviews installation boundaries and jurisdiction with local law officials.
         2.3.2.1. (Added-AETC) The installation commander will convene an LRWG of
         interested installation organizations when informed of a labor dispute that will disrupt
         mission capability. The contracting officer is the office of primary responsibility for
         installation LRWGs. The LRWG will review the situation and ensure appropriate
         actions are taken to protect the health, safety, and welfare of assigned personnel and
         property, and determine the most practical response to continue the installation
6                                     AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010


    mission to the maximum extent possible. The contracting officer will report all
    LRWG planning and actions to HQ AETC/A7K.
    2.3.2.2. (Added-AETC) Security Forces (SF). The SF squadron:
       2.3.2.2.1. (Added-AETC) Implements any plan formulated by the base
       commander for a reserved gate system.
       2.3.2.2.2. (Added-AETC) Coordinates with local law enforcement officials and
       advise them of the potential for a labor dispute.
       2.3.2.2.3. (Added-AETC) Ensures local law enforcement officials are prepared
       to maintain open and safe travel on public access routes to and from the
       installation.
       2.3.2.2.4. (Added-AETC) Reviews base boundaries and jurisdiction.
       2.3.2.2.5. (Added-AETC) Monitors picketing, protests, and confrontations.
       2.3.2.2.6. (Added-AETC) Documents any significant incidents (especially those
       that would affect safety or security) during the picketing.
    2.3.2.3. (Added-AETC) Staff Judge Advocate (JA). The base JA office:
       2.3.2.3.1. (Added-AETC) Provides commanders and staff leadership legal
       assistance and guidance.
       2.3.2.3.2. (Added-AETC) Assists in the identification of installation boundaries
       and the appropriate response to picketing.
    2.3.2.4. (Added-AETC) Public Affairs (PA). The base PA officer:
       2.3.2.4.1. (Added-AETC) Assesses the labor dispute’s local impact and develop
       a public affairs communication plan.
       2.3.2.4.2. (Added-AETC) Informs community leaders and organizations when
       release of information is authorized to the public.
       2.3.2.4.3. (Added-AETC) Coordinates proposed news releases and responses to
       media queries with HQ AETC/PA, the installation commander, and the local JA,
       SF, contracting squadron, and civilian personnel flight (FSS). Note: HQ
       AETC/PA is the release authority for information concerning relocation of
       training.
       2.3.2.4.4. (Added-AETC) Advises the base population of potential strike
       actions, appropriate response to questions, and overall base response.
       2.3.2.4.5. (Added-AETC) Coordinates as necessary with the communications
       squadron to establish appropriate routing of incoming calls concerning strike
       activities.
    2.3.2.5. (Added-AETC) Communications Squadron. The base communications
    squadron:
       2.3.2.5.1. (Added-AETC) Ensures incoming calls regarding strike activities are
       properly routed.
AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010                                                      7


           2.3.2.5.2. (Added-AETC) Plans, supports, and takes action necessary to protect
           networked computer systems and the information contained therein.
           2.3.2.5.3. (Added-AETC) Plans for disposition of land mobile radio assets
           assigned to contractor personnel.
           2.3.2.5.4. (Added-AETC) Ensures Air Force has access to all passwords for
           systems being used by contractor personnel.
        2.3.2.6. (Added-AETC) Civil Engineer (CE). The base CE:
           2.3.2.6.1. (Added-AETC) Creates and posts signs required for the reserved gate
           system.
           2.3.2.6.2. (Added-AETC) Ensures installation maps clearly define base
           boundaries and are coordinated with the contracting squadron, the base JA, and
           the SF squadron.
           2.3.2.6.3. (Added-AETC) Reviews contracts that may be affected by picketing
           and plan accordingly.
        2.3.2.7. (Added-AETC) Comptroller. (Note: AETC wing comptrollers will
        support the affected base commander with financial management advice and report
        the status of contractor strike and associated impact to HQ AETC/FMA, as
        requested.) Upon notification of a labor dispute, the base comptroller:
           2.3.2.7.1. (Added-AETC) Takes the necessary action to resolve requests for
           civilian overtime and emergency funding.
           2.3.2.7.2. (Added-AETC) Establishes a base emergency and special program
           code.
           2.3.2.7.3. (Added-AETC) Issues instructions to affected organizations to report
           costs attributable to the labor dispute.
           2.3.2.7.4. (Added-AETC) Obtains funding support for actions beyond the
           capability of the base if available.
           2.3.2.7.5. (Added-AETC) Maintains close liaison with all directorates and
           special staff agencies on matters that require funding support and advice.
           2.3.2.7.6. (Added-AETC) Monitors the situation, and provides appropriate
           financial support of alternative plans if available.
        2.3.2.8. (Added-AETC) FSS. The civilian personnel flight:
           2.3.2.8.1. (Added-AETC) Provides advice to managers who assess the potential
           requirement for overtime, staggered work schedules, etc.
           2.3.2.8.2. (Added-AETC) Interfaces with the civilian employee union regarding
           the necessary adjustments.
        2.3.2.9. (Added-AETC) Contractor-Supported Functional Areas. This activity:
           2.3.2.9.1. (Added-AETC) Develops plans for actions to maintain the health and
           physical security of assigned personnel and government property in the event of a
           partial or complete loss of contractor work force. individual mobilization
8                                           AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010


           augmentees (Category B) and participating individual ready reservists (Category
           E) should be considered for support.
           2.3.2.9.2. (Added-AETC) Develops plans to verify applicable contractors are
           carrying out their own strike response plans.
           2.3.2.9.3. (Added-AETC) Carefully monitors contractor performance and
           promptly report any changes in performance quantity or quality to the appropriate
           contracting officer.
    2.3.3. If installation commanders require a reserved gate, they:
       • Send appropriate letters to the contractor and unions involved (see sample letter
          Attachment 2).
       • Conspicuously place signs at the reserved gates. The signs must be easily readable
          from a distance of 75 feet by vehicle operators and pedestrians entering the
          installation, and must contain the following wording: " NOTICE: THIS
          ENTRANCE MUST BE USED BY EMPLOYEES, VENDORS, AND
          SUPPLIERS OF (Name of contractor involved in dispute) WHO ENTER AND
          EXIT THIS INSTALLATION, BY ORDER OF THE INSTALLATION
          COMMANDER."
       • Places signs at all other base entrances to read: " NOTICE: EMPLOYEES,
         VENDORS, AND SUPPLIERS OF (Name of Contractor) MUST ENTER
         AND       EXIT      THE      ____________________________    ENTRANCE
         TO_____________________ AIR FORCE BASE, BY ORDER OF THE
         INSTALLATION COMMANDER.”
       • Maintain a separate log of events and activities at the picket gate and at the picket
          line area.
    2.3.4. Air Force members and employees continue to perform their own normal
    installation or contractor plant functions during a labor dispute.
    2.3.5. Guards must monitor gates for compliance with the reserved gate restrictions. The
    union may post observers at neutral gates to monitor compliance. Use of other gates by
    contractor personnel involved in the dispute may result in the union legally picketing all
    gates to the installation. The labor relations coordinator informs the regional labor
    advisor if pickets or personnel involved in the dispute (including vendors and
    subcontractors) use other than the designated gate. If this occurs, the installation
    commander may be required to revise the gate system.
    2.3.6. If installation commanders believe that the safety of Air Force personnel entering,
    exiting, or working at the Air Force installation or plant would be endangered by strike or
    picketing activities, the commanders ask the regional labor advisor for assistance in
    arranging safe entrance and exit of Air Force employees. The regional labor advisor may
    negotiate to limit the number of pickets and establish conduct standards for those
    picketing.
AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            9


   2.4. Disputes at Overseas Commands:
       2.4.1. Industrial labor relations activities, including labor disputes, at overseas
       commands are normally governed by laws and regulations of the host country. However,
       overseas commands should comply with this regulation where possible in administering
       their industrial labor relations affairs. Command labor relations coordinators refer
       questions or problems on how US labor laws apply in overseas areas, or submit requests
       for industrial labor relations assistance, to the appropriate regional labor advisor (
       Attachment 1).
       2.4.2. Due to the time delays inherent in receiving DD Form 1507, Work Stoppage
       Report, messages from overseas, where actual or potential work stoppages may impact
       on Air Force programs or contracts, the labor relations coordinator:
          • Immediately telephones the regional labor advisor.
          • Follows each telephone report with a DD Form 1507 message.
          • Provides daily updates by fax until the situation stabilizes.
3. Employing Off-Duty Military Personnel. Off-duty military personnel can not work at an
hourly rate of pay less than the minimum or prevailing wage. The Air Force does not permit off-
duty employment in jobs temporarily vacated by a firm's striking employees. However, off-duty
Air Force military personnel who were employed by a contracting firm before it became
involved in a labor dispute need not be required to terminate employment solely because of the
dispute.
4. Union Activity on Air Force Installations:
   4.1. Authorized Activities. Installation commanders shall not permit union activity on Air
   Force-owned or controlled property except as provided in this instruction. Note: For unions
   representing Federal employees see AFI 36-701, Labor Management Relations (formerly
   AFR 40-711).
       4.1.1. Union representatives may conduct legitimate union business with their members
       who are employed by on-base contractors or meet with Air Force or contractor officials
       regarding union business, subject to the constraints of this instruction.
       4.1.2. Unions may hold bargaining unit certification or decertification elections on Air
       Force installations under the supervision of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB).
       Installation commanders must provide a suitable place for such elections on request of
       the NLRB, but only after coordinating the request with the regional labor advisor.
       4.1.3. Unions may hold collective bargaining agreement ratification votes on an Air
       Force installation or controlled sites at the discretion of the commander.
       4.1.3. (AETC) Contracting officers will monitor the status of all CBAs applicable to
       installation contracts. If a CBA is within 45 days of expiration and a follow-on CBA has
       not been negotiated and approved, contracting officers will coordinate with the regional
       Air Force LRA, and notify HQ AETC/A7K to assess the situation. The contracting
       officer will determine the potential for a labor dispute, and if the probability of a labor
       dispute exists, he or she will notify the installation commander immediately.
10                                              AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010


        4.1.4. Unions may not conduct internal elections on Air Force installations or controlled
        sites.
     4.2. Installation Access. The installation commander, in coordination with the regional
     labor advisor, establishes local procedures governing labor union representative's access to
     contractor employees on Air Force installations. The commander may issue indefinite entry
     passes to labor union representatives who visit regularly. Include the following restrictions:
        • Access is for organizational purposes or the conduct of legitimate union business with
           members.
        • The representative's entry shall not violate safety or security requirements and can not
           include access to secure or controlled areas.
        • The representative's entry, presence, or activity shall not interfere with base operations
           or the contractor's activities.
        •   The representative may only distribute union literature and contact individual
            contractor employees outside the contractor's work areas and during the contractor
            employees' non-working hours, such as before work, during lunch time, or after work.
        • The representative may not hold meetings, collect dues, or make speeches.

5. (Added) Adopted Form:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                              RICHARD E. HAWLEY, Lt General, USAF
                                              Principal Deputy, Assistant Secretary of the Air
                                              Force for Acquisition

                                              (AETC)

                                              DAVID W. NORSWORTHY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Deputy Director of Logistics, Installations and
                                              Mission Support
AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010                                      11


                                  ATTACHMENT 1
                            REGIONAL LABOR ADVISORS

Southeastern Regional Labor Advisor
Patrick AFB FL 32925-0728
407-494-6734 (Commercial) DSN 854-6734
Areas Serviced: AL, AR, FL, GA, LA, MS, NC, SC, TN

Northeastern Regional Labor Advisor
Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5000
513-257-7579 (Commercial) DSN 787-7579
Areas Serviced: CT, DE, DC, IL, IA, IN, KY, MA, MD, ME, MI, MN, MO, NH,
NJ, NY, OH, PA, RI, VA, VT, WI, WV, USAFE

Central Regional Labor Advisor
Peterson AFB CO 80914-5000
719-554-1770 (Commercial) DSN 692-1770
Areas Serviced: CO, KS, MT, ND, NE, NM, OK, SD, TX, WY, Canada

Western Regional Labor Advisor
Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-0147
805-734-8232, EX 6-7711/6-7712 (Commercial) DSN: 276-7711
Areas Serviced: AK, AZ, CA, HI, ID, NV, OR, UT, WA, PACAF
12                                                AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010


                                         ATTACHMENT 2
                 SAMPLE LETTER FOR RESERVED GATE PROCEDURES

(This letter is only a guide; the wording, style, and form are optional.)

FROM: CC

SUBJECT: Reserved Gate Procedure in the Event of Picketing

TO: (One copy goes to the contractor and one to the picketing union)


I have been advised that a labor dispute may result in picketing of (contractor) during
performance of contract _____________________________ at (base).

The Air Force maintains strict neutrality in contractor labor disputes. Consistent with this policy,
I must make every effort to ensure the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission is not
adversely affected by your dispute.

Accordingly, observe the following procedures for the duration of the dispute or until otherwise
removed by official action:
     a.Do not picket within the confines of the installation.
     b.All employees, vendors and suppliers of (contractor) will enter and exit the installation
        only through the reserved gate: (gate designation, may be more than one).
    c.Confine demonstrations, including picketing, to the reserved gate, (restate the reserved
        gates).
The Government will post appropriate signs identifying the reserved gate at all entrances to the
installation. You must ensure all individuals are aware of and fully comply with these
procedures. Direct any questions or problems regarding these procedures to (point of contact for
commander) at (phone no.)


CC signature block
AFI64-106_AETCSUP_I 23 FEBRUARY 2010                                                   13


                               Attachment 3 (Added-AETC)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 7, Civil Service Reform Act, Labor-Management Relations in the Federal Service
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CBA—collective bargaining agreement
CE—civil engineers
CC—commander
CONS—contracting squadron
FM—comptroller
JA—staff judge advocate
LRA—labor relations advisor
LRC—labor relations coordinator
LRWG—labor relations working group
FSS—force support squadron
PA—public affairs
SF—security forces
