ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGE 1 TO AFI 63-602

Administrative changes to AFI 63-602, Defense Production Act Title 1 – Defense Priorities and
Allocations System
OPR: SAF/AQRT

Change certifying official’s name to: Terry J. Jaggers

Change OPR to SAF/AQRT

References to SAF/AQRE should be changed to SAF/AQRT throughout the publication

References to BXA Form 999 should be changed to BIS Form 999 throughout the publication.

References to AFRL/ML should be changed to AFRL/RX throughout the publication

References to Secretary of the Air Force Order (SAFO) 615.3, “Delegation of Priorities and
Allocations Authorities: DO and DX Ratings, Allotment Authority and Rescheduling of Delivery
Authority” should be changed to Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-10,
“Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition)” throughout the publication

Paragraph 4.1, line 3, change “construction” to read “Construction”

Paragraph 5.1.3, change the web site reference to read,
“(http://www.bis.doc.gov/dpasformbis999.pdf)”

Attachment 1, delete entry for SAF/AQRE, replace with new entry: “SAF/AQRT—Assistant
Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Deputy Assistant Secretary (Science and Technology
Division)”

Attachment 1, change AFPD 63-6 entry to read: AFPD 63-6, “Industrial Base Planning”, 22
APRIL 1993

Attachment 3, paragraph A.3.3, replace web site reference with,
http://www.bis.doc.gov/dpas/default.html.




14 September 2009
BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-602
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                         18 DECEMBER 2003

                                                                                              Acquisition

                                                                      DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT
                                                               TITLE I--DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND
                                                                           ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/AQRE (Maj Steven Hayden)                             Certified by: SAF/AQR (James B. Engle)
Supersedes AFI 63-602, 28 March 1994                                                       Pages: 10
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements DoDD Directive 4400.1, “Defense Production Act Programs” and AFPD
63-6, “Industrial Resources”. It also explains how to implement the Department of Commerce (DOC)
Defense Priorities and Allocations Systems (DPAS) Regulation (15 CFR 700). This instruction describes
rated orders, the organizations responsible for implementing DPAS, and procedures for processing rated
orders and obtaining Special Priorities Assistance (SPA). This guidance applies to Air Force System Pro-
gram Offices, Air Logistics Centers, and Contracting Organizations. This instruction outlines specialized
Air Force procedures as specified in the Department of Defense Manual 4400.1-M, “Department of
Defense Priorities and Allocations Manual”, February 2002.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision updates references, functional address symbols and several forms required for this program.
The following forms are adopted: DD Form 691, Application for Priority Rating for Production or Con-
struction Equipment, and BXA Form 999, Request for Special Priorities Assistance. Ensure that all
records created by this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, "Records Disposition
Schedule."


1. Purpose of DPAS :
   1.1. To assure the timely availability of industrial resources to meet national defense and emergency
   preparedness program requirements
   1.2. To provide an operating system to support a rapid industrial response due to a national emer-
   gency. DPAS requires contractors to accept or reject a rated order and pass on the defense priority rat-
   ings to their subcontractors.
2                                                                     AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003


    1.3. To meet production and delivery requirements, suppliers must give precedence to rated orders
    over lower-rated, unrated (commercial) orders they have previously or subsequently taken.

2. Rated Orders:
    2.1. A rated order is a prime contract, subcontract, or purchase order issued in support of an approved
    national defense program.
    2.2. Upon procurement award, a rating system is applied to prioritize and allocate industrial resources
    (e.g., material weapon system components, services, or facilities). There are two kinds of rated orders:
    DX and DO.
       2.2.1. The DX-rating is for programs of the highest national urgency. The Office of the Deputy
       Under Secretary of Defense for Industrial Policy (DUSD/IP) maintains a list of DX-rated pro-
       grams in the Department of Defense.
       2.2.2. All other DoD procurements are either DO-rated or unrated (commercial) orders. DO rat-
       ings are applied to programs critical to national defense.
       2.2.3. DX-rated orders take priority over DO-rated orders. DO-rated orders take priority over
       commercial orders.

3. DPAS Priority Rating Limitations
    3.1. Priorities and allocations (P&A) authority extends only to contracts placed in any state, territory
    of the United States, and the District of Columbia. See DPAS Regulation Section 700.18 for general
    and jurisdictional limitations on priority ratings.
       3.1.1. By special agreement, US defense program contractual agreements with Canadian produc-
       ers contain the rating and program identification. Use the regular procedures outlined in DPAS
       Regulation, Section 700.55, to obtain special assistance for Canadian suppliers.

4. DPAS Priority Ratings for Acquisition of Construction Equipment
    4.1. Any prime contractor, subcontractor, or supplier who does not have the production equipment to
    fill a rated defense order files DD Form 691, “Application for Priority Rating for Production or con-
    struction Equipment”, requesting authority to use a rating to obtain the equipment from a US supplier.
       4.1.1. The DPAS officers in each continental United States (CONUS) Air Force contracting activ-
       ity advises the Principal Contracting Officers (PCO) or administrative contracting officers to
       instruct contractors on how and where to file DD Forms 691.
       4.1.2. DD Form 691, “Application for Priority Rating for Production or Construction Equip-
       ment.” Contractors or subcontractors who cannot fill a rated order because they lack the proper
       production equipment use this form to request a priority rating to obtain the equipment (DD Form
       691 may authorize DO or DX rating, depending on the rating of affected contracts in the appli-
       cant's facility).

5. The Special Priorities Assistance (SPA) Process:
    5.1. SPA is a process that can be used to expedite product delivery at any level of the supply chain to
    meet a specific date or to accelerate delivery under a rated order due to a change in military urgency.
AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003                                                                                3


   SPA can be used to resolve delivery conflicts between various rated orders, place additional rated
   orders, locate suppliers, verify information supplied by customers and vendors, request rating author-
   ity for items not automatically ratable (e.g., a commercial item), and ensure compliance with DPAS.
       5.1.1. If you cannot obtain materials or components to fill a program order on schedule through
       established contracting methods, present a rated contract or order to one or more selected suppliers
       or manufacturers qualified to produce the item (FAR 11.6 and 12.6,
       http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vtools.html). This mandatory acceptance order must contain:
          5.1.1.1. The rating.
          5.1.1.2. The required delivery date.
          5.1.1.3. Any statements and certification specified in 15 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
          700.12.
          5.1.1.4. A cover letter stating that the mandatory requirements of the Defense Production Act
          and DPAS Regulation (CFR 700) apply and request that the supplier furnish in writing any
          reasons for rejecting the order.
       5.1.2. If the rated contract/order is rejected, prepare Department of Commerce Form BXA-999,
       “Request for Priorities Assistance”, to request SPA with a copy of the letter of refusal attached and
       send it through the normal administrative channels to AFRL/ML (see section 7.3.3.).
       5.1.3. All Air Force contracting activities, prime contractors, subcontractors, or vendors unable to
       find a supplier for, or obtain timely delivery of, materials, components, or assemblies needed for
       an authorized defense program or a defense rated order, should request SPA using Form BXA-999
       (see Attachment 2 for preparation instructions). A printable copy of this form is available from
       the Department of Commerce web site
       (http://www.bxa.doc.gov/defenseindustrialbaseprograms/OSIES/DPAS/).

6. Special Priorities Assistance (Overseas):
   6.1. DoD policy states that contractors undertaking defense projects for friendly foreign countries
   under the Arms Export Control Act and the International Security Assistance Act of 1977 may receive
   equal SPA consideration as contractors working on US military projects. Send individual requests to
   DUSD/IP.
   6.2. DUSD/IP and DOC approve DPAS support for overseas contractors on a negotiated, pro-
   gram-by-program basis. Each program receives specific guidance when it is approved.

7. Organizations Responsible for DPAS Implementation:
   7.1. SAF/AQRE:
       7.1.1. Establishes Air Force policies and procedures for implementing DPAS.
       7.1.2. Administers the Air Force DPAS Program:
          7.1.2.1. Designates the Defense Production Act Title I Program Office (AFRL/ML) as the
          office of primary responsibility for Air Force DPAS management.
          7.1.2.2. Delegates, in writing, DPAS authority for applying DX and DO ratings to contracts
          and delivery orders pursuant to Secretary of the Air Force Order 615.3, “Delegation of Prior-
4                                                                      AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003


          ities and Allocations Authorities: DO and DX Ratings, Allotment Authority and Rescheduling
          of Delivery Authority” (http://www.safaa.hq.af.mil/aax/safos.htm) to Defense Production
          Act Title I Program Office (AFRL/ML).
          7.1.2.3. Requests Title I DPAS Program Office review the Department of Defense DX-rated
          Program List and provide recommended updates.
          7.1.2.4. Coordinates and submits the final Air Force position on proposed DX-rated Program
          Listing additions and deletions to DUSD/IP for approval.
          7.1.2.5. Brokers DX-rating and SPA requests for weapon system programs between the air
          staff and the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Industrial Policy (DUSD/
          IP).
          7.1.2.6. Assists in resolving DPAS violations and interagency conflicts.
          7.1.2.7. Represents the Air Force at the Department of Defense DPAS Council meetings and
          associated Priorities and Allocations of Industrial Resources Task Force activities.
    7.2. Contracting Organizations:
       7.2.1. Ensures a process is in place so that all contracts and purchase orders meet the requirements
       of Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 11.6 (Priorities and Allocations). All ratable
       contracts and orders processed by contracting organizations must insert the provisions described
       in FAR Subpart 11.604 or statement at FAR Subpart 12.603 (c) (2) (xiv)
       (http://farsite.hill.af.mil/VFFAR1.htm):
       FAR 52.211-14. Notice of Priority Rating for National Defense Use (Sep 1990). Any contract
       awarded as a result of this solicitation will be a [insert DX or DO] rated order certified for national
       defense use under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) (15 CFR 700), and the
       Contractor will be required to follow all of the requirements of this regulation [Contracting Officer
       check appropriate box].
       FAR 52.211-15. Defense Priority and Allocation Requirement (Sep 1990). This is a rated order
       certified for national defense use, and the Contractor shall follow all the requirements of the
       Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR 700).
          7.2.1.1. Ensures that all ratable contracts and orders:
              7.2.1.1.1. Contain a required delivery date.
              7.2.1.1.2. Contain the appropriate rating symbol and program identification symbol
              (DO-AI, DX-A2, etc.) as found in 15 CFR 700 Schedule 1: Approved Programs and Dele-
              gate Agencies.
       7.2.2. Trains purchasing activity personnel in procedures for applying the proper DO or DX-rat-
       ing to contracts/purchase orders.
       7.2.3. Requests DPAS and SPA information and assistance from local DPAS Officers or AFRL/
       ML (see paragraph 7.3.3. for the address).
    7.3. AFRL/ML (Title I DPAS Program Office):
       7.3.1. Is the office of primary responsibility for management of DPAS for all Air Force weapon
       systems programs. Responsibilities include administering SPA; educating contractors and Gov-
AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003                                                                              5


     ernment personnel about the requirements, obligations, and benefits of DPAS; and conducting
     DPAS compliance reviews at contractors' facilities.
     7.3.2. Reviews and recommends DPAS policies and procedures for all Air Force activities.
     7.3.3. Ensures that AFMC Centers, System Program Offices, and Air Logistics Centers appoint a
     DPAS officer and alternate and send their names, telephone numbers (Defense Switched Network
     (DSN) and commercial), and mailing addresses to the Title I DPAS Program Office, AFRL/ML,
     Bldg 2977 "P" St., Bldg 653, Room 302, WPAFB, OH 45433-7739.
     7.3.4. Reviews the DX-rated Program Listing to ensure programs are current and accurate.
     7.3.5. As requested by SAF/AQRE, develops a listing of all weapon systems or other items rec-
     ommended to be added to, retained on, or deleted from the DX-rated Program Listing.
     7.3.6. Recommends a consolidated Air Force position to SAF/AQRE on proposed DX-rated Pro-
     gram Listing revisions with accompanying justification.
     7.3.7. Processes all SPA requests from Air Force activities and contractors.
     7.3.8. Trains DPAS personnel at field activities and contractor locations annually.
     7.3.9. Helps all Air Force activities comply with DPAS.
     7.3.10. Supports DoD DPAS council activities.
  7.4. AFMC Centers:
     7.4.1. Appoints a Center DPAS officer and alternate and sends their names, addresses, and DSN
     and commercial phone numbers to AFRL/ML to the address in 7.3.3. above.
  7.5. AFMC Center DPAS Officer:
     7.5.1. Serves as the field activity focal point for all material priorities/program allocations.
        7.5.1.1. Helps review the DX-rated Program Listing to ensure that programs are current and
        accurate.
        7.5.1.2. Provides assistance to Title I DPAS Program Office in resolving SPA Form BXA-999
        cases.
        7.5.1.3. Schedules training for appropriate center personnel.
        7.5.1.4. Provides educational materials to the Center’s Engineering, Contracting, and other
        functional organizations when appropriate.
     7.5.2. Maintains an effective DPAS program at the field level.
        7.5.2.1. Assists in preparing and reviewing any Forms BXA-999 that are generated by their
        center. Returns all invalid Form BXA-999 applications or those that can be resolved by other
        means to the submitting office with a letter of explanation.
        7.5.2.2. Keeps a record of SPA cases initiated by the center's personnel, the actions taken, and
        the resolution of each case, numbering the cases by calendar year (02-001, 02-002, and so on).
6                                                                    AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003


           7.5.2.3. Processes requests for SPA filed by Air Force activities and contractors.
              7.5.2.3.1. Explores options to resolve priority and allocation problems with SPA applicant
              (e.g., offering premium handling, soliciting other possible suppliers, checking defense
              inventories).
              7.5.2.3.2. Contacts the applicant to determine the minimum quantity needed to fill an
              order and latest required delivery date needed to support the contractor's delivery to the
              customer.
              7.5.2.3.3. Contacts the problem supplier to verify the situation and to emphasize the
              urgency of the program.
              7.5.2.3.4. Investigates whether the contractor's purchase order has the appropriate rating
              and asks the contractor to request a formal rating amendment to the order if necessary.
              7.5.2.3.5. Explores defense inventories and alternate suppliers to find sufficient materials
              or components to satisfy the contractor's requirement.
              7.5.2.3.6. If sufficient SPA cannot be obtained and the urgency remains, the AFMC Center
              DPAS Officer documents the measures taken and sends the Form BXA-999, SPA request,
              to AFRL/ML at the address in paragraph 7.3.3. for further action with the following:
                  7.5.2.3.6.1. All pertinent information obtained during investigation of the request in
                  Form BXA-999, or in a letter of transmittal accompanying the form.
                  7.5.2.3.6.2. The latest feasible delivery date, explaining why meeting that date is vital.
                  Fax extremely urgent requests to the Title I program office (DSN 986-4420).
       7.5.3. Reviews all DD Forms 691, "Application for Priority Rating for Production or Construc-
       tion Equipment."
           7.5.3.1. Approves (fully or partially) or denies the request as specified on the form, based on
           factual knowledge of the contractor and an assessment of the contractor's formal statements.
           7.5.3.2. Sends the original and two copies of the form to the principal contracting officers
           (PCO) overseeing the contract to get final approval or denial. In cases involving several
           defense contracts, the AFMC Center DPAS Officer sends the forms to the PCO with the larg-
           est total cost contract.
           7.5.3.3. Notifies the contractor to use the rating authorization identified on the approved copy
           of the DD Form 691.

8. Forms Adopted :
    8.1. BXA-999, "Request for Special Priorities Assistance" and DD Form 691, "Application for Prior-
    ity Rating for Production or Construction Equipment".



                                                     DR. MARVIN R. SAMBUR
                                                     Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003                                                                         7


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 4400.1, "Defense Production Act Programs," October 2001
DoD 4400.1-M, "Priorities and Allocations Manual," February 2002
DPAS Regulation, Subpart C, Section 700.8. The definitions specified in this DPAS Regulation apply
to this instruction.
Secretary of the Air Force Order (SAFO) 615.3, "Delegation of Priorities and Allocations Authorities:
DO and DX Ratings, Allotment Authority and Rescheduling of Delivery Authority", October 1997.
AFPD 63-6, "Industrial Resources", 28 March 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DOC—Department of Commerce
DPA—Defense Production Act
DPAS—Defense Priorities and Allocations System
DSN—Defense Switched Network
DUSD/IP —Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, Industrial Policy
PAM—Priorities and Allocations Manual
PK—Contracting
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAF/AQRE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Deputy Assistant Secretary
(Engineering and Technical Management Division)
SPA—Special Priorities Assistance
HQ AFRL/ML—Title I DPAS Program Office
8                                                                     AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003


                                              Attachment 2

                             FILLING OUT FORM BXA-999 ENTRIES

A2.1. General Information. Air Force field activities obtain Form BXA-999 through their Publications
Distribution Office. For each form, restrict entries to:
    A2.1.1. One applicant.
    A2.1.2. One supplier.
    A2.1.3. One type of material, component, assembly, or subassembly.

A2.2. One purchase-order line item. EXCEPTION: When you include two or more line items that con-
form to A2.1.1. through A2.1.3. on one request, enter "See Attachment" on Blocks 2 and 5 if necessary.
Include the requested and promised dates for each item on the attachments for Block 2 and 5. Label the
schedule for each item with the appropriate item identification.

A2.3. Do not include classified information on Form BXA-999. If you are asked for classified informa-
tion enter "classified" and provide the information or requested data on a separate sheet of paper attached
to the Form BXA-999. Be sure you handle and transmit all classified information properly.

A2.4. Be sure to submit a copy of both the contract face page and the contract delivery page with Form
BXA-999. Encourage contractors submitting Form BXA-999 to include a copy of the purchase order to
the problem supplier.

A2.5. Required Entries:
    Block 1a -- Enter the name and address of the activity requesting SPA.
    Block 1b -- If applicant is not the end-user, enter the applicant's customer (i.e., procuring Government
    agency, prime contractor). If the prime contractor experiences delays, you may enter DoD CAS or the
    purchasing activity. Include the telephone number, name of contact, and include the prime contract
    number if known. This information is vital to quickly determine urgency and various expediting alter-
    natives.
    Block 2 -- Indicate the product being produced or service to be performed by the applicant.
    Block 3 -- Be sure that the "Quantity" amount corresponds to the "number of units" identified in Block
    5. Respond in as much detail as possible to assist in the search for alternate sources and materials.
    Complete all sections.
    Block 4a -- Enter the supplier with whom the applicant is experiencing the delay. Give the name of the
    highest official in the company who is directly involved with the applicant, including title, telephone
    and FAX numbers, if known.
    Block 4b -- Enter applicant's purchase order number to supplier, date issued and priority rating.
    Block 5a -- Be sure that all rated orders contain a required delivery date or schedule and number of
    units/items required. Specify the delivery date and quantity currently required by applicant.
AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003                                                                                9


  Block 5b -- Indicate the quantity of units/items and delivery schedule currently promised by the sup-
  plier. If this differs significantly from the quantity and schedule provided in the original contract/pur-
  chase order, provide the original schedule and quantity in the Continuation Block.
  Block 6 -- State the reasons given by the supplier explaining why the required delivery (Block 5a)
  cannot be met. Attach any pertinent written correspondence to the form.
  Block 7 -- Explain the effect the delay in receipt of the item(s) in Block 3 will have on delivery of the
  item(s) in Block 2 (production stoppage, shipment delay, etc.). Describe in-house efforts and steps you
  have taken with the supplier to resolve the critical item shortage.
  Block 8 -- The DPAS officer of the DoD activity, or authorized representative of a private company
  filing the Form BXA 999, completes and signs the certification required in this block.
  Block 9 -- Sponsoring US Government Agency -- Agency which issued a contract or order for which
  applicant's material is needed. Complete sponsor activity information.
     a. Self-explanatory.
     b. Self-explanatory.
     c. Self-explanatory.
     d. Describe any other factors that may justify special assistance. Indicate the likely consequences
     if you cannot obtain the priorities assistance you are requesting.
     e. Show how you are coordinating with the applicant. Include a description of what the sponsoring
     DPAS officer has done to resolve the problem, verify the facts, and recommend actions for higher
     headquarters to take. Describe the actions you have taken with other major commands or other
     services to resolve the shortage.
     f. Self-explanatory.
10                                                                    AFI63-602 18 DECEMBER 2003


                                              Attachment 3

                                          DPAS AUTHORITY

A3.1. The Defense Production Act (DPA) of 1950, Title I, Section l0l (a), as amended, authorizes the
President to:
     A3.1.1. Require that contracts or orders relating to certain approved defense or energy programs take
     precedence over all other contracts and orders.
     A3.1.2. Allocate materials and facilities to promote approved programs for the national defense.

A3.2. By Executive Order (EO), the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA):
     A3.2.1. Oversees all departments and agencies that implement the P&A authority.
     A3.2.2. Coordinates production, distribution, priorities, and allocation programs essential to meeting
     national defense needs.

A3.3. The United States Department of Commerce, Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security,
implements rules, regulations, orders, and directives to enforce industry compliance with the DPAS
(http://www.bxa.doc.gov/defenseindustrialbaseprograms/OSIES/DPAS/ ).

A3.4. The EO also delegates to the DoD the responsibility for certifying which national defense programs
(military production and construction, military assistance to any foreign nation, stockpiling, and directly
related activities) P&A Authority may support.

A3.5. Federal Acquisition Regulation 11.6 requires all DoD departments to comply with DOC regula-
tions and DoD Directive 4400.1 (October 2001).
