BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 64-106
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                25 MARCH 1994

                                                                         673D AIR BASE WING
                                                                                   Supplement
                                                                                     7 MAY 2013

                                                                                      Contracting

                                                                  AIR FORCE INDUSTRIAL
                                                             LABORRELATIONS ACTIVITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQCO                                                             Certified by: SAF/AQC
                                                                    (Brig Gen Robert W. Drewes)
Supersedes:    AFR 79-1, 31 March 1992.                                                  Pages: 11
                                           (673ABW)
OPR: 673 CONS/DBO                                                     Certified by: 673 CONS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Jeffrey G. Moody)
Supersedes:    AFI 64-106/Wg Sup 1,                                                       Pages:5
               16 June 2000


This instruction implements AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System. It describes authorized union
activities on installations and the duties and responsibilities of Air Force personnel when a labor
dispute occurs. It tells what the Air Force does about labor dispute demonstrations on Air Force
installations and at overseas commands and activities. To ensure a full understanding of
industrial labor relations activities, contact your servicing Regional Labor Office. A listing of
Regional Labor Offices is in Attachment 1.

(673ABW) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 64-106, Air Force Industrial Labor Relations Activities, 25 March 1994, and is used in
conjunction with AFI 36-701, Labor Management Relations. This publication relates to
activities by unions representing contractors’ employees and applies to activities by unions
representing federal employees. This publication does not apply to the US Air Force Reserve or
Air National Guard units and members. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route the AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
 2                                                     AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013


chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Record Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the first issuance of AFI 64-106, revising AFR 79-1.
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Deputy Assistant Secretary (DAS) for Contracting. SAF/AQC approves, publishes,
     and implements all industrial labor relations policy and assigns a labor relations focal point
     from existing personnel strength.
     1.2. Labor Relations Coordinator. Is the liaison with the regional labor advisor and has
     ready access to the installation commander. Appointment of a labor relations coordinator
     does not prevent direct communications between the regional labor advisor and the
     installation commander or other staff members when the situation requires it.
     1.3. Regional Labor Advisors. Are identified in Attachment 1 and are assigned by
     geographic area. The regional labor advisor:
            Advises the SAF/AQC labor relations focal point of any actions or activities that
             may impact SAF/AQC, contracting offices, or labor relations policies.
            Coordinates on all industrial labor relations actions and Air Force responses not
             covered by this instruction.
            Monitors and reports status of major collective bargaining agreements and labor
             management relations affecting significant Air Force programs.
            Guides and assists Air Force commands and installations on labor issues.
            Coordinates program operations.
     1.4. Major Command, Field Operating Agency, and Installation Commander. Each
     appoints a labor relations coordinator and alternate from existing personnel strength and
     advises the regional labor advisor of the names. Installation commanders communicate with
     local union officials as the need arises and include local labor organizations in their
     community relations programs.
     1.4. (673ABW) Contract management (673 CONS/LGC) is designated as the labor relations
     coordinator within this command for direct contact and liaison on labor relations problems.
     1.5. Air Force Personnel. Air Force personnel do not interfere with or try to influence
     collective bargaining or labor disputes between contractors and labor unions representing
     contractor employees. Air Force personnel cooperate with Federal and state agencies relating
     to industrial labor relations activities. Air Force personnel maintain neutrality in labor
     disputes. Air Force personnel refer all contractor labor relations matters to the head of the
     contracting office. Such matters include:
           Potential contact with national or international level labor union organizations.
AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013                                                               3


        Notice of potential or actual labor disputes.
        Notice of potential or actual picketing or other demonstrations.
  1.5. (673ABW) Group commanders will ensure the following offices plan for and carry out
  associated responsibilities. Associated 673d Air Base Wing (673 ABW) staff agencies will
  provide guidance and assistance to installation organizations in the development of
  supporting plans and during actual labor disputes.
     1.5.1. (Added-673ABW) . The 673d Security Forces Squadron (673 SFS). Formulates
     plan for reserved gate system. Coordinates with local law enforcement officials to advise
     them of the potential for a labor dispute and to ensure local law enforcement officials are
     prepared to maintain open and safe travel on public routes to and from the installation.
     Reviews base boundaries and jurisdiction.            Monitors picketing, protests, and
     confrontations. For further information refer to Appendix 2 to Annex C of the Joint Base
     Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) Integrated Defense Plan.
     1.5.2. (Added-673ABW) . The 673d ABW Staff Judge Advocate (673 ABW/JA).
     Provides legal assistance and guidance. Assists in identifying installation boundaries and
     appropriate responses to picketing.
     1.5.3. (Added-673ABW) . The 673d ABW Public Affairs (673 ABW/PA). Assesses
     the labor dispute’s local impact and develops applicable community relations program.
     When public release of information is authorized, informs internal and external audiences
     of events surrounding the dispute. Coordinates proposed news releases and responses to
     media queries with the installation commander, 673 ABW/JA, 673 SFS, 673 CONS, and
     the Civilian Personnel Flight. Advises base population of potential strike actions,
     appropriate responses to questions, and overall base response. Coordinates as necessary
     with the 673d Communications Squadron (673 CS) to establish appropriate routing of
     incoming calls concerning strike activities.
     1.5.4. (Added-673ABW) . The 673d Communications Squadron (673 CS). The 673
     CS will ensure base operators route all calls concerning the strike to a designated point of
     contact within the contracting squadron. Affected units will identify individuals on strike
     to 673 CS so network accounts can be disabled.
     1.5.5. (Added-673ABW) . The 673d Civil Engineer Group (673 CEG). Create signs
     required for reserved gate system. Ensures installation maps clearly define base
     boundaries and are coordinated with 673 CONS, 673 ABW/JA, and 673 SFS. Reviews
     contracts that may be affected by picketing and plans accordingly. Ensures minimum
     mission essential facility support and municipal services (snow and ice control, utilities,
     and trash removal) are uninterrupted.
     1.5.6. (Added-673ABW) . The 673d Comptroller Squadron (673 CPTS). Upon
     notification of a labor dispute, coordinate with the appropriate division within HQ
     PACAF/FM to develop the necessary course of action to resolve requests for civilian
     overtime and emergency funding; establish a command emergency and special program
     (ESP) code. Issue instructions to affected bases to report costs attributable to the labor
     dispute. Provide funding support for actions beyond the capability of affected bases and
     maintain close liaison with all directories and special staff agencies on matters requiring
 4                                                       AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013


         funding support and advice. Monitor the situation and provide appropriate financial
         support of alternate plans, if available. The 673 CPTS will support the installation
         commander with financial management advice and report the status of contractor strike
         and associated impact to HQ PACAF/FM, as requested.
         1.5.7. (Added-673ABW) . The 673d Force Support Squadron (673 FSS). The Civilian
         Personnel Flight Chief serves on the executive working group (EWG), as needed.
         Provides identified staffing services and interfaces with civilian employee labor officials,
         as necessary.
         1.5.8. (Added-673ABW) . Contractor-Supported Functional Areas. Develop planning
         for actions to be taken to maintain health and physical security of assigned personnel and
         government property in the event of a partial or complete loss of contractor work force.
         Assess potential requirement for over-hires, overtime, staggered work schedules, and so
         forth, seeking advice and guidance from the 673 ABW/FSS, as needed. Develop
         management plans to verify applicable contractors are carrying out their own strike
         response plans, and monitor contractor performance during labor disputes. Coordinate
         action plans with 673 CONS/LGC prior to implementation.
     1.6. Contracting Officers. Comply with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) part 22 and
     its supplements concerning industrial labor relations matters. The contracting officer
     coordinates with the regional labor advisor on all actions and responses not covered by this
     instruction or the FAR.
     1.6. (673ABW) The 673 CONS/CC is the OPR for base labor dispute planning,
     communications, and actions. Upon notification of a potential or actual labor dispute,
     assesses situation, advises installation commander and the agencies listed in paragraph 2.1,
     this supplement, and notifies HQ PACAF/LGCR. Advises all affected contractors of labor
     dispute and use of picketed gate. Reviews contractor strike plan for realism. Ensures
     contractor is implementing strike plan to the maximum extent possible and is making every
     reasonable effort to come to an agreement with the striking work force. Ensures functional
     areas assess the potential for sympathy strikes.
2. Labor Disputes:
     2.1. Reporting. The cognizant contracting activity reports and takes action in accordance
     with FAR 22.101-3 and its supplements when notice of a potential or actual labor dispute is
     received from any source. Such labor disputes include those:
        At contractor facilities with significant Air Force contracts.
        Operating on Air Force installations as the result of Air Force contracts or subcontracts.
        On Air Force installations but not operating under an Air Force contract, such as schools,
         banks, and credit unions, or contractors operating under contract with other agencies.
     2.1. (673ABW) Installation contracting activities will report all potential and actual labor
     dispute actions (except those under Title 7, Civil Service Reform Act, Labor-Management
     Relations in the Federal Service) to HQ PACAF/LGCR and the appropriate regional Air
     Force Labor Relations Advisor (LRA). The contracting officer, 673 CONS/LGC, and the
     LRA will immediately assess the situation. Throughout the labor dispute, the contracting
     officer will report all applicable information to 673 CONS/LGC and the regional AF LRA.
AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013                                                                  5


  Upon notification of a potential labor dispute (and throughout the process), 673 CONS/LGC
  will immediately advise the Chief, Contracting Division (HQ PACAF/LGC), 673rd Mission
  Support Group (673 MSG) Commander, and other interested wing staff agencies. Based on
  inputs from the installation contracting officer and the LRA, 673 CONS/LGC prepares
  reports of each significant event in the labor dispute, including a final report on the
  settlement. Each follow-on report will contain a summary of information given previously
  and an outline of current status. If necessary, 673 CONS/LGC will assemble an EWG, made
  up of interested staff agencies, to monitor the situation and provide guidance to the affected
  agencies. The 673 CONS/LGC will ensure effective liaison is maintained between the
  installation personnel, the 673 ABW/EWG, and the regional AF LRA.
  2.2. Performance During a Dispute. If work is necessary for health, sanitation, safety, or
  other reasons, and a contractor can not work as required because of a labor dispute, the
  installation commander may authorize the use of in-house personnel instead of contractor
  personnel after coordination with the regional labor advisor. In no event will commanders
  use Air Force military or civilian personnel to supplement the contractor's nonstriking work
  force. The contract services must be performed exclusively by contractor employees or
  exclusively by Air Force employees.
  2.2. (673ABW) If work is necessary for health, sanitation, safety, or other reasons, and the
  EWG has a concern that the contractor cannot work as required because of a labor dispute or
  possible labor dispute, the EWG will call a meeting of all the relevant staff agencies to
  discuss whether the work in question is truly necessary for health, sanitation, safety, or other
  crucial reasons. The circumstances may indicate that a potential labor dispute will not affect
  a contractor’s ability to perform the critical aspects of the contract. Such a determination
  must be made on a case-by-case basis. If a concern exists that a contractor will not be able to
  perform the critical aspects of the contract, a representative from 673 CONS will notify the
  contractor, in writing, and ask that the contractor provide written assurances that the
  contractor can still perform the critical aspects of the contract.
  2.3. Picketing and Other Demonstrations:
     2.3.1. The installation commander minimizes impact on the Air Force mission by
     (generally) not permitting picketing or other demonstrations on Air Force installations
     and by limiting picketing outside installations to one or more gates. By restricting a
     struck contractor's base entry and exit to specific gates, and enforcing that restriction, the
     union is obliged to limit its picketing to those same gates. Neutral contractor employees
     and others not involved in the dispute can access the installation without crossing a picket
     line by using other gates.
     2.3.2. When pickets appear, or when the installation commander receives notice of
     possible picketing, the commander:
             May request the presence of the regional labor advisor if justified.
             Consults with the labor relations coordinator and the regional labor advisor on a
              course of action to minimize the impact of the picketing.
             Decides if a reserve gate or gates should be established.
6                                                  AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013


           Informs all military and civilian personnel of the labor situation, gives the Air
            Force policy of strict neutrality, instructs personnel to refrain from expressing an
            opinion on the merits of the labor-management dispute, and emphasizes the need
            to obey any special traffic instructions.
           Notifies local civil law enforcement officials that pickets may congest public
            access routes adjacent to the installation and request their assistance in keeping
            routes clear. Reviews installation boundaries and jurisdiction with local law
            officials.
    2.3.2. (673ABW) When informed of a labor dispute that will disrupt mission capability,
    the installation commander will convene an EWG of interested installation organizations.
    The OPR for the installation EWG is the 673 CONS/LGC. The EWG will review the
    situation and applicable planning, ensure appropriate actions are taken to protect the
    health, safety, welfare, and property of assigned personnel, and determine the most
    practical response to continue the installation mission to the maximum extent possible.
    The 673 CONS/LGC will report all EWG planning and actions to 673 ABW/CC.
    2.3.3. If installation commanders require a reserved gate, they:
           Send appropriate letters to the contractor and unions involved (see sample letter
            Attachment 2).
           Conspicuously place signs at the reserved gates. The signs must be easily
            readable from a distance of 75 feet by vehicle operators and pedestrians entering
            the installation, and must contain the following wording: " NOTICE: THIS
            ENTRANCE MUST BE USED BY EMPLOYEES, VENDORS, AND
            SUPPLIERS OF (Name of contractor involved in dispute) WHO ENTER
            AND EXIT THIS INSTALLATION, BY ORDER OF THE
            INSTALLATION COMMANDER."
           Places signs at all other base entrances to read: " NOTICE: EMPLOYEES,
            VENDORS, AND SUPPLIERS OF (Name of Contractor) MUST ENTER
            AND EXIT THE ____________________________ ENTRANCE
            TO_____________________ AIR FORCE BASE, BY ORDER OF THE
            INSTALLATION COMMANDER.”
           Maintain a separate log of events and activities at the picket gate and at the
            picket line area.
    2.3.3. (673ABW) The contracting officer will prepare and deliver the reserved gate
    letters and provide 673 SFS with a method of identifying contractor employees and
    suppliers who are limited to entering the picketed gate.
    2.3.4. Air Force members and employees continue to perform their own normal
    installation or contractor plant functions during a labor dispute.
    2.3.5. Guards must monitor gates for compliance with the reserved gate restrictions. The
    union may post observers at neutral gates to monitor compliance. Use of other gates by
    contractor personnel involved in the dispute may result in the union legally picketing all
    gates to the installation. The labor relations coordinator informs the regional labor
AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013                                                                7


       advisor if pickets or personnel involved in the dispute (including vendors and
       subcontractors) use other than the designated gate. If this occurs, the installation
       commander may be required to revise the gate system.
       2.3.6. If installation commanders believe that the safety of Air Force personnel entering,
       exiting, or working at the Air Force installation or plant would be endangered by strike or
       picketing activities, the commanders ask the regional labor advisor for assistance in
       arranging safe entrance and exit of Air Force employees. The regional labor advisor may
       negotiate to limit the number of pickets and establish conduct standards for those
       picketing.
   2.4. Disputes at Overseas Commands:
       2.4.1. Industrial labor relations activities, including labor disputes, at overseas
       commands are normally governed by laws and regulations of the host country. However,
       overseas commands should comply with this regulation where possible in administering
       their industrial labor relations affairs. Command labor relations coordinators refer
       questions or problems on how US labor laws apply in overseas areas, or submit requests
       for industrial labor relations assistance, to the appropriate regional labor advisor
       (Attachment 1).
       2.4.2. Due to the time delays inherent in receiving DD Form 1507, Work Stoppage
       Report, messages from overseas, where actual or potential work stoppages may impact
       on Air Force programs or contracts, the labor relations coordinator:
             Immediately telephones the regional labor advisor.
             Follows each telephone report with a DD Form 1507 message.
             Provides daily updates by fax until the situation stabilizes.
3. Employing Off-Duty Military Personnel. Off-duty military personnel can not work at an
hourly rate of pay less than the minimum or prevailing wage. The Air Force does not permit off-
duty employment in jobs temporarily vacated by a firm's striking employees. However, off-duty
Air Force military personnel who were employed by a contracting firm before it became
involved in a labor dispute need not be required to terminate employment solely because of the
dispute.
4. Union Activity on Air Force Installations:
   4.1. Authorized Activities. Installation commanders shall not permit union activity on Air
   Force-owned or controlled property except as provided in this instruction. Note: For unions
   representing Federal employees see AFI 36-701, Labor Management Relations (formerly
   AFR 40-711).
       4.1.1. Union representatives may conduct legitimate union business with their members
       who are employed by on-base contractors or meet with Air Force or contractor officials
       regarding union business, subject to the constraints of this instruction.
       4.1.2. Unions may hold bargaining unit certification or decertification elections on Air
       Force installations under the supervision of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB).
       Installation commanders must provide a suitable place for such elections on request of
       the NLRB, but only after coordinating the request with the regional labor advisor.
 8                                                      AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013


        4.1.3. Unions may hold collective bargaining agreement ratification votes on an Air
        Force installation or controlled sites at the discretion of the commander.
        4.1.3. (673ABW) Contracting officers will monitor the status of all collective
        bargaining agreements (CBA) applicable to installation contracts. If a CBA is within 45
        days of expiration and a follow-on CBA has not been negotiated and approved,
        contracting officers notify 673 CONS/LGC to assess the situation. The 673 CONS/LGC
        will determine the potential for a labor dispute, and if it exists, notify the installation
        commander immediately.
        4.1.4. Unions may not conduct internal elections on Air Force installations or controlled
        sites.
     4.2. Installation Access. The installation commander, in coordination with the regional
     labor advisor, establishes local procedures governing labor union representative's access to
     contractor employees on Air Force installations. The commander may issue indefinite entry
     passes to labor union representatives who visit regularly. Include the following restrictions:
            Access is for organizational purposes or the conduct of legitimate union business
             with members.
            The representative's entry shall not violate safety or security requirements and can
             not include access to secure or controlled areas.
            The representative's entry, presence, or activity shall not interfere with base
             operations or the contractor's activities.
            The representative may only distribute union literature and contact individual
             contractor employees outside the contractor's work areas and during the contractor
             employees" non-working hours, such as before work, during lunch time, or after
             work.
            The representative may not hold meetings, collect dues, or make speeches.
5. (Added-673ABW) . Information Collections. No information collections are required by
this publication.




                                               RICHARD E. HAWLEY, Lt General, USAF
                                               Principal Deputy, Assistant Secretaryof the Air
                                               Force for Acquisition

                                               (673ABW)

                                               BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013                                             9


                                    Attachment 1
                         REGIONAL LABOR ADVISORS

   Southeastern Regional Labor Advisor
   Patrick AFB FL 32925-0728
   407-494-6734 (Commercial) DSN 854-6734
   Areas Serviced: AL, AR, FL, GA, LA, MS, NC, SC, TN
   Northeastern Regional Labor Advisor
   Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5000
   513-257-7579 (Commercial) DSN 787-7579
   Areas Serviced: CT, DE, DC, IL, IA, IN, KY, MA, MD, ME, MI, MN, MO, NH,
   NJ, NY, OH, PA, RI, VA, VT, WI, WV, USAFE
   Central Regional Labor Advisor
   Peterson AFB CO 80914-5000
   719-554-1770 (Commercial) DSN 692-1770
   Areas Serviced: CO, KS, MT, ND, NE, NM, OK, SD, TX, WY, Canada
   Western Regional Labor Advisor
   Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-0147
   805-734-8232, EX 6-7711/6-7712 (Commercial) DSN: 276-7711
   Areas Serviced: AK, AZ, CA, HI, ID, NV, OR, UT, WA, PACAF
 10                                                AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013


                                  Attachment 1 (673ABW)
         GLOSSARY OF REFEREANCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-701, Labor Management Relations, 27 July 1994.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
AFI 64-106, Air Force Industrial Labor Relations Activities, 25 March 1994.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI – Air Force Instruction.
AFRIMS -- Air Force Records Information Management System.
CBA -- Collective Bargaining Agreements.
CE -- Civil Engineer.
ESP -- Emergency and Special Program.
EWG -- Executive Working Group.
JA -- Judge Advocate.
JBER – Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.
LRA -- Labor Relations Advisor.
OPR -- Office of Primary Responsibility.
PA -- Public Affairs.
RDS -- Record Disposition Schedule.
AFI64-106_673ABWSUP_I 7 MAY 2013                                                                    11


                                           Attachment 2
                SAMPLE LETTER FOR RESERVED GATE PROCEDURES

(This letter is only a guide; the wording, style, and form are optional.)
FROM: CC
SUBJECT: Reserved Gate Procedure in the Event of Picketing
TO: (One copy goes to the contractor and one to the picketing union)
       I have been advised that a labor dispute may result in picketing of (contractor) during
     performance of contract _____________________________ at (base).
        The Air Force maintains strict neutrality in contractor labor disputes. Consistent with this
     policy, I must make every effort to ensure the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission
     is not adversely affected by your dispute.
       Accordingly, observe the following procedures for the duration of the dispute or until
     otherwise removed by official action:
a. Do not picket within the confines of the installation.
b. All employees, vendors and suppliers of (contractor) will enter and exit the installation only
   through the reserved gate: (gate designation, may be more than one).
c. Confine demonstrations, including picketing, to the reserved gate, (restate the reserved gates).
        The Government will post appropriate signs identifying the reserved gate at all entrances
     to the installation. You must ensure all individuals are aware of and fully comply with these
     procedures. Direct any questions or problems regarding these procedures to (point of
     contact for commander) at (phone no.)

CC signature block
