                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-602
AIR FORCE                                                                        28 FEBRUARY 1994

                                                                               Financial Management

                                                     FORMAL TRAINING COURSE COST REPORT
                                                                     (RCS: SAF-FMB[A]7108)


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/FMBIS                                                               Certified by: SAF/FMBIS
       (Carol Bell)                                                                   (Dana J. Gilmour)
Supersedes AFR 173-7, 19 August 1982.                                                          Pages: 4
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 65-6, Budget. It explains how to report the cost of Air Force formal
training courses. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through channels, to SAF/FMB, 1130 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC
20330-1130.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the initial publication of AFI 65-602 revising AFR 173-7.



1. Reporting Requirements. All major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and
other US Air Force agencies must report the training course costs for each organization in the command
that conducts formal training for non-US Air Force students. DoD 7000.14-R, volume 15, DoD Financial
Management Regulation (Security Assistance Policies and Procedures), March 1993, establishes the
requirement for this information. RCS: SAF-FMB(AR)7108 applies.
   1.1. Purpose. The Air Force requires agencies which offer training to submit a formal training course
   cost report (FTCCR) in order to analyze and publish information about the cost of Air Force training
   courses. The Air Force uses the information to:
       • Develop tuition rates for students in security assistance program training (SAPT) and for
           non-Air Force students enrolled in Air Force training courses.
       • Respond to Congressional and other inquiries regarding the cost of Air Force training pro-
           grams.
       • Develop estimated training costs associated with various Air Force specialty codes to evaluate
           proficiency pay, incentive pay, and variable re-enlistment bonuses.
   •   Develop cost factors and cost estimating relationships for use in economic analyses, Office of
       Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-76 analyses, feasibility studies, and for evaluat-
       ing current and proposed training programs.
1.2. What Training To Report. Report costs of formal training courses and educational programs
that provide technical or professional instruction to full-time students whether provided in-house or
by the contractor. Use the following general guidelines:
    • Report costs of all formal training courses, AETC Type II training, and professional education
        courses unless this instruction or SAF/FMBIS exempts them. Paragraph 1.5. describes the
        reporting format for these courses.
    • Report costs of Air Force Reserve Officer Training Course, Air Force Academy, and Air
        Force Institute of Technology, nonresident programs. You don't need to use report formats
        described in paragraph 1.5. The reporting MAJCOM or FOA determines specific reporting
        formats.
    • Don't report costs of courses that are an adjunct to the MAJCOM or FOA mission. Examples
        are fellowship programs, noncommissioned officer leadership school programs, and bootstrap
        commissioning.
1.3. FTCCR Procedures:
   1.3.1. Submit the report to Secretary of the Air Force, Assistant for Security Assistance, SAF/
   FMBIS, by 15 March.
   1.3.2. Prepare the report according to the letter SAF/FMBIS issues each year. This instruction
   letter gives detailed methodology, computational procedures, narrative requirements, and other
   pertinent information.
   1.3.3. When a significant change occurs in a SAPT flying-course syllabus, update AF Form 2616,
   Flying Training Data, and send to SAF/FMBIS.
   1.3.4. To minimize allocation of historical direct training costs, establish cost centers and cost
   accounts at the appropriate level to collect data within the accounting system. If cost centers
   already exist for other reporting requirements or to manage resources, create subsidiary cost cen-
   ters or cost accounts to track training costs. MAJCOMs have flexibility in determining levels of
   aggregation. Keep the number of cost centers you establish to report historical direct training
   costs to a minimum.
   1.3.5. Use AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors (formerly AFR 173-13), as the
   basic source for costfactors in developing the training course cost report. If other cost factors are
   required, SAF/FMBIS will include them in the letter of instructions. With approval from SAF/
   FMBIS, MAJCOMs may develop factors unique to their programs to use in pricing.
   1.3.6. To reduce staff workloads, try to use existing Automated Data Processing (ADP). Also
   develop and use software systems that enhance data retrieval and production of
   SAF-FMB(AR)7108. The report formats may be changed to facilitate ADP reporting. Coordinate
   format changes with SAF/FMBIS and Defense Information Technology Services Organization
   (DITSO).




                                             2
1.4. Responsibilities:
   1.4.1. SAF/FMBIS is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the training cost reporting
   program. As such it does the following:
       • Provides technical advice and instructions for determining training course costs and
          related data.
       • Evaluates and approves procedures for developing formal training course cost reports and
          for setting tuition rates.
       • Publishes cost and planning factors for use in developing the formal training course cost
          report.
       • Generates and distributes annual RCS: SAF-FMB(AR)7108 reporting instructions.
   1.4.2. MAJCOM Director of Financial Management:
       • Establishes and maintains information systems and procedures for gathering training costs
          and related data.
       •   Helps organizations within the command to submit data for the training course cost report.
       •   Submits, for SAF/FMBIS approval, any unique cost factors and cost estimating relation-
           ships related to command training missions.
       •   Submits general applications of command-developed cost factors to SAF/FMBIS for eval-
           uation.
       •   Compares the SAPT course cost per student with prior year costs and reports any major
           changes in tuition rates to SAF/FMBIS. If the cost variance approaches 15 percent, the
           variance is explained.
       •   Furnishes a copy of its command and field implementing guidelines to SAF/FMBIS.
       •   Prepares OMB Circular A-76 analyses as requested by SAF and HQ USAF.
       •   Assigns and reports to SAF/FMBIS the accountable OPR for this instruction. Informs
           SAF/FMBIS of OPR changes within 30 days.
   1.4.3. MAJCOM Director of Manpower and Organization:
       • Annually reviews and validates staffing requirements for direct and indirect training.
          Sends results to the Director of Financial Management.
       • Ensures that unit manning documents reflect accurate distribution of direct and reimburs-
          able coding of positions.
       • Assists in preparing OMB Circular A-76 analyses.
   1.4.4. MAJCOM Director of Operations, Director of Personnel, Technical Training, Educa-
   tion, Surgeon, and Other Staff Offices. These offices ensure that weapons system OPRs, train-
   ing program managers, and their staff members inform and assist the Director of Financial Man-
   agement in preparing the report, RCS: SAF-FMB(AR)7108.
   1.4.5. Host and Tenant Organizations. Tenant organizations which conduct training will report
   required training data to their parent command. The host organization submits the indirect costs
   for base support and the nonfinancial data required for reporting. MAJCOM support costs reflect
   only those of the tenant's parent command.


                                            3
1.5. Forms Prescribed. In the report, RCS: SAF-FMB(AR)7108, the following forms may be
included:
    • AF Form 611, Average Training Cost Per Graduate.
    • AF Form 612, Variable Training Cost Per Graduate (as required by SAF/FMBIS).
    • AF Form 613, Security Assistance Program (SAP) Training Cost Per Student.
    • AF Form 1064, Course and Personnel Data (as required by SAF/FMBIS).
    • AF Form 1069, Direct Training Cost Data (as required by SAF/FMBIS).
    • AF Form 2616, Flying Training Data.
    • AF Form 2617, Manpower Allocation Report (as required by SAF/FMBIS).
    • AF Form 2618, Computation of Variable Direct Manpower Determinants (as required by
       SAF/FMBIS).
    • Base Cost Summary (as required by SAF/FMBIS).
1.6. Disposition of Records. Dispose of all reporting forms as prescribed by AFMAN 37-139,
Records Disposition--Standards (formerly AFR 4-20, volume 2). This report is designated emer-
gency status code C-3. Continue reporting during emergency conditions; delayed. Do not transmit by
message during MINIMIZE.




                                    JOHN W. BEACH
                                    Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                    (Financial Management)




                                          4
