BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-603
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          17 DECEMBER 2003

                                                                                               Acquisition

                                                             DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT TITLE III
                                                                                  PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/AQRE (Maj Steve Hayden)                           Certified by: SAF/AQR (Mr. James B. Engle)
Supersedes AFI 63-603, 18 March 1994                                                          Pages: 4
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction implements DoD Directive 4400.1, Defense Production Act Programs, and AFPD 63-6,
Industrial Base Planning. It outlines the process and integrates activities of Title III of the Defense Pro-
duction Act (DPA) into the Air Force Industrial Base Program, and assigns responsibilities to the Air
Force Secretariat, HQ Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), and subordinate organizations. It does not
apply to the Air National Guard or United States Air Force Reserve.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision updates references and functional address symbols, and reflects changes in the Title III Pro-
gram made, in part, by the 2001 reauthorization of the DPA. It also rescinds references to HQ AFMC/
ENM and HQ AFRL/PK.

1. Background. The Air Force participates in the Department of Defense (DoD)-wide Title III program
organized by the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) to solve Services’ critical technology and
industrial resources problems. The Air Force provides representatives to serve on OSD-led Tri-Service/
Defense Logistics Agency Steering Committee and Working Group upon request to provide advice to
OSD regarding oversight and decision-making on critical issues. The Air Force, as Executive Agent for
the Title III program, maintains a program office at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH. The program
office, a component of the Materials and Manufacturing Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, exe-
cutes Title III projects and operates the program on a daily basis. Refer to Attachment 1 for further
details on the Act.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. SAF/AQRE:
2                                                                     AFI63-603 17 DECEMBER 2003


       2.1.1. With SAF/AQR approval, and upon OSD request, designates a flag rank officer, senior
       executive, or staff members to serve on OSD-led Title III steering committees or working groups.
       2.1.2. Coordinates the DPA Title III Program with other elements of industrial base programs to
       ensure it supports them.
       2.1.3. Assists the Title III Program Office in identifying weapon system programs using materials
       covered by Title III contracts and in resolving specification and schedule differences between pro-
       duction of weapon systems and the Title III effort.
    2.2. AFRL (Materials and Manufacturing Directorate):
       2.2.1. Provides a senior executive from the line organization over the Title III program office,
       when requested by OSD, to serve on a Title III Steering Committee.
       2.2.2. Identifies and advocates requirements for adequate resources, including, but not limited to,
       management, engineering and contracting personnel, for carrying out Title III program activities.
       2.2.3. Serves as the Source Selection Authority and/or Decision Authority for all Title III con-
       tracting actions executed by the Title III Program Office.
    2.3. AFRL/MLM (Title III Program Office):
       2.3.1. As the DoD Executive Agent, develops DPA Title III Program policy.
       2.3.2. Encourages other Air Force organizations to become project sponsors and otherwise partic-
       ipate and use Title III to meet their requirements for capability/capacity creation.
       2.3.3. Establishes and implements a structured process for project identification and evaluation.
       Involves a broad range of potential users in the evaluation process.
       2.3.4. Executes the Title III Program’s project identification and selection process. Screens all
       project call responses against DPA and DoD criteria. Ranks proposed projects. Advocates recom-
       mended projects to OSD and other Title III reviewing organizations.
       2.3.5. Conducts pre-solicitation project activities:
           2.3.5.1. Assesses and structures the Title III project to meet DPA requirements.
           2.3.5.2. Performs a Business and Technical Analysis to verify state-of-the-industry and to
           confirm previous projections of demand.
           2.3.5.3. Develops an acquisition strategy in coordination with the service Project Sponsor.
       2.3.6. Accomplishes all contracting activities from pre-solicitation through post contract adminis-
       tration.
       2.3.7. Oversees technical and administrative performance of the Title III contract. Coordinates
       assessments of the contractor's progress with the Project Sponsor.
       2.3.8. Provides information about contractor's progress and production schedules to members of
       the service or agency working group and managers of programs requiring contract deliverables.
       2.3.9. Advocates utilization of the Title III materials in other defense systems.
AFI63-603 17 DECEMBER 2003                                                                              3


  2.4. Each AFMC Product/Air Logistics Center and Air Force Research Laboratory:
     2.4.1. Designates a focal point for support and interaction with AFRL/MLM on Title III. The
     focal point coordinates Title III Project Calls within the Center/Laboratory.
     2.4.2. Participates in Project Call. Centers make their requirements known by developing project
     proposals in response to the project submission call announcement that is issued by OSD.
     Requirements can be identified by participating with the Program Office in long-range planning,
     joint planning, and industry outreach activities and through Industrial Base Assessment efforts.
        2.4.2.1. If the proposal is accepted for funding, appoints a project engineer to serve as the
        Project Sponsor to provide technical support to the Title III program office for pre-solicitation,
        contract award, and post award activities and serve as the principal authority in defining the
        technical requirements and needs of the Title III project. These activities, performed jointly
        with the program office, include advocacy of the project, identification of potential users,
        development of a source list, development of a draft and final statement of work, preparation
        of a contract data requirements list, development of evaluation criteria, development of a
        source selection plan, development of specifications, evaluation of responses to request for
        proposal, evaluation of contractor performance, and assistance with contract modifications
        and redirection.
     2.4.3. Encourages project and program managers to specify use of Title III materials.



                                                   DR. MARVIN R. SAMBUR
                                                   Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
4                                                                      AFI63-603 17 DECEMBER 2003


                                               Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Congress first authorized the DPA Title III program in 1950 to enable industry to mine and produce mate-
rials for the Korean War. Title III continues to adapt to changing defense needs and today creates capacity
for a diverse set of advanced materials.
Title III, Expansion of Productive Capacity and Supply, of the Defense Production Act (DPA) of 1950, as
revised and amended, authorizes the President to use various forms of financial incentives to expand pro-
ductive capacity and supply. These incentives include loan guarantees (Section 301), direct Federal loans
(Section 302), purchases and purchase guarantees, installation of equipment in contractor facilities, and
other incentives (Section 303). Title III authorities can be delegated to other Federal agencies as well as to
the Department of Defense.
Executive Order 12919, National Defense Industrial Resources Preparedness, as revised and amended,
delegates to the Department of Defense the authority to develop and promote measures for the expansion
of productive capacity and of production and supply of materials and facilities necessary for the national
defense.
DODD 4400.1, Defense Production Act Programs, designates the Secretary of the Air Force as the DOD
Executive Agent for the Defense Production Act Title III Program and directs the establishment and sup-
port of a Title III Program Office to execute the Program.
DASD (P&L) Letter, Title III Interim Operating Procedures, 22 January 1987, appoints the Air Force as
the Executive Agent for the DoD Title III Program and authorizes the establishment of a Title III Program
Office to administer the program.
Secretary of the Air Force Order (SAFO) 618.1, “Defense Production Act Title III Program”, delegates
authorities to the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition).

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DPA—Defense Production Act
DSN—Defense Switched Network
SAF/AQRE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Deputy Assistant Secretary
(Engineering and Technical Management Division)
HQ AFMC—Headquarters Air Force Material Command
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
