BY ORDER OF THE                                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 61-205
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                  25 JULY 1994
                                                                   Incorporating Change 1, 29 August 2006

                                                                     Scientific/Research and Development

                                                               SPONSORING OR CO-SPONSORING,
                                                                CONDUCTING, AND PRESENTING
                                                            DOD-RELATED SCIENTIFIC PAPERS AT
                                                                UNCLASSIFIED AND CLASSIFIED
                                                           CONFERENCES, SYMPOSIA, AND OTHER
                                                                           SIMILAR MEETINGS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AQRE                                                 Certified by: SAF/AQR (Mr. Terry Jaggers)
Supersedes AFR 80-43, 9 September 1985.                                                      Pages: 11

This instruction establishes Air Force procedures for sponsoring or co-sponsoring conferences and sym-
posia involving unclassified, classified or militarily critical unclassified Department of Defense (DoD)
information. It includes procedures for Air Force participation in conferences and symposia sponsored by
others. It implements DoD Directive (DoDD) 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical Information Pro-
gram, and DoDD 200.12, Conduct of Classified Meetings, DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5230.27, Presentation
of DoD-Related Scientific and Technical Papers at Meetings, and AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific
and Technical Information. This instruction does not apply to in-house gatherings, to routine gatherings
of US Government officials, to classes conducted by DoD schools, or to gatherings between Air Force
personnel and foreign government representatives or to US or foreign government representatives on a
matter related to a specific government contract, program, or project.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change modifies approval authority for conferences, updates office symbols, and updates
security requirements. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Commanders and directors of Air Force activities, or their designees:
       1.1.1. Sponsor or co-sponsor conferences or symposia when:
           •   The activity has a significant interest in the subject matter.
           •   It is essential to the Air Force mission.
2                                                                             AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994


           •   It does not duplicate the efforts of other Government or non-Government agencies.
           •   The conference is in the best interest of national security.
           •   Established channels of disseminating classified information (for example technical
               reports) will not accomplish the purposes of the conference or symposium.
           •   The Air Force conference security manager has developed and implemented adequate
               security measures and access controls.
           •   And the purpose is:
               •   To disseminate essential research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) and
                   advance planning information promptly and widely.
               •   To exploit critical discoveries, innovations, and inventions.
       1.1.2. Appoint conference or symposium managers to oversee the administrative and technical
       details and a conference or symposium security managers to oversee security details.
    1.2. For all conferences, the conference approval authority for the Air Force Secretariat is the Admin-
    istrative Assistant to the Secretary. For unclassified conferences, this authority is delegated. For the
    Air Staff, 11 WG, and other Air Force organizations in the National Capital Region (NCR) it is the
    Assistant Vice Chief of Staff. For all MAJCOMs, it is the Vice Commander, who may delegate
    approval authority to Numbered Air Force Commanders for wing-level events only. For all FOAs/
    MLs/Named Agencies approval authority resides with the Headquarters Air Force two letter having
    oversight of the activity. The approval authority for the Air Force Academy will be the Superintendent
    and for AFOTEC it will be the Commander.

2. Approval and Notification Requirements for Classified Conferences and Symposia:
    2.1. For classified conferences, obtain approval from SAF/AA. Coordinate your request through the
    Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Division, Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force for
    International Affairs (SAF/IAPD). For conferences where Controlled Unclassified Military Informa-
    tion (CUMI) will be presented to foreign nationals or international organizations, after obtaining
    approval as outlined in section 1.2, SAF/IAPD approval is required. In either case, submit request(s)
    for approval at least 30 days before the conference or symposium.
    2.2. The request must contain:
       •   Justification for Air Force sponsorship
       •   Subject of the meeting and scope of classified topics, including the maximum authorized clas-
           sification level
       •   Expected dates and location
       •   Identity of the Air Force sponsor
       •   Names and telephone numbers of the Air Force meeting and security managers
       •   Draft of the proposed announcement or invitation to be sent to prospective attendees or partic-
           ipants
       •   Identity of any non-government organizations involved and a full description of the type of
           support they are to provide
AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994                                                                                  3


       •   Justification for specific exclusion of foreign nationals, with a description of the sensitive
           information to be presented upon which the exclusion is based
   2.3. When sponsoring classified meetings conducted by a non-government organization (a firm or
   association), include the names and telephone numbers of the non-government meeting manager and
   the Air Force security point of contact.
   2.4. Dissemination of classified information at meetings and conferences, portions or sessions of
   meetings, conferences, etc. can only occur in appropriately cleared U.S. Government or U.S. Govern-
   ment contractor locations.
NOTE: If you have an approved unclassified conference where no CUMI is presented, all presentations
must be cleared with the public affairs office in accordance with AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and
Procedures.

3. Conference or Symposium Manager:
   3.1. Gets approval for classified Air Force sponsored conferences from SAF/AA (through SAF/
   IAPD).
   3.2. Decides what classified information may be presented and determines the security level of the
   meeting. Note: The classification level of the meeting is based not only on the level of the individ-
   ual presentations but on the classification level of the presentations as a group.
   3.3. Gets help from appropriate staff offices, such as protocol, security, foreign disclosure, procure-
   ment, scientific and technical information (STINFO), the Air Force Information for Industry Office
   (AFIFIO), and public affairs.
   3.4. Distributes the announcement of a conference or symposium widely and early enough to maxi-
   mize the desired participation. Announcements of classified conferences shall:
       •   Be unclassified, limited to a general description of the topics expected to be presented, and
           include names of speakers.
       •   Include administrative instructions for requesting invitations or participation.
       •   Include security clearance and need-to-know requirements and the address to where attendees
           are to send them.
       •   Indicate the level of foreign participation permitted.
NOTE: For procurement-related conferences or symposia, particularly where individuals intend to
present advance planning information, announce the conference or symposium in the Commerce Business
Daily (CBD).
   3.5. Gives other DoD and Air Force organizations participating in any similar or related RDT&E
   effort an opportunity to participate.
   3.6. Notifies SAF/AA immediately in writing when cancelling or changing the date or location of a
   proposed conference or symposium.
   3.7. Maintains records on attendance and total costs.
   3.8. Gives appropriate representatives of allied countries an opportunity to participate in classified
   conferences or symposia, consistent with this regulation and national disclosure policy.
4                                                                             AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994


    3.9. Prepares and distributes proceedings according to paragraph 11. Note: Inform the attendees
    how they can obtain proceedings from DTIC. If possible, obtain in advance from DTIC an accession
    number for the proceedings and pass it on to the attendees to assist them in ordering the proceedings.
    3.10. Collects appropriate registration fees in accordance with AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and
    Procedures.
       3.10.1. When a conference or symposium is conducted by the Air Force, charge fees only to cover
       the expenses for the personal benefit and subsistence of attendees (such as breakfasts, coffee
       breaks, lunches, and banquets).
       3.10.2. When an Air Force activity uses the services of a contractor or association to conduct a
       conference or symposium, the company or association may recover its costs and a reasonable
       profit from fees paid by the attendees.
    3.11. Coordinates with cognizant contracting officers or their appointed representatives to prevent the
    release of proprietary or source-selection information and maintain the integrity of the procurement
    process.
    3.12. Complies with DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation.
    3.13. Complies with AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program, when collecting personal informa-
    tion, access lists, or any other data that will be incorporated into a system of records.
NOTE: Attachment 2 gives a typical sequence of actions for arranging a conference or symposium and
may be tailored for particular situations.

4. Security Manager:
    4.1. Enforces requirements of AFPD 16-2/AFI 16-201, Foreign Disclosure of Classified and Unclas-
    sified Military Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations, AFI 61-204,
    Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, DoD 5200.1-R/AFPD 31-4/AFI 31-401, Infor-
    mation Security Program Regulation/Information Security Program/Information Security Program
    Management, DoDD 5200.12, DoD 5220.22-M, Industrial Security Manual for Safeguarding Classi-
    fied Information, DoD 5220.22-R/AFPD 31-6/AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Regulation/Industrial
    Security/Industrial Security Program Management, International Traffic in Arms Regulation (22 CFR
    120-130), The Arms Exports Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778), and this instruction.
    4.2. Makes sure that the location or facility selected for classified sessions can provide the proper
    physical control, storage, protection, and dissemination of classified information. The facility must be
    under the security control of a US Government agency or a contractor having an appropriate facility
    security clearance.
    4.3. Confirms the clearance levels and need-to-know of attendees. For DoD personnel and DoD con-
    tractors, use the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) to verify clearance.
    4.4. Prohibits note-taking and electronic recording during classified sessions and the distribution of
    classified documents during the conference. (See paragraph 3.11. and paragraph 11. regarding pro-
    ceedings.)

5. Co-Sponsorship. An Air Force organization may co-sponsor a conference or symposium with a
non-federal organization when all the following criteria apply:
AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994                                                                                    5


   •   The subject matter of the conference (or the co-sponsored portion) is scientific, technical, or
       involves professional issues that are relevant to the Air Force organization's mission.
   •   The purpose of the co-sponsorship will transfer federally-developed technology to the private sec-
       tor or stimulate wider interest and inquiry into the relevant scientific, technical, or professional
       issues.
       •   The co-sponsoring non-federal organization is a recognized scientific, technical, or profes-
           sional organization and co-sponsorship is approved by SAF/GC.
       •   The Air Force organization accomplishes the co-sponsorship through a contract, grant, or
           cooperative agreement as identified in 31 U.S.C. 6303-6306, a cooperative research and
           development agreement (CRDA) as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a, or a cooperative agreement
           or other transaction as identified in 10 U.S.C. 2371.
NOTE: When an Air Force organization co-sponsors a classified meeting with a non-federal organiza-
tion or obtains administrative support from a non-federal firm or association, the Air Force organization
is responsible for all security aspects of the classified meeting.

6. Administrative Support for Meetings:
   6.1. When a sponsoring Air Force organization needs help in making conference arrangements, it
   may get support from a non-federal firm or association through a formal memorandum of agreement
   or contract. If the event is open to persons outside of the Federal Government, the sponsor may not
   limit attendance to members of the supporting non-federal firm or association.
   6.2. The sponsor may allow the supporting non-federal firm or association to mention its support in
   conference materials but not in terms that imply that the firm or association is sponsoring or co-spon-
   soring the event. (For guidelines on co-sponsorship with a non-federal entity, see 5.paragraph 5.)
   6.3. In the case of a classified event, the Air Force sponsor is responsible for all security aspects and
   may not delegate the responsibility to the supporting non-Federal firm or association.

7. Participation in Classified Conferences or Symposia. Air Force personnel may participate in classi-
fied conferences or symposia only if they are sponsored by an Air Force organization or other DoD com-
ponent. Participation means being on the formal program. This does not restrict attendance at such
conferences.

8. International Competition. The DoD has reciprocal procurement memoranda of understanding and
offset arrangements with many countries. Air Force organizations hosting conferences or symposia
related to contract opportunities must allow representatives from these countries to participate, subject to
established foreign-disclosure and national security policies.
   8.1. The sponsor may not exclude nations with which DoD has cooperative agreements from classi-
   fied conferences or symposia unless there are national security grounds. The exclusion must be
   approved by SAF/IADV at the request of the MAJCOM.
   8.2. Because each foreign government's eligibility varies, the sponsor must ensure that no classified
   information disclosed at sessions attended by foreign representatives is above the lowest level of eli-
   gibility of the foreign attendees.
6                                                                             AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994


    8.3. When foreign representatives cannot have full access to classified or sensitive technical informa-
    tion under existing policies, one option is to remove the non-releasable information and present it at
    US-only sessions.

9. Foreign Attendance at Classified Conferences or Symposia. An Air Force organization sponsoring
or providing security sponsorship for a conference or symposium where classified material will be dis-
closed to foreign nationals or representatives of foreign governments must comply with the following:
    9.1. When attendance at classified sessions is consistent with foreign disclosure policy, follow proce-
    dures in AFPD 16-2 and AFI 16-201 to get disclosure authorization for foreign nationals or their gov-
    ernment representatives. Use the same procedures for unclassified sessions involving unclassified
    data with distribution statements B, C, D, E, F, or X of AFI 61-204 or for unclassified data, not cov-
    ered by AFPD 10-11, Operations Security, and AFI 10-1101, Operations Security Program.
    9.2. Foreign nationals or representatives of foreign governments may attend unclassified sessions
    where the information has been previously cleared for public release according to AFPD 35-1.

10. Releasing Information at an Air Force Conference or Symposia:
    10.1. For contractor presentations, the originating Air Force activity's contracting officer must autho-
    rize release in advance, usually in cooperation with the program manager. If foreign representatives
    will attend the conference or symposium, SAF/IAD or the cognizant DoD component's foreign disclo-
    sure office must also authorize all releases.
    10.2. The local foreign disclosure office must review projected briefings to determine if there is any
    reason to prevent full allied participation. If national disclosure policy prohibits release of specific
    information, the local foreign disclosure office must determine whether the information can be deleted
    from the presentation entirely or whether it must be presented in a separate, closed session at the con-
    ference.
    10.3. Military and contractor personnel making presentations must control technical information
    listed on the State Department's munitions list and the Commerce Department's commodity control
    list. You may only disclose such information to foreign persons under State Department or Com-
    merce Department export license or to foreign persons who have been granted prior approval by a US
    government department or agency. Descriptions of such technologies are in the military critical tech-
    nologies list (MCTL).

11. Publishing Proceedings:
    11.1. The sponsor normally publishes proceedings of an Air Force-sponsored technical or
    advance-planning conference or symposium as a technical report.
    11.2. The sponsor may publish proceedings in any convenient format (for example, a single volume,
    individual volumes by technical discipline, or individual papers).
       11.2.1. If the proceedings consist primarily of copies of vu-graphs, presenters must provide
       explanatory notes for publication. This is particularly important for proceedings for recipients
       who did not attend the conference or symposium.
AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994                                                                                   7


  11.3. In addition to primary distribution (direct distribution to attendees and others), the sponsor will
  send copies of the proceedings to the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC), Cameron Sta-
  tion, Alexandria VA 22304-6145.
  11.4. Process unclassified proceedings according to AFI 37-131, The Air Force Freedom of Informa-
  tion Act Program, AFPD 10-11, AFI 10-1101, AFI 61-204, and AFPD 35-1.
  11.5. When possible and meaningful, publish all classified information in a document separate from
  the general proceedings. Before publication and release, the sponsor must:
     •   Review all the text to make sure it is releasable and bears appropriate security markings.
     •   Check that recipients have proper clearances and storage capability.
     •   Get foreign-disclosure approval and instructions on releasing the proceedings to foreign
         nationals.



                                              CLARK G. FIESTER
                                              The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
8                                                                        AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994


                                            Attachment 1

    GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
DoDD 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical Information Program
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program Regulation
DoDD 5200.12, Conduct of Classified Meetings
DoD 5200.2-R, DoD Personnel Security Program
DoD 5220.22-M, Industrial Security Manual for Safeguarding Classified Information
DoD 5220.22-R, Industrial Security Regulation
DoDD 5230.23, Intelligence Disclosure Policy (U)
DoDI 5230.27, Presentation of DoD-Related Scientific and Technical Papers at Meetings
DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation
AFPD 10-11, Operations Security
AFI 10-1101, Operations Security Program
AFPD 16-2, Foreign Disclosure of Classified and Unclassified Military Information to Foreign Govern-
ments and International Organizations
AFI 16-201, Foreign Disclosure of Classified and Unclassified Military Information to Foreign Govern-
ments and International Organizations
AFPD 31-4, Information Security Program
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management
AFPD 31-6, Industrial Security
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management
AFI 37-131, The Air Force Freedom of Information Act Program
AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technical Information
AFI 61-204, Dissemination of Scientific and Technical Information

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFIFIO—Air Force Information for Industry Office
CBD—Commerce Business Daily
CRDA—Cooperative Research and Development Agreement
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994                                                                                   9


MCTL—Militarily Critical Technologies List
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
STINFO—Scientific and Technical Information

Terms
Conference or Symposium—Conference, seminar, symposium, exhibit, convention, or other similar
gathering, conducted by a DoD component, a DoD contractor, or an association, institute, or society
whose membership includes DoD or contractor personnel, at which participants disclose unclassified or
classified DoD information or information of interest to the DoD.
Conference or Symposium Manager—Representative designated to plan, manage, and administer a
conference or symposium that is sponsored or co-sponsored by an Air Force or DoD organization.
Contractor-Cleared Facility—A commercial or private operating organization that the Defense
Investigative Service (DIS) finds eligible for access to classified information.
Co-Sponsor—The Air Force organization that endorses, participates, or provides support to other Federal
or DoD agencies in conducting a conference or symposium. Air Force activities may provide security
sponsorship for conferences or symposia of private associations, but may not co-sponsor conferences or
symposia with private associations, unless the Air Force organization satisfies the requirements of
paragraph 5.
Facility Security Clearance—Administrative finding that from a security stand point a facility is eligible
for access to classified information of a certain classification and below. This does not include or imply
any authorization to store classified information.
Foreign National—Any person who is not a citizen or national of, or immigrant alien to, the United
States.
Foreign Representative—Either a foreign national or a representative of a foreign interest.
Government Installation—US Government facility in a fixed location where personnel can enforce
adequate safeguards for classified information.
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)—Bilateral cooperative agreement with allies and other
friendly nations on reciprocal defense procurement. This agreement includes exchanging information in
specified areas of mutual interest for their participation in contractual opportunities.
Representative of a Foreign Interest—A citizen or national of the United States or an immigrant alien
acting as a representative, official, agent, or employee of a foreign government, firm, corporation,
international organization (such as NATO), or another foreign person. Air Force personnel assigned to
NATO-only positions are considered representatives of a foreign interest. EXCEPTION: A US citizen or
national appointed by his or her US employer to manage a foreign subsidiary (for example, a foreign firm
in which the US firm has ownership of at least 51 percent of the voting stock) is not a representative of a
foreign interest solely because of this employment. The appointing employer of the US citizen or national
must be the principal employer and must possess or be in the process of obtaining a facility security
clearance.
Sponsor—Air Force organization that conducts a conference or symposium and is responsible for
complying with this instruction.
10                                                                            AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994


                                              Attachment 2

     CHECKLIST FOR ARRANGING AN AIR FORCE CONFERENCE OR SYMPOSIUM
Steps 1, 2, 7, 8, and 9 tell how to perform the security review and clearance of papers to be presented at
conferences, symposia, and seminars with DoD or Air Force sponsorship or participation, including those
hosted by industry and professional and technical associations and attended by foreign representatives.
These procedures pertain primarily to classified information, unclassified information related to classified
programs or projects, or controlled unclassified information. At the outset, the meeting sponsor assigns
responsibilities by placing checks opposite the duty or action in one of the two squares in the right-hand
columns.
AFI61-205 25 JULY 1994   11
