BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-603
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               24 AUGUST 2011

                                                                         Financial Management

                                                     OFFICIAL REPRESENTATION FUNDS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This AFI is available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HAF/RM                                                                Certified by: SAF/AA
                                                                          (William A. Davidson)
Supersedes:    AFI65-603, 17 February                                                   Pages: 26
               2004


This Instruction implements AFPD 65-6, Budget Policy, and DoDI 7250.13, Use of Appropriated
Funds for Official Representation Purposes. It also aligns with AFI 65-601, Vol. 1, Budget
Guidance and Procedures, and HAF MD 1-6, The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of
the Air Force. It governs the use of Official Representation Funds (ORF) by all activities issued
ORF. Major commands (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Units (DRU), and Field Operating
Agencies (FOA) may supplement this Instruction to furnish detailed guidance for base- level
operations and provide for periodic self- inspections. All requests to issue supplements must be
addressed to the Office of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
(SAF/AA) and submitted through Headquarters Air Force Resource Management (HAF/RM).
This publication applies to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records             Disposition           Schedule            (RDS)            located          at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Send comments and suggested
improvements for this Instruction on an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through channels, to HAF/RM, hafrm.workflow@pentagon.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Instruction is substantially rewritten to more accurately reflect authorities and current
Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force (AF) governances and to provide program,
procedural, and terminology clarifications. It aligns with DoDI 7250.13 and provides significant
 2                                                                                         AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


updates to all previous editions.                Offices must thoroughly review this version to ensure
compliance.

Paragraph 1 identifies Congressional and Secretarial authority and defines commanders that
have designated authority to expend ORF. Paragraph 2 provides ORF Designated Authorities
additional guidance on their responsibilities to program, budget, monitor, and approve ORF
expenditures. It emphasizes the requirement to provide justification of the cost of each attendee
whose participation is paid by ORF, to seek a legal review prior to event approval, and to ensure
that semi- annual ORF Self-Inspection Reviews are accomplished in accordance with (IAW) AFI
65-201, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures and AFI 65-202, Administration of a
Base Financial Management Quality Assurance Program. Additionally, paragraph 2 defines
modest official courtesies and provides references to the four new Attachments included in this
Instruction for program implementation. Paragraph 5 revisions include other service senior
leaders under the joint basing initiative as members of the commander’s official party when
mission justified. Paragraph 6 sets the current limit of the aggregate cost of mementos and gifts
presented to authorized non-DoD ORF guest at $350.00. In addition, paragraph 6 sets the
aggregate cost of mementos to each authorized DoD guest at $50.00. Paragraph 7 revisions:
distinguish between the CSAF Counterpart Visits and the CSAF-hosted Regional Air Chiefs’
Conferences; include gift bags/boxes for the preparation of gifts or mementos for presentation;
constrains alcohol purchase to evening receptions or dinners; and increases the purchase limit for
a modest welcome basket from $12.00 to $20.00. Paragraph 8 revisions include instructions to
ensure the integrity of the Congressional limitation on emergency and extraordinary expenses,
and procedural clarifications for Financial Management and Comptroller regarding: selection of
the ORF Accountable Officer, maintenance of ORF documents and financial records IAW AF
RDS in AFRIMS, accomplishment of the semi-annual self- inspections and annual impartial
inventory reviews, submission of the fiscal year ORF authority request to HAF/RM, and
guidance provided in the Attachments for ORF approval request/justification documents and
reconciliations. Paragraph 9 revisions update references. Paragraph 10 revisions provide
procedural clarifications by identifying the responsibilities of Financial Management and
Comptroller, the Accountable Officer and the inventory custodians regarding proper
maintenance of ORF inventories. Paragraph 13 revisions update references and provide
procedural clarification regarding unapplied GPC rebates. In addition, paragraph 13
implements a change to the submission schedule for the quarterly Reports of Contingency
Expenditures.      They     are   to    be    submitted      to   the    HAF/RM       Workflow,
hafrm.workflow@pentagon.af.mil, not later than 20 calendar days after the close of the
quarter. Revisions to previous Attachments and the introduction of new Attachments to aid
program implementation follows. Attachme nt 1 contains a new section, Definition of Terms;
Attachme nt 2, the previous Official Representation Funds Approval Document has been revised
and is a guide for an Official Representation Fund Request; Attachme nt 3, a new attachment, is
a guide for an ORF Event Planning and Reconciliation; Attachment 4 contains revised
examples, relocated from paragraph 3, that illustrate how to determine ORF Ratios;
Attachme nt 5, also new, is a guide for conducting an Official Representation Fund Self
Inspection.

       1.      Authority. .......................................................................................................   3
       2.      Designated Authorities Responsibilities. ...........................................................                 4
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                                                          3


      3.        ORF Ratios. ...................................................................................................    5
      4.        Authorized Categories of Official Courtesies. ...................................................                  6
      5.        Authorized Categories of Individuals. ..............................................................               7
      6.        Presenting Mementos and Gifts. .......................................................................             8
      7.        Authorized and Unauthorized Uses of ORF. .....................................................                     9
      8.        Fund Authority. ..............................................................................................    11
      9.        ORF Government Purchase Card. ....................................................................                12
      10.       ORF Inventory Management. ..........................................................................              13
      11.       Responsibility for Administering Funds. ..........................................................                15
      12.       Special Exception Requests. ............................................................................          15
      13.       Reporting Required. ........................................................................................      15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                    18

Attachment 2—OFFICAL REPRESENTATION FUNDS REQUEST                                                                                 21

Attachment 3—OFFICIAL REPRESENTATION FUND EVENT PLANNING AND
             RECONCILIATION                                                                                                       22

Attachment 4—ORF RATIO EXAMPLES                                                                                                   24

Attachment 5—OFFICIAL REPRESENTATION FUNDS EVENT SELF INSPECTION                                                                  26


1. Authority.
   1.1. Title 10, United States Code, Section 127 authorizes the Secretary of the Air Force
   (SECAF) to provide for any emergency or extraordinary expense which cannot be anticipated
   or classified. Official Representation Funds are one of the types of funds whose use is
   authorized by Section 127. These funds may be spent for purposes determined to be proper
   by the Secretary, or designee, within the limitations of appropriations made available for
   such purpose, such as to host official receptions, dinners, and similar events, and to otherwise
   extend official courtesies to certain officials and dignitaries of the United States (U.S.) and
   foreign countries, in order to maintain the standing and prestige of the U.S. The SECAF may
   authorize the limited use of representation funds by commanders in the field for official
   courtesies considered appropriate according to established Air Force and Department of
   Defense (DoD) policy and guidance.
   1.2. Only the SECAF or the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) may extend invitations
   to foreign dignitaries to visit the U.S. at the expense of the Department of the Air Force.
   Expenses for SECAF and CSAF hosted events may include the cost of travel, lodging, meals,
   and other official courtesies as authorized in this Instruction. MAJCOMs and below are not
   authorized to use ORF for foreign dignitary travel and lodging expenses for visits to U.S.
   installations.
 4                                                                 AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


     1.3. For official courtesies and purposes related to but not specifically addressed in this
     instruction, designated authorities may spend ORF only when no other funding source is
     authorized and only when approved by SAF/AA. SAF/AA provides final approval authority
     for all uses of ORF not specifically covered by this Instruction, provided that such use is
     consistent with the general policies and guidelines set forth in DoDI 7250.13. All requests to
     use ORF in a manner not covered by this Instruction must be sub mitted through HAF/RM
     and addressed to SAF/AA for approval prior to the commitment or expenditure of ORF.
     1.4. A commander who receives an allocation of the Fiscal Year Emergency Extraordinary
     Expense limitation authority for Miscellaneous Current Expense s (Official Representation
     Fund) within the Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Appropriation as determined by
     SAF/AA and submitted by HAF/RM to SAF/FM for distribution through funding authority
     documents or a commander/director who receives a sub allocation of official representation
     funding authority from their MAJCOM commander is referred to as a Designated Authority,
     see Definition of Terms at Attachment 1.
2. Designated Authorities Responsibilities.
     2.1. Program, budget and account for the resources necessary to support ORF requirements.
     2.2. Personally monitor the use of ORF to ensure that expenditures made for official
     courtesies are modest and not wasteful or extravagant from the perspective of the general
     public, and that they comply with the socially acceptable mores of American society while
     jointly serving the policy objectives of the U.S. and the interests of the taxpayer.
        2.2.1. Modest official courtesies may include the cost of luncheons, dinners, receptions,
        mementos, and participation expenses at DoD-sponsored events. Other expenses may be
        approved with specific justification.
        2.2.2. Invite only the minimum number of guests necessary to extend proper courtesy to
        the guest(s) of honor.
        2.2.3. Ensure all official events observe the ratios of non-DoD authorized guest(s) to
        DoD personnel, as defined in paragraph 3
        2.2.4. Provide justification for the participation of each attendee paid for with ORF.
     2.3. Ensure all personnel involved in the planning, execution, processing and accounting for
     ORF (to include protocol personnel, accountable officers, and enlisted aides, as appropriate)
     understand and comply with applicable fiscal law, DoD and AF guidance listed under
     References at Attachment 1. Additionally, they must:
        2.3.1. Receive and comply with proper guidance in inventory management; see
        Maintaining Inventories at paragraphs 10.2 through 10.4;
        2.3.2. Complete government authorized purchase card training and adhere to AFI 64-
        117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card Program, concerning its use and
        requirements;
        2.3.3. Prepare a request for each ORF event and each ORF inventory purchase and
        maintain a copy with all supporting documentation for six years and three months IAW
        AF RDS in AFRIMS. See a guide of an ORF request at Attachment 2;
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                       5


      2.3.4. Reconcile each ORF event and retain a copy of the reconciliation, see a guide of
      an ORF Event Planning and Reconciliation at Attachment 3;
      2.3.5. Seek a legal review for situations that present new or novel questions or otherwise
      raise potential concerns about ORF use;
      2.3.6. Accomplish semi-annual Self Inspection Reviews IAW AFI 65-201 and AFI 65-
      202; see a guide of an ORF Self - Inspection at Attachment 5.
   2.4. Only approve purchase requests for items required to meet current fiscal year stock
   levels and exceptional cross- fiscal year requests, see paragraph 10.
   2.5. Review all events for which ORF funding is requested for propriety and provide written
   approval prior to the use of ORF. Approval letters must be kept as part of the official record
   of the event and are maintained by Financial Management and Comptroller.
   2.6. Delegate his or her hosting responsibilities for a scheduled event as appropriate to the
   next highest grade individual in the organizational chain of command when, due to
   extenuating circumstances, he or she, as the authorized host, is no longer available to host.
   The delegation of hosting responsibilities must be in writing for an event and any event
   requirements, such as the presentation of a memento, or gift, to the authorized ORF
   recipient/honoree, see paragraphs 5.1 - 5.4, and paragraph 6.1.
   2.7. Designated authorities with joint, unified, or non-U.S. command responsibility may only
   use funds provided by the SECAF to host events held in their Air Force capacity. Note:
   Reference CJCSI 7201.01A, Combatant Commanders’ Official Representation Funds, or
   non-US command rules for guidance regarding non-Air Force events.
3. ORF Ratios.
   3.1. To ensure that the costs of official courtesies are modest and kept to a minimum, the
   guidelines for ratios of non-DoD authorized guests to DoD attendees (including spouses) are
   as follows:
      3.1.1. Parties of less than 30 persons: a minimum of 20 percent of invitees expected to
      attend should be non-DoD authorized guests, see A4.1, at Attachment 4.
      3.1.2. Parties of 30 or more persons: a minimum of 50 percent of invitees expected to
      attend should be non-DoD authorized guests, see A4.2, at Attachment 4.
   3.2. The practice of inviting unnecessary personnel to reach the maximum level allowed by
   the appropriate ratio is specifically prohibited. Consistent with paragraph 2.2.2 above, DoD
   invitees should be kept to the minimum required to extend appropriate courtesies. While the
   applicable ratio may technically allow invitation of a greater number of personnel,
   justification must be provided for the participation of each attendee whose participation is
   paid for with ORF.
   3.3. Foreign military personnel assigned to the host activity or who are assigned to an
   organization which operates as a subordinate part of a United States command (and their
   spouses) are counted as DoD personnel for ratio-computing purposes.
   3.4. “DoD personnel” include active duty military and civilian employees of DoD; students
   of the military academies; reservists on active duty; members of the National Guard; retired
   military and civilian employees of DoD not holding a position of prominence in the non-DoD
 6                                                                 AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


     community; spouses of personnel in the preceding categories; and the widow or widower of a
     DoD military or civilian who held the grade of 4-star general or equivalent.
     3.5. Former DoD military and civilian personnel who held the grade of 4-star general, or
     equivalent, are considered prominent U.S. citizens and should be counted (along with their
     spouse if also invited) as non-DoD authorized guests for purposes of computing ratios, see
     Note in paragraph 5.3
     3.6. Select senior DoD personnel listed in paragraph 5.4 while on official visits to the field,
     if honored by the extension of official courtesies, are to be counted as the honored “non-DoD
     authorized guest(s)” for the purpose of computing ORF ratios.
     3.7. DoD personnel in excess of the authorized ratios may attend functions by paying from
     personal funds the pro rata share of the additional event expenses incurred due to their
     attendance.
        3.7.1. Pro rata expenses are determined by dividing the additional event expenses by the
        number of DoD attendees in excess of the ratios. All DoD attendees who are in excess of
        the number of DoD attendees allowed by the authorized ratio s or who do not meet the
        criteria for using ORF must pay his/her share of the pro rata costs when attending events.
        3.7.2. If the Designated Authority desires, the additional expenses incurred due to
        attendance of DoD personnel in excess of the ratio may be shared and collected from all
        the DoD attendees to include those DoD personnel allowed by the authorized ratios who
        meet the criteria for using ORF and those DoD attendees who are either in excess of the
        authorized ratios or who do not meet the criteria for using ORF.
     3.8. Deviations in actual attendance of more than 5% above the maximum number of DoD
     participants whose cost of participation is paid by ORF are not authorized without prior
     approval from SAF/AA. Note: Whenever the actual number of ORF funded DoD attendees
     at an event is more than 5% above the prescribed ratio, all documentation concerning the
     event and a justification for the deviation must be forwarded through the MAJCOM and
     HAF/RM to SAF/AA for review and approval of the additional ORF expenses. If the
     deviation is not approved the additional expenses must be collected from all DoD attendees
     who were in excess of the number of DoD attendees allowed by the authorized ratios.
4. Authorized Categories of Official Courtesies.
     4.1. International Relations. Modest courtesies in honor of visiting distinguished foreign
     nationals as specified in paragraph 5.1
     4.2. Community Relations. Modest courtesies in honor of individuals as specified in
     paragraph 5.2
     4.3. Public Relations. Modest courtesies in honor of visiting distinguished American citizens
     as specified in paragraph 5.3
     4.4. DoD Protocol. Modest courtesies incidental to a visit by DoD personnel as specified in
     paragraph 5.4
     4.5. Other Expenses. Mementos and non-perishables such as packaged food items, alcohol,
     disposable serving items and refreshments, to include coffee, tea and associated condiments
     purchased for approved ORF events not covered in above categories. These items must be
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                         7


   placed into an ORF inventory, and their usage strictly controlled and documented, see Note
   at paragraph 10.4.2.
5. Authorized Categories of Individuals.
   5.1. Foreign Personnel. Distinguished citizens, military personnel and government officials
   of foreign countries whose grade, position, function or stature clearly justify the extension of
   official courtesies by the U.S. government.
   5.2. U.S. Government Leaders. Federal, state, county and local officials, such as the
   President and the Vice President of the U.S.; members of the Cabinet; members of Congress
   and their professional staff; other U.S. Government officials (non-DoD) comparable to those
   DoD officials listed in paragraph 5.4
   5.3. Prominent U.S. Citizens. U.S. citizens who have made a substantial contribution to the
   Nation or the Department of Defense, or whose grade, position, function or stature warrants
   the extension of official courtesies by the U.S. Government. This category may include those
   in leadership positions of citizens' committees, such as the local Chamber of Commerce.
   Note: Former DoD members, military or civilian, who held the grade, or a position
   equivalent, of (4-star) general are the only former DoD members authorized to be hosted
   with ORF unless they now hold a position of prominence in the non-DoD community eligible
   for the use of ORF as outlined in this Instruction.
   5.4. Select senior DoD personnel while on official visits to the field. Events should involve
   the minimal required courtesies (small, modest functions) where attendance is strictly limited
   to only the necessary local DoD and/or non-DoD officials and senior members of the official
   party, as defined by paragraph 5.5. See paragraph 6.2, regarding limitations of the use of
   ORF to fund gifts for DoD officials.
      5.4.1. Office of the Secretary of Defense
          5.4.1.1. Secretary of Defense and Deputy Secretary of Defense
          5.4.1.2. Under Secretaries of Defense
          5.4.1.3. Director, Defense Research and Engineering
          5.4.1.4. Assistant Secretaries of Defense
          5.4.1.5. General Counsel of the Department of Defense
          5.4.1.6. Director, Operational Test and Evaluation
          5.4.1.7. Inspector General of the Department of Defense
          5.4.1.8. Assistants to the Secretary of Defense
          5.4.1.9. Director of Administration and Management (DA&M)
          5.4.1.10. Director, Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation
          5.4.1.11. Director of Net Assessment
          5.4.1.12. Secretary of Defense Representative to Europe
      5.4.2. Joint Chiefs of Staff
          5.4.2.1. Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
 8                                                                  AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


            5.4.2.2. Combatant Commanders
            5.4.2.3. Deputy Commander, United States European Command
            5.4.2.4. Director of the Joint Staff
        5.4.3. Military Departments
            5.4.3.1. Secretaries, Under Secretaries, Assistant Secretaries and General Counsels
            5.4.3.2. Chiefs and Vice Chiefs of Staff of the Army and Air Force
            5.4.3.3. Chief and Vice Chief of Naval Operations
            5.4.3.4. Commandant and Assistant Commandant of the Marine Corps
        5.4.4. Other
            5.4.4.1. Chief Judge and Associate Judges of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
            Armed Forces
            5.4.4.2. Directors of the Defense Agencies
            5.4.4.3. Directors of DoD Field Activities (including President, Uniformed Services
            University of the Health Sciences)
     5.5. Costs of an event honoring authorized individuals may also include the Designated
     Authority, senior members of his or her staff, to include other Service senior leaders under
     the joint basing initiatives and tenant commanders when mission justified, as well as local
     officials as authorized in paragraph 5.4
        5.5.1. The hosting official and senior members of his or her staff count as DoD attendees
        for purposes of determining ratios under paragraph 3
        5.5.2. Normally, spouses of DoD attendees shall not be included as members of the
        official party for ORF- funded events. DoD spouses (or non-spouse guests) may be
        included in the official party at such events when the spouses of authorized guests are
        invited and expected to attend and the authorized host determines that attendance of DoD
        spouses is appropriate and desirable. Note: Separate events for spouses of visiting
        officials are not authorized unless specifically related to the official purpose of the visit.
        5.5.3. The use of ORF for support personnel traveling with eligible senior DoD member
        or for support personnel from the hosting official’s organization (i.e., executive officers,
        aides-de-camp, protocol staff, transportation drivers, personal security team members) is
        expressly forbidden.
6. Presenting Mementos and Gifts.
     6.1. Designated authorities may present mementos and/or gifts, in accordance with this
     Instruction and DoDI 7250.13, to those authorized recipients listed in paragraph 5 while
     hosting them at their installation or when calling on them while on temporary duty (TDY).
     Note: Other officials may present ORF mementos or gifts only when specifically authorized
     to do so. Commanders may delegate their authority in instances where they, as authorized
     host, are unavailable. The delegated authority must be in writing, result from extenuating
     circumstances, and should normally be made to the next highest grade individual in the chain
     of command.
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                        9


   6.2. The aggregate cost of mementos and gifts presented by the Designated Authority to an
   authorized non-DoD guest as listed in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 (including spouse as
   appropriate) may not exceed the minimal value as established under Title 41, CFR, Section
   102-42 Change in Consumer Price Index Minimal Value, Federal Management Regulation
   and as applicable, Title 22, U.S. Code, Section 2694, Limitation on purchase of gifts for
   foreign individuals, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, Department of State. The current
   limit is $350.00. This amount is subject to change. Consult Title 41, CFR, Section 102-42
   for the most recent authorized amount. Note: For U.S. Government employees listed in
   paragraph 5.2, check the ethics rules applicable to them for the current dollar limitation on
   gifts they may accept. Check government agency websites or call the visitor’s office to
   inquire about that agency’s current ethics rules.
   6.3. Items presented by DoD organizations to authorized DoD officials listed in paragraph
   5.4 (and their spouses) are limited to mementos, see DoDI 7250.13, Enclosure 3. For this
   purpose, mementos are items that cost less than $50.00 and are of little intrinsic value, such
   as coins, paperweights, lapel pins, plaques, and welcome baskets/boxes. Such mementos
   may be funded by ORF for purposes consistent with this Instruction, and DoDI 7250.13.
   Under no circumstances may mementos for visiting DoD officials be purchased with
   standard Operation and Maintenance (O&M) funds or with Special Morale, and Welfare
   (SM&W) funds. Note: The aggregate cost of mementos purchased for any DoD official
   listed in paragraph 5.4 (and his or her spouse) must not exceed $50.00 per visit.
   6.4. All mementos or gifts presented must be documented using the procedures outlined in
   paragraph 10
7. Authorized and Unauthorized Uses of ORF.
   7.1. Authorized expenses to support events for personnel listed in paragraph 5
      7.1.1. Meals and refreshments.
      7.1.2. Official communications for foreign participants in the SECAF/CSAF Foreign
      Counterpart Visits or CSAF- hosted Regional Air Chiefs’ Conferences.
      7.1.3. Reasonable gratuities for services rendered by non-governmental personnel.
      7.1.4. Official courtesies, as defined in paragraph 4.
          7.1.4.1. Recreational events such as sporting activities, sightseeing tours and concerts
          as authorized for personnel listed in paragraph 5.1. Note: During a SECAF/CSAF-
          hosted Counterpart Visit or Regional Air Chiefs’ Conferences, ORF is only
          authorized to cover the cost of appropriate foreign guest(s) and DoD host (and spouse
          when a Counterpart’s spouse is in attendance), see paragraph 5.2.2.
          7.1.4.2. Food and refreshments purchased for in-flight meals for personnel listed in
          paragraph 5.1 when participating in SECAF/CSAF Foreign Counterpart Visits or
          Regional Air Chiefs’ Conferences. Note: Expenses for ORF eligible foreign
          participants in SECAF/CSAF Foreign Counterpart Visits or Regional Air Chiefs’
          Conferences may also include the purchase of sundry items (snacks) in lodging.
      7.1.5. Perishable floral and/or candle centerpieces for receptions/meals.
10                                                              AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


     7.1.6. Costs of wrapping paper, gift bags/boxes, and ribbon/bows associated with the
     preparation of a gift or memento for presentation. If an item must be professionally
     wrapped, the cost of wrapping must be included as part of the aggregate value of the gifts
     or mementos to be presented per paragraphs 6.2 or 6.3 as appropriate.
     7.1.7. Alcohol for evening receptions or dinners. Any alcohol purchased for use at an
     ORF event held at a commander’s quarters must be entered into an ORF inventory record
     and its use recorded in event documentation, see Note at paragraph 10.4.1
     7.1.8. ORF shall not be used to pay for clothing unless the item bears a command or unit
     logo so as to be in the nature of a memento. For example, hats, shirts, ties, and scarves
     would be permissible mementos as long as the command or unit logo is affixed to the
     item and the item does not exceed the monetary limitations of paragraphs 6.2 and 6.3
     7.1.9. A modest welcome basket/box for individuals listed in paragraph 5, not to exceed
     $20. Note: Welcome basket expenses are considered part of the aggregate cost of gifts or
     mementos given to authorized non-DoD or authorized DoD recipients, see paragraphs
     6.2, or 6.3, as appropriate.
     7.1.10. ORF may also be used for official courtesies overseas.
  7.2. Unauthorized uses, unless an exception is specifically approved by SAF/AA.
     7.2.1. Lodging expenses, except for designated members of the official party
     participating in SECAF/CSAF Foreign Counterpart Visits or Regional Air Chiefs’
     Conferences as approved by SAF/AA.
     7.2.2. Personal items, such as clothing (other than exceptions specifically listed in
     paragraph 7.1.8), toiletry articles, tobacco products, hair and beauty care, shoeshine and
     souvenirs.
     7.2.3. Personal telephone calls or transportation where official duties are not involved.
     7.2.4. Expenses for crewmembers of military aircraft, official drivers, protocol
     personnel, executive officers, aides-de-camp and other support personnel. These
     individuals are not considered members of the official party, and ORF will not be used to
     defray their expenses.
     7.2.5. DoD members’ (and spouses’) costs for recreational activities, concerts,
     sightseeing tours and the purchase of sundry items (snacks) in lodging, unless authorized
     by SAF/AA in conjunction with SECAF/CSAF Foreign Counterpart Visits or Regional
     Air Chiefs’ Conferences. Note: Entrance fees and related cultural event expenses for Air
     Force Foreign Liaison (AF/CVAI) personnel, while acting in their official capacity as
     escorts to foreign visitors participating in SECAF/CSAF Foreign Counterpart Visits or
     Regional Air Chiefs’ Conferences, may be authorized on an event-by-event basis when
     approved in advance by SAF/AA.
     7.2.6. Gifts, flowers, or wreaths for presentation by authorized guests.
     7.2.7. Costs for retirement or change-of-command ceremonies, unless specifically
     approved in advance by SAF/AA.
         7.2.7.1. SAF/AA may consider requests for events associated with change-of-
         command ceremonies for MAJCOMs and other select organizations. If approved,
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                      11


         ORF support is generally limited to the pro rata costs for authorized non-DoD
         attendees.
         7.2.7.2. Requests must include a mission justification, an itemized estimate of costs
         and a list of the proposed distinguished guests, to include their title and ORF eligible
         position, as applicable. Requests must be forwarded to the HAF/RM Workflo w no
         later than 10 working days before issuance of invitations. Do not issue invitations
         prior to receipt of SAF/AA approval.
      7.2.8. Payment for membership fees or dues.
      7.2.9. Expenses, other than authorized official courtesies, connected with conferences,
      conventions, seminars, or working groups.
      7.2.10. Expenditures for seasonal greetings and calling cards.
      7.2.11. Expenses for projects for classified intelligence purposes.
      7.2.12. Repairs, maintenance and renovation projects to enhance the appearance of DoD
      facilities.
      7.2.13. Invitations, mailing cost, decorations, and supply items.
      7.2.14. Any cost associated with routine (weekly, monthly, and quarterly) inter- or intra-
      agency meetings or meals.
      7.2.15. Cost of music/entertainment for social hours, receptions, and dinner or after-
      dinner events.
      7.2.16. Any expense not specifically authorized in this Instruction unless approved by
      SAF/AA in advance of the commitment of funds.
8. Fund Authority.
   8.1. To ensure the integrity of the constraints imposed by the Congressional Limitation
   Authority on Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses, per DoDI 7250.13, the following
   guidance shall be observed.
      8.1.1. Expenses incurred solely because of the authorized representation function(s) shall
      be charged to ORF that are a part of the emergency and extraordinary expense limitation.
      8.1.2. Other costs required to complete the official representation mission, such as
      transportation and interpreter costs when DoD assets are not available or salary and travel
      costs for DoD escort personnel, shall be charged to the appropriation fund properly
      chargeable for such costs.
      8.1.3. Under no circumstances may ORF expenses be charged to non-ORF funds to
      avoid emergency and extraordinary expense limitations.
      8.1.4. Combining of ORF with any other monies (contractor, corporation or outside-DoD
      funds or SM&W monies) to fund the full cost of events may only be authorized with
      prior approval from SAF/AA.
      8.1.5. Use of ORF to pay for requirements when other funding is authorized or to
      circumvent administrative or legal restrictions on the use of other appropriated or non-
      appropriated funds is unauthorized. However, pro rata costs (food, tax, gratuity, service
 12                                                             AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


      charges, set- up fees, bartender fees, etc.) for participation by authorized non-DoD guests
      in Morale, Welfare, and Recreation activities may be paid from ORF, unless otherwise
      prohibited.
   8.2. Allocation of the Fiscal Year Emergency Extraordinary Expense limitation authority for
   Miscellaneous Current Expenses (Official Representation Fund) within the Operation and
   Maintenance, Air Force Appropriation is determined by SAF/AA and is forwarded by
   HAF/RM to SAF/FM for distribution through funding authority doc uments to the designated
   authority.
   8.3. The Designated Authority must personally monitor the use of ORF, review requests to
   ensure the highest order of propriety and integrity for all ORF expenditures and provide
   written approval prior to the obligation of these funds. This authority may not be delegated.
   8.4. Financial Management and Comptroller Responsibilities.
      8.4.1. Selects an ORF Accountable Officer for appointment by the Designated Authority.
      8.4.2. Reviews ORF requests forwarded by Protocol prior to approval and certifies fund
      availability. Note: Protocol should forward ORF requests to Financial Management and
      Comptroller (FM) 10 to 15 days prior to the event. This allows time for a thorough
      review and allows time for the legal office to review any requests forwarded by FM that
      present new or novel questions or otherwise raise potential concerns about the proper use
      of ORF.
      8.4.3. Maintains ORF approval letters and expenditure reconciliation documents with the
      financial records for six years and three months. See AFRIMS RDS.
      8.4.4. Ensures that semi- annual self- inspections and annual impartial inventories are
      accomplished.
      8.4.5. Forwards the next fiscal year ORF authority request to HAF/RM by 31 July of the
      current fiscal year.
   8.5. Mission Justification.
      8.5.1. All ORF requests must justify the expenditure of ORF. The guides at Attachment
      2 and 3 identify information required in the ORF request and indentify documentation
      required in the ORF expenditure reconciliation, respectively.
      8.5.2. The final reconciliation of an ORF event must document the actual event
      attendance and list the name, grade and position title of each attendee and must verify
      that the DoD attendance was within the ORF ratio requirements of paragraph 3.
          8.5.2.1. Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) requires approved and
          certified ORF requests along with supporting documentation to commit and obligate
          ORF for purchases and payments.
          8.5.2.2. The annual Statement of Assurance submission and the Unit Compliance
          Inspection of the ORF program must verify adequate supporting documentation of
          approved ORF requests, reconciliations, payments, self- inspections, and impartial
          inventory reviews.
9. ORF Governme nt Purchase Card.
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                       13


   9.1. A government purchase card (GPC) is authorized for payment of ORF expenditures and
   must be designated and coded solely for ORF purposes.
   9.2. Designated Authority’s Responsibilities.
      9.2.1. To approve, in advance, ORF purchases made using a GPC, see paragraphs 2.4
      and 2.5
      9.2.2. To ensure personnel complete GPC training, maintain documentation of training
      completion and comply with AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card
      Program, at all times.
   9.3. Cardholders’ Responsibilities.
      9.3.1. To complete all required GPC training and maintain their certification by
      completing annual training requirements.
      9.3.2. To provide all required management accountability actions and safeguard the card
      and items purchased with the card until accountability is accepted by the ORF inventory
      custodian.
10. ORF Inventory Manage ment.
   10.1. The Designated Authority appoints the Accountable Officer, the ORF inventory
   custodian, and alternate custodian, in writing and should only approve purchases for enough
   inventory stock to meet current fiscal year requirements, see DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 3,
   Chapter 8, Standards For Recording And Reviewing Commitments And Obligations, and
   Volume 5, Chapter 33, Certifying Officers, Departmental Accountable Officials, And Review
   Officials, and AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air
   Force, Attachme nt 1.
   10.2. Financial Management and Comptroller Responsibilities.
      10.2.1. Selects the Accountable Officer and submits his or her name for appointment.
      10.2.2. Receives names submitted for the ORF inventory custodian and alternate
      custodian and forwards them to the Designated Authority for appointment.
      10.2.3. Ensures Accountable Officer and ORF Inventory Custodians:
          10.2.3.1. Are briefed regarding their pecuniary liabilities and inventory
          responsibilities to include a review of this Instruction and instructions concerning the
          maintenance of a current inventory record that ensures the record is continually in
          agreement with the inventory stock on hand. See DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter
          8, and AFI 23-111, as well as Current Inventory Record, Definition of Terms, at
          Attachme nt 1.
          10.2.3.2. Complete GPC and ethics training prior to submission of their names for
          appointment.
      10.2.4. Ensures an annual inventory review is accomplished by impartial personnel who
      reconcile the beginning inventory record, purchases, and items presented, consumed or
      transferred with the inventory on hand. Report findings are submitted to the Designated
      Authority, the Comptroller, MAJCOM/FM and HAF/RM. A copy is maintained with
      inventory records for audit purposes.
14                                                              AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


  10.3. Accountable Officer’s Responsibilities.
     10.3.1. Controls inventory purchase requests, maintains documentation for each
     inventory action, and reviews inventories to include all purchases of stock refreshments,
     supplies, gifts and mementos to ensure:
         10.3.1.1. Items purchased with ORF are strictly accounted for, not co-mingled with
         SM&W items and not stored with office supplies.
         10.3.1.2. There is a current and accurate inventory record and it is continually in
         agreement with the inventory stock on hand.
         10.3.1.3. A clear audit trail is maintained of all inventory items presented as gifts,
         consumed for an event, or transferred that includes:
             10.3.1.3.1. Item name and description
             10.3.1.3.2. Dates purchased and issued or transferred
             10.3.1.3.3. Recipient/honoree name, title, and official position
             10.3.1.3.4. Purpose of event and issuance or transfer.
     10.3.2. Requests an impartial inventory annually or prior to a change of inventory
     custodian.
  10.4. Inventory Custodian’s Responsibilities.
     10.4.1. Maintains a current inventory record by entering each purchase, issuance or
     transfer of inventory into the record as the action or event occurs to ensure that it is
     continually in agreement with the inventory stock on hand. Note: Any alcohol purchased
     for ORF events held at the commander’s quarters must be secured in a separate storage
     container and entered into the inventory record to include an accounting of the number
     and portion of bottles on hand using the “1/4 bottle increment” method. Opened wine
     and beer containers are perishable and considered fully consumed for inventory record
     purposes. For additional information contact the Enlisted Aides Special Duty Manager.
     Find contact information for the Enlisted Aides Special Duty Manager listed on the Air
     Force Portal by selecting, 1040 AF PENTAGON RM 4D1066, WASHINGTON DC
     20330-1040, DSN: 312-225-5910, Comm: 703-695-5910, lori.kelly@pentagon.af.mil
     All Organizations : HAF - Headquarters Air Force : A 1 - Deputy Chief of Staff,
     Manpower, Personnel & Services : AF/DPG - General Officer Management Office : Air
     Force Enlisted Aides.
     10.4.2. Submits requests for inventory requirements and re-stock to the Accountable
     Officer.
     10.4.3. Documents all items purchased in the ORF inventory record prior to issuing
     them.
     10.4.4. Identifies coins issued from ORF inventories by presentation date, location/event,
     recipient’s name, grade/title and official position.
  10.5. ORF Inventory Constraints.
     10.5.1. ORF inventories should be held to a minimum.
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                   15


      10.5.2. Gifts and mementos may include the organization’s name and the position of the
      Designated Authority, but may not be personalized unless preapproved by SAF/AA.
      10.5.3. End-of- year purchasing of items not needed in the current fiscal year is highly
      discouraged, as it can create inappropriate excess inventory. The servicing legal office
      should be consulted regarding the bona fide needs requirement for any end of fiscal year
      or cross fiscal year purchases. See DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 8.
   10.6. ORF Inventory Disposal.
      10.6.1. Excess items in a MAJCOM ORF gift and memento inventory can be transferred
      to other units within the MAJCOM, as appropriate, for use consistent with this
      Instruction.
      10.6.2. Disposal of items from ORF inventories due to damage or extenuating
      circumstance should be in accordance with local supply procedures to ensure proper turn-
      in to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO) or otherwise authorized
      disposal.
11. Responsibility for Administering Funds.
   11.1. The SECAF is the final approval authority for all ORF expenditures. The Secretary
   delegates overall management authority of the ORF program and establishment and
   clarification of ORF policy guidance to the SAF/AA, in accordance with HAF MD 1-6.
   SAF/AA will also ensure the Air Force Audit Agency conducts yearly audits.
   11.2. All DoD personnel authorized to expend ORF must personally monitor the use of such
   funds to ensure the highest order of propriety and integrity.
12. Special Exception Requests.
   12.1. Use of ORF for purposes not authorized in this Instruction must receive prior written
   approval from SECAF, or SAF/AA as delegated.
   12.2. Requests must justify the need for an exception to this Instruction and provide all
   information regarding the proposed expenditure, see a guide of an ORF request at
   Attachme nt 2.
   12.3. Requests must be submitted to HAF/RM at least 15 working days prior to event date,
   or date invitations are to be sent, to allow proper review.
13. Reporting Required.
   13.1. The following quarterly reports are required:
      13.1.1. The Quarterly Report of Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses, Report Control
      Symbol (RCS): DD-COMP (Q) 1390 is required to be submitted by SECAF in
      accordance with DoDI 7250.13. Report of cumulative accrued expenditures unpaid and
      accrued expenditures paid in Program Element Code (PEC) 91515F will be extracted by
      Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS). DFAS will report for each operating
      agency code by fiscal year, for current year and the five previous years. Report will be
      submitted to HAF/RM, using mutually agreed upon method, not later than 20 calendar
      days after the close of the fiscal quarter.
16                                                             AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


     13.1.2. Report of Contingency Expenditures, RCS: SAF-FM (Q) 7113. This quarterly
     report is required in accordance with DoDI 7250.13 and must be submitted to HAF/RM
     not later than 20 calendar days after the close of the fiscal quarter. It carries emergency
     status code C-2; continue reporting during emergency conditions, precedence normal.
     Submit data requirements in this category as prescribed, or as soon as possible after
     submission of priority reports.
  13.2. AF IMT 134, Report of Contingency Expenditures, is available on the e-Publishing
  website at www.e-Publis hing.af.mil for use to submit the SAF-FM (Q) 7113, Quarterly
  Report of Contingency Expenditures.
     13.2.1. Column A. DATE OF PAYMENT: Self explanatory.
     13.2.2. Column B. TYPE - FUNCTION - GUEST/S OF HONOR -ACTUAL HOST OF
     EVENT – LOCATION – DATE: To prepare report, organize functions by categories of
     entertainment per paragraphs 4.1 through 4.5 and subtotal each category. Note:
     Include type of function (lunch, dinner, reception, etc.), guest/group being honored with
     duty title, actual host of event, location and date held.
     13.2.3. Column C. DOD: Number of DoD attendees to include spouses funded by ORF.
     13.2.4. Column D. NON-DOD: Number of non-DoD authorized guests funded by ORF.
     Note: Columns C and D added together should equal the total number of attendees except
     those who paid a pro rata share to attend the event.
     13.2.5. Column E. FOOD & BEVERAGE: List the cost(s) funded by ORF to include
     meal costs, beverages and any other food/drink items considered to be refreshments.
     13.2.6. Column F. OTHER: List the cost of floral centerpieces, gifts/mementos or
     miscellaneous items to include GPC rebates.
        13.2.6.1. Miscellaneous expenses such as recreational activities or amenities must be
        clearly described in detail on an addendum.
        13.2.6.2. Reflect GPC rebates as a separate line item on the report. Note: Unapplied
        rebate amounts will not be reflected on the end of the month Status of Funds Data
        Base Transmission. List these as separate line items on the report, annotating that
        they will be applied to the first ORF GPC event/purchase charge in the next reporting
        period.
     13.2.7. Column G. TOTAL COST: Total ORF cost of all expenditures related to this
     entry.
     13.2.8. Enter “SAF-FM (Q) 7113” in the block, REPORT CONTROL SYMBOL in the
     upper right-hand corner of the report.
     13.2.9. Block 1. TOTAL ACCRUED EXPENDITURES PAID (Disbursements) THIS
     REPORTING PERIOD: Enter total of the amounts shown under column G. Include only
     those items representing disbursements during the current reporting period in this total.
     13.2.10. Block 2. ACCRUED EXPENDITURES PAID TO DATE (Disbursements) :
     Enter the cumulative disbursements to date.     Note: Amount must agree with
     disbursements reflected on the final Operating Budget and Allotment Ledgers (the
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                     17


     position reported in the Status of Funds Data Base Transmission) for the same month that
     the AF IMT 134 shows as the ending month of the reporting period.
     13.2.11. Block 3.        TOTAL ACCRUED EXPENDITURES UNPAID AND
     UNDELIVERED ORDERS OUTSTANDING: Enter the cumulative, to date, accrued
     expenditures unpaid and undelivered orders outstanding.
     13.2.12. Block 4. TOTAL OBLIGATIONS: Enter the cumulative obligations to date
     (block 2 plus block 3). Note: Amount must agree with the cumulative obligations
     reflected on the final Operating Budget and Allotment Ledgers (the position reported in
     the Status of Funds Data Base Transmission) for the same month that the AF IMT 134
     shows as the ending month of the reporting period.
  13.3. Send quarterly Reports of Contingency Expenditures, SAF/FM (Q) 7113, as of 31
  December, 31 March, 30 June and 30 September, not later than 20 calendar days after the
  close of the quarter to HAF/RM Workflow, hafrm.workflow@pentagon.af.mil.
  13.4. Continue reporting until all obligations for a fiscal year have been liquidated. Block 2
  and block 4 should be identical on final report.
  13.5. The Designated Authority or designee must sign the report. A computer-generated
  signature is acceptable. If the report consists of more than one page, the Designated
  Authority’s signature is only required on the first page of the report.
  13.6. Negative reports are required.




                                           JAMIE MORIN
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                           Financial Management and Comptroller
 18                                                              AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachme nt 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, U.S. Code, Section 127, Emergency and Extraordinary Expense
Title 22, U.S. Code, Section 2694, Limitation on Purchase of Gifts for Foreign Individuals
Title 41, CFR 102-42, Change in Consumer Price Index Minimal Value, Federal Management
Regulation, January 1, 2011
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 8, Standards For Recording And Reviewing Commitments
And Obligations, Financial Management Regulation (FMR), September 2009
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 5, Chapter 33, Certifying Officers, Departmental Accountable
Officials, And Review Officials, Financial Management Regulation (FMR), August 2010
DoDI 7250.13, Official Representation Funds (ORF), June 29, 2009
CJCSI 7201.01A, Combatant Commanders’ Official Representation Funds, November 7, 2006
AFPD 65-6, Budget, May 1, 1998
AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force, July 25, 2005
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card Program, January 31, 2006
AFI 65-201, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures, October 12, 2006
AFI 65-202, Administration of a Base Financial Management Quality Assurance Program,
November 16, 2000
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005, Incorporating through
Change 3, 6 November 2009, and AFI65-601V1_AFGM1 dated 10 Nov 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008
AFRIMS, “Records Disposition Schedule Table 65-19 Rule 13.00,” Air Force Records
Information Management System, August 10, 2007,
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
HAF MD 1-6, The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force, December 22,
2008
Prescribed Form
AF IMT 134, Report of Contingency Expenditures.
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation of Change for Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                       19


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AF RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
CFR—Code of Federal Regulation
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DD—COMP-Department of Defense, Comptroller
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FMR—Financial Management Regulation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HAF MD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive
MAJCOM—Major Command
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
ORF—Official Representation Funds
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PEC—Program Element Code
Q—Quarterly
RCS—Report Control Symbol
SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SM&W—Special Morale and Welfare
US—United States

Terms
Accountable Officer— An individual appointed by proper authority who is responsible in the
performance of their duties to provide to a certifying officer information, data, or services that
the certifying officer directly relies upon in the certification of vouchers for payment.
Accountable officers are pecuniarily liable for illegal, improper or incorrect payments in certain
cases, in accordance with section 2773a of Title 10 United States Code. Duties include
maintaining item records and/or financial records in connection with Government property,
 20                                                               AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


irrespective of whether the property is in his or her possession for use or storage, or is in the
possession of others to whom it has been officially entrusted for use or for care and safekeeping.
Curre nt Inventory Record— A current inventory record is maintained by ensuring that the
inventory record is continuously in agreement with the inventory stock on hand. Each change to
the inventory, such as the purchase of additional inventory, usage or transfer of items out of the
inventory, is entered into the record as the action or event occurs.
Designated Authority— The head of an organization who receives an allocation of the Fiscal
Year Emergency and Extraordinary Expense limitation authority for Miscellaneous Current
Expenses (Official Representation Fund) within the Operation and Maintenance, Air Force
Appropriation as determined by SAF/AA and submitted by HAF/RM to SAF/FM for distribution
through funding authority documents or the head of an organization that receives a sub allocation
of Official Representation funding authority from their MAJCOM commander.
Inventory/Property Custodian— Any person designated by the organization commander or
chief of staff agency to have custodial responsibility for Government property in their
possession.
Modest Official Courtesies— May include the cost of luncheons, dinners, receptions,
mementos, and participation expenses at DoD-sponsored events. Other expenses may be
approved with specific justification.
Official Party— Non-DoD authorized guests and DoD attendees allowed by the authorized
ratios and the policies set out in this Instruction who meet the criteria for using ORF. See
paragraphs 3 through 5.
Protocol Office— Establishes protocol programs, identifies requirements and executes their
programs to include customs and courtesies during Air Force ceremonies, conferences and social
events; when hosting distinguished visitors; and when providing honors afforded at military
funerals.
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                    21


                                          Attachme nt 2
                     OFFICAL REPRESENTATION FUNDS REQUEST

A2.1. Name of Event/Item To Be Purchased:
A2.2. Date of Event/ Proposed Purchase:
A2.3. Location:
A2.4. Host:
A2.5. Guest(s) of Honor:
A2.6. Purpose and Type of Event/Item to be Purchased:
A2.7. Total Number of DoD attendees to be paid from ORF (include: name, duty title, and
mission justification for each invitee):
A2.8. Total Number of non-DoD, guest(s) to be paid from ORF (include the name, duty title,
and mission justification for each invitee):
A2.9. Other Invitee(s) (e.g. Foreign Military Personnel):
A2.10. Cost(s) of Food or Item(s) to be purchased:
A2.11. Beverage Costs:
A2.12. Perishable Centerpiece(s) Cost:
A2.13. Memento Costs:
A2.14. Other Costs (e.g. wait staff, gratuities, shipping and handling, etc.):
A2.15. Total Event ORF Costs (include food, beverage, perishable centerpiece(s), memento
costs and other costs):
A2.16. Total Cost of Item(s) to be purchased with ORF (include cost o f item(s) to be purchased
and any Other Costs that are applicable):
A2.17. ORF Cost per Person or per Item to be purchased:
 22                                                               AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachme nt 3
OFFICIAL REPRESENTATION FUND EVENT PLANNING AND RECONCILIATION

A3.1. Event:
A3.2. Date:
A3.3. Purpose:
A3.4. Total Cost:
A3.5. Previous ORF History: (ORF cost of this or similar events held during the last 2 to 3 fiscal
years)
A3.6. Official Party - (Non-DoD authorized guests and DoD attendees allowed by the
authorized ratios who meet the criteria for using ORF):
   A3.6.1. What is the proposed number of Authorized non-DoD Guest(s) expected to attend?
   A3.6.2. What is the proposed number of DoD Official Party invited?
   A3.6.3. Proposed ORF Ratio: Authorized non-DoD Guest(s) ____ to DoD Official Party
   members ____?
   A3.6.4. Does the size of the proposed Official Party meet the ORF ratio test? (See paragraph
   3.1, and Attachment 4.)
A3.7. Did Financial Management review this ORF request?
   A3.7.1. Was the availability of ORF certified?
   A3.7.2. Is the certification attached to the request/reconciliation package?
   A3.7.3. Was the request forwarded to FM 10 to 15 days prior to the event? See Note at
   paragraph 8.4.2.
A3.8. Was a legal review obtained?
   A3.8.1. Is the legal review attached to the ORF request/reconciliation package?
   A3.8.2. If no legal review was obtained, was a history of this or similar ORF
   requests/approvals attached to the request/reconciliation?
A3.9. Did the Designated Authority approve the request in writing prior to the event?
   A3.9.1. If no written approval was received, why not?
   A3.9.2. Is the written approval included in the reconciliation package?
A3.10. Were the actual event costs reconciled to the approved ORF request?
   A3.10.1. Are actual event costs equal to or less than the approved ORF request?
   A3.10.2. If the ORF event costs were expected to exceed the initial written approval, was
   advance written or verbal approval obtained for the expenditure of additional ORF?
   A3.10.3. If an additional ORF expenditure was authorized verbally, was a written approval
   obtained and attached to the reconciliation package?”
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                   23


   A3.10.4. Are the receipts attached to the reconciliation package?
A3.11. Is the actual attendance list included in the reconciliation?
   A3.11.1. How many Authorized non-DoD Guest(s) attended?
   A3.11.2. How many DoD Official party members attended?
   A3.11.3. Actual ORF-funded Attendance: Authorized non-DoD Guest(s) _____ to DoD
   Official Party member(s) _____?
   A3.11.4. Did the actual attendance meet the ORF ratio test?
       A3.11.4.1. If not, was the deviation of the maximum number of DoD participants paid
       with ORF more than 5%?
       A3.11.4.2. If the deviation is more than 5%, has all documentation concerning the event
       and a justification for the ratio deviation been forwarded through the MAJCOM and
       HAF/RM to SAF/AA for review and approval?
       A3.11.4.3. Was the ratio deviation justification approved?
       A3.11.4.4. If the ratio deviation justification was not approved, have the additional
       expenses been collected from the DoD attendees who were in excess of the number of
       DoD attendees allowed by the authorized ratios?
 24                                                              AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachme nt 4
                                  ORF RATIO EXAMPLES

A4.1. The following examples illustrate how to calculate ORF ratios.
A4.2. An official guest list contains 22 people. Three of the guests are non-DoD individuals
authorized to receive ORF courtesies. According to paragraph 3.1.1, for events with fewer than
30 persons, a minimum of 20 percent of the invitees must be non-DoD authorized guests.
Applying the 20 percent ratio, to the number of invited non-DoD guests, the maximum number
of DoD personnel whose attendance can be funded with ORF is 12, so 7 DoD attendees will have
to pay a pro rata share in order to attend.
Calculations:

X = total allowable number of official guests funded with ORF

.20 of X = 3 authorized non-DoD guests

X = 3 divided by .20

X = 15

15 = total allowable number of official guests funded with ORF

 15 total allowable number of official guests funded with ORF
- 3 authorized non-DoD guests
 12 maximum number of DoD personnel whose attendance can be funded with ORF

  22 proposed guest list
- 15 total allowable number of official guests funded with ORF
   7 DoD attendees who will have to pay a pro rata share in order to attend the event
A4.3. An official guest list contains 51 people. Ten of the guests are non-DoD individuals
authorized to receive ORF courtesies. According to paragraph 3.1.2, parties of 30 or more
persons require that a minimum of 50 percent of the invitees be non-DoD authorized ORF
guests. Applying the 50 percent ratio to the number of invited non-DoD guests, the maximum
number of DoD personnel whose attendance can be funded with ORF is 10, so 31 DoD attendees
will have to pay a pro rata share in order to attend.
Calculations:

X = total allowable number of official guests funded with ORF


.50 of X = 10 authorized non-DoD guests

X = 10 divided by .50
AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                25


X = 20

20 = total allowable number of official guests funded with ORF

  20 total allowable number of official guests funded with ORF
- 10 authorized non-DoD guests
  10 maximum number of DoD personnel whose attendance can be funded with ORF

  51 proposed guest list
- 20 total allowable number of official guests funded with ORF
  31 DoD attendees who will have to pay a pro rata share in order to attend the event
 26                                                                AFI65-603 24 AUGUST 2011


                                          Attachme nt 5
          OFFICIAL REPRESENTATION FUNDS EVENT SELF INSPECTION

A5.1. Were all ORF events reviewed IAW AFI 65-603 for propriety and mission justification
and approved in writing before ORF funds were spent?
A5.2. Are verbal approvals granted in advance by proper authority and are these verbal
decisions and the justification documented?
A5.3. Were ORF ratios followed in ORF events? If not, is the deviation properly documented?
A5.4. Was ORF expended only on individuals as authorized in AFI 65-603, paragraph 5?
A5.5. Has the ORF GPC been so designated and used only for authorized expenses?
A5.6. Is there a current, accurate inventory of ORF items with a clear audit trail of all items
purchased and issued by name of item, title of recipient, occasion, mission justification, and issue
date, as instructed in AFI 65-603, paragraph 10?
A5.7. Have the Accountable Officer, inventory custodian and alternate custodian been appointed
in writing?
A5.8. Have the Accountable Officer, inventory custodian and alternate custodian been briefed
on their liabilities and responsibilities and completed their GPC training?
A5.9. Was an annual inventory of ORF purchases accomplished by an impartial party that
reconciled the beginning inventory, items purchased, and items presented, to the inventory on
hand?
A5.10. Have gift locker stock levels been held to a minimum with purchases only made for
current fiscal year requirements?
A5.11. Was the Quarterly Report of Contingency Expenditures, SAF/FM (Q) 7113, prepared
and submitted in a timely manner?
A5.12. Are records maintained for ORF event and ORF inventory purchases IAW the AF
Disposition Schedule in AFRIMS?
