BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-401
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             23 MARCH 1994
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 23 March 2010

                                                                         Financial Management

                                                    RELATIONS WITH THE GOVERNMENT
                                                           ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restructions on this publication

OPR: SAF/FMPF                                                           Certified by: SAF/FMPF
Supersedes: AFR11-8, 27 March 1986                                      (Mr Vaughn E. Schlunz)
                                                                                       Pages: 15


This instruction implements AFPD 65-4, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports and
Liaison With External Audit Organizations. It provides guidance and procedures on interacting
with General Accounting Office (GAO) representatives engaged in carrying out statutory
responsibilities of the Comptroller General. It implements DoD Directive 7650.1, General
Accounting Office Access to Records, August 26, 1982; DoD Directive 7650.2, General
Accounting Office Audits and Reports, July 19, 1985; DoD Directive 7650.3, Followup on
General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and Internal Audit Reports, September 5,
1989, with Changes 1 through 3; and the standardized DoD and GAO administrative procedures
developed jointly by the two agencies. Air Force and DoD Inspector General (IG) relationship
regarding DoD IG audits is contained in AFI 65-402, Relations With the Office of the Assistant
Inspectors General for Auditing and Audit Followup, Department of Defense (formerly AFR 11-
38). Attachment 1 lists the references, abbreviations, and acronyms used in this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change is pursuant to the update of the DODI 7650.01 Government Accountability
Office (GAO) and Comptroller General Requests for Access to Records, 27 January 2009.
Additional guidance is provided regarding Air Force Personnel Responsibilities, the handling of
access requests for records of a DoD component other than the DoD component receiving the
request, records of a non-DoD entity, records containing personal information, operational plans
and future military operations, and foreign intelligence and counter intelligence information. The
title has changed to: Relations with the Government Accountability Office (GAO)
2                                                               AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994



                                          Chapter 1

                GAO BACKGROUND AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY

1.1. GAO Functions. The Congress created GAO to assist in providing legislative control and
oversight of the financial transactions and program implementation of the Federal Government.
The GAO provides special assistance to the Congress in response to requests from congressional
committees, subcommittees and Members of the Congress. Other GAO audit functions are
based on existing statutes and self-initiated audits.
1.2. Statutory Authority. The Budget and Accounting Act of 1921 established GAO as part of
the legislative branch of the Federal Government. The Budget, Accounting, and Procedures Act
of 1950, the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970, the Congressional Budget and
Impoundment Control Act of 1974, the General Accounting Office Act of 1974, and the General
Accounting Office Act of 1980 expanded and redefined GAO's functions. With certain
exceptions, these acts and other provisions of the law authorize the Comptroller General to
examine or review the management, programs, activities, and financial operations of the Federal
Government.
AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994                                                                        3


                                           Chapter 2

                 AIR FORCE PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Air Force and GAO Relationships. The Air Force must fully cooperate with GAO
representatives in carrying out the statutory audit responsibility of the Comptroller General.
Commanders must provide facilities, temporary workspace, and access to relevant information
and records.
2.2. Air Force Personnel Responsibilities. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial
Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) is responsible for Air Force liaison with the GAO.
Deputy Assistant Secretary, Financial Operations (SAF/FMP) is the Air Force focal point for all
contacts with the GAO. The Director for Audit Liaison and Follow up (SAF/FMPR) must:
   2.2.1. Manage Air Force and GAO relations to achieve a cooperative, businesslike rapport.
   2.2.2. Receive and issue GAO notices of new surveys, reviews, investigations, visits, and
   requests for GAO access to information to Air Force activities.
   2.2.3. Monitor and coordinate GAO surveys, reviews, investigative and access matters with
   the DoD IG Office of GAO Surveys and Reviews.
   2.2.4. Receive, assign action, and ensure prompt processing of all draft and final GAO
   reports or related informational documents issued in lieu of draft reports.
   2.2.5. Monitor and evaluate Air Force replies to those reports and documents to ensure
   replies are responsive.
2.3. HQ USAF/SAF Secretariat and Air Staff Office Responsibilities. Each Secretariat or
Air Staff office must establish an audit focal point to process review notices and reports. Audit
focal points must:
   2.3.1. Assign offices of primary responsibility (OPR) and offices of collateral responsibility
   (OCR) based on functional areas of responsibility.
   2.3.2. Ensure OPRs notify SAF/FMPR and the Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD) action
   officer of the name, grade, office symbol, room number, and telephone extension of the
   primary and alternate points of contact within 5 working days.
   2.3.3. Provide assistance to the OPR in resolving problems that may result from GAO
   contacts or visits.
   2.3.4. Monitor suspense dates and take aggressive action to ensure that replies to GAO
   reports are processed timely.
2.4. Secretariat/Air Staff Central Points of Contact Responsibilities. Designated Air      Force
points of contact (POC) must:
   2.4.1. Provide their name, organization symbol, and telephone number to SAF/FMPR and
   the OSD action officer.
   2.4.2. Apprise other Air Force elements that may have an interest in the audit.
   2.4.3. Attend audit in-briefings and other audit related meetings with OSD and GAO
   officials and monitor ongoing audit activities.
4                                                                    AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994


    2.4.4. Act on audit requests for information and resolve record denial problems.
    2.4.5. Obtain input from involved Air Force elements and provide official comments to OSD
    on GAO draft and final reports.
2.5. Major Command (MAJCOM), Field Operating Agencies (FOA), and Direct Reporting
Units (DRU). Commanders will designate a focal point within their headquarters to manage
matters involving GAO. The audit focal point must:
    •          Keep the commander and staff informed of GAO matters.
    •          Exercise command surveillance over GAO visits and exit interviews.
    •          Receive and process GAO reports.
    •            Assist functional OPRs in resolving problems that may arise concerning GAO
        visits, requests for information, Air Staff requests for inputs to report responses, and other
        such related issues.
    •          Submit GAO visit reports containing significant matters to various Secretariat or
        Air Staff functional OPRs.
AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994                                                                        5



                                          Chapter 3

   PROCEDURES TO PROCESS, MONITOR, AND MANAGE GAO SURVEYS AND
                            REVIEWS

3.1. Central Liaison and GAO Notification Letters:
   3.1.1. The GAO must issue an official announcement letter when initiating new survey or
   review work. Air Force personnel should ensure the GAO has properly announced their
   work before meeting with them or providing them with information.
   3.1.2. The GAO sends all audit notifications to the DoD IG Office of GAO Surveys and
   Reviews. A DoD IG action officer then identifies the OSD primary action office (PAO) and
   PAO POC and issues a tasking memorandum assigning responsibility for the GAO survey or
   review. The tasking memorandum also identifies collateral action offices (CAO) that will be
   involved.
   3.1.3. The DoD IG sends the GAO announcement and their tasking memorandum to
   SAF/FMPR who identifies the appropriate Air Force Secretariat or Air Staff OPR and sends
   copies of the announcement letter along with an Air Force assignment notice. Copies are
   also sent to other interested Air Force organizations.
   3.1.4. The Secretariat or Air Staff OPR audit focal point designates an individual as the Air
   Force POC. This individual must work closely with the OSD PAO and DoD IG action
   officers to inform Air Force and DoD management of the status of the review.
3.2. GAO Headquarters-Level Entrance, Interim Status, and Exit Meetings:
   3.2.1. The DoD IG normally requests the GAO to hold a joint headquarters-level entrance
   meeting to provide key Defense officials an opportunity to become familiar with the
   objectives of the review.
   3.2.2. During the course of the review, DoD officials may request the GAO to hold periodic
   status briefings. These meetings provide DoD officials an opportunity to discuss the
   accuracy and completeness of GAO work results and to avoid surprises.
   3.2.3. Upon completion of field work, GAO personnel generally will hold an exit conference
   with the commander to discuss the results of their review. Unless they are precluded from
   discussing their findings, such as is the case with some congressional reviews, Air Force
   management should insist on being thoroughly out-briefed.
3.3. GAO Visits to Air Force Installations:
   3.3.1. The GAO will usually provide a 10-calendar day advance notice to commanders
   before visiting an Air Force installation. The notice transmits the security clearance of each
   GAO visitor and is sent directly to the place of visit with an informational copy to
   SAF/FMPR. In circumstances of limited work or unusual urgency, such as congressional
   inquiry, the notice may be given by telephone. Written confirmation is provided thereafter.
   3.3.2. GAO personnel have special identification cards. Each card is serially numbered,
   with the photograph and signature of the authorized holder. Air Force officials should ask to
   see those cards to identify GAO personnel.
6                                                                 AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994


    3.3.3. Before beginning an assignment, GAO personnel must meet with the commander or a
    designated representative to discuss the nature of their visit.
3.4. Written Comments and Responses to the GAO During Surveys or Reviews. Air Force
functional elements should not provide the GAO with written comments or responses to reports
unless it has been coordinated with the DoD IG Office of GAO Survey and Reviews.
3.5. Reports of GAO Visits (RCS: SAF-FMP(AR)9438, GAO Visit Report):
    3.5.1. At the installation level, the commander or designee will submit a briefing report to
    the MAJCOM following meetings where significant matters or sensitive issues are discussed.
    3.5.2. At the MAJCOM, FOA, DRU level, the audit focal point should send briefing reports
    to the Secretariat or Air Staff functional OPR when significant problems or developments
    surface.
    3.5.3. The report must include:
       •       The names of principal GAO personnel involved, copies of any informal written
           products provided, the GAO work assignment code, and names of principal Air Force
           personnel contacted.
       •       A summary of discussions held, deficiencies disclosed, conclusions drawn,
           corrective actions taken or recommended, and other significant information such as
           unusual GAO requests.
       •       GAO's plans to brief congressional staff, testify at congressional hearings, or to
           issue a report.
    3.5.4. This report is designated emergence status code C-3. Continue reporting during
    emergency conditions, precedence delayed. Submit data requirements as prescribed, but they
    may be delayed to allow the submission of higher precedence reports. Submit by non-
    electronic means, if possible.
AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994                                                                         7


                                           Chapter 4

               CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, ACCESS, SPECIAL CASES

4.1. Classified Information. DoD classified information must be released to properly cleared
GAO representatives. Receipts are required for Secret documents. Top Secret documents must
be processed through the controlling Air Force Top Secret Control Office to the Top Secret
Control Office of the GAO division concerned.
4.2. Access to Information. Under Title 31, United States Code, Section 716(a), the GAO has
broad access rights. DoD Directive 7650.1 and DoD Directive 7650.2 set forth the general DoD
policy and procedures regarding GAO access to records. Air Force personnel must provide
accurate, and complete information to the GAO.
   4.2.1. The individual with the requested information normally grants access without
   reference to a higher authority. Oral requests will be honored provided the work was
   properly announced. However, the GAO may be asked to submit a specific written request
   to clarify the nature of the information desired.
   4.2.2. Requests for information must be promptly processed. There are no provisions to
   deny GAO access to Air Force-controlled information except when approval is obtained from
   the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
   4.2.3. Information in Air Force hands, originated by non-Air Force organizations or prepared
   at the specific request of OSD to become a part of an OSD-controlled document, is not
   considered Air Force-controlled information. However, the Air Force component having the
   information should contact the originator to clear release. Avoid unnecessary referrals.
       4.2.3.1. When an access request involves a record of a non-DoD entity, the responsibility
       for determining the release of that record rests with the non-DoD entity. If a request
       involves such a record, the GAO should be advised of this fact and asked to request the
       record directly from the non-DoD entity. Alternatively, such a record may be released by
       a DoD Component with the consent of the originating entity.
       4.2.3.2. When an access request is submitted to one DoD Component but involves a
       record of another DoD Component, the request should immediately be referred to that
       Component for either a direct response to the GAO or for approval of the release of the
       record. The GAO shall be advised of such referrals. If a request involves a Future Years
       Defense Program or Program Budget Decisions, the GAO should be requested to seek the
       information directly from the OUSD(C). If a request involves technical development
       plans, the GAO should be referred directly to the originating office. If a request is for a
       record concerning operation plans or support plans involving joint Service participation,
       the GAO should be referred directly to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   4.2.4. Information considered "internal workpapers," or which does not reflect an official
   Air Force position, will not be denied to the GAO. However, custodians must include
   cautionary explanations when providing this information. For example, clearly mark
   documents as "draft, workpapers, unofficial, etc."
8                                                                  AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994


    4.2.5. When requested information is unavailable or cannot be provided, it is often possible
    to substitute other documents, briefings, visual access without copies, or similar data. This
    substitution should only be done with GAO concurrence.
    4.2.6. Usually GAO representatives will work with Air Force data where it is kept and make
    notes, extracts, or copies as required. Reproduced copies of documents, papers, and records
    may be furnished to the GAO.
    4.2.7. GAO normally requests information that already exists. Negotiate requests for
    developing special information, extracts, summaries, or analysis of data requiring
    considerable resources to prepare. Requests which are not resolved locally must be referred
    to the Secretariat or Air Staff OPR for resolution.
4.3. Resolving Record Access Problems:
    4.3.1. Information will be released to the GAO following the guidance contained in this
    document. If difficulties arise, installation commanders should try to resolve the problems
    by consulting with higher commands, and, if necessary, with their Secretariat and Air Staff
    functional counterparts without taking formal referral action. Under no circumstances will
    an individual, commander, or unit head inform a GAO representative that the request is
    denied while the referral or staffing is in process. Instead, the GAO representative should be
    informed that the request has been referred for appropriate action.
    4.3.2. Where the MAJCOM involvement does not result in release of information to the
    GAO, the request and MAJCOM recommendation and rationale will be sent to the
    Secretariat or Air Staff functional counterpart for staffing with a copy to SAF/FMPR. The
    MAJCOM must ensure there is no unnecessary delay in this review and referral process.
    4.3.3. If an access request involves several different records, some of which are releasable
    and some of which may be exempt, prompt action must be taken to provide access to the
    releasable documents and to resolve the issues related to records that may be exempt. If the
    Air Force ultimately decides some or all of the requested records may not be released, the
    Secretariat or Air Staff OPR must notify the DoD IG Office of GAO Surveys and Reviews in
    writing within 15 days as to which specific legal or policy basis the Air Force is using to
    deny GAO access. This is necessary in case the GAO Comptroller General later decides to
    send a formal demand letter to the Secretary of Air Force or Secretary of Defense.
    4.3.4. All of the above efforts are "informal" attempts to resolve access issues. If the matter
    remains unresolved, the GAO Comptroller General may issue a formal demand letter to the
    Secretary of Air Force or the Secretary of Defense demanding access to the requested
    information. By law, the DoD has 20 days to respond to the GAO demand letter.
    4.3.5. Detailed records shall be kept on all actions taken about denials of exempt records.
4.4. Special Cases. While the above paragraphs provide general guidance for the release of Air
Force controlled data, the following are instructions for release of "special category" information
to the GAO.
    4.4.1. Air Force Audit Agency internal audit reports and workpapers will be made available
    to the GAO. Requests for Air Force reports of audits and workpapers should be referred to
    AFAA/DO. Requests for installation reports and workpapers should be directed to the chief
    of the area audit office.
AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994                                                                        9


  4.4.2. Air Force Inspector General (SAF/IG) inspection reports will be made available for
  GAO review. However, visual access without physical release will be the primary method of
  releasing this information. If physical release is desired, the GAO director or higher
  authority must make a written request to the SAF/IG.
  4.4.3. Release of Air Force Inspector General Reports of Administrative Inquiry and
  Investigations require SAF/IG approval.
  4.4.4. Separate Accident Investigations of Aircraft and Missile Accidents are releasable
  through the Judge Advocate Office (HQ USAF/JA).
  4.4.5. Under the provisions of section 716(e) (2) of Reference (e), any record described in
  section 552(b) (6) of title 5, United States Code (Reference (g)) consisting of personnel and
  medical files, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of
  personal privacy, must be kept by the Comptroller General in a way that prevents
  unwarranted invasions of personal privacy. Accordingly, any time that such a record is
  furnished to a GAO representative or to the Comptroller General, the record shall be suitably
  marked to indicate that it is a personnel or medical record that is subject to the protection
  provisions of section 716(e)(2) of Reference (e).
     4.4.5.1. Security police and Air Force Office of Special Investigations reports may be
     released when approved by the heads of those organizations.
  4.4.6. Outyear Program and Budget Planning information may be released after release of
  the President's budget. This includes all information contained in budget documents and
  support justification books. Note that program objective memorandum (POM) and budget
  estimate submission (BES) data are OSD (Program Analysis and Evaluation) controlled and
  may only be released at that level.
  4.4.7. Requests for Future Year Defense Plan information including outyear data on non-
  SAR programs must be referred to the OSD Comptroller. Other requests for outyear
  planning estimates, including initial-mission areas estimates not specifically associated with
  POM and BES submittals may be released. Where appropriate, attach a cover letter
  indicating the information is subject to change and does not necessarily constitute an official
  Air Force position.
  4.4.8. Reports and documents of non-Air Force agencies will be released only with the
  written consent of the originating agency. Usually, GAO obtains those documents from the
  originator.
  4.4.9. Management-type studies and surveys may be released to the GAO upon approval of
  the individual that directed the preparation of the report. Management-type studies and
  surveys are normally accompanied by a statement summarizing the Air Force position on the
  recommendations in the report.
  4.4.10. Developmental and operational test and evaluation reports will be released by the
  final reviewing authority responsible for the report. Interim test reports may be released to
  the GAO with the understanding they are advanced or preliminary in nature and may be
  subject to change.
  4.4.11. Air Force headquarters validated requirement documents such as operational
  requirements document, mission needs statement, and mission element needs statement will
10                                                                 AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994


     be released with qualifying information that reflects the Air Force position. Unrelated
     documents may also be released before validation with the understanding they may not
     represent the Air Force position or consensus.
     4.4.12. GAO requests for information about operational planning or conduct of military
     operations, war plans, force deployments, and intelligence collection and analysis must be
     referred to the proper unified or specified command.
     4.4.13. The Department limits access to operational plans and information about potential
     future military operations, such as execution orders, to individuals having a mission-critical
     role in the production, review, or execution of those plans or operations. The GAO typically
     does not have such a mission-critical role and will normally not be granted access to
     operational plans or to information about potential future military operations. Exceptions to
     this policy should be requested through the Joint Staff and approved by the Under Secretary
     of Defense for Policy. Requests for information relating to Air Force operations plans or
     support plans will be sent to the Deputy Chief of Staff Plans and Operations (HQ USAF/XO)
     who has release authority.
     4.4.14. Although the Comptroller General may be prevented from compelling access to this
     information, foreign intelligence and counter intelligence information should not be denied
     categorically. Such information may be furnished to GAO representatives having a
     legitimate need to know. Therefore, denials of access to such information must be carefully
     considered and supported legitimately. The Air Force will exercise caution in releasing
     communications or information of foreign origin until national release approval is secured.
     4.4.15. Specific guidelines for release of data that may be source selection sensitive is
     contained in Air Force Federal Acquisition Supplement, Appendix AA, Formal Source
     Selection For Major Acquisition Programs.
AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994                                                                     11


                                          Chapter 5

                            GAO REPORTS AND FOLLOWUP

5.1. General:
   5.1.1. A GAO survey or review usually results in the issuance of a report. When reports are
   submitted for comment, they are addressed to the Secretary of Defense, Deputy Assistant
   Inspector General for GAO Report Analysis, (DoD IG). That office, in turn, determines the
   PAO and appropriate CAOs. The PAO (with rare exception) is a component of the Office of
   the Secretary of Defense.
5.2. Draft Report:
   5.2.1. Draft reports represent tentative findings and recommendations. They are provided to
   the DoD for review and comment. Care must be taken to prevent premature or unauthorized
   release, disclosure, or use.
   5.2.2. The DoD IG prepares a summary of the findings and recommendations contained in
   the report and tasks the PAO to prepare a DoD response.
   5.2.3. The tasking memorandum provides detailed instruction and scheduled dates for
   completing the various tasks associated with processing of the draft report. DoD Directive
   7650.2 specifically requires the PAO to review the draft report, obtain input from the CAOs,
   and prepare a proposed response on behalf of the Secretary for OSD level coordination and
   clearance prior to release to the GAO.
   5.2.4. The Air Force OPR POC should call the OSD PAO action officer to find out how Air
   Force input is to be handled.
   5.2.5. By statute, the DoD has up to 30 days to comment on a GAO draft report assuming it
   is submitted for comment. On occasion, a shorter comment period is required, usually to
   meet a congressional imposed deadline. In addition to preparing written comments, the DoD
   most always meets with the GAO to present its official comments orally. The DoD IG and
   SAF/FMPR tasking memorandums establishes appropriate due dates for these events.
   5.2.6. MAJCOM, DRU, or FOA input must be provided to the HQ USAF OPR point of
   contact for inclusion in the overall Air Force response.
5.3. Security Reviews. GAO sometimes requests the DoD to perform a security classification
review of draft reports. Requests are processed through the DoD IG and SAF/FMPR focal points
and result in the tasking of a Secretariat or Air Staff OPR to provide preliminary paragraph
markings and recommended downgrading instructions. The OPR provides SAF/PAS an
annotated copy of the report for their use.
5.4. GAO Final Reports. The final report may be a bound document or a letter report to the
Congress, congressional committee, Member of Congress, or government official. Final reports
addressed to DoD organizations must be responded to by an OSD Assistant Secretary or the head
of a DoD agency. As in the case of draft report processing procedures, the DoD IG will issue a
tasking memorandum to the PAO and various CAOs requesting that formal comments be
prepared in response to the GAO final report. Unless otherwise stated, 60 days are allotted for
commenting on GAO final reports. Acopy of the DoD response is also sent to the House and
12                                                                 AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994


Senate Committees on Appropriations, Government Operations, other select committees and
OMB.
5.5. Other GAO-Generated Documents. Statements of fact, briefing papers, and testimony
which GAO provides before or instead of draft reports are generally of an informational nature.
Tasking and response actions, if required, will parallel those for draft reports.
5.6. Replies to GAO Reports. GAO reports concerning the Air Force and the DoD may have a
significant impact on the views of the general public and the Congress. Air Force management
officials must:
     •          Take prompt and positive action on all GAO reports.
     •          Objectively evaluate the report     and be responsive to the GAO findings,
         conclusions, and recommendations.
     •         Indicate agreement or disagreement with GAO findings, conclusions, and
         recommendations, including the reason for any disagreements.
     •          State corrective actions taken or planned, including the anticipated date that
         proposed actions will be completed.
5.7. Followup On GAO Reports. Followup is an integral part of good management and is a
responsibility shared by Air Force managers and auditors. After GAO issues a final report, Air
Force management must take timely and effective corrective action on agreed-upon findings and
recommendations which apply to their programs and activities. The DoD IG performs periodic
inquires and followup reviews to assess the adequacy of corrective action taken. DoD Directive
7650.3 prescribes basic policies for this system.
5.8. Air Force Status Reports. The following Air Force procedures apply when responding to
DoD IG followup status requests.
     5.8.1. SAF/FMPR will suspense follow up tasking memorandums received from the DoD IG
     to Secretariat and Air Staff offices. Open action items will be closely tracked and monitored
     through completion.
     5.8.2. Secretariat and Air Staff OPRs are responsible for reporting the status of management
     actions. If an action has been completed, the OPR will provide a synopsis of the completed
     action together with a complete response to the status inquiry. Where corrective action has
     not been taken, the OPR will explain the slippage and provide a revised completion date.
     OPRs will submit the completed
     5.8.3. When a status report cites potential monetary benefits as a result of implementing a
     recommendation, the OPR must comment on the accuracy of the benefit, and coordinate
     those comments with SAF/FMB. Comments relating to National Guard Bureau benefits will
     be coordinated with ANGRC/FMB.
     5.8.4. SAF/FMPR will forward Air Force comments or status reports to the DoD IG.




                                             JOHN W. BEACH
AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994                                                     13


                          Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air
                          Force (Financial Management)
14                                                             AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 7650.1, General Accounting Office Access to Records, August 26, 1982
DoD Directive 7650.2, General Accounting Office Audits and Reports, July 19, 1985
DoD Directive 7650.3, Followup on General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and
Internal Audit Reports, September 5, 1989, with Changes 1 through 3

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AFAA/DO—Air Force Audit Agency, Directorate of Operations
ANGRC—Air National Guard Readiness Center
BES—Budget Estimate Submission
DoD IG—Department of Defense Inspector General
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GAO—General Accounting Office
HQ USAF/JA—Judge Advocate General
HQ USAF/XO—Deputy Chief of Staff Plans and Operations
MAJCOM—Major Command
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense
PAO—Primary Action Office
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
SAF/FM—The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/FMP—Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Operations
SAF/FMPF—Director for Audit Liaison and Followup
SAF/FMPR—Director for Accounting Policy and Reporting
SAF/IG—Secretary of Air Force Inspector General
SAF/PAS—Chief Office For Security Reviews
AFI65-401 23 MARCH 1994   15
