BY ORDER OF THE                                                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-403
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                               2 JUNE 1994

                                                                                      AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                                       Supplement 1
                                                                                                                  13 September 1996

                                                                                                           Financial Management

                                                                              FOLLOWUP ON INTERNAL AIR FORCE
                                                                                               AUDIT REPORTS

                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This publication is available digitally on the HQ AFRC WWW site at http://
www.afrc.af.mil. and the AFRCEPL (CD-ROM), published monthly.


OPR: SAF/FMPF (Mrs Ann Cook)                                         Certified by: SAF/FMPF (Mr Vaughn E. Schlunz)
Supersedes AFR 175-2, 29 May 1992.                                                                       Pages: 25
                                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 65-4, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports and Liaison With
External Audit Organizations. It provides guidance and procedures on the followup policies and respon-
sibilities for deciding, monitoring, and closing findings and recommendations in internal Air Force audit
reports. It implements Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-50, Audit Followup, Sep-
tember 29, 1982; DoD Directive 7600.2, Audit Policies, February 2, 1991; DoD Directive 7650.3, Fol-
lowup on General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and Internal Audit Reports, September 5,
1989, with Changes 1 through 3. See Attachment 1 for abbreviations, acronyms, and terms used in this
instruction.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This is the first publication of AFI 65-403 and aligns with AFPD 65-4.
(AFRC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 65-403, 2
June 1994. The AFI is printed word-for-word without editorial review. Air Force Reserve Command
supplementary material is indicated by "(AFRC)" in boldface type. This supplement describes Air Force
Reserve Command procedures to be used in conjunction with the basic instruction. Upon receipt of this
integrated supplement discard the Air Force basic.

Chapter 1—PROCEDURES                                                                                                                  3
       1.1.   Followup Procedures .................................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Procedures for Deciding Nonconcurrences ...............................................................                 3
       1.3.   Procedures for Responding to Audit Reports ............................................................                 3
       1.4.   Air Force Supplements ..............................................................................................    4
2                                                                                                AFI65-403 13 September 1996

Chapter 2—RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                 5
     2.1.    Under Secretary of the Air Force ...............................................................................               5
     2.2.    Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller)
             (SAF/FM) ..................................................................................................................    5
     2.3.    Deputy Assistant Secretary/Plans, Systems, and Analysis (SAF/FMP) ....................                                        5
     2.4.    Director for Audit Liaison and Followup (SAF/FMPF) ............................................                                5
     2.5.    Secretary of the Air Force and HQ USAF ................................................................                        7
     2.6.    Secretariat and DCS Focal Points ..............................................................................                7
     2.7.    MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU Commanders ................................................................                               8
     2.8.    MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU Focal Points ..................................................................                           8
     2.9.    Unit Commanders ......................................................................................................        10
     2.10. Subordinate Level-Command Focal Points ...............................................................                          10
     2.11. Management OPRs ....................................................................................................            10
     2.12. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) ..............................................................................                    11
     2.13. SAF/AGA ..................................................................................................................      11
     2.14. AFAA Associate Directors ........................................................................................               11
     2.15. AFAA MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU Represen-tatives ...............................................                                      12
     2.16. AFAA Area Audit Office Chiefs ...............................................................................                   12
     2.17. HQ AFAA/DO ...........................................................................................................          12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS                                                                                14

Attachment 2—SAMPLE RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574, FOLLOWUP STATUS REPORT
             PART I
             AIR FORCE FOLLOWUP OFFICIAL'S NARRATIVE SUMMARY                                                                               17

Attachment 3—INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574, FOLLOWUP
             STATUS REPORT, SUBMISSION FOR AIR FORCE-LEVEL
             AUDIT REPORTS                                                                                                                 19

Attachment 4—INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574, FOLLOWUP
             STATUS REPORT, SUBMISSION FOR INSTALLATION-LEVEL
             AUDIT REPORTS                                                                                                                 23
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                               3

                                                Chapter 1

                                             PROCEDURES

1.1. Followup Procedures. The Air Force followup program ensures that management promptly imple-
ments audit recommendations and corrects deficiencies.
   1.1.1. Air Force managers and oversight organizations share responsibility for followup.
       1.1.1.1. Secretariat, Air Staff, major command (MAJCOM), field operating agency (FOA), and
       direct reporting unit (DRU) managers monitor and document the progress and completion of
       agreed-on corrective actions.
       1.1.1.2. Air Force auditors and perform independent on-site followup reviews.
   1.1.2. The Air Force uses designated focal points to monitor, document, and maintain records of cor-
   rective actions and potential monetary benefits (PMB) realized on audit reports.
       1.1.2.1. The Secretariat and Air Staff designate focal points to implement the followup program.
       1.1.2.2. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs designate followup focal points within financial manage-
       ment organizations.
   1.1.3. See DoD Directive 7650.3 for reporting requirements.

1.2. Procedures for Deciding Nonconcurrences. Managers must resolve nonconcurrences on audit
findings, recommendations, and estimated PMB no later than 6 months after the final audit report date.
   1.2.1. Send all disputed Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) reports through Air Force channels for
   review by the Under Secretary, who serves as the Air Force resolution official.
   1.2.2. The Under Secretary delegates nonconcurrence decisions on installation-level audit reports not
   related to financial matters to the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and
   Comptroller) (SAF/FM).
   1.2.3. SAF/FM delegates decisions on installation-level audit reports and monitoring responsibilities
   for management nonconcurrences to the Deputy Assistant Secretary/Plans, Systems, and Analysis
   (SAF/FMP).

1.3. Procedures for Responding to Audit Reports. Managers normally respond to AFAA audit reports
no later than 30 days after the date of the draft report. To complete quick-reaction audit reports, managers
must respond within the timeframe specified in the report.
   1.3.1. Express explicit concurrence or nonconcurrence on each finding, recommendation, and esti-
   mated monetary benefit. If appropriate, include proposed alternative methods for accomplishing
   desired improvements.
   1.3.2.   Describe all completed or planned corrective actions. The responding manager provides:
       •    Dates of all completed actions.
       •    Estimated dates of completion for planned corrective actions.
       •    Suspense dates for the major phases of corrective actions that will require 1 year or more to
            complete.
4                                                                       AFI65-403 13 September 1996

       •   Estimated monetary benefits or other anticipated benefits.
    1.3.3. AFAA doesn't require responses to final audit reports. For additional information on respond-
    ing to AFAA audit reports, see AFI 65-301, Audit Reporting Procedures.

1.4. Air Force Supplements. Air Force activities, including activities responsible for Public Accoun-
tant Contract Audits of nonappropriated fund activities, supplement this AFI when necessary. Provide
SAF/FMP with copies of all supplements. NOTE: Supplements may not change the procedures con-
tained in this instruction.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                            5

                                              Chapter 2

                                        RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Under Secretary of the Air Force. Decides nonconcurrences between management and the AFAA
that lower management levels can’t resolve.

2.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller) (SAF/FM):
   2.2.1. Serves as the Air Force followup official and oversees the followup program.
   2.2.2. Delegates the execution of the followup program to SAF/FMP, including decisions on installa-
   tion-level report nonconcurrences that don’t involve financial matters.

2.3. Deputy Assistant Secretary/Plans, Systems, and Analysis (SAF/FMP):
   2.3.1. Establishes the Air Force followup program and ensures the timely decision of management
   nonconcurrences.
   2.3.2. Establishes guidance, procedures, and systems for implementing the followup program.
   2.3.3. Works with Air Force organizations to mediate management nonconcurrences on AFAA audit
   report findings, recommendations, and estimated PMB within 6 months of the final audit report date.
   Submits undecided nonconcurrences to the Under Secretary for resolution.
   2.3.4. Ensures that Air Force managers maintain a complete record of action taken on all Air
   Force-level and installation-level audit report findings, recommendations, and monetary benefits.
   2.3.5. Requires each level of Air Force management to establish followup focal points who ensure
   that managers complete corrective actions and keep accurate followup status records.
   2.3.6. Submits a RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574, Followup Status Report, semiannually to the Office of the
   Inspector General, Department of Defense (OIG, DoD), within 30 calendar days of the two 6-month
   reporting periods ending 31 March and 30 September. For a sample Followup Status Report, see
   Attachment 2. For specific instructions on how to prepare the report, see Attachment 3.
   2.3.7. Serves as the Air Force focal point for all followup actions on GAO and OIG, DoD reports.
   EXCEPTION: SAF/IG handles OIG, DoD inspection reports.
   2.3.8. Requests assistance from the Auditor General of the Air Force and Air Force Inspector General
   in performing the followup function.
   2.3.9. Requires that the performance appraisals of appropriate managers reflect their degree of effec-
   tiveness in addressing audit findings and recommendations and implementing agreed-on corrective
   actions as required by OMB Circular A-50.
   2.3.10. Delegates the day-to-day responsibility for monitoring and implementing the followup pro-
   gram to the Director for Audit Liaison and Followup (SAF/FMPF).

2.4. Director for Audit Liaison and Followup (SAF/FMPF):
   2.4.1. Formulates policy and implements the Air Force followup program.
   2.4.2. Monitors, reports, and documents management’s corrective actions on Air Force-level audits.
6                                                                        AFI65-403 13 September 1996

    2.4.3. Keeps AFAA advised of management’s progress in completing agreed-on actions and docu-
    menting monetary benefits realized.
    2.4.4. Sends tracking summaries to followup focal points at HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, FOAs, or DRUs
    during the first 10 days of the month following the estimated completion date for a corrective action.
    2.4.5. Updates the status of corrective actions at 6-month intervals in cases where management needs
    more than 1 year to complete the agreed-on actions.
    2.4.6. Evaluates Air Force management’s corrective actions on agreed-on AFAA report recommenda-
    tions and brings any discrepancies to the attention of senior Air Force management officials.
    2.4.7. Determines when management has completed agreed-on corrective actions and realized mone-
    tary benefits.
    2.4.8. Establishes and maintains the formal followup records for AFAA Air Force-level audits. Fol-
    lowup Air Force-level audit report followup records contain:
        • The audit report.
        • A signed copy of management's comments.
        • The name of the OPR responsible for implementing the agreed-on corrective actions.
        • The current status of management actions, including an explanation for delays in any planned
           corrective actions.
       2.4.8.1. For audit reports documenting completed management actions, include management's
       explicit written and signed confirmation that all agreed-on corrective actions are complete (or that
       on-site verification indicates completed actions).
       2.4.8.2. For audit reports documenting estimated PMB, include management's explicit written
       and signed confirmation that the monetary benefits were actually realized. Include references to
       official budget or accounting data or, if such data isn't feasible, an updated estimate and its ratio-
       nale.
    2.4.9. Identifies where management actions failed to correct reported deficiencies by reviewing:
        • Managers' effectiveness-of-corrective-action reviews.
        • Auditors' followup audits.
    2.4.10. Ensures that management completes corrective actions on decided Air Force-level audit rec-
    ommendations.
    2.4.11. Supports the Air Force internal control program and brings material weaknesses in audit
    reports to the attention of the Air Force internal control focal point.
    2.4.12. Performs oversight reviews of selected Secretariat, Air Staff, MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU fol-
    lowup programs. Oversight reviews focus on the systems established and the formal records main-
    tained in monitoring and closing completed actions on audit report recommendations and monetary
    benefits.
    2.4.13. Processes nonconcurrences by following these procedures:
       2.4.13.1. Establishes and maintains formal records for Air Force-level and installation-level audit
       report nonconcurrences received from AFAA for decision.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                          7

      2.4.13.2. Works with AFAA and management officials to mediate disagreements before their sub-
      mission to SAF/FMP or SAF/US for decision. Requests Air Force General Counsel assistance if
      the disagreement involves a point or interpretation of law.
      2.4.13.3. Documents agreements reached between AFAA and management on disputed issues
      decided to the mutual satisfaction of all parties. Prepares a memorandum detailing the agreed-on
      actions and estimated completion dates where subsequent actions are required.
      2.4.13.4. Prepares the documentation for submitting undecided matters to SAF/FMP or SAF/US
      for decision. Includes these documents:
          • A Decision Paper that includes a synopsis of both AFAA's and management's positions
              and the prospective rulings that the SAF/FMP or SAF/US can make to resolve the case.
          • A Background Paper that provides a more detailed discussion of both AFAA's and man-
              agement's positions. This document may contain a recommendation from the Audit Fol-
              lowup Official to the SAF/US.
      2.4.13.5. Notifies AFAA and management of the SAF/FMP or SAF/US decision. For Air
      Force-level reports, begin followup on the terms of the decision. For installation-level reports,
      send the decision to designated MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU focal points for followup.
      2.4.13.6. Reports unresolved nonconcurrences on AFAA Air Force-level audit reports that exceed
      the statutory 6-month resolution requirement to the OIG, DoD (RCS: DD-IG-(SA)1574).

2.5. Secretary of the Air Force and HQ USAF:
   2.5.1. Ensure actions that management takes to implement audit report recommendations meet esti-
   mated completion dates and correct identified deficiencies.
   2.5.2. Designate a followup focal point within each Secretariat or DCS organization to monitor and
   report the progress of corrective actions.

2.6. Secretariat and DCS Focal Points:
   2.6.1. Receive and process tacking summaries from SAF/FMPF for all agreed-on audit recommen-
   dations addressed to that organization for action.
   2.6.2. Send tracking summaries to the office responsible for initiating action and ensure the timely
   completion and supervisory approval of parts II, III, and IV of the tracking summary.
   2.6.3. Review completed tracking summaries to determine their adequacy and report the status of cor-
   rective actions to SAF/FMPF. The report identifies summaries that require status updates until man-
   agement completes all corrective actions and makes a followup assessment of how effective those
   actions have been in remedying deficiencies.
   2.6.4. Ensure that management has documented realized monetary benefits before requesting that
   SAF/FMPF close the recommendation.
   2.6.5. Maintain formal records (tracking summaries, budget excerpts, revised guidance, memoran-
   dums, and so on) on all organization audit recommendations along with explicit written confirmation
   that management has taken corrective actions.
8                                                                       AFI65-403 13 September 1996

2.7. MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU Commanders:
    2.7.1. Ensure that agreed-on command actions on all Air Force-level and installation-level reports
    meet estimated completion dates and that managers correct deficiencies.
    2.7.2. Ensure that management promptly processes nonconcurrences with audit report findings, rec-
    ommendations, or PMB.
    2.7.3. Designate a followup focal point within their financial management organization to implement
    their organization’s followup and nonconcurrence decision program.
    2.7.3. (AFRC) HQ AFRC Focal Point. HQ AFRC Financial Management (HQ AFRC/FM) is the
    central focal point within AFRC for all matters relating to AFAA. The Chief, Comptroller Plans Divi-
    sion (HQ AFRC/FMX), acts for HQ AFRC/FM in this regard. The focal point of contact for each
    numbered air force (NAF) is FM. AFRC units establish a focal point in their Financial Management
    organization to monitor audit activities for their commander. AFRC unit audit focal points keep the
    applicable NAF/FM and wing commanders informed of audit activities and submit quarterly progress
    reports on all open items to the local AFAA with an information copy to the applicable NAF/FM and
    HQ AFRC/FMXX. Units submit requests for extension of estimated completion dates only when nec-
    essary and include reason for delay and a revised estimated completion date.

2.8. MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU Focal Points:
    2.8.1. Receive all audit reports that AFAA issues to command elements and send the reports to the
    appropriate command organizations.
    2.8.2. Establish guidelines to ensure that management monitors and completes corrective actions
    promptly. Notify command staff elements if the required actions affect command policy.
    2.8.2. (AFRC) HQ AFRC functional OPRs review audit reports for possible command-wide applica-
    tion. OPRs will also review unit actions on all audit recommendations and monetary benefits docu-
    mentation for adequacy of completeness before audit closure. Audit reports are considered as “open”
    until all corrective actions are fully implemented and actual monetary benefits are realized and docu-
    mented.
    2.8.3. Receive and maintain tracking summaries from SAF/FMPF for all Air Force-level audit reports
    with agreed-on recommendations addressed to the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU. Send the tracking sum-
    maries to the office responsible for initiating action and monitors the timely completion and supervi-
    sory approval of parts II, III, and IV.
    2.8.4. Receive progress reports from the subordinate command followup focal point on the imple-
    mentation status of installation-level report recommendations. Request that the subordinate command
    followup focal point provide extension requests and revised completion dates when management can't
    meet the initially projected completion dates.
    2.8.5. Review management responses to installation-level report recommendations and determine
    when management has completed all corrective actions and realized their monetary benefits.
       2.8.5.1. Ensure that management provides explicit written confirmation and documentation that
       agreed-on corrective actions are complete and, if applicable, monetary benefits realized.
       2.8.5.2. Close installation-level recommendations after receiving written confirmation and docu-
       ment realized monetary benefits.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                             9

   2.8.6. Notify the command OPR preparing the response if the actions that management plans or com-
   pletes deviate from the current command policy, vary from agreed-on recommendations, or fail to
   remedy deficiencies.
   2.8.7. Establish and maintain the formal followup records for AFAA installation-level audit reports.
   Installation-level audit report followup records contain:
       • The audit report.
       • A signed copy of management's comments.
       • The name of the OPR responsible for implementing the agreed-on corrective actions.
       • The status of management actions, including an explanation for any delays in planned correc-
           tive actions.
      2.8.7.1. For audit reports documenting completed management actions, include management's
      explicit written and signed confirmation that all agreed-on corrective actions are complete (or that
      on-site verification indicates that actions are complete).
      2.8.7.2. For audit reports documenting estimated PMB, include management's explicit written
      and signed confirmation that the monetary benefits were actually realized. Documentation should
      include references to official budget or accounting data or, if such data isn't feasible, an updated
      estimate and the rationale for that estimate.
   2.8.8. Ensure that management completes actions on all installation-level audit recommendations,
   including those decided through auditor and management agreements or a SAF/FMP or SAF/US rul-
   ing.
   2.8.8. (AFRC) Upon receipt of explicit written confirmation and documentation that all corrective
   actions have been taken and, if applicable, realized monetary benefits, HQ AFRC/FMXX will staff a
   recommendation for closure with applicable headquarters OPRs and the command section. Upon
   approval, an audit closure letter is prepared and forwarded to the unit audit focal point.
   2.8.9. Select significant audit recommendations and request one of these two followup reviews to
   ensure that management has corrected the identified deficiency:
       • An OPR effectiveness-of-corrective-action review.
       • An AFAA followup audit.
   2.8.10. Submit an installation-level followup status report to SAF/FMP semiannually. (See Attach-
   ment 4).
   2.8.11. Serve as the normal liaison between the AFAA representatives and MAJCOM, FOA, and
   DRU management to ensure that they process installation-level audit report nonconcurrences
   promptly.
      2.8.11.1. Mediate installation-level nonconcurrences by following these procedures:
          • Prepare a formal management position on the mediation within 30 calendar days of
              receiving the nonconcurrence notification from the AFAA Area Audit Office Chief.
              Include specific management mediation proposals, if appropriate.
          • Send the position to the local AFAA representative.
10                                                                         AFI65-403 13 September 1996

            •   Ensure that the AFAA representative receives notification of a MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU
                management nonconcurrence and their formal position within 30 calendar days from the
                date of the audit report.
            •   Keep MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, and subordinate command management officials informed
                on the status of deciding disputed audit findings, recommendations, and PMB.

2.9. Unit Commanders:
     2.9.1. Ensure that management takes agreed-on corrective actions on all audit reports to meet projec-
     tion dates and eliminate deficiencies.
     2.9.2. Designate a subordinate command followup focal point.

2.10. Subordinate Level-Command Focal Points:
     2.10.1. Serve as the point of contact for receiving and distributing all installation-level reports to the
     proper staff offices for action.
     2.10.2. Review management responses to audit reports to ensure that the responses are accurate and
     timely. Request assistance from the appropriate AFAA audit office when necessary.
     2.10.3. Establish records for all installation-level report recommendations and monitor their status
     until implemented. NOTE: The MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU followup focal point maintains the formal
     followup records.
     2.10.4. Provide progress reports to the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU followup focal point and the
     responsible AFAA area audit office. Progress reports describe the status of installation-level report
     recommendations due for implementation.
        2.10.4.1. Report extension requests and revised completion dates when management can't meet
        the initial estimated completion dates for corrective actions.
     2.10.5. Recommend closing an audit recommendation or PMB after management completes all cor-
     rective actions and documents actual monetary benefits. Give the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU followup
     focal point explicit written confirmation and documentation from management.
     2.10.6. Request that the responsible management official send written notification to the appropriate
     accounting and finance office to establish accounts receivable when management agrees that amounts
     identified in an audit are due the Air Force.
     2.10.7. Send information about installation-level report nonconcurrences to the MAJCOM, FOA, or
     DRU audit focal points in a timely manner.

2.11. Management OPRs:
     2.11.1. Ensure that management implements audit recommendations at all Air Force levels.
     2.11.2. Ensure that all corrective actions meet projected completion dates and eliminate agreed-on
     deficiencies.
     2.11.3. Submit periodic status reports to the followup focal point on management's progress in imple-
     menting audit recommendations.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                           11

   2.11.4. Provide the followup focal point with explicit written and signed confirmation that manage-
   ment has completed all agreed-on corrective actions and, where applicable, document the monetary
   benefits actually realized.
   2.11.5. Assess the effectiveness of management’s corrective actions specified in Air Force-level or
   installation-level reports (when requested from the followup focal point). The OPR may appoint a
   knowledgeable individual to carry out the assessment, provided that the appointed member didn’t help
   to implement the closed actions. This assessment is normally performed within 120 days after man-
   agement completes the corrective actions.

2.12. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA):
   2.12.1. Provides SAF/FMPF with tracking summaries for Air Force-level audit reports.
   2.12.2. Reviews updated tracking summaries to determine the responsiveness of management’s
   actions.
   2.12.3. Selects significant Air Force-level and installation-level audit report recommendations for
   independent on-site followup review.
   2.12.4. Processes audit nonconcurrences and refers nonconcurrences to SAF/FMPF for further pro-
   cessing when necessary.

2.13. SAF/AGA:
   2.13.1. Serves as the liaison between the AFAA and the Secretariat and Air Staff.
   2.13.2. Processes and takes appropriate measures to mediate installation-level nonconcurrences that
   activities can’t decide at the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU levels.
   2.13.3. Obtains either a Secretariat or Air Staff position or mediates an agreement on the undecided
   issues no later than 120 days after the date of the audit report.
   2.13.4. Formally transmits undecided findings, recommendations, or PMBs to SAF/FMPF for pro-
   cessing. Includes:
       • The final audit report with any associated Summary of Audit Results statements.
       • For installation-level report nonconcurrences, a transmittal memorandum with a summary of
          SAF/AGA's mediation efforts, a list of the management officials with whom SAF/AGA con-
          sulted during the mediation, a summary of the unresolved issues, and the final management
          and audit positions.

2.14. AFAA Associate Directors:
   2.14.1. Prepare a tracking summary for each recommendation contained in an Air Force-level audit
   report.
   2.14.2. Assist SAF/FMPF and review updated tracking summaries to assess the responsiveness and
   timeliness of management's actions.
   2.14.3. Direct an independent, selective followup of Air Force-level audit reports to ensure that man-
   agement has corrected deficiencies as reported and has achieved the maximum monetary benefits.
   2.14.4. Report the results of the followup effort.
12                                                                      AFI65-403 13 September 1996

     2.14.5. Verify the PMB that management actually realizes as a result of their completed corrective
     actions.
     2.14.6. Provide SAF/FMPF with technical assistance in nonconcurrence mediations and decisions.

2.15. AFAA MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU Represen-tatives:
     2.15.1. Provide liaison with appropriate followup focal points.
     2.15.2. Attempt to mediate installation-level report nonconcurrences with the appropriate manage-
     ment officials.
     2.15.3. Send nonconcurrences to SAF/AGA for mediation with Secretariat or Air Staff officials if
     unable to mediate an agreement within 90 days after the date of the audit report. Nonconcurrence
     packages include:
        • A copy of the audit report with signed management comments.
        • A memorandum containing a summary of the mediation, a list of the management officials
            with whom representatives consulted during the mediation, a summary of the unresolved
            issues, and the final management and audit positions.

2.16. AFAA Area Audit Office Chiefs:
     2.16.1. Assist followup focal points in determining the adequacy and timeliness of OPR actions
     taken to implement agreed-on installation-level audit recommen-dations.
     2.16.2. Perform independent, selective followup of installation-level reports to ensure that manage-
     ment has corrected deficiencies as reported and realized the maximum monetary benefits.
     2.16.3. Ensure that nonconcurrences contained in installation-level audit reports are elevated to the
     AFAA MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU representatives in a timely manner.

2.17. HQ AFAA/DO:
     2.17.1. Provides SAF/FMPF with copies of each Air Force-level audit report. These reports include:
         • A signed copy of management's comments to the audit report.
         • All Summary of Audit Results statements.
         • Tracking summaries for each recommendation.
     2.17.2. Prepares and sends to SAF/FMPF followup tracking summaries for SAF/AGA-mediated
     installation-level report nonconcurrences that require Air Force Secretariat or Air Staff action.
     NOTE: SAF/FMPF tracks agreed-on management actions after receiving AFAA/DO's tracking sum-
     maries.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                 13

   2.17.3. Assists SAF/FMPF in preparing the Air Force RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574 report and provides
   requested information on installation-level and Air Force-level audit reports.



                                    JOHN W. BEACH,
                                    Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                     (Financial Management)
14                                                                   AFI65-403 13 September 1996

                                           Attachment 1

                GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
OIG—Office of the Inspector General
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMB—Potential Monetary Benefit

Terms
Agreed-On Recommendation—A recommendation for management action that the cognizant manager
explicitly approves (concurs with) and incorporates into program plans.
Closed Recommendation—The status of a recommendation when cognizant managers give explicit
written confirmation that management has completed all corrective actions or received on-site
verification for completed actions. Followup files must contain all confirmation documents. Authorized
officials may not close audit recommendations until management completes all corrective actions and
documents realized monetary benefits.
Decided—The status when an agreement reached between management and auditors on previously
undecided (nonconcurred with) findings, recommendations, or monetary benefits or a decision made by a
senior Air Force official to resolve a disagreement. This definition applies to Air Force-level and
installation-level audit reports.
Decision Process—The process that management and auditors use to reach agreement on undecided
findings, recommendations, or monetary benefits. Representatives must decide all nonconcurrences
within 6 months of the date of the audit report.
Disallowed Cost—A questioned cost that management decides or agrees not to charge to the government.
(This term is applicable only to incurred cost audits such as those about defective pricing on defense
contracts.)
Final Action—The completion of all agreed-on management actions that implement recommendations in
an audit report. If management concludes no action is necessary, final action occurs following a
management decision. Management must document actual realized monetary benefits for any completed
action.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                               15

Finding—As defined in the US Comptroller General’s Government Auditing Standards, a statement made
on the basis of analyzed or evaluated information about an organization, program, activity, function,
condition, or other auditing matter. Inspection organizations may refer to findings as "observations."
Followup Focal Point—An Air Force management-level representative designated to assist the followup
official in implementing the followup program. Normally, this representative also serves as the focal
point for processing audit announcements, draft reports, management comments, and so on.
Followup Program—A progr am e nsuring that ma nagement implements a gr eed-on audit
recommendations, corrects agreed-on deficiencies and, if applicable, documents realized monetary
benefits. The followup program officially begins when the audit is published and ends when management
gives explicit written confirmation that the corrective action or on-site verification is complete.
Followup Records—Audit report records that document the status and completion of management
actions and the PMB that management either realizes or estimates will accrue from implementing the
recommendation.
Funds Put to Better Use—The financial impact of an audit recommendation. Funds that organizations
could use more efficiently if management takes action to implement and complete n audit
recommendation. The vast majority of potential monetary benefits resulting from internal audit fall into
this category. Examples:
    • Reducing outlays.
    • Deobligating funds from programs or operations.
    • Withdrawing interest subsidy costs on loans or loan guarantees, insurance, or bonds.
    • Implementing recommended cost-saving improvements related to operations of the establish-
        ment, a contractor, or grantee.
    • Avoiding unnecessary expenditures noted in preaward reviews of contract or grant agreements.
   •   Gaining any other specifically identified savings. Calculate these savings on the basis of statistical
       projections, when appropriate.
Management Response—Management comments (concurrence or nonconcurrence) and planned actions
on the findings, recommendations, and monetary benefits included in an audit report.
Monetary Benefits—Questioned costs or funds put to better use.
Open Recommendation—Agreed-on audit-report recommendations that management hasn’t
implemented or documented for realized monetary benefits.
Questioned Cost—An incurred cost the auditors question because of any of these findings:
  • An alleged violation of a provision of a law, regulation, contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or
      other agreement or document governing the expenditure of funds.
  • Inadequate documentation at the time of the audit.
  • Unnecessary or unreasonable expenditure of funds for the intended purpose. (Applies only to
      incurred cost audits such as those about defective pricing on defense contracts.)
RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574, Followup Status Report—A report submitted semiannually to the OIG, DoD
containing statistical information or AFAA Air Force-level audit reports.
16                                                                      AFI65-403 13 September 1996

Realized Monetary Benefits—The measurable and documented amount of monetary benefits actually
achieved after the cognizant manager has completed corrective actions. Documentation normally
includes references to official budget and accounting data. If such documentation isn’t feasible, managers
may use an updated estimate and its rationale as support for the realized amount. Management considers
monetary benefits that are associated with specific recommendations as closed (actually realized) after the
cognizant manager completes the related corrective actions and furnishes explicit written confirmation of
the amount actually realized.
Subordinate Command Level—All levels below the commander of a MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU that
receive audit reports.
Tracking Summary—An AFAA-prepared document that SAF/FMPF uses for tracking and documenting
management’s completed recommendations and realized monetary benefits on Air Force-level audit
reports. The tracking summary also documents management’s reasons for not meeting estimated
completion dates and, when necessary, establishes a revised completion date.
Undecided—The status of final audit findings, recommendations, or estimated PMB when management
hasn’t commented on or concurred with the audit report or when audit officials don’t agree with the
management position. Designated managers, auditors, and senior officials must decide all issues within 6
months of the date of the audit report.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                              17

                                              Attachment 2

                 SAMPLE RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574, FOLLOWUP STATUS REPORT
                                        PART I
                AIR FORCE FOLLOWUP OFFICIAL’S NARRATIVE SUMMARY

A2.1. Assess the overall status of the Air Force followup effort during the period.

A2.2. Explain what measures management has taken to ensure (through on-site verification or other mea-
sures) that followup officials identify deficiencies in corrective actions.

A2.3. Discuss any systemic followup weaknesses that the program uncovered during the report period
and explain how management plans to correct the problems.

A2.4. List all Air Force-level AFAA reports issued during the report period, indicating each report’s num-
ber, title, date of issue, and quantifiable monetary benefits estimates. Identify classified reports with an
asterisk (*) after the report number.

A2.5. List all Air Force-level audit reports over 18 months old from date of issue on which management
hasn’t completed final action, indicating each report’s number, title, date of issue, agreed-on monetary
benefits not yet achieved, and the reasons why the actions are incomplete.

A2.6. Give three to five examples of particularly noteworthy management actions completed during the
report period for possible inclusion in the IG, DoD semiannual report to the Congress and the Secretary of
Defense.
18   AFI65-403 13 September 1996
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                           19

                                            Attachment 3

 INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574, FOLLOWUP STATUS REPORT,
            SUBMISSION FOR AIR FORCE-LEVEL AUDIT REPORTS

A3.1. Summary. The Air Force RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574 only contains the status of Air Force-level audit
reports.
   A3.1.1. AFAA and the SAF/FMPF staff develop input for preparing parts I, II, and III.
   A3.1.2. SAF/FMPF develops part IV primarily from their computerized data base.
   A3.1.3. SAF/FMPF consolidates all input into the overall Air Force report.

A3.2. Air Force Followup Official’s Narrative Summary:
   A3.2.1. Assessment of the Overall Status of the Air Force Followup Effort. Give a recap of the
   followup results or major accomplishments during the reporting period. You may glean some of this
   information from the data in parts II through IV. Address these specific issues:
       • The standing of SAF/FMPF at the beginning of the reporting period.
       • The accomplishments of the followup program during the reporting period.
       • The goals of followup program for the next reporting period.
       • The projected capability of the followup program to accomplish its mission.
   A3.2.2. Explanation of Verification Measures to Identify Corrective Action Deficiencies. D i s -
   cuss the verification efforts that management performed during the reporting period to ensure that
   audit followup focal points and management OPRs are monitoring and completing agreed-on actions.
   Include:
       • SAF/FM's on-site verification efforts.
       • AFAA followup audits.
       • Secretariat, Air Staff, MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU internal verification efforts.
       • Air Force Inspector General verification efforts.
       • Any creative or unique measures undertaken during the reporting period.
   A3.2.3. Discussion of Any Systemic Followup Weaknesses and Corrective Actions. Describe any
   significant weaknesses in Air Force management or operations that the followup program uncovers.
   Address any generic problems or issues that could affect the overall success of the Air Force followup
   program (for example, personnel or organizational changes). In general, discuss only significant
   items in this section. Be sure to describe how management has addressed or intends to eliminate each
   weakness.
   A3.2.4. Listing of Air Force-level Audit Reports. List the key data for Air Force-level audit
   reports issued during the reporting period. Send the listing to the OIG, DoD by 15 April and 15 Octo-
   ber of each year. Include:
       • Each report's full title.
       • Dates of issue.
       • Quantifiable auditor estimated monetary benefits.
20                                                                       AFI65-403 13 September 1996

     A3.2.5. List of Air Force-Level Audit Reports Over 18 Months Old (From Date of Issue) With
     Uncompleted Actions. List the key data for Air Force-level audit reports with decided issues that
     management hasn’t fully implemented 18 months after the date of the report. Identify one of these
     reasons why the actions remain incomplete:
         • Long-term corrective action on schedule.
         • Management action slipped significantly from originally estimated completion date.
         • Formal administrative or judicial appeal.
        A3.2.5.1. Consider any report that has incomplete recommendations "open" for this analysis. If
        recommendations in a single report have more than one explanation for the incomplete actions,
        include each explanation.
     A3.2.6. Examples of Particularly Noteworthy Management Actions. Provide a short synopsis of
     three to five audit reports where completed management actions will have a significant impact on the
     economy, efficiency, or effectiveness of Air Force operations. Take these examples from management
     actions completed on Air Force-level reports only.

A3.3. Status of Management Decisions on Internal Audit Reports:
     A3.3.1. Undecided--Beginning of Period. Represents the total Air Force-level audit reports,
     including those with quantifiable auditor estimated monetary benefits, on which management and
     audit have undecided issues as of 1 April or 1 October each year. Include all findings, recommenda-
     tions, or monetary benefit estimates that are in the nonconcurrence resolution process as final audit
     reports. Don't include draft audit reports on which AFAA is awaiting management comments, even if
     management has exceeded the allowable timeframes for responding to the draft report. Final audit
     reports that don't include management comments are considered undecided.
     A3.3.2. Issued During Period. Represents the total number of Air Force-level reports, including
     those with quantifiable auditor estimated monetary benefits, issued during the reporting period.
     Include only final audit reports or "clear" reports (reports without any findings or recommendations).
     NOTE: The data in this column must be the same as the figures entered in part I, subparagraph d.
     A3.3.3. Decided During Period. Enter the total number of Air Force-level audit reports on which all
     issues were decided and resolved during the reporting period. "Clear" reports are decided during the
     period they are issued.
        A3.3.3.1. Present any monetary benefits decided during the period in one of two columns:
           • Quantifiable monetary benefit estimates specifically accepted by management.
            •   The difference between monetary benefit estimates claimed by auditors and those specifi-
                cally accepted by management for decided reports.

NOTE:
For Air Force-level audit reports, the "Number" of reports and the amount in "Monetary Benefits Agreed"
must be the same as the amounts in part IV, "Decided During Period."
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                              21

      A3.3.3.2. Reports decided during this reporting period may include those that auditors issued
      within the current 6-month period or carried forward from a prior period. When the audit decision
      process is complete, report the status of followup actions on decided recommendations and specif-
      ically agreed-on monetary benefit estimates in part IV.
   A3.3.4. Undecided--End of Period. Give the total number of Air Force-level audit reports, includ-
   ing those with quantifiable auditor estimated monetary benefits, on which management and audit have
   undecided issues as of 31 March or 30 September of each year. Include all findings, recommenda-
   tions, or monetary benefit estimates that remain in mediation. Be sure to also include any reports that
   you previously entered in the "Undecided--Beginning of Period" column in part III. NOTE: The
   totals of the "Number of Reports" and "Monetary Benefits" columns for "Undecided--Beginning of
   Period" and "Issued During Period" must equal the totals of the corresponding columns for "Decided
   During Period" (both "Agreed" and "Disagreed" columns) and "Undecided--End of Period".

A3.4. Internal Audit Reports That Remain Undecided Issued Prior to the Reporting Period:
   A3.4.1. General Guidelines. List detailed information for Air Force-level audit reports where dis-
   agreements between management and auditors remain undecided within the statutory 6-month time-
   frame (audit reports with issue dates in the current reporting period that are still "open" at the end of
   the period). NOTE: Be sure to also include these reports in part II, "Undecided--Beginning of
   Period" and "Undecided--End of Period."
   A3.4.2. Report Number, Title, and Report Date. Self-explanatory.
   A3.4.3. Explanation of the Reasons a Management Decision Has Not Been Made. Specifically
   explain why management and auditors couldn’t reach an agreement within the 6-month timeframe and
   why they didn’t elevate the report disagreement to either SAF/FM or the Under Secretary for resolu-
   tion. You may quote the mediation’s supporting data verbatim if it clearly explains why representa-
   tives couldn’t decide the issue within 6 months.
   A3.4.4. Quantifiable Monetary Benefits Estimated by the Auditors. Self-explanatory.
   A3.4.5. Timetable for Achieving Management Decision. Report a firm date for reaching a final
   management decision or resolution. If the timetable entails a sequence of events, give interim dates
   for completing each step in the decision or mediation process.

A3.5. Status of Management Action on Air Force-Level Reports:
   A3.5.1. Action In Progress--Beginning of Period. Enter the total Air Force-level audit reports, rec-
   ommendations, and related potential monetary benefits on which management actions are decided but
   not complete as of 1 April or 1 October of each year. Only include quantifiable monetary benefits spe-
   cifically accepted by management. Reports remain open until management fully implements all rec-
   ommendations and documents the monetary benefits actually realized. NOTE: This column should
   be identical to "Action in Progress--End of Period" for the preceding reporting period.
   A3.5.2. Decided During Period. Enter the total of all Air Force-level audit reports dated during the
   6-month period covered by the status report and the total decided recommendations related to those
   reports. Include only quantifiable monetary benefits specifically accepted by management. NOTE:
   The figures for "Reports--Number" and "Monetary Benefits" should be the same as those figures for
   Air Force-level audits in part II, "Decided During Period--Number" and "Monetary Benefits Agreed."
22                                                                       AFI65-403 13 September 1996

     A3.5.3. Action Completed--During Period. Enter the Air Force-level audit reports and recommen-
     dations on which all decided management actions were completed during the 6-month period covered
     by the status report. Include completed actions on audit reports issued either within the current
     6-month reporting period or carried forward from an earlier period. Reports remain open until man-
     agement has implemented and documented all recommendations.
        A3.5.3.1. Enter figures in the "Monetary Benefits" column only after cognizant managers have
        completed and confirmed the corrective actions and documented the benefits actually realized.
        Include references to official budget or accounting data or, if the data isn’t available, an updated
        estimate and its rationale. A report and recommendation with estimated monetary benefits specif-
        ically accepted by management remains open until management has documented the monetary
        benefit actually realized, even if management has implemented the recommendation.
     A3.5.4. Action in Progress--End of Period. Enter the total Air Force-level audit reports and related
     recommendations on which decided, agreed-on management actions remain incomplete (not fully
     implemented) as of 31 March or 30 September of each year. The "Monetary Benefits" column must
     represent a quantifiable monetary benefit estimate specifically accepted by management and associ-
     ated with a recommendation on which management actions are not yet fully implemented. Don’t cal-
     culate this column by adding the totals of the other columns in this part of the status report.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996                                                                             23

                                             Attachment 4

 INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING RCS: DD-IG(SA)1574, FOLLOWUP STATUS REPORT,
           SUBMISSION FOR INSTALLATION-LEVEL AUDIT REPORTS

A4.1. Summary. This Followup Status Report documents the status of AFAA installation-level audit
report recommendations and potential monetary benefits. Prepare the report semiannually with reporting
periods of 1 April through 30 September and 1 October through 31 March.
   A4.1.1. SAF/FMPF consolidates all input into an overall Air Force report.

A4.2. Part I. Status of Management Action on Installation-Level Reports:
   A4.2.1. Action in Progress--Beginning of Period. Enter the total installation-level audit reports on
   which management action remains incomplete (recommendations not fully implemented) as of 1
   April or 1 October of each year. Reports remain open until management fully implements all recom-
   mendations and documents the monetary benefits actually realized.
   A4.2.2. Issued During Period. Enter the total number of installation-level reports, including those
   with quantifiable auditor estimated monetary benefits, issued during the reporting period. Include
   only final audit reports and "clear" reports (reports without any findings or recommendations). Coor-
   dinate and reconcile the number of issued audit reports and the amount of auditor-estimated monetary
   benefits with the local AFAA Office Chief or representative.
   A4.2.3. Action Completed--During Period. Enter the total number of installation-level reports on
   which management implemented all recommendations during the 6-month reporting period. Include
   completed actions on audit reports issued either within the current 6-month reporting period or carried
   forward from an earlier period. List and close out "Clear" reports during the period they are issued.
   Reports remain open until management implements and documents all recommendations.
       A4.2.3.1. Enter figures in the "Monetary Benefits" column only after cognizant managers have
       completed and confirmed the corrective actions and documented the benefits actually realized.
       Include references to official budget or accounting data or, if the data isn’t available, an updated
       estimate and a rationale for the estimate. A report and recommendation with estimated monetary
       benefits specifically accepted by management remains open until management has documented
       the monetary benefit actually realized, even if management has implemented the recommenda-
       tion.
   A4.2.4. Action in Progress--End of Period. Enter the total number of installation-level reports on
   which management actions remain incomplete (recommendations not fully implemented) as of 31
   March or 30 September of each year.

A4.3. Part II, Installation-Level Reports With Nonconcurrences Over 6 Months Old. Update all
installation-level audit reports with unresolved nonconcurrences over 6 months old (issued during the
prior reporting period that remain unresolved at the end of the current reporting period). Nonconcur-
rences may involve findings, recommendations, or the auditors’ potential monetary benefit estimates.
24                                                                     AFI65-403 13 September 1996

A4.4. Part III, Status of Installation-Level Audit Reports Over 18 Months Old (From Date of Issue)
With Final Action Pending. List the key data for Air Force-level audit reports with decided issues that
management hasn’t fully implemented 18 months after the date of the report. Identify one of these reasons
why each action remains incomplete:
   • Long-term corrective action on schedule.
   • Management action slipped significantly form originally estimated completion date.
   • Formal administrative or judicial appeal.
     A4.4.1. Consider any report that has incomplete recommendations to be "open" for this analysis. If
     recommendations in a single report have more than one explanation for the incomplete actions,
     include each explanation.

A4.5. Part IV, Listing of Reports With Documented and Realized Monetary Benefits During the
Reporting Period. Give a detailed list (breakdown) of reports with PMB realized during the period.
The total realized PMB must agree with the amount reported in part I. Each focal point must retain all
supporting documentation as part of the official followup file.
AFI65-403 13 September 1996   25
