                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 61-201
AIR FORCE                                                                                16 JUNE 1995
                                                                      Certified Current, 16 JUNE 2010
                                                                  Scientific/Research and Development

                                                       THE LOCAL SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL
                                                                     INFORMATION PROCESS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/AQT (Dr C.J. Chatlynne)                      Certified by: SAF/AQT (Col A. Michael Higgins)
Supersedes AFI 61-201,15 November 1994.                                                     Pages: 5
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technical Information, and DoD
Directive 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical Information, February 15, 1983. It establishes the pro-
cedures, processes, and management guidelines for local Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO)
officers. STINFO officers help their commanders and directors produce, protect, and control dissemina-
tion of technical data and provide for the information needs of individuals in the organization.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction updates, clarifies, and streamlines previous guidelines for local STINFO officers. Aindi-
cates revisions from the previous edition.



1. The Local STINFO Officer:
   1.1. Identifies subordinate activities at separate geographic locations that require STINFO officers
   and determine if the position should be full- or part-time.
   1.2. Is the office of primary responsibility for:
       • Disseminating STINFO, including technical reports, technical, and professional publications.
       • Reporting work-in-progress to the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) Work-Unit
           Information System.
   1.3. Develops methods to improve STINFO procedures.
   1.4. Keeps up-to-date on emerging technologies that might benefit STINFO activities.
   1.5. Schedules and joins in meetings to discuss STINFO concerns and opportunities.
   1.6. Submits plans or reports to improve STINFO services, including internal changes that benefit
   other Air Force organizations.
   1.7. Coordinates all elements of the STINFO program with appropriate offices, including the Office
   of Research and Technical Application (ORTA) to support the Domestic Technology Transfer Pro-
   gram, the technical library, and foreign technology specialists.
   1.8. Monitors Information Analysis Centers (IAC) that the organization supports.
   1.9. Publishes and disseminates technical material that documents the observations, results, findings,
   and recommendations of all efforts, particularly to DTIC, IACs, and major technical libraries.
   1.10. Reviews all STINFO produced in the organization and marks materials with appropriate distri-
   bution statements to control secondary distribution.
   1.11. Is the principal contact with DTIC. ( Note: This does not preclude others from dealing with
   DTIC, particularly if the local program is decentralized.)
   1.12. Updates data into databases at DTIC to keep them current and complete. ( Note: You must
   keep all work-in-progress data up to date and send all technical reports to DTIC.)
   1.13. Documents and validates that personnel search the DTIC and other applicable databases and
   literature no later than 6 months before beginning new efforts or making significant changes to ongo-
   ing efforts. Project-approval requires principal investigators or program managers to search DTIC
   databases and use the search results in program planning. Principal investigators and program manag-
   ers should keep the search results during the life of the project (but not less than 3 years) to help the
   DoD Inspector General oversee and inspect the project.
   1.14. Conducts programs for scientists, engineers, technicians, analysts, managers, and administra-
   tors based on training materials, procedures, and policies developed by HQ SAF/AQT.
   1.15. Prepares standing operating procedures, local regulations, local policy documents, or supple-
   ment to Air Force instruction to assign responsibility for various parts of the STINFO program to
   appropriate offices and identify the information shared among program participants.
   1.16. Withholds unclassified technical data from public disclosure.
   1.17. Sponsors, cosponsors, and conducts unclassified and classified conferences and symposia.
   1.18. Provides appropriate support to the local ORTA.
   1.19. Collects, analyzes, and interprets data on the effectiveness of the program. You must have
   meaningful data to measure STINFO performance.
   1.20. Attends HQ SAF/AQT STINFO training sessions and conferences, DTIC user meetings, and
   related professional-development courses, seminars, workshops, and conferences.
   1.21. Use AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist, illustrated in Attachment 1 to help you comply
   with this section.

2. Commanders and Directors. Appoint a member of the headquarters staff to be the activity’s
STINFO officer, reporting directly on STINFO program status. Note: STINFO officers should have
appropriate grade and adequate authority to make sure that their activities participate, including iden-
tifying and appointing points of contact in the organization to carry out portions of the program. Use
AF Form 2519, illustrated in Attachment 2, to assist you in complying with this section.

3. Terms Explained:

                                                2
3.1. Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC). Acquires, stores, announces, and retrieves
technical documents under the operational control of the Office of the Director of Defense Research
and Engineering. Provides secondary distribution for documents and maintains three automated data-
bases accessible by DoD personnel and two of which are accessible by current and registered potential
defense contractors. The databases cover DTIC’s Technical Report collection as well as
work-in-progress (the Work-Unit Information System) and Independent Research and Development
(IR&D) efforts. The IR&D database is limited to DoD personnel.
3.2. Local STINFO Officers. Carry out and enforce compliance with the various elements of the
Air Force STINFO Program. Appointed by the local commander.
3.3. Office of Research and Technology Application (ORTA). Oversees the Domestic Technol-
ogy Transfer Program as required by the Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 (Public Law
99-502).
3.4. Potential Defense Contractor. Individual or organization outside of DoD that is certified as
eligible to receive STINFO based on registration and confirmation of need-to-know by an appointed
Army, Navy, or Air Force Potential Defense Contractor Program coordinator.
3.5. Technical Document. Any recorded information, regardless of its physical form or characteris-
tics, that contains scientific and technical information, or technical data including production, engi-
neering, and logistics information. Official Air Force publications, which are not distributed through
DTIC are excluded.




                                      DARLEEN A. DRUYUN
                                      Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition




                                             3
                                    Attachment 1

 SAMPLE AF FORM 2519, ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST, FOR LOCAL STINFO OFFICERS

Figure A1.1. Sample AF Form 2519.




                                      4
                                    Attachment 2

                 SAMPLE AF FORM 2519, ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST
                      FOR COMMANDERS AND DIRECTORS

Figure A2.1. Sample AF Form 2519.




                                      5
