                                   DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                               WASHINGTON DC




OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY

                                                                              AFI64-201_AFGM2014-01
                                                                                             10 July 2014



       MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
                       MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs and SAF/AQ (PEOs)


       FROM:     SAF/SB

       SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 64-201, Air Force Small Business
                Programs

            By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Air Force Guidance Memorandum
        (AFGM) immediately implements changes to AFI 64-201, Air Force Small Business
        Programs, dated 01 January 1997. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other
        AF publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360,
        Publications and Forms Management.

             In advance of a rewrite of AFI 64-201 (to be reissued as AFI 90-18X, Special
       Management, Air Force Small Business Programs), the attachments to this memorandum
       provide new guidance and procedures for implementation of the Air Force Small Business
       Programs that are effective immediately.

            The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after one year from the issued date,
       upon incorporation by interim change to, or a rewrite of AFI 64-201, Air Force Small
       Business Programs, whichever is earlier.




                                                            MARK S. TESKEY, SES
                                                            Director, Small Business Programs
                                                            Department of the Air Force


       Attachment:
       Guidance Changes
                                                                                                 2


 AFI 64-201 AFGM

                                         ATTACHMENT
                                         Guidance Changes

The below changes to AFI 64-201, dated 1 Jan 1997, are effective immediately.

(Modify Existing) Preamble. Delete “It should be noted that one of the SBP, the Historically
Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions (HBCU/ MI), requires users to be
cognizant of the US Department of Education’s current listing of accredited post-secondary
minority institutions and 10 USC 2323 (a)(1)(c).”

(Replace) SUMMARY OF REVISIONS. This instruction aligns with HAF MD 1-30, Director,
Small Business Programs, AFPD 90-18, Small Business Programs and AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management. It updates previous guidance on managing Office of Small and
Disadvantaged Business Utilization – for DoD this is changed to Office of Small Business
Programs (OSBP) per FY06 NDAA (P.L. 109-163), and incorporates updated statutory duties of
the Director, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Utilization, enumerated in the Small Business Act,
15 U.S.C. §644(k), and the FY13 National Defense Authorization Act, P.L. 112-239). Finally, this
AFGM leverages the paragraph formatting of the original AFI for traceability, but will be
restructured with standard paragraph numbering in the rewrite of the AFI.

(Replace) 1.1. SAF/SB. The Director, Office of Small Business Programs (OSBP).

1.1.1. Acts pursuant to statutory authority and is responsible for implementing and
executing the functions and duties under sections 8 and15 of the SB Act on behalf of AT&L as
a ‘DoD Component Small Business Program’ and on behalf of the Secretary for the
Department of the Air Force (DAF).

1.1.1.1. Is the principal advisor to the Secretary on all matters pertaining to Small Business
Programs (SBPs).

1.1.1.2. Is responsible for developing, implementing, and overseeing small business policy and
management of the Component’s Small Business Programs (SBPs) to ensure maximum practicable
opportunities for small business prime contracts and subcontracting opportunities, including
developing strategic goals and objectives for all DAF OSBPs and monitoring and communicating
performance through appropriate metrics. As a DoD Component office, ensures SB goals and
objectives are aligned with the DoD OSBP and the DAF’s Strategic Vision/Objectives.

1.1.1.3. Negotiates with DOD OSBP annually to obtain assigned DAF SB goals. In turn, in
consultation with AF MAJCOMS, FOAs, DRUs and SAF/AQ (AFPEOs), develops DAF SB
goals and associated performance expectations, and assigns and disseminates to DAF stakeholders
and organizations, as appropriate. Administers and maintains the DAF SB goals and performance
measurements and reports to DAF, DoD, SBA and Congress, as applicable.
                                                                                                   3


1.1.1.4. Conducts periodic assessments of the DAF performance. Reports same to DoD OSBP
monthly and provides input to DoD annually in support of the Small Business Administration’s
(SBA) Scorecard requirements.

1.1.1.5. Represents DAF in small business policymaking via active participation on Federal-
level FAR Small Business Team, DoD DFARS Small Business Sub-committee, and DAR
Council activities.

1.1.1.6. Directs, oversees and manages the AF Mentor-Protégé program which requires interaction
with DOD OSBP, Industry and acquisition program teams.

1.1.1.7. Monitors and assists in the implementation of all SB Programs, including Small Business
Innovative Research (SBIR) and Science Technology Transfer Readiness (STTR) Programs.

1.1.1.8. Represents the DAF on information technology systems issues relating to small
business and subcontracting requirements and policies, data, reports, anomalies, etc. (i.e.,
FPDS-NG, eSRS/FSRS, payment systems).

1.1.1.9. Executes a budget for management of the DAF OSBP, excluding SBIR/STTR funding.

1.1.1.10. Consults on a regular basis with members across the DAF, DoD, SBA, the Department
of Commerce, other government agencies and Congress.

1.1.1.11. Works with the DAF Corporate structure, AF MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs and
SAF/AQ (AFPEOs) to coordinate policy, review military and civilian efforts, monitor
progress, and make recommendations on matters pertinent to the DAF’s utilization of small
business (prime and subcontracting) in support of mission requirements.

1.1.1.12. Early Engagement – Acquisition Planning, Market Research, Acquisition Strategy
Development and Approval and SB Opportunity Forecasts:

1.1.1.12.1. Works with acquisition program teams and contracting personnel to assist in ensuring
acquisition strategies are structured to facilitate small business participation throughout a programs
life cycle via direct participation (prime contracts), or where such participation is not available,
through subcontracting. (DODD 5000.01/E1.24)

1.1.1.12.2. Assists in acquisition planning activities to identify small business sources and
assists in formulation of small business strategies; reviews and formally coordinates on
acquisition plans, including supporting documentation such as market research reports, SB Set-
Aside(s) determinations, F&O competition/other than F&O competition determinations,
bundling and consolidation determinations, subcontracting strategies and participation
requirements, including various types of subcontracting plans, sole source justifications, etc.
                                                                                                       4

1.1.1.12.3. Serves as a standing member on acquisition program teams, including, but not
limited to early strategy planning, Acquisition Strategy Panels (ASPs) and may serve as a
member of Source Selection (SS) Advisory Councils (SSACs) and/or teams (SSTs)
relative to SB Strategies and evaluations.

1.1.1.12.4. May serve on AF Multi-Functional Independent Review Teams (MIRTs) and/or
OSD Peer Review Teams.

1.1.1.12.5. Oversee and maintain a DAF public Small Business website, including hosting the
Long Range Acquisition Estimate tool (LRAE) which is the source tool for acquisition teams to
populate and maintain in order to satisfy statutory requirements to ensure Industry has, at a minimum,
a two-year forecast of federal procurement opportunities.

1.1.1.13. Small Business Advice to Contracting Officers Regarding SB Set Asides:

1.1.1.13.1. Ensures acquisition strategies are structured to facilitate small business participation
throughout a programs life cycle via direct participation (prime contracts) and where such
participation is not available, through subcontracting.

1.1.1.13.2. Carries out the duties and responsibilities associated with requirements set forth in
DoDD 5000.01, para E1.24; DODD 4205.01; DoDI 5134.04; AFPD 90-18; AFI 64.201; AFI 63-
101 and FAR Part 19, DFARS Part 219, AFFARS Part 5319 and other FAR parts and
supplements applicable to competitive and/or sole source acquisitions involving small business
requirements.

1.1.1.14. Contract Consolidation & Bundling: Working with Acquisition Officials to
Increase the Probability of Small Business Participation

1.1.1.14.1. Coordinates on all bundling justifications required by FAR 7.107.

1.1.1.14.2. Coordinates on all consolidation determinations and justifications required by DFARS
207.170.

1.1.1.15. Review of all Insourcing Proposals Related to Small Business Contracts:
Coordinates on all decisions to convert ‘contract work’ performed by ‘small business
contractor(s)’ to that of a Federal employee or public, private partnership.

1.1.1.16. Supervisory Authority over the Small Business Workforce and appointment of SB
technical advisors to support local SBA PCRs:

1.1.1.16.1. Is required statutorily to have supervisory authority over Component SB Program
personnel performing functions and duties relating to sections 8, 15 and 44 of the SB Act.
1.1.1.16.2. Is established as the Component Functional Leader for Small Business Personnel. Serves
with the AT&L-appointed DOD OSBP Functional Leader on a Small Business Functional IPT
(FIPT) chartered to establish a Career Path for Small Business Professionals. Requires recurring
engagement across all DoD OSBPs, Defense Acquisition Career Managers (DACMs), Defense
Acquisition University and Human Capital Initiative points of contact.
                                                                                                     5




1.1.1.17. Cooperation with the Small Business Administration:

1.1.1.17.1. Is required statutorily to assign a small business technical advisor to each office
wherein SBA has assigned a PCR-- (a) who shall be a full-time employee of the procuring
activity and shall be well qualified, technically trained and familiar with supplies or services
purchased at the activity; and (b) whose principal duty shall be to assist the PCR in their duties
and functions relating to sections 8, 15 and 44 of the SB Act.

1.1.1.17.2. Ensures field OSBP personnel engage early on small business issues with locally
assigned SBA PCRs. Promotes collaborative engagement with local PCRs and SBA offices to
foster win-win outcomes throughout acquisition planning and pre-award activities.

1.1.1.17.3. Ensures field OSBP personnel elevate small business matters and issues timely
whenever they cannot be resolved with locally assigned SBA PCRs, Area SBA offices and/or
District Offices. In the event of elevation, the Component Office (SAF/SB) will work directly
with HQ SBA, HAF stakeholders and the local activity stakeholders to determine the best way
forward in resolving the mater(s).

1.1.1.18. Assists Small Businesses in Obtaining Payments:
Assists small business concerns in obtaining payments, required late payments and interest
penalties or information regarding payments based on small business contractor
inquires/concerns.

1.1.1.19. Receipt of Unsolicited Proposals: Ensures unsolicited proposals of small business
concerns are handled timely in accordance with AFFARS Mandatory Procedures 5315.606.

1.1.1.20. Secretarial Appeals: Receives Secretarial-level appeals from SBA on small
business matters and formulates the SECF’s response.

1.1.1.21. Small Business Training:

1.1.1.21.1. Provides training to small business concerns and contract specialists, inclusive of
acquisition program teams so long as such training does not interfere with the OSBPs primary
duties.

1.1.1.21.2. Establishes a tracking system for SB Training provided pursuant to above paragraph.
Tracking shall be on a fiscal year basis, including the amount and percentage of the DAF OSBP(s)
budget used in support of said training, broken out separately for training provided to Industry
and/or Government acquisition and contracting personnel.

1.1.1.22. Air Force Awards Program: Sponsors and administers the Secretary of the Air Force
Small Business Awards Program as described in AFI 36-2834, Small Business Awards Program

1.1.1.23. Air Force Small Business Outreach Program:
Plans and carries out a coordinated system for promoting an outreach effort with local, state,
regional and/or national community interest, inclusive of local/state civic leaders, governments
                                                                                                    6


and organizations, members of Congress and Industry to express DoD/AF procurement
needs/requirements for purposes of finding sources/matching DoD/AF requirements to Industry
capabilities, and for acquisition planning activities/events related to acquiring said goods and
services via a variety of Federal procurement methods.

1.1.1.24. SBA Scorecard (Report Control Symbol (RCS) DD-AT&L (SA) 2343).

1.1.1.25.1. Follows SBA Annual Scorecard Criteria and guidelines at:
 http://www.sba.gov/aboutsba/sbaprograms/goals/index.html, and as supplemented by DoD SB
Program Office.

1.1.1.25.2. On a fiscal year basis, solicits mid-term and annual SB Program initiatives and
achievements through the AF MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs and SAF/AQ (AFPEOs) assigned SB
Directors to prepare and submit a consolidated DAF Scorecard report input for DoD OSBP’s use
in submission of the annual DoD Scorecard Report to SBA. [Mid-term Period: 1 Oct through 30
Mar; Annual Period: 1 Oct through 30 Sep. Report submissions due to Component OSBP
(SAF/SB) 45 calendar days after the end of each mid-term and annual period.]

(Replace) 1.2. SAF/AQ. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition) supports the
DAF Small Business programs and SAF/SB in many areas, including but not limited to acquisition
programs and initiatives with SAF/AQ and the AFPEOs, small business acquisition workforce
matters, functional leader assistance and FIPT support for AT&L SB Workforce transformation and
assistance in implementing SB acquisition policy, as appropriate.

(Replace) 1.5. HQ USAF/A1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel
develops, manages, and reports manpower in all personnel programs/systems, including the DAF
OSBP, and ensures that subordinate commands establish points of contact to oversee related
manpower and personnel matters involving DAF field OSBP personnel, as appropriate. The Air
Force Personnel OPR for is HQ USAF/A1C.

(Add) 1.6. AF/DPS. On an annual basis, assist SAF/SB and Senior Leaders, as necessary, to
ensure legal mandates for Senior Leaders (small business-related appraisal criteria) are properly
accounted for in qualifying Senior Leader appraisals and evaluations.

(Modify) 2. MAJCOM, FOA, DRU and SAF/AQ (AFPEO). Oversee field level small
business command and reporting activity functions.

(Replace) 2.1. Commanders (Head of Activity) of MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, and SAF/AQ
(AFPEOs) with delegated Contracting Authority (PGI 202.101):

2.1.1. Implement the SBP within their activities, including the identification of program goals.
Ensure that acquisition and technical personnel maintain knowledge of SBP requirements and take
all reasonable actions to promote SB participation in the Activity’s mission.

2.1.2. Appoint in writing a full-time MAJCOM, FOA, DRU and/or SAF/AQ (AFPEO) Director of
Small Business (DSB) for the Activity in consultation with SAF/SB. The candidate may be
eligible for appointment to the position if they possess the business acumen, knowledge of
                                                                                               7


acquisition policies and procedures, training and background to accomplish the small business
program. A minimum APDP Level II in contracting is required to qualify for a SBS position;
APDP Level III in contracting is required for DSB positions given the greater degree of
acquisition and program complexity. The candidate meeting the minimum qualification
requirements and successfully completing required DAU Small Business Courses (CON 260A and
CON 260B) may be appointed. Provide the signed Letter of Appointment with copies of the
completed DAU course certificates to SAF/SB for issuance of Component Director’s Certification
of Eligibility.

2.1.3. The Activity DSB manages the overall activity SB program, reports directly to the
commander (Head of the Activity), must be a member of the acquisition corps, APDP Level III in
Contracting or Acquisition Program Management and be at a grade commensurate with the
Commanders other staff Directors for effective advocacy, management and oversight of the SBP,
including interactions with subordinate units, higher headquarters, external agencies, members of
Congress, civic leaders and Industry (see paragraph 2.2.).

2.1.4. Establish an Activity OSBP for the command DSB with optimum staff and budgetary
resources to perform all SBP statutory and regulatory functions and duties.

2.1.5. Waiver Requests: The Director of the Component OSBP (SAF/SB) may grant a waiver to
the full-time DSB requirements as depicted in this section 2.1. Waiver requests must be in writing
and will be approved by SAF/SB for up to a 12-month period only. Waiver requests for subsequent
12-month periods may be submitted within the Activity’s annual OSBP assessment report (see
Attachment 1). Waiver request procedures are as follows: (1) Appointing officials provide written
justification to SAF/SB through the activity DSB, (2) Waiver requests shall include a general
description of what the activity buys, historical data showing small business initiatives and
achievements over the most recent three-year period, including assigned SB prime contract goals
and percent achieved (overall SB and each socio-economic category), a description of the
activities successes in compliance with small business requirements, and an explanation of how the
statutory and regulatory functions and duties will be carried out fully on a part-time basis.
Please note: In cases where SAF/SB approves a waiver request, the duties of the part-time DSB
must take precedence over all other duties, and (3) Disposition of the waiver request will be
provided within ten (10) business days after receipt by SAF/SB.

(NEW) 2.1.6. Termination Procedures. Termination authority resides with the Director,
Component OSBP and shall be worked in consultation with the Head of the Activity for the
MAJCOM, FOA, DRU and/or SAF/AQ (AFPEO) in the event of proposed termination of an
Activity DSBs. For DSBs and/or SBSs residing below the command level, the Component OSBP
will work through the command DSB and the Head of the Activity for MAJCOM, FOA, DRU
and/or SAF/AQ (AFPEO) activities. Terminations may be voluntary (elective
reassignments/promotions as desired by incumbent; separation, retirement), involuntary
(unsatisfactory performance). No termination shall operate retroactively.

(Replace) 2.2. Command Director of Small Business. The command DSB, appointed and
certified under paragraph 2.1. above, manages the command OSBP on behalf of the commander
and in support of the Component OSBP. At a minimum, the command DSB shall perform the
following functions:
                                                                                                 8

2.2.1. Develop command small business mandatory procedures and/or informational guidance
for local, mission unique requirements, as appropriate. [Note: Where Air Force-wide
applicability applies, command DSBs shall defer to and work with the Component OSBP for
development of Air Force-wide SB Policy, as appropriate.]

2.2.2. Develops and manages the command Unit SB Plan to achieve the command goals and
objectives (see Attachment 1.) The plan shall be approved and signed by the appointing
authority and forwarded to the Component OSBP: Attention: SAF/SB (Insert Director Name).

2.2.3. Prepares and presents to the Component OSBP, a mid-term and annual SB assessment of
the command's performance (see paragraph 1.1.1.25.2.) using the SBA Scorecard criteria and
the template herein, Attachment 2.

2.2.4. Reviews and provides recommendations on proposed performance elements, standards,
and appraisals for subordinate unit DSBs and SBS.

2.2.5. Establishes and maintains a system for monitoring performance.

2.2.6. Prepares, reviews, and/or coordinates the command position on Section 8(a), SB set-
aside, and certificate of competency and secretarial appeals before forwarding to the
Component OSBP Director (SAF/SB).

2.2.7. Represents command OSBP on behalf of the commander and the Component OSBP when
sponsoring, speaking or teaching at procurement and/or Industry outreach events and conferences.
Establish, maintain, and budget for Industry outreach programs to locate sources and match
industry capabilities to warfighting needs. The outreach program may include participation in
procurement, DoD regional SB councils and related events. Maintain a system for evaluating the
effectiveness of the outreach program in identifying / producing new sources and/or in
identifying barriers to entry. Work to improve internal acquisition processes and policies to
eliminate the barriers for increased small business opportunities and utilization.

2.2.8. Evaluates and provides for the SB training needs of command personnel, inclusive of
establishing a tracking mechanism as stated in paragraph 1.1.1.21.2. above.

2.2.9. Serves on ad hoc teams and assists the Director (SAF/SB) in strategic planning initiatives to
ensure consistency across Component OSBP.

2.2.10. Manages the command small business awards program in accordance with AFI 36-2834 and
submits command award recipients to SAF/SB for further competition at the Secretarial level.

(Delete) 2.3. Command HBCU/MI Representative.

(Modify) 3. Installations and/or Units with Delegated Contracting Authority.

(Replace) 3.1. Commanders of Installations and/or Units with Annual Contract
Obligations in Excess of $100M:
                                                                                                  9

3.1.1. See paragraphs 2.1.1. through 2.1.6, which apply for this section in total, except where
 DSB occurs, substitute with SBS.

(Modify) 3.2. Commanders of Units with Contracting Authority NOT included in
paragraphs 2.1 or 3.1. Commanders of these units have the responsibilities identified in
paragraph 3.1. with the following EXCEPTION:

These commanders may appoint part-time unit SBS to manage their SB programs. The part-time
SBS shall be appointed in writing and must be certified as eligible by the Component OSBP
(SAF/SB) as previously stated in paragraphs 2.1.1 through 2.1.6. Each of these part-time SBSs shall
be at a grade level permitting effective advocacy, management and oversight of the unit's SB
programs and in a position no lower than the Director of Business Operations.

(Modify) 3.3. Unit Small Business Specialist (SBS). The unit SBSs appointed in paragraphs
3.1. and 3.2., perform the following functions:

3.3.1. Develop and manage the Unit SB Plan and program (see Attachment 1). The plan shall
be approved and signed by the appointing authority and submitted to the designated command
DSB.

3.3.2. Establish and maintain a system for monitoring unit SB program performance.
Prepare a mid-term and annual report input through the command DSB (see paragraph
1.1.1.25.2 and Attachment 1 and 2).

3.3.3. Review acquisitions as required by DFARS 219.201 and as supplemented by AFFARS.

3.3.4. Represents Unit on behalf of the commander, command and the Component OSBP when
sponsoring, speaking or teaching at procurement and/or Industry outreach events and
conferences. Establish, maintain, and budget for Industry outreach programs to locate
sources and match industry capabilities to warfighting needs. The outreach program may include
participation in procurement, DoD regional SB councils and related events. Maintain a system
for evaluating the effectiveness of the outreach program in identifying / producing new sources
and/or in identifying barriers to entry. Work to improve internal acquisition processes and
policies by eliminating barriers for increased small business opportunities and utilization.

3.3.5. Assists contracting officer where non-responsibility determinations and termination
actions are being considered relative to small business contracts and subcontracting.

3.3.6. Works closely with and assists the unit competition advocate to maximize opportunities at
the small business and socio-economic subcategory levels to maximum extent practicable.

3.3.6. Perform the SBP statutory and regulatory duties, including those set forth by DFARS
219.201 and PGI 219.2, and support the enhancement of SB contracting opportunities.
                                                                                                  10


(Delete) 4. Air Force Small Business Quality Council (AFSBQC).
(Replace) 5. Unit SB Plan and Program Assessment Report.

The strategic goals and objectives, as defined in the Air Force SB Plan, influence the actions
taken by activity personnel in support of the Air Force’s mission. Therefore, the Unit SB
Plan and supporting initiatives shall formally promulgate the Air Force SB Plan (Attachment 1).
The Small Business Assessment report describes an activity’s qualitative and quantitative
achievements in pursuit of the goals and objectives published in the Air Force SB Plan
(Attachment 2).
                                                                                                 11


(Replace) Attachment 1.
                                          Attachment 1

        SAMPLE FORMAT AND INSTRUCTIONS--UNIT SB PROGRAM PLAN


I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:

Summarize key features of your plan to meet your Fiscal Year Performance Expectations and
Small Business Goals. This section should condense key information from the rest of the plan
to five pages or less, including key points the commander wants to emphasize to the Secretary
of the Air Force and Congress.

II. PLAN TO ACHIEVE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:

Describe your implementation approaches to use Small Business opportunity forecasts and the
Long Range Acquisition Estimate (LRAE) tool to meet your Performance Expectations and SB
Goals. Discuss how your Commander plans to leverage our new Senior Leader SB performance
evaluation elements, SB outreach opportunities, the Small Business Dashboard and associated
data sets and tools to accomplish this. Additional initiatives should be tracked at the unit and/or
command level.

III. METRICS (MARKET SHARE):

SAF/SB will work with your organization determine a reasonable SB Performance
Expectation and SB Goal for the following Fiscal Year.

IV. PROGRAM ANNEXES:

Attach supporting plans in the above format. (NOTE: Annual revisions will be tailored in
accordance with White House, Congressional, and/or related taskings and items of emphasis)
(Replace) Attachment 2.
                                        Attachment 2

           SAMPLE FORMAT AND INSTRUCTIONS--SMALL BUSINESS
           PROGRAM ASSESSMENT REPORT (RCS: SAF-SB(A)9484)


I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:

Summarize fiscal year performance on no more than five pages. Include key points the
Commander wants to emphasize to the Secretary of the Air Force.

II. QUALITATIVE ACHIEVEMENTS: Describe fiscal year accomplishments for your
Small Business Performance Expectations and Small Business Goals. If Performance
Expectations and/or Small Business goals were not met, provide rationale. Focus on the
following categories as outlined in the SBA Scorecard Success Factors:

    1. Commitment to Small Business utilization
    2. Effective engagement of senior level management in achieving small
       business performance expectations & goals
    3. Outreach to Small Businesses
    4. Training for acquisition and contracting staff regarding small business rules,
       regulations and/or data systems
    5. Commitment to expanding subcontracting opportunities for small businesses
    6. Contract bundling challenges (to include Public-Public, Private-Private (P4)
       Initiatives) and your organization’s efforts to minimize the negative impacts on small
       business contract opportunities

III. QUANTITATIVE PERFORMANCE: Using data provided by SAF/SB regarding your
organization’s accomplishments (i.e., SB Dashboard), describe quantitative achievements
related to most recent fiscal year Small Business Performance Expectations and Goals. If
Small Business Performance Expectations and Goals were not met, provide rationale.

IV. SUCCESS STORIES: Provide examples of significant: (1) accomplishments in support
of the SBP by individuals or organizations; (2) examples of small businesses saving the Air
Force money, providing superior performance and/or providing innovative solutions to
satisfy Air Force requirements. Success stories should have also been previously submitted
using the process and templates located on the AF Small Business Website (link on SB
Dashboard also). (NOTE: Annual revisions will be tailored in accordance with White
House, Congressional, and/or related taskings and items of emphasis)

(Delete) Attachment 3.




                                           1
                                           2
                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 64-201
AIR FORCE                                                                             1 JANUARY 1997

                                                                                            Contracting

                                                                     SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/SB                                                                       Certified by: SAF/SB
       (Mr Pat Hiller)                                                          (Mr Anthony J. DeLuca)
Supersedes AFI 64-201, 25 July 1994.                                                            Pages: 9
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 64-2, Small Business Programs, by directing requirements for the Air
Force’s small business programs (SBP). It applies to personnel involved in the acquisition process
(including program management, technical development, engineering, requirements, contracting func-
tions, and research and development) and the personnel process (such as education, training, and recruit-
ment). It applies to those elements of the Air National Guard who are currently serving in a Federal or
active duty role. To ensure a better understanding of the small business programs’ requirements, users
must refer to Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Parts 19 and 26; Defense Federal Acquisition Reg-
ulation Supplement (DFARS), Parts 219 and 226; Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
(AFFARS), Part 5319; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 4205.1, DOD Small Business and Small
Disadvantaged Business Utilization (SADBU) Programs, September 11, 1996; and DOD Directive
5134.4, Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, March 17, 1989. It should be noted
that one of the SBP, the Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions (HBCU/
MI), requires users to be cognizant of the US Department of Education’s current listing of accredited
post-secondary minority institutions and 10 USC 2323 (a)(1)(c).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This instruction aligns with AFPD 64-2. It updates, streamlines, and clarifies previous guidance on man-
aging small business programs, giving greater emphasis to the role of personnel and major command
(MAJCOM) commanders. This instruction has been revised throughout.



1. Office of the Secretary of the Air Force. This office will oversee Air Force Secretariat functions.
   1.1. SAF/SB. The Director of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization:
   •   Is the principal advisor to the Secretary on all SBP (small, small disadvantaged, and
       women-owned businesses and HBCU/MI).
   •   Develops, implements, and oversees policy and management of the Air Force small business
       programs (SBP). As chair of the Air Force Small Business Quality Council (AFSBQC) the
       Director acts on recommendations made by the AFSBQC; develops strategic goals and objec-
       tives for the SBP; monitors performance through established metrics, as defined in the Air
       Force SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan; and performs an annual assessment of each program's
       accomplishments. Develops, implements, and oversees policy and management of the Air
       Force small business programs (SBP). As chair of the Air Force Small Business Quality
       Council (AFSBQC) the Director acts on recommendations made by the AFSBQC; develops
       strategic goals and objectives for the SBP; monitors performance through established metrics,
       as defined in the Air Force SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan; and performs an annual assess-
       ment of each program's accomplishments. (NOTE: AFSBQC assists in the development and
       deployment of the strategic planning process, and oversees the implementation and manage-
       ment of total quality management concepts within the Air Force SB programs.)
   •   Reviews and provides recommendations on proposed performance elements, standards, and
       appraisals for command directors of small business (DSB) who serve as principal staff assis-
       tants and advisors to the commanders of MAJCOM, Field Operating Agencies (FOA), Direct
       Reporting Units (DRU), and Program Executive Officers (PEO).
   •   Receives and formulates the Secretary of the Air Force's response to Small Business Adminis-
       tration's secretarial appeals.
   •   Carries out the duties and responsibilities outlined in FAR Part 19, DFARS Part 219, and
       AFFARS Part 5319.
   •   Establishes and chairs the US Air Force HBCU/MI Board of Advisors comprised of execu-
       tives who represent HBCU/MI. Their role is to advise and recommend on policies, proce-
       dures, needs assistance, and outreach services which are commensurate with term
       appointments of two years and consecutive terms limited to six years.
   •   Consults on a regular basis with Air Force and Department of Defense acquisition managers,
       representatives of the Small Business Administration, the Department of Commerce, and
       other government agencies.
   •   Establishes the US Air Force Steering Committee for HBCU/MI at Headquarters, Air Force to
       coordinate policy, review military and civilian efforts, monitor progress, and make recom-
       mendations on matters pertinent to the Air Force's use of HBCU/MI in support of mission
       requirements. The committee will be chaired by the HBCU/MI Program Manager, and its
       membership will be comprised of Secretariat and Air Staff representatives at grade levels suf-
       ficient to communicate current principles and policies of their respective codes, as follows:
ASAF/Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM)
ASAF/Acquisition (SAF/AQ)
ASAF/Manpower, Reserve Affairs, Installations, and Environment (SAF/MI)
Public Affairs (SAF/PA)
Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL)


                                           2
   DCS/Personnel (HQ USAF/DP)
   DCS/Plans and Operations (HQ USAF/XO)
   DCS/Logistics (HQ USAF/LG)
   DCS/Communications and Information (HQ USAF/SC)
   Chief of Air Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE)
   National Guard Bureau (NGB/CC)
   Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG)
   1.2. SAF/AQ. The Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Contracting implements contracting
   aspects of the SBP through promulgation in the FAR, DFARS, and AFFARS.
   1.3. SAF/FM. The Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Budget implements budget policy
   matters for the SBP.
   1.4. SAF/PA. The Office of Public Affairs disseminates public information for the SBP.
   1.5. HQ USAF/DP. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel develops, manages, and reports HBCU/
   MI participation in all personnel programs and ensures that subordinate commands establish points of
   contact to oversee HBCU/MI issues which involve personnel programs. The Air Force Personnel
   OPR for HBCU/MI program initiatives is HQ USAF/DPCH.

2. MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, and PEO. Oversee SB and HBCU/MI command and reporting activity
functions.
   2.1. Commanders of MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, and PEO with Delegated Contracting Authority:
       • Implement the SBP within their activities, including the identification of program goals.
          Ensure that acquisition and technical personnel maintain knowledge of SBP requirements and
          take all reasonable actions to promote SB and HBCU/MI participation in the unit's mission.
       • Appoint in writing a full-time command director of small business (DSB) in consultation with
          SAF/SB. The command DSB manages the SB program, reports directly to the commander on
          SB program matters, and is at a grade level sufficient to interface with other staff functions
          and subordinate units (see paragraph 2.2.).
       • Appoint in writing the command, part-time HBCU/MI representative in consultation with
          SAF/SB. The command HBCU/MI representative reports directly to the commander on
          HBCU/MI matters and is at a grade level sufficient to interface with other staff functions and
          subordinate units (see paragraph 2.3.).
       • Provide the command DSB and HBCU/MI representative with optimum staff and resources to
          perform their functions.

NOTE:
The Director, SAF/SB, may grant a waiver to the requirements of paragraph 2.1. upon receipt of adequate
justification. In cases where SAF/SB grants a waiver, the duties of the DSB take precedence over all
other duties.



                                               3
   2.2. Command Director of Small Business. The command DSB, appointed under paragraph 2.1.,
   manages the command SB program on behalf of the commander. At a minimum, the command DSB
   will perform the following functions:
       • Develops command Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement coverage for Parts 19 and 26.
       • Develops and manages, with the assistance of the HBCU/MI representatives, the command
           SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan to achieve the command goals and objectives (see paragraph
           5.) The plan is approved and signed by the appointing authority, or reporting official, and for-
           warded to the Director, SAF/SB.
       • Prepares and presents to the Director, SAF/SB, an annual SB assessment of the command's
           performance measured against the goals defined in the SB section of the Air Force SB and
           HBCU/MI Program Plan (see paragraph 5.).
       • Reviews and provides recommendations on proposed performance elements, standards, and
           evaluations for unit small business specialists (SBS).
      •   Establishes and maintains a system for monitoring performance.
      •   Prepares, reviews, and/or coordinates the command position on Section 8(a), SB set-aside,
          and certificate of competency secretarial appeals before forwarding to the Director, SAF/SB.
      •   Schedules command representation at procurement and outreach conferences in accordance
          with Air Force FAR Supplement 5319.201(d)(v).
      •   Evaluates and provides for the SB training needs of command personnel.
      •   Serves as command representative to the AFSBQC, at the request of the Director, SAF/SB.
      •   Manages the small business awards program in accordance with AFI 36-2834.
   2.3. Command HBCU/MI Representative. The command HBCU/MI representative, appointed under
   paragraph 2.1., manages the command's HBCU/MI program on behalf of the commander. At a mini-
   mum the representative will perform the following functions:
       • Develops and manages the requirements identified in the HBCU/MI section of the Air Force
          SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan, prepares goals and objectives for incorporation in the
          HBCU/MI section of the command's SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan, and provides that
          information to the DSB or reporting official (see paragraph 5.).
       • Prepares and presents to the Director, SAF/SB, an annual performance assessment of the com-
          mand HBCU/MI program measured against the published goals included in the Air Force SB
          and HBCU/MI Program Plan (see paragraph 5.).
       • Establishes and maintains a system for monitoring program performance.
       • Participates annually in two or more Air Force conferences and/or workshops which address
          current issues on HBCU/MI.
       • Recommends appropriate individual or unit recognition for conspicuous performance in sup-
          port of the HBCU/MI initiatives (see AFI 36-2834).

3. Units With Delegated Contracting Authority.
   3.1. Commanders of Units with Annual Contract Obligations to US Business Firms in Excess of $100
   Million:


                                                4
   •   Implement the SBP within their unit, including the establishment of program goals. Ensure
       that contracting and technical personnel maintain knowledge of SBP requirements and take all
       reasonable actions to promote SB and HBCU/MI participation.
   •   Appoint a full-time unit SBS who manages the SB program for the commander and, at a min-
       imum, a part-time HBCU/MI representative to manage the HBCU/MI program (see paragraph
       s 3.3 and 2.3., respectively). In consultation with the Director, SAF/SB, the unit SBS and
       HBCU/MI representatives are appointed in writing. The SBS and HBCU/MI representatives
       report directly to the commander on SB and HBCU/MI matters, respectively, and are at a
       grade level sufficient to effectively manage the unit SB and HBCU/MI programs. When ade-
       quate justification is presented, this requirement may be waved. Where a waiver is granted,
       SB program functions take precedence over all other duties. For example: If the SBS is less
       than full-time, make clear how the SBP is to be effectively managed. If the SBS reports to
       someone other than the commander, justify why this channel of command is more effective.
   •   Provide the SBS optimum staff and resources to perform assigned duties or functions.
   •   Provide staff assistance, as required, to the HBCU/MI representative.
3.2. Commanders of Units with Contracting Authority and not included in paragraphs 2.1 or 3.1.
Commanders of these units have the responsibilities identified in paragraph 3.1. EXCEPTION:
These commanders may appoint part-time unit SBS and HBCU/MI representatives to manage their
SB and HBCU/MI programs, respectively. The SBS and HBCU/MI representatives shall be
appointed in writing and, when performing their respective program duties, they report directly to the
commander. For that reason, each of the incumbents shall be at a grade level that permits effective
management of the unit's SB or HBCU/MI programs and in a position no lower than the Director of
Contract Operations.
3.3. Unit Small Business Specialist. The unit SBS appointed in paragraphs 3.1. and 3.2., performs the
following functions:
    • Develops and manages the unit SB plan and program. The plan shall be approved and signed
       by the appointing authority, or reporting official, who provides a copy of the plan to the com-
       mand DSB, or designated SBS, at the next higher level of command.
    • Establishes and maintains a system for monitoring unit SB program performance. Prepares an
       annual assessment of accomplishments (see paragraph 5.).
    • Reviews acquisitions as required by DFARS 219.201, as supplemented by AFFARS.
    • Establishes, maintains, and budgets for an outreach program to locate and assist SB sources.
       The outreach program includes participation in procurement, regional SB councils, and
       related events as directed by the unit commander. Maintains a system for evaluating the
       effectiveness of the outreach program in producing new sources.
    • Assists the contracting officer, in cases involving SB, where non-responsibility determina-
       tions and termination actions are being considered.
    • Works closely with and assists the unit competition advocate to ensure that potential SB and
       8(a) opportunities are thoroughly explored.
    • Performs, to the extent deemed appropriate by the appointing authority, or the Director, SAF/
       SB, the duties set forth by DFARS 219.201 and DOD Directive 4205.1 and supports the
       enhancement of HBCU/MI contracting opportunities.

                                            5
   3.4. Source Development Specialist (SDS). At the Air Logistics Centers (ALC) the SDS is assigned
   within selected unit SB offices and is under the direct supervision of the unit SBS. The SDS manages
   the source development function of the SB program. In accomplishing the source development
   responsibilities, the SDS acts as the primary liaison with industry on all requests for source approval.
   The SDS monitors source approval requests; participates in source development surveys; performs
   market surveys, to include the initiation of source sought synopses, for publication in the Commerce
   Business Daily; and other electronic data networks.
   3.5. Small Business Liaisons (SBL). SBL is assigned and serves as the focal point at the requirement
   activity within each command. The requirement activity appoints the SBL in writing. The SBL sup-
   ports the command DSB and/or unit SBS, as appropriate, in managing the program.

4. Air Force Small Business Quality Council (AFSBQC). The AFSBQC assists the Director, SAF/
SB, in the development and deployment of the strategic planning process. The AFSBQC oversees the
implementation and management of total quality management concepts within the Air Force SB pro-
grams. The AFSBQC is composed of selected command DSB and unit SBS who are appointed to the
council by the Director, SAF/SB.

5. Unit SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan and Program Assessment Report.
   5.1. The strategic goals and objectives, as defined in the Air Force SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan,
   influence the actions taken by activity personnel in support of the Air Force’s mission. Therefore, the
   unit SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan and supporting plans shall formally promulgate the Air Force
   SB and HBCU/MI Program Plan by statements of actions to be taken (see Attachment 1 for format
   and Attachment 3 for milestones).
   5.2. The Small Business and HBCU/MI Program Report, RCS: SAF-SB(A)9484, describes an activ-
   ity’s qualitative and quantitative achievements in pursuit of the goals and objectives published in the
   Air Force SB and HBCU/MI Plan (see Attachment 2 for format and Attachment 3 for milestones).
   NOTE: This report is designated emergency status Code C-2, therefore, continue reporting during
   emergency conditions with normal precedence, i.e., after submission of priority reports, submit data
   requirements for this code.




                                         ANTHONY J. DELUCA
                                         Director, Office of Small and Disadvantaged
                                         Business Utilization




                                                6
                                             Attachment 1
   SAMPLE FORMAT AND INSTRUCTIONS--UNIT SB AND HBCU/MI PROGRAM PLAN
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Summarize key features of your strategic planning. This section should
condense key information from the rest of the plan to one page or less, including key points the com-
mander wants to emphasize to the Secretary of the Air Force.
II. PLAN TO ACHIEVE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES: Describe your implementation approaches to
execute the strategic goals and objectives, including the means for accomplishment and associated met-
rics. Additional initiatives beyond those identified in the plan should be tracked at the unit and/or com-
mand level.
III. METRICS (MARKET SHARE): For contract dollar obligations to small business, small business
set-asides, small disadvantaged business, women-owned business, and historically black colleges and
universities/minority institutions (HBCU/MI) provide the following information (NOTE: In the case of
HBCU/MI, total obligations are for contracts and grants awarded to institutions of higher education
(IHE)):
        (a) Show the previous two years total obligations to US business concerns and compare these data
with projected, current fiscal year data in both dollars and percent. For the same periods show compara-
ble data relationships in both dollars and percent for IHE and HBCU/MI.
         (b) For the baseline participation level (BPL), provide dollar and percentage projections, assum-
ing low to moderate risk for the next three fiscal years (NOTE: BPL projections, less than the prior two
fiscal years, must be supported by adequate justification).
       (c) For the target participation level (TPL), provide dollar and percentage projections, assuming
moderate to high risk for the next three fiscal years.
IV. PROGRAM ANNEXES: Attach supporting plans in the above format. (NOTE: Annual revisions
will be tailored in accordance with White House, Congressional, and/or related tasking and items of
emphasis).




                                                7
                                        Attachment 2
SAMPLE FORMAT AND INSTRUCTIONS--SMALL BUSINESS AND HBCU/MI PROGRAM
               ASSESSMENT REPORT (RCS: SAF-SB(A)9484)
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Summarize fiscal year performance on no more than one page. Include
key points the commander wants to emphasize to the Secretary of the Air Force.
II. QUALITATIVE ACHIEVEMENTS: Describe fiscal year accomplishments for each strategic goal.
If goals were not met, provide rationale.
III. QUANTITATIVE PERFORMANCE: Describe quantitative achievements related to most recent
fiscal year goals. If goals were not met, provide rationale.
IV. SUCCESS STORIES: Provide examples of significant accomplishments in support of the SBP.
(NOTE: Annual revisions will be tailored in accordance with White House, Congressional, and/or
related tasking and items of emphasis)




                                           8
                               Attachment 3
                    STRATEGIC PLANNING MILESTONES


         OPR                    TASK            DATE DUE
MAJCOM/PEO             SUBMIT DIAGNOSTIC AND      FEB
                       PROGRAM ASSESSMENT
                       REPORT AND PAST FISCAL
                       YEAR’S DIAGNOSIS
SAF/SB                 IDENTIFY GOAL THRUSTS        FEB
WORKSHOP               DEVELOP DRAFT GOALS          FEB
SMALL BUSINESS QUAL-   REVIEW DRAFT GOALS           MAR
ITY COUNCIL
HBCU/MI BOARD OF ADVI- REVIEW STRATEGIC             MAR
SORS                   GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
                       AND IDENTIFY OUTREACH
                       OPPORTUNITIES
SAF/SB                 RELEASE STRATEGIC            MAY
                       GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
                       TO EACH MAJCOM AND
                       PEO
MAJCOM & PEO           DEPLOY STRATEGIC             MAY
                       GOALS
MAJCOM & PEO           DEVELOP IMPLEMENTA-          AUG
                       TION STRATEGY; FOR-
                       WARD MAJCOM/PEO
                       PLANS TO SAF/SB
SAF/SB                 APPROVE MAJCOM/PEO           SEP
                       PLANS; PREPARE AIR
                       FORCE PLAN; FORWARD
                       TO SAF/OS
SAF/OS                 RELEASE AIR FORCE PLAN       SEP
HBCU/MI STEERING COM- REVIEW STRATEGIC              NOV
MITTEE                 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
                       AND ADVISE AS TO MIS-
                       SION REQUIREMENTS




                                 9
