BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-601,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  VOLUME 3

                                                                                8 AUGUST 2011

                                                                          Financial Managemen

                                                    THE AIR FORCE BUDGET CORPORATE
                                                                           PROCESS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/FMBP                                                            Certified by: SAF/FMB
                                                                    (Maj Gen Alfred K. Flowers)
Supersedes:    AFI65-601V3, 1 May 1998                                                  Pages: 8


This Instruction implements the budget corporate review process for AFPD 65-6, Budget. It
establishes budget corporate review procedures for Headquarters United States Air Force, the Air
Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard. Use this Instruction along with Air Force Instruction
16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 31 July 2006 and Air Force 16-,
65-, and 90- publications to ensure a full understanding of the PPBE and the Air Force Corporate
Structure. A Glossary of References and Supporting Information are at Attachment 1. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect changes in guidance and procedures dealing with the the
budget corporate review process. The major changes include the addition of The Personnel
Budget Review Committee (PBRC) to oversee the Active MILPERS appropriation and
CIVPERS budget to advise the Air Force Board and the Air Force Council on all issues related
to personnel programs, budgets, and execution; updates to the Operating Budget Review
Committee (OBRC) and Investment Budget Review Committee (IBRC); update of
 2                                                                AFI65-601V3 8 AUGUST 2011


responsibilities for publication managers; and updates to general program processes and new
terminology. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. Air Force Board. The Deputy Assistant Secretary (Budget) (SAF/FMB) chairs the Air Force
Board for purposes of budget formulation and execution to include the Budget Review Cycle and
President’s Budget (PB) (reference AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force
Programs). The Air Force Board reviews those issues and topics related to developing and
defending the Air Force Budget within the DoD PPBE including funding, pricing, and
executability. The Investment Budget Review Committee (IBRC), the Operating Budget Review
Committee (OBRC) and the Personnel Budget Review Committee (PBRC) support the Air Force
Board for purposes of budget formulation and execution with special functions as outlined
below.
     1.1. The Air Force Board's area of interest includes all financial and budgeting aspects for all
     Air Force appropriations and accounts (Active Forces, Air National Guard and Air Force
     Reserve) and Air Force Activity Groups in the Air Force Working Capital Fund (AFWCF).
     The Air Force Board thoroughly reviews all issues falling within its purview and
     recommends courses of action to the Air Force Council, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force
     (CSAF), and the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF).
     1.2. The Air Force Board will accomplish the following actions.
        1.2.1. In preparation for the Program Objective Memorandum (POM):
            1.2.1.1. The Air Force Board reviews budgetary issues concerning pricing,
            execution, and executability of Air Force programs, including the findings and
            recommendations of the IBRC, OBRC and PBRC, and makes recommendations
            consistent with Air Force priorities.
        1.2.2. In preparation for the PB:
            1.2.2.1. The Air Force Board (co-chaired by AF/A8P, SAF/FMB, and SAF/US(M))
            reviews all Resource Management Decisions (RMDs) issued by the DoD, determines
            the RMD impact on Air Force programs, identifies potential Major Budget Issues
            (MBI), and recommends any reclama or rebuttal as a result of Air Force Board
            deliberations.
            1.2.2.2. The Air Force Board (co-chaired by AF/A8P, SAF/FMB, and SAF/US(M))
            identifies offsets as required by final RMDs and in support of MBIs selected by Air
            Force senior leadership. The Air Force Board chairperson presents recommendations
            to the Air Force Council, the CSAF, the SecAF, and Office of the Secretary of
            Defense (OSD).
        1.2.3. The Air Force Board requests assistance from the Mission and Mission Support
        Panels as required. The Air Force Board may also request assistance of the Air Force
        Executive Review Secretariat and other select groups in reviewing issues.
2. Investment Budget Review Committee (IBRC).
     2.1. The IBRC assists the Air Force Board and the Air Force Council in evaluating
     investment appropriations and accounts. The IBRC objective is to have executable budgets
     that can be justified and defended during OSD and Congressional review.
AFI65-601V3 8 AUGUST 2011                                                                      3


   2.2. The IBRC’s scope of review includes the following: Research, Development, Test, and
   Evaluation (RDT&E), Procurement, Military Construction (Active Forces, Air National
   Guard, and Air Force Reserve), Military Family Housing (MFH) Construction (Active
   Forces), MFH Operation and Maintenance (O&M) (Active Forces) appropriations and the
   Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) account.
   2.3. The IBRC is chaired by the Director, Budget Investment, Deputy Assistant Secretary,
   Budget (SAF/FMBI). Members include:
      2.3.1. Core members:   SAF/AQXR, SAF/IEI, SAF/USAM, AF/A1M, AF/A2R,
      AF/A4/7PY, AF/A5RP, and AF/A8P
      2.3.2. Non-Core Members: SAF/FMC, SAF/FMBM, SAF/FMBP, SAF/A6PR, SAF/IEI
      BRAC PMO, AF/A7CP, AF/REC, AF/TER, NGB/FMB, and Mission & Mission Support
      Panel chairs.
   2.4. The IBRC reviews all investment appropriations and will accomplish the following:
      2.4.1. Conducts a review of investment budgets across the FYDP to ensure investment
      resources are applied in the most effective, executable manner and can be justified during
      OSD and Congressional reviews. The Investment Budget Review examines program
      executability, execution, obligation rates, and expenditure rates with respect to schedules
      and schedule changes, DoD guidance, fact of life changes, DoD requirements,
      Congressional interest and direction, and other long-standing DoD PBD and/or RMD
      measures. Provide recommendations to the Air Force Board on investment funding
      adjustments, MFH O&M redistribution of funds, and BRAC redistribution of funds.
      2.4.2. Approves proposed initial allocation of MFH O&M funds.
      2.4.3. Obtain input on recommendations during program and budget exercises and in the
      funds distribution process for investment accounts from the Mission and Mission Support
      Panels and responsible functional staff agencies.
      2.4.4. Periodically, as deemed necessary by the Chairperson, the Mission and Mission
      Support Panel chairs will brief the IBRC regarding their decisions, status of key programs
      or items of high interest and other general issues.
      2.4.5. Perform other functions assigned by the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
      (Financial Management and Comptroller), the Air Force Board, and Air Force Council.
3. Operating Budget Review Committee (OBRC).
   3.1. The OBRC oversees the Active Air Force Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
   appropriation and advises the Air Force Board and the Air Force Council on all issues related
   to O&M program budgeting and execution. The OBRC objectives are to ensure accurate
   budget submissions that reflect approved Air Force programs and to provide field
   commanders sufficient O&M dollars required to execute their missions.
   3.2. The OBRC’s areas of responsibility include all aspects of budgeting and execution for
   the O&M appropriation and accounts.
   3.3. The OBRC is chaired by the Director, Budget Operations and Personnel, Deputy
   Assistant Secretary (Budget) (SAF/FMBO). Members include:
 4                                                              AFI65-601V3 8 AUGUST 2011


        3.3.1. Core Members: SAF/FMBO, SAF/AAX, SAF/A6PR, SAF/AQXR, SAF/IEI,
        AF/A3/A5, AF/A1MS, AF/A2RN, AF/A4/7PY, AF/A7CR, AF/A7SX, and AF/A10-R.
        3.3.2. Non-Core Members: SAF/FMBP, AF/A8PE, SAF/FMBOI
     3.4. The OBRC reviews all Air Force field operating agency financing as briefed by
     commands, evaluates risk mitigation, and assesses the impact of execution strategies on
     outyear programs and budgets. The OBRC presents recommendations to the Air Force
     Board and Air Force Council for final approval. The OBRC achieves its objective through
     the following:
        3.4.1. Quarterly Reviews. The OBRC meets quarterly or as needed to review execution
        for the previous quarter, identify priorities for the remainder of the year, and decide on
        funding recommendations to present to the Air Force Board and Air Force Council.
        Major events driving the quarterly reviews are listed below:
           3.4.1.1. Distribution. Review strategy for distribution of O&M funds to commands.
           Recommend funding for corporate bills.
           3.4.1.2. Mid-Year Review. Assess current status of each command’s O&M program.
           Review baseline shortfalls and potential corporate bills. Evaluate contingency
           requirements and funding. Develop overall assessment of the O&M program. Assess
           contingency requirements, funding, and strategy.
           3.4.1.3. End of Year Strategy. Assess current status of each command’s O&M
           program. Review baseline shortfalls and potential corporate bills. Evaluate
           contingency requirements and funding. Develop an overall assessment of the O&M
           program. Assess contingency requirements, funding, and strategy. Identify the way
           ahead and recommend end of year strategy to present to the Air Force Board and Air
           Force Council.
           3.4.1.4. Execution Plan Review. Review execution plans submitted by major
           commands and other field operating activities.
           3.4.1.5. End of Year Wrap-Up. Review execution of previous year. Identify lessons
           learned from previous year. Decide execution strategy for new fiscal year.
        3.4.2. The OBRC Chairperson may request Panels to brief the OBRC regarding the
        status of key programs, items of interest, and/or other general issues. The OBRC may
        also request briefings from responsible functional staff organizations, especially from
        those staff agencies responsible for cross-cutting programs.
        3.4.3. The OBRC performs other functions assigned by the Assistant Secretary of the Air
        Force (Financial Management and Comptroller), the Air Force Board and Air Force
        Council.
4. Personnel Budget Review Committee (PBRC).
     4.1. The PBRC oversees the Active Air Force Military Personnel (MILPERS) appropriation
     and the Air Force Civilian Personnel (CIVPERS) budget and advises the Air Force Board
     and the Air Force Council on all issues related to the personnel program, budgeting and
     execution. The MILPERS appropriation is a Centrally Managed Allotment (CMA). One
     objective of the PBRC is to ensure that to the extent prescribed by law, directive and
AFI65-601V3 8 AUGUST 2011                                                                    5


  regulation there will be no obligations incurred or expenditures made in excess of the amount
  available under this CMA. Another objective of the PBRC is to ensure accurate budget
  submissions that reflect approved Air Force programs and provide functional managers
  sufficient CIVPERS and MILPERS funding required to execute their missions.
  4.2. The PBRC’s areas of responsibility include all aspects of budgeting and execution for
  the MILPERS and CIVPERS appropriation and accounts.
  4.3. The PBRC is chaired by the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Budget) (SAF/FMB).
  Members include:
     4.3.1. Core Members: SAF/FMBO, SAF/MRM, AF/A1M, AF/A1X, AF/A1P, A5X,
     A8P, and AFPC/CC
     4.3.2. Non-Core Members: SAF/FMBOP, SAF/FMBP, and SAF/GCA
     4.3.3. OPR: SAF/FMBOP
  4.4. The PBRC reviews Air Force MILPERS and CIVPERS budgets and personnel
  management plans, evaluates risk mitigation, and assesses the impact of execution strategies
  on out-year programs and budgets. The PBRC is a forum to provide leadership with an
  update on the AF personnel budget and to provide recommendations to the Air Force Board
  and Air Force Council for final approval. The PBRC achieves its objectives through the
  following:
     4.4.1. Reviews. The PBRC meets monthly or as needed to review MILPERS and
     CIVPERS execution, identify priorities for the remainder of the year, and decide on
     funding recommendations to present to the Air Force Board and Air Force Council.
     Major components of monthly reviews may include:
         4.4.1.1. Distribution. Review strategy for distribution of CIVPERS O&M funds to
         commands.
         4.4.1.2. Programming Strategy. Review funding requirements for the MILPERS and
         CIVPERS budget through the FYDP. Provide the way ahead and recommend
         programmatic and formulation strategies to present to the Air Force Board and Air
         Force Council.
         4.4.1.3. Analysis of Major Programs. Evaluate CIVPERS funding and work-year
         execution and assess current status of MILPERS personnel programs to include
         military personnel appropriation MPA man-days, bonuses and incentives, overseas
         contingency operations, reimbursements, subsistence, etc.
         4.4.1.4. Permanent Change of Station Strategy. Assess current status of operational
         and rotational moves within program restraints. Review baseline shortfalls and
         potential shortfalls. Develop an overall assessment of the Permanent Change of
         Station program. Identify the way ahead and recommend strategy to present to the
         Air Force Board and Air Force Council.
         4.4.1.5. Execution Analysis.   Review execution analysis as presented by
         SAF/FMBOP. Recommend execution year reprogramming actions for CIVPERS and
         MILPERS when there are projected shortfalls.
6                                                         AFI65-601V3 8 AUGUST 2011


       4.4.1.6. Mid-Year Review. Assess current status of program. Review baseline
       shortfalls and potential shortfalls. Assess contingency requirements, funding, and
       strategy. Develop overall assessment of the MILPERS and CIVPERS program.
       4.4.1.7. End of Year Wrap-Up. Review execution of previous year. Identify lessons
       learned from previous year. Decide execution strategy for new fiscal year.
    4.4.2. The PBRC Chairperson may request briefings from responsible functional staff
    organizations, especially from those staff agencies responsible for cross-cutting
    programs.
    4.4.3. The PBRC performs other functions assigned by the Assistant Secretary of the Air
    Force (Financial Management and Comptroller), the Air Force Board and Air Force
    Council.




                                        JAMIE M. MORIN
                                        Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                        (Financial Management and Comptroller)
AFI65-601V3 8 AUGUST 2011                                                                      7


                                         Attachment 1
     GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND OTHER SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-6, Budget, 1 May 1998
AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 31 July 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFWCF—Air Force Working Capital Fund
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure
CIVPERS—Civilian Personnel
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
IBRC—Investment Budget Review Committee
MBI—Major Budget Issue
MFH—Military Family Housing
MILPERS—Military Personnel
OBRC—Operating Budget Review Committee
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PB—President’s Budget
PBD—Program Budget Decision
PBRC—Personnel Budget Review Committee
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
RMD—Resource Management Decision
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
TWCF—Transportation-Working Capital Fund

Terms
Air Force Working Capital Fund (AFWCF)—The Air Force Working Capital Fund is a
Revolving Fund in which all income is derived from its operations and is available to finance the
Fund’s continuing operations without fiscal year limitations. Unlike appropriated funds, a
revolving fund temporarily holds gains and losses – this is the key to its flexibility.
 8                                                            AFI65-601V3 8 AUGUST 2011


Investment Budget Review Committee (IBRC)—Assists the Air Force Board and Air Force
Council in evaluating the program budgeting and execution of the investment appropriations and
accounts.
Major Budget Issue (MBI)—A RMD action causing serious unfavorable impact to Air Force
programs or missions which warrants a personal discussion between the Chief of Staff, the
Secretary of the Air Force and the Secretary of Defense.
Operating Budget Review Committee (OBRC)—Assists the Air Force Board and Air Force
Council in evaluating the program budgeting and execution of the operation and maintenance
(O&M) appropriation.
Personnel Budget Review Committee (PBRC)—Assists the Air Force Board and Air Force
Council in evaluating the program budgeting and execution of the Military Personnel
appropriation and accounts.
Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE)—A formal, systematic structure
for making decisions on policy, strategy, and the development of forces and capabilities to
accomplish anticipated missions. PPBE is an annual process that produces the Defense Planning
and Programming Guidance (DPPG), an approved Program Objective Memorandum (POM) for
the Military Departments and Defense agencies covering a 5-year period cycle, and the DoD
portion of the President’s Budget (PB) covering one year.
Program Objective Memorandum (POM)—An annual memorandum submitted to the
Secretary of Defense from each Military Department and Defense agency. It proposes total
program requirements for the next five years. It includes rationale for planned changes from the
approved Future Years Defense Program baseline within the fiscal guidance issued by the
Secretary of Defense.
Resource Management Decision (RMD)—The Resource Management Decision is an OSD
document that directs changes to the Services’ programs. RMDs have replaced the Program
Decision Memorandum and the Program Budget Decisions. RMDs signal the final phases of
programming and budgeting activities within PPBE.
