BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-140
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  7 APRIL 2014

                                                                                     Acquisition

                                                     AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY
                                                                          PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQRE                                                           Certified by: SAF/AQX
                                                                        (Mr. Richard Lombardi)
Supersedes:   AFI 63-1001, 18 Apr 2002                                                  Pages: 6


This publication implements the integrity program requirements related to structural integrity in
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, and is
consistent with DoD Directive 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, and DoD Instruction
5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System. This instruction requires aircraft program
offices and lead/using commands to collaborate on Aircraft Structural Integrity Programs (ASIP)
that support mission readiness and airworthiness assurance through a series of programmatic
time-phased tasks during the development, acquisition, production, modification, and
sustainment of Air Force aircraft.

To ensure standardization, any organization supplementing this instruction must send the
implementing publication to Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
Integration (SAF/AQX) for review and coordination before publishing. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to SAF/AQXA using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through
functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

This publication applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel including major
commands (MAJCOMs), direct reporting units (DRUs) and field operating agencies (FOA), and
to other individuals or organizations as required by binding agreement or obligation with the
Department of the Air Force (DAF). This publication applies to the Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG), except as noted in the publication.
 2                                                                         AFI63-140 7 APRIL 2014


In accordance with the acquisition chain of authority specified in AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated
Life Cycle Management, mandates to the acquisition execution chain are not considered Wing
level mandates and tiering per AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, does not
apply.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

With the rescission of AFPD 63-10, this AFI is realigned under AFPD 63-1. It requires aircraft
programs to use MIL-STD-1530, DoD Standard Practice for Aircraft Structural Integrity
Program (ASIP), and clarifies the roles and responsibilities of each organization that directly
supports the AF ASIP. It mandates the development of ASIP master plans, which must be
approved by the Program Executive Officer (PEO). It establishes ASIP OPRs at operational
commands and at FOAs, and establishes roles and responsibilities for the AF ASIP Technical
Advisor. It mandates adherence to ASIP data capture rates and requires program offices to report
any data capture deficiencies to the MAJCOM ASIP OPRs.
1. Applicability.
     1.1. The goal of the AF Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP) is to ensure the desired
     level of structural safety, performance, durability, and supportability with the least possible
     economic burden throughout the aircraft’s service life.
     1.2. This publication applies to all Air Force aircraft programs.
2. ASIP Objectives.
     2.1. The objectives of the AF ASIP are to:
     2.2. Define the structural integrity requirements necessary to support airworthiness
     assurance and the program manager’s (PM) assurance of operational safety, suitability and
     effectiveness.
     2.3. Establish, evaluate, substantiate, and certify the structural integrity of aircraft structures.
     2.4. Acquire, evaluate, and apply aircraft usage and maintenance data to ensure the
     continued structural integrity of operational aircraft.
     2.5. Provide quantitative information for decisions on force structure planning, inspection,
     modification priorities, risk management, expected life cycle costs and related operational
     and support issues.
     2.6. Provide a basis for improving structural criteria and methods of design, manufacturing,
     evaluation, and substantiation for future aircraft systems and modifications.
3. ASIP Requirements.
     3.1. The PM shall establish an ASIP for each Mission Design Series (MDS) the Air Force
     acquires, uses, or leases.
     3.2. For each aircraft MDS developed or modified by the Air Force, the ASIP shall comply
     with MIL-STD-1530, DoD Standard Practice for Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
     (ASIP). For these MDS, the PM shall:
AFI63-140 7 APRIL 2014                                                                           3


       3.2.1. Draft an initial ASIP Master Plan for the program as early as possible in the
       Technology Maturation and Risk Reduction phase. The initial ASIP Master Plan shall
       identify the tasks required to achieve structural integrity and to determine structural
       safety, performance, durability, supportability, and life cycle costs for the aircraft
       structure.
       3.2.2. Obtain PEO approval for the ASIP Master Plan before the System Requirements
       Review (SRR).
       3.2.3. Update the ASIP Master Plan during the Engineering and Manufacturing
       Development, Production & Deployment, and Operations & Sustainment phases of the
       program to document changes in the ASIP.
       3.2.4. For aircraft in sustainment, execute the ASIP program as an integral part of the
       total system engineering and management effort in the sustainment of the aircraft.
       3.2.5. For aircraft that are to be modified, fly new missions, or whose operation will
       extend past the aircraft’s certified design service life, develop a revised ASIP Master Plan
       and obtain PEO approval of the revised plan before modifications are executed, regular
       flights begin under the new mission, or commencing operations beyond the previously
       certified service life.
   3.3. For each aircraft MDS operated by the AF but not developed or modified by the Air
   Force, the PM shall use MIL-STD-1530 as the basis for determining those ASIP tasks and
   elements necessary to ensure the aircraft’s structural safety, performance, durability,
   supportability, and affordability for the operational life of structural components, while
   remaining consistent with the program’s acquisition strategy and engineering authority over
   the aircraft. For these MDS, the PM shall:
       3.3.1. Document the tailored program in an ASIP Master Plan.
       3.3.2. Finalize the ASIP Master Plan and obtain PEO approval before the Air Force
       operates the aircraft.
4. Roles and Responsibilities.
   4.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will:
       4.1.1. Oversee AF ASIP policy.
       4.1.2. Support aircraft program office ASIP implementation as a part of the integrated
       life cycle management of systems from their entry into defense acquisition management
       system through retirement and disposal.
       4.1.3. Work with Commander, AF Materiel Command (AFMC/CC) to designate the AF
       ASIP Technical Advisor.
   4.2. Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (HQ
   USAF/A4/7) will:
       4.2.1. Integrate ASIP into maintenance policy.
       4.2.2. Support ASIP-related planning, programming, and budgeting activities for each
       aircraft program.
4                                                                      AFI63-140 7 APRIL 2014


    4.3. AFMC/CC will:
       4.3.1. Include ASIP master plan development, maintenance, and implementation
       requirements in compliance checklists.
       4.3.2. Sustain and enhance a data management capability to support ASIP (e.g. the
       Aircraft Structural Integrity Management Information System).
       4.3.3. Provide technical advice and capabilities that sustain and enhance ASIP, to include
       Non-Destructive Inspection (NDI) capability.
    4.4. Operational Commands and Field Operating Agencies (FOA) will:
       4.4.1. Establish an ASIP OPR for managing the ASIP program command-wide.
       4.4.2. Develop, publish, and update documentation specifying MAJCOM or Lead
       Operating Command ASIP responsibilities in accordance with this instruction.
       4.4.3. Assist PMs in the development, maintenance, and implementation of ASIP master
       plans as requested.
       4.4.4. Install, operate, and maintain ASIP hardware including loads/environment spectra
       survey (L/ESS) and individual aircraft tracking (IAT) data collection transfer and
       analysis systems sufficient to support the valid data capture rates required by the aircraft-
       specific ASIP Master Plans.
       4.4.5. Ensure that unit personnel collect and report data IAW the valid data capture rates
       defined by the ASIP Master Plans.
       4.4.6. Assist program office ASIP Managers in the development and implementation of
       corrective actions as needed to achieve required valid data capture rates.
       4.4.7. Plan, program and budget for funds, per AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation
       and Responsibilities for Weapon System, necessary to obtain the equipment, data,
       analyses, and testing required to ensure the structural integrity baseline for the aircraft is
       being maintained.
       4.4.8. Evaluate annual ASIP summaries as they apply to force structure, aircraft
       operational use and budgeting.
       4.4.9. Ensure that structural inspections required by an aircraft’s ASIP are conducted in
       accordance with the appropriate schedules, processes, procedures, and technical orders.
    4.5. AF ASIP Technical Advisor will:
       4.5.1. Review all ASIP master plans including updates and make approval
       recommendation to the PEO.
       4.5.2. Review execution of the ASIP for each MDS, identify trends, gaps, and
       opportunities for improvement in the ASIP execution, and report these findings to PEOs
       and operating/lead MAJCOMs.
    4.6. Program Executive Officers (PEO) will:
       4.6.1. Ensure ASIPs are established and ASIP Master Plans are developed for each MDS
       operated by the Air Force in their portfolio.
AFI63-140 7 APRIL 2014                                                                         5


  4.6.2. Ensure aircraft PMs are executing the ASIP requirements in a timely manner as an
  integral part of life cycle management.
     4.6.3. Utilize ASIP information in modification management and implementation.
     4.6.4. Approve all ASIP master plans including updates.
  4.7. Program Managers (PM) will:
     4.7.1. Plan, program, and budget funds required to develop, maintain, and execute the
     ASIP.
     4.7.2. Ensure that program life cycle cost estimates developed IAW AFI 65-508, Cost
     Analysis Guidance and Procedures, include estimated costs of supporting the ASIP.
     4.7.3. Oversee the development, modification and execution of the ASIP and ensure that
     the ASIP Master Plan is approved, updated and executed.
     4.7.4. Appoint an aircraft ASIP Manager.
     4.7.5. Ensure the usage collection and evaluation systems for L/ESS and IAT achieve the
     valid data capture rates defined in the approved ASIP Master Plan. Monitor all ASIP
     flight data retrieval results to identify incomplete or missing data. Notify MAJCOM
     ASIP OPRs of flight data retrieval discrepancies.
     4.7.6. Ensure processes are in place for collecting, processing, storing, analyzing and
     reporting structural maintenance data essential to evaluating aircraft structural integrity.
     4.7.7. Annually provide summaries to Lead Commands of past operational usage and the
     effect on the structural integrity.
     4.7.8. Establish and document the life cycle inspection and modification actions and
     schedules required to maintain the structural integrity of each aircraft system.
     4.7.9. Ensure ASIP aircraft usage data requirements are integrated with mandatory crash
     survivable data recorder requirements when identifying the aircraft flight data parameter
     recording, storage and transmission capability.




                                           WILLIAM A. LAPLANTE, SES
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                           (Acquisition)
 6                                                                AFI63-140 7 APRIL 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoD Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 25 Nov 2013
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon System, 8 Mar 2010
AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 Jul 2012
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 6 Jul 2010
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 Mar 2013
AFI 65-508, Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures, 6 June 2012
MIL-STD-1530, DoD Standard Practice, Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP), 1 Nov
2005
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ASIP—Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
IAT—Individual Aircraft Tracking
L/ESS—Loads/Environment Spectra Survey
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MIL—STD—Military Standard
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
