BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-107
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           1 DECEMBER 1999
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 4 January 2010

                                                                          Financial Management

                                                  NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS FINANCIAL
                                                           MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT
                                                                  RESPONSIBILITIES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/FMCEP (Mr George Crew)                                           Certified by: SAF/FMC
Supersedes: AFI65-107, 18 March 1994                                    (Mr Joseph T. Kammerer)
                                                                                         Pages: 26


This instruction implements AFPD, 65-1, Management of Financial Services, by assigning
responsibilities and explaining procedures for financial management and operations for all
nonappropriated funds (NAF) including civilian base restaurant, welfare, and special NAF
Instrumentalities (NAFIs) under the jurisdiction of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (to include
the Air Force Academy Athletic Association). This instruction also applies to all Air Force
Reserve, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps personnel on
Federal active duty. This instruction does not apply to funds managed by the Board of Directors
of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, chaplain funds, and patrons' and prisoners' trust
funds. It does not apply to private organizations' funds or funds established for employees of
government contractors. Waivers to this regulation have no effect without approval and control
numbers assigned by the Business Management Division, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FMCEB), 1130 Air Force Pentagon, Washington
DC 20330-1130. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to the same office.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change incorporates changes below which increase the scope of the annual NAF employee
time and attendance review, adds the annual NAFI Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) review,
and changes the procedures for the Air Force Slot Machines review. It also adds review for
tenants, isolated unit funds and small operations in paragraph1.3 to correspond with paragraph
2.16 review already included.
2                                                                                         AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999



       1.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................    2
       2.     Procedures for accomplishing NAF Oversight Responsibilities. ...........................                                   5
       3.     Financial Evaluations and Reporting. ....................................................................                 17

ATTACHMENT 1—MAJOR COMMAND AND BASE NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS (NAF)
         COUNCIL FINANCE COMMITTEE CHARTER                      19

ATTACHMENT 2—REFERENCE GUIDE FOR SERVICES PUBLICATIONS                                                                                  21

ATTACHMENT 3—FORMAT FOR NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS FINANCIAL ANALYST
         (NAFFA) ANNUAL COORDINATION OF NONAPPROPRIATED FUND (NAF)
         FINANCIAL STATEMENT CERTIFICATION                        26


1. Responsibilities. At the direction of the Secretary of the Air Force, the FM community Air
Force-wide oversees financial management of Air Force Services nonappropriated funds (NAF).
Financial Management personnel are organizationally placed to provide independent oversight of
NAF activities. They will not perform line or staff duties within NAF organizations that would
impair this independence. Financial Management personnel responsible for NAF oversight can
only recommend corrective actions. They will not change or order changes in a NAF activity’s
operations.
    1.1. HQ USAF-Level Responsibilities: Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial
    Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) oversees NAF financial analysis, monitors
    compliance with financial policy, and financial management throughout the Air Force. The
    Business Management Division (SAF/FMCEB) in the office of the Deputy Assistant
    Secretary for Cost and Economics will:
       1.1.1. Review and coordinate on all Air Force directives containing accounting,
       financial management, banking, and related reporting policies for NAFs.
       1.1.2. Provide training and technical guidance to Major Command (MAJCOM) and
       installation NAFFAs. This includes briefings to conferences, workshops, and schools;
       and the development of training aids.
       1.1.3. Develop computer-based programs to assist field NAFFAs in accomplishment of
       their responsibilities.
       1.1.4. Review and coordinate on central fund NAF budgets.
       1.1.5. Prepare corporate trends and other analyses of AF Services financial results for
       presentation to the AF MWR Advisory Board (AFMWRAB) and/or its Finance and
       Audit Committee.
       1.1.6. Serve as the SAF/FM audit focal point for AF Services Public Accountant
       Contract Audits (PACA).
       1.1.7. Serve as liaison with the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) on
       NAF financial and accounting issues.
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                 3


     1.1.8. Review and approve / disapprove AF Services NAF prior year fund equity
     adjustment requests; extraordinary account adjustments; and use of closure base general
     ledger account codes (GLACs).
     1.1.9. Monitor accounting and reporting systems development efforts to ensure
     compliance with existing policy.
     1.1.10. Administer Management Control Review (MCR) program. Develop MCR
     package to include review guidelines, questionnaire (questions provided by Air Force
     Services Agency/Services Financial Analysis Branch - AFSVA/SVFA) with attachments
     for evaluations and scantrons. Coordinate draft MCR package with AFSVA and final
     through SAF/FM and Air Force/Services (AF/ILV) for signatures. Distribute MCR to
     MAJCOMs.
     1.1.11. Serves on the AFSVA/SV NAF Facilities Panel.
     1.1.12. Reviews and coordinates on Lodging Rate packages.
  1.2. Major Command (MAJCOM) Responsibilities: The FM oversees NAF financial
  analysis, monitors compliance with financial policy, financial management of MAJCOM
  Services programs and chairs the MAJCOM NAF Finance Committee. Under the direction of
  the MAJCOM FM, the MAJCOM NAFFA performs the following oversight tasks and
  functions:
     1.2.1. Conducts Management Control Reviews (MCR) directed by higher headquarters,
     on Command Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs). Identifies Command
     NAFI internal control weaknesses and recommends corrective actions. Follows up on all
     material weaknesses uncovered as a result of these reviews. Provides the Command NAF
     Council Finance Committee the review results.
     1.2.2. Reviews the results of MCRs completed by base-level NAFFAs and submitted
     through HQ AFSVA/SVF for data compilation. Identifies Command-wide internal
     control weaknesses, recommends corrective actions as appropriate, and crossfeed results
     to command bases.
        1.2.2.1. Follows up on all command-level systemic internal control weaknesses
        identified through analysis of collective MCR results.
        1.2.2.2. The input should address the status of Command NAFI internal controls. The
        MAJCOM coordinates on the final submission.
     1.2.3. Reviews APF and NAF budgets for Command - level Services programs.
        1.2.3.1. Reviews proposed command-level NAFI budgets and budget revisions;
        provides Services management and the Command NAF Council an evaluation of the
        adequacy of each.
     1.2.4. Analyzes Command NAFI financial statements and financial reports.
        1.2.4.1. Performs financial trend and performance analysis using financial
        statements, any applicable related reports, Air Force standards, MAJCOM goals and
        NAFI budgets. Assesses Command NAFI financial viability.
4                                                              AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


           1.2.4.2. Evaluates the financial ramifications of, and makes recommendations on,
           proposed MAJCOM NAF policies. Ensures related FM oversight procedures are in
           place concurrent with implementation of new financial policies.
           1.2.4.3. Uses the MicroBAS program to calculate APF percentages.
       1.2.5. Coordinates on base-level Economic Analysis (EA) and Internal Needs Validation
       Studies (INVS) submissions.
       1.2.6. Reviews and tracks AF Audit Agency (AFAA), Public Accountant Contract Audit
       (PACA) Program, Department of Defense (DoD) and General Accounting Office (GAO)
       audits that involve Command - level Services NAFIs. Reviews base-level PACA and
       AFAA open item tracking reports to identify MAJCOM internal control
       trends/deficiencies, and ensures MAJCOM consistency.
           1.2.6.1. Evaluates management comments to audits.     Determines whether
           management comments satisfactorily address and resolve audit findings and
           recommendations.
           1.2.6.2. Coordinates on all MAJCOM and base-level NAFI nonconcurrences to audit
           findings and recommendations.
           1.2.6.3. Tracks all audit nonconcurrences to resolution.
           1.2.6.4. Tracks MAJCOM NAFI management's audit corrective actions until
           completed to ensure audit compliance.
           1.2.6.5. Prepares the PACA Semiannual Status Report. Submits the report to
           SAF/FMCEB no later than 15 November and 15 May each year.
       1.2.7. Performs staff assistance visits on base-level NAFFAs within the Command, as
       required.
       1.2.8. Reviews cash controls, conducts annual surprise cash counts, and administers
       impartial inventories of Command NAFIs.
           1.2.8.1. Conducts annual surprise cash counts at all supported Command NAF
           activities.
           1.2.8.2. Schedules and briefs the impartial inventory team on its responsibilities.
           1.2.8.3. Debriefs the team and provides feedback to MAJCOM Services on the
           results.
           1.2.8.4. Reviews and coordinates on Lodging Rate packages.
    1.3. Base-Level Responsibilities. The base-level financial manager (FM) oversees NAF
    financial analysis, monitors compilance with financial policy, financial management of base
    Services programs and chairs the NAF Council Finance Committee. For the purpose of this
    instruction, the installation commander is the wing commander or equivalent. Under the
    direction of the FM, the NAFFA should be a qualified 510, based on the criteria established
    by the Office of Personnel Management, with at least 24 hours of accounting courses. The
    NAFFA performs the following oversight tasks and functions:
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                      5


       1.3.1. Monthly analysis of NAFI financial statements to include preliminary financial
       statement review
       1.3.2. Annual review of cash controls / audit of cashier & cost center reports
       1.3.3. Conduct management control reviews and internal control reviews (as scheduled)
       1.3.4. Quarterly validation of NAFI budgets (APF and NAF)
       1.3.5. Annual review of accounts receivable/uncollectable accounts
       1.3.6. Quarterly review of APF support to Services
       1.3.7. Administer annual impartial inventories
       1.3.8. Review and follow-up of all audits/resolution of nonconcurrences
       1.3.9. Annual review of NAF IMPAC procedures
       1.3.10. Annual verification of balance sheet and subsidiary accounts
       1.3.11. Review of financial studies and analyses (EAs/INVSs)
       1.3.12. Annual review of NAF AO, NAF HRO, and 5% of the Remaining Employee
       NAF Time and Attendance Employee Records
       1.3.13. Annual review of vending and amusement machine controls
       1.3.14. Annual certification of Services Annual Statement of Assurance
       1.3.15. Miscellaneous - Coordinate on waivers, review SM&W requests for validity,
       review and coordinate on prior year fund adjustments, review Action Plans, review and
       coordinate on lodging rate packages and operating instructions (OIs), etc.
       1.3.16. Review of Tenants, Isolated Unit Funds, and Small Operations
       1.3.17. Annual review of NAFI Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs)
2. Procedures for accomplishing NAF Oversight Responsibilities. This section expands on
NAF Oversight responsibilities (section 1.3) listed above. Responsibilities that must be
accomplished annually can be done anytime within the fiscal year.            Procedures for
accomplishing each of the required tasks are listed below and are also supplemented with
Financial Management training aids (FMTAs) and flowcharts. Services training aids can also be
used for supplementary information.
   2.1. Analysis of NAFI Financial Statements. Prior to the preparation of the financial
   analysis, the NAFFA is responsible for reviewing the preliminary financial statement,
   (Resource Management Flight Chief (RMFC) provides the NAFFA with a complete
   preliminary financial statement for review). Review the preliminary financial statement by
   spot checking for obvious discrepancies, tracing selected areas back to source documents and
   provide results to the RMFC within one working day. The NAFFA prepares a financial
   analysis using the Air Force Services Agency automated NAF Budget and Financial Analysis
   program each month. The analysis is based upon financial statements and reviews of
   operating conditions compared to approved budgets, Air Force standards, MAJCOM goals,
   and local financial goals. Analyzes significant budget-to-actual variances. Coordinates with
   applicable activity managers and flight chiefs to determine causes and recommended
6                                                              AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


    corrective actions. To be effective, the NAFI's financial plans require control. An important
    control lies in periodic comparisons of the NAFI's budgets with actual results.
       2.1.1. The NAF Budget and Financial Analysis Program is used to produce all three
       NAF budgets: income and expense, cash flow and NAF requirements budget (NRB). The
       program is also used to produce different reports which can be used to analyze trends,
       variances, and problem areas for all levels of management. Reports such as the Budget vs
       Actual NIAD Report, Budget Variance Percentage Slide, Trend Analysis for cost of labor
       and cost of sales by cost center and Cost Center Analysis Reports are useful supplemental
       tools to aid in the financial analysis review.
       2.1.2. The Commander’s Summary is a mandatory report which must be generated from
       the NAF Budget and Financial Analysis Program monthly. It is a compilation of financial
       data that identifies actual to budget variances, Acid Test Ratio, and Air Force suggested
       goals / MAJCOM established goals for all established activities. The summary should
       include a narrative identifying activities with significant variances and losses. The
       narrative should include specific areas of operation that contribute to the variances/loss,
       to include root causes and recommended corrective actions. The acid test ratio should be
       reviewed in accordance with Air Force indicators. Review other ratios such as cost of
       sales, cost of labor, and inventory turnover rate as necessary.
       2.1.3. The NAFFA is responsible for using the MicroBAS program to calculate APF
       percentages for category A, and B activities. Identify and report any discrepancies to the
       RMFC for corrective action. Ensure all MWR activities are classified into one of the
       three categories in accordance with AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale,
       Welfare, and Recreation and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities.
       2.1.4. When significant cost of goods sold variances are reported, the NAFFA, activity
       manager and flight chief discuss reasons for inventory variances. The explanation should
       include causes and corrective actions. The NAFFA includes explanations in the analysis.
       Follow the procedures in AFI 34-202, Protection of Assets (under revision as AFI 34-
       410, Protection of Assets), to resolve any inventory variance resulting from simple or
       gross negligence or willful misconduct. Consider storeroom variances (differences
       between actual and recorded inventory), other than those resulting from administrative or
       bookkeeping errors, to be suspected losses and resolve them according to AFI 34-202.
       2.1.5. After completing the analysis (working with Services activity managers, flight
       chiefs and the NAF AO as necessary), the NAFFA coordinates the analysis with the
       RMFC and sends it to the installation Services Commander or Director for review and
       comment. The Services Commander or Director returns the analysis with comments to
       the NAFFA for completion. The final analysis should be signed by the NAFFA, RMFC,
       FM and the Services commander or Director.
       2.1.6. The NAFFA forwards the commander’s summary to the Wing Commander, or
       designee, the MAJCOM FM and Services Commander or Director no later than the last
       working day of the month that follows the end of the reporting period. A copy of the
       coordinated analysis should be kept on file.
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                   7


     2.1.7. Evaluates the financial ramifications of, and makes recommendations on, proposed
     NAFI financial policies. Ensures related FM oversight procedures are in place
     concurrent with implementation of new NAFI financial policies.
     2.1.8. Annual Coordination of Nonappropiated Fund (NAF) Financial Statement
     Certification: The NAFFA should coordinate annually on the Resource Management
     Flight Chief’s (RMFC) quarterly certification of financial statements for all
     Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs). The certification should be true and
     correct to the best of their ability, in accordance with AFI 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund
     Financial Management and Accounting.
        2.1.8.1. The NAFFA should coordinate with the RMFC only for the quarter in which
        the annual balance sheet and subsidiary accounts review is completed. Include any
        and all balance sheet accounts reviewed in that particular quarter and note any
        unresolved discrepancies. Ensure that action is taken to investigate variances, in
        accordance with AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets. Provide a
        copy of the statement to the Services Commander/Division Chief, NAFs Council, and
        the Finance and Audit Committee, if established. (see atch.3 for template)
  2.2. Cash Control Review.
     2.2.1. Cashier Report Reviews: The NAFFA performs an audit of two consecutive days'
     cashiers' reports (CRs) annually for each NAF activity including CRs provided by the
     Services Information Management System (SIMS) or the Lodging Property Management
     System (Lodging Touch System - LTS) for Lodging operations. The audit will include
     cash accountability, register readings, control of prenumbered forms, review of
     established written procedures, and proper distribution to General Ledger Account Codes
     (GLACs). Review two consecutive days’ AF Form 1875, NAF Individual Cashier's
     Reports (CR) and AF Form 1876, Consolidated Cost Center Reports or equivalent. Trace
     information on Individual Cashier Reports to information on Consolidated Cost Center
     Reports or equivalent. Ensure the consolidation is proper, complete and accurate. Balance
     the day's reports for each activity to the deposit reported on the AF Form 1878, Central
     Cashier Deposit Receipt. Detailed procedures for conducting the audit can be found in
     SAF/FMCEB’s Financial Management Training Aids, AFI 34-202, Protecting
     Nonappropriated Fund Assets and AFI 34-209, NAF Financial Management and
     Accounting. Follow-up on all open items to validate action has been taken. Serious
     discrepancies will be forwarded through the FM to the Services Commander or Director.
     Additional CR reviews should be accomplished, as necessary, in activities where serious
     discrepancies are identified.
     2.2.2. Surprise Cash Counts: Conducts annual surprise cash counts at all supported NAF
     activities. The count should be unannounced and include all change funds, imprest funds,
     and receipts on hand within the activity. Ensure the cash counts conducted in activities
     controlled by a general change fund cashier includes all banks that have not been issued
     to other cashiers. The NAFFA or designated individual performing the cash count
     determines whether to count banks already issued. When these banks are not counted, the
     individual conducting the cash count verifies that the general change fund contains a
     receipt for each bank issued from that fund. A surprise cash count includes the assurance
     that written procedures are established for handling and safeguarding funds; only
8                                                               AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


       authorized personnel have access to cash; change fund levels are in accordance with
       approvals; current signed receipts are on hand for cash accountability transferred to other
       individuals; personal funds are not stored or commingled with NAF cash; and cash is not
       stored in a safe designated for classified material; etc. Provide results of these reviews in
       writing to Services management to include the activity manager, flight chief and the
       RMFC. Serious discrepancies will be forwarded through the FM to the Services
       Commander or Director. The NAFFA may conduct special reviews of cash controls and
       additional surprise cash counts, as necessary, in activities where serious discrepancies are
       identified. The NAFFA reviews/monitors the activity managers’ quarterly surprise cash
       counts to ensure the cash counts are accomplished as specified in AFI 34-202, Protecting
       Nonappropriated Fund Assets.
          2.2.2.1. In accordance with AFMAN 34-212, Control Procedures for Protecting NAF
          Assets, when it is not practical or economical to travel to satellite or off-base
          activities to conduct surprise cash counts, the NAFFA requests the FM or site
          commander appoint an independent individual on site to conduct the surprise cash
          count at each location. See AFMAN 34-212 for accounting procedures pertaining to
          satellite or off-base activites.
    2.3. Conduct Management Control Reviews (MCRs) and Internal Control
    Reviews: Conduct higher headquarters developed MCRs and locally developed reviews of
    Services internal controls.
       2.3.1. MCRs provide detailed examination and the test of Air Force internal control
       systems and implementation at installation NAF activities. Perform field work and
       prepare supporting workpapers. Discuss findings with activity manager and indicate an
       estimated completion date (ECD) in report. Provide an outbrief with Services personnel,
       coordinate with Support Group Commander, report results to base level SV, FM,
       MAJCOM, and AFSVA/SVFA. Follow-up on all open items.
       2.3.2. Internal control review can also be locally developed by the NAFFA or Services
       personnel. Reviews developed by Services personnel may be performed by Services
       personnel, or the NAFFA as time permits. Each review should have a clear objective.
          2.3.2.1. When performed by the NAFFA, the NAFFA should prepare supporting
          documents as necessary. Discuss results with activity manager. Report results to the
          RMFC, the Services Commander or Director, and the FM. For significant findings, it
          may be necessary to also report results to the Support Group Commander, the
          Security Police, OSI and others, as appropriate. Follow-up on all open items.
       2.3.3. Provide results and recommendations to the Finance Committee and NAF Council.
    2.4. Review NAF and APF Budgets:
       2.4.1. Reviews NAF and APF budgets of all supported activities. Provides analysis and
       feedback to Services management on proposed budgets. Coordinates on all budgets
       before presentation to the NAF Council.
          2.4.1.1. There are three NAF budgets that must be reviewed: the income and expense
          budget, the NAF requirements budget (NRB) and the cash flow budget. All three
          budgets are generated through the NAF Budget and Financial Analysis Program.
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                    9


        Activity managers and flight chiefs, with guidance from the RMFC, establish
        financial goals and budgets to meet the standards and objectives established by the
        Services Commander or Director, MAJCOM, and HQ USAF/ILV, if realistically
        achievable. The RMFC forwards all activity and consolidated NAFI budgets to the
        NAFFA for review and coordination at least ten workdays prior to presentation to the
        NAF Council. The NAFFA reviews budgets quarterly to ensure they are realistic and
        attainable. The NAFFA meets with the activity manager, flight chiefs, RMFC and / or
        Services commander or Director, as necessary to discuss concerns and recommended
        changes. Unresolved issues should be identified to the NAF Council.
     2.4.2. NAF Income and Expense (I&E) Budget: The RMFC uses the budget module of
     the automated NAF Budget and Financial Analysis program to consolidate each activity’s
     income and expense budget into a NAFI budget for each established NAFI. The NAFFA
     reviews all budgets and revisions based on historical data, program changes and
     MAJCOM and Air Force standards and goals. The NAF AO retains the budget
     supporting documentation and provides copies to the NAFFA when requested. This
     documentation should contain, as a minimum, justification for significant changes in
     income or expense categories over the prior fiscal year, payroll computations, and
     explanations for any differences from Air Force standards or goals.
     2.4.3. NAF Requirements Budget (NRB) is a five year projection of large expenditures
     for equipment, furnishings, facilities projects, bulk purchases of expendable equipment
     and high value supply items. The NRB is updated quarterly. The NAFFA reviews and
     coordinates on the NRB and verifies that the NAF cash flow budget includes all
     applicable totals from the NRB and all requirements authorized APF support are not
     included in the NRB unless a waiver has been approved.
     2.4.4. APF Budget Review: Conduct a comparison analysis using historical and APF
     Financial Plan (FinPlan) data (The RMFC provides the NAFFA with a complete APF
     FinPlan). Review the APF budget to verify that requirements for the same item are not
     included on both NAF and APF budgets. Requirements authorized APF support for
     operational and capital needs are included in APF FinPlan budgets.
     2.4.5. NAF Cash Flow Budget: The cash flow budget reflects anticipated changes in the
     level of cash and shows expected inflows and outflows of cash for a period of time. If the
     projected cash balance is below the acceptable Air Force standard, the Services
     Commander reviews projected operations and makes necessary adjustments.
  2.5. Review of Accounts Receivable (A/R) /Uncollectable Accounts:
     2.5.1. NAFFAs’ review of MWR Fund Customer Accounts Receivable: With the
     implementation of the Air Force Membership Club Card, customer accounts receivables
     for Club membership dues and other charge sales are directly charged to a bankcard
     issued by a credit card company. Therefore, in-house customer A/R should be minimum.
     Review of daily Air Force Membership Club Card charges is accomplished during annual
     CR review.
        2.5.1.1. Any member not eligible for a credit card is issued a proprietary card. The
        credit card company will not take responsibility for collection of delinquent
        proprietary accounts until the account is 65 days delinquent. At that time the account
10                                                              AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


            is recoursed to the base where the cardholder is a dues paying member. Recoursed
            account collection processes should be reviewed in accordance with Air Force
            Services guidance.
            2.5.1.2. In-house customer A/R are only authorized for other membership activities,
            i.e, aero clubs, riding clubs, etc., when a member does not belong to an Air Force club
            or does not wish to charge membership fees on a personal credit card. In-house
            charges for sales/services for these activities are not authorized. A special function
            contract held at the end of month and remaining unpaid at month end may be
            temporarily recorded into accounts receivable. It must be removed in the next month
            when the pro-rata sheet is received. If not collected during this time, the amount is
            written off in accordance with Air Force Services guidelines. Review locally
            established OIs on uncollected special functions. If customer accounts exist other than
            for the exceptions noted above, management must explain their existence and take
            appropriate action to remove them from accounts receivable.
            2.5.1.3. All other categories of receivables, i.e., Other NAFI, MAJCOM/AF, Outside
            Agency, (GLACs 113 - 119) etc. should be reviewed and verified during an annual
            review of balance sheet accounts.
        2.5.2. NAFFA Review of Written Off Accounts / Allowance for Uncollectable Bad
        Debts (GLACs 112, 120 and 121) - At least annually, the NAFFA conducts a review of
        the validity of all NAFI account writeoffs for the year in which the review is conducted.
        Follow the guidance provided in AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets,
        and validate the allowance for uncollectable bad debts. Include estimated writeoffs of
        recoursed accounts and returned checks based on historical data, in accordance with AFI
        34-209, Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting. This review
        includes, but is not limited to, adequacy of collection actions, compliance with policies,
        and adherence to local OIs.
            2.5.2.1. NAFFA Review of OIs: The NAFFA must review all accounts receivable
            and collection procedures OIs prepared by the RMFC or designee for each operation
            to ensure adequacy and compliance with sound business practices.
        2.5.3. NAFFA Review of Lodging Fund Accounts Receivable: The NAFFA reviews the
        schedule of aged accounts receivable for the Lodging Fund at least annually. The
        accounts for Lodging are categorized by individual and agency (unit/organization).
        Individual accounts are subject to an advance payment policy. Agency accounts should
        be paid via agency government credit card or IMPAC card. In accordance with AFMAN
        34-214, Procedures for NAF Financial Management and Accounting, the lodging
        manager is responsible for collection actions of accounts that are 30 and 60 days
        delinquent. After 90 days delinquent, the RMFC assumes responsibility for all collection
        actions. When the over-90 days category shows a high percentage of delinquent accounts,
        the NAFFA initiates a special review to determine causes and to recommend corrective
        actions. The NAFFA provides the results of these reviews to the RMFC for information
        and implementation of corrective actions, where necessary.
     2.6. Review of APF Support to MWR using Microbased Budget Automated System
     (MicroBAS): Reviews the MicroBAS execution report quarterly for reasonableness, and
     consistency, and identifies problem areas to Services management for resolution. Refer to
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                    11


  appropriate Air Force Services Agency and FM training aids on APF support to Services
  activities. The MicroBAS program is managed locally by the FM’s Financial Analysis
  branch who serves as OPR for the program and POC for MicroBAS training. Execution
  reports should be printed and reviewed for reasonableness using historical data and guidance
  from AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation and
  Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities.
     2.6.1. The NAFFA is also responsible for monthly calculating APF support percentages
     for category A and B activities. The percentages are used to complete the commanders’
     summary of the monthly financial analysis (section 2.1.3).
     2.6.2. Supporting Documents: The NAFFA verifies that the following reviews were
     performed by the RMFC:
         2.6.2.1. A semi-annual review of the R-60 (civilian pay roster that lists employees by
         Social Security Number and is grouped by cost center including total payroll costs)
         produced by the DFAS operating location (OPLOC);
         2.6.2.2. A periodic review of the Unit Manning Personnel Roster - UMPR (military
         personnel roster) to ensure Services employees are assigned to the correct cost center.
         2.6.2.3. An annual review of the Utility Sales Agreement established with Civil
         Engineers to ensure appropriate charges are made by reviewing the method of
         computing charges which takes into consideration any renovations and new facilities
         with more efficient energy use (only in CONUS). Review MOU between Civil
         Engineering and Services to ensure it is in place and current.
  2.7. Impartial Inventories: An impartial inventory is required annually. The NAFFA
  prepares a schedule for annual impartial inventories of fixed assets, storerooms, and salable
  merchandise, including point-of-sale (POS) inventories. All resale inventory observations
  must include inventory level analysis. The inventory team observes the activity manager or
  designee perform the actual physical inventory.
     2.7.1. The NAFFA prepares the schedule at the beginning of each fiscal year. Stagger the
     schedule by NAFI and activity for storerooms and salable merchandise. For example,
     schedule only one club at a time for these types of impartial inventories, since the other
     clubs would most likely have to provide impartial inventory team members. Schedule
     inventories at seasonal activities in a month when the activity is open.
     2.7.2. The NAFFA coordinates the annual impartial inventory schedule with the Services
     Commander or Director. This allows the Services Commander or Director to notify
     activities of the dates when either their inventory will be observed or they will be tasked
     to provide impartial inventory team members. Provide coordinated copies of the schedule
     to the activities, flight chiefs and the RMFC. Ensure that activities are sent reminder
     notices prior to impartial inventories. Include the dates and times to brief team members
     on their responsibilities.
     2.7.3. Personnel assigned impartial inventory duty should be experienced with inventory
     procedures and must be independent of the activity being inventoried. The Services
     Commander or Director, at his discretion, may request a military detail from within
     his/her organization to perform an impartial inventory.
12                                                             AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


        2.7.4. The impartial inventory team leader ensures the activity staff takes a complete and
        accurate inventory and notes the general security of the facility and physical inventory.
        Where possible, the team leader should be senior in grade or rank to the manager of the
        activity being observed. See applicable FM training aid (FMTA #8) for additional
        guidance and an outline detailing the team’s responsibilities. When using military
        personnel, the Services Commander or Director appoints the detail by either letter or
        special order.
        2.7.5. Inventory Analysis for Resale Operations:
            2.7.5.1. Annually performs an inventory analysis of all resale operations to be
            included with written results from the activity’s impartial inventory. Analysis should
            verify compliance with established in-use maximum inventory ceiling levels and
            inventory turnover. Coordinate with the activity manager to provide detail
            explanations for significant variances.
            2.7.5.2. Inventory Turnover. The inventory turnover rate shows the number of times
            inventory turned over during a given period. As a general rule, keep the amount
            invested in inventories to a minimum. To compute the inventory turnover rate, divide
            the cost of goods (COG) sold by the average inventory (the beginning inventory plus
            the ending inventory, divided by 2) for the period.
        2.7.6. At the conclusion of the observed inventory, the inventory team or team leader
        briefs the NAFFA on results of the inventory and discrepancies observed. After receiving
        the property memorandum from the inventory team, the NAFFA discusses the
        certification with the RMFC and the activity manager. The RMFC reviews and
        investigates all variances according to AFI 34-202. Written results are forwarded to the
        Services Commander or Director and the FM. The NAFFA follows up on discrepancies
        listed by the team chief. The RMFC completes property account write-offs within 30
        days of physical inventory or within 30 days of investigation completion, where
        applicable.
        2.7.7. Special Morale and Welfare (SM&W) Stock Items. SM&W items include
        refreshments, mementos and other SM&W items, in accordance with AFI 34-201, Use of
        Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS). The NAFFA ensures the RMFC conducts an annual
        inventory. The NAFFA is not responsible for administering an SM&W inventory The
        RMFC provides a copy of the annual SM&W inventory to the NAFFA for verification.
            2.7.7.1. Point-of-Sale (POS) Inventory. The NAFFA ensures that the RMFC
            conducts a quarterly surprise check on the inventory maintained on a POS system.
            The check should include 5 percent of the items on inventory, not to exceed 50 items.
            2.7.7.2. Below-Cost Pricing. With the advice of the RMFC and NAFFA, the SVS
            Commander/Director may authorize below-cost sales for slow-moving or excess
            inventories when the activity manager recommends them.
     2.8. Review and Follow-up of All Audits/Resolution of Nonconcurrences: Review and
     follow-up on all findings that result from previous reviews and audits. Follow-up should
     include reviews of all NAFFA related findings and all outside audits conducted by agencies,
     such as, Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA), Public Accountant Contract Audits (PACAs),
     Department of Defense (DoD), Inspector General (IG) and General Accounting Office
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                    13


  (GAO) audits. Procedures for follow-up should include two reviews at the installation level
  before forwarding to higher headquarters. The NAFFA conducts a quarterly review with the
  RMFC of all open items with estimated completion dates (ECD) within that quarter. If
  findings are not closed, establish a new ECD and provide written results to the FM and the
  Services Commander/Director. During the next quarterly review, if action has not been taken
  to close finding from the previous review, inform the FM and provide written results to the
  Support Group and Wing commander. After the third review if the same findings remain
  open, forwards a copy of the report to your MAJCOM NAFFA for action. The MAJCOM
  NAFFA should initiate a review at the command level to resolve the issue. If after one
  attempt at the command level, no action has been taken to resolve the issue, forward the
  matter to SAF/FMCEB for resolution.
     2.8.1. Attends all Services related audit inbriefs and outbriefs to Wing, Support Group,
     and Services Commanders.
     2.8.2. Evaluates the adequacy of management responses to audit findings and
     recommendations.
     2.8.3. Tracks corrective action until closed to ensure compliance.
     2.8.4. Coordinates on all audit nonconcurrences and tracks them to resolution.
     2.8.5. Provides quarterly base PACA audit status reports to MAJCOM FM.
  2.9. Review of NAF IMPAC Procedures: Thoroughly examines internal controls
  procedures in local operating instructions and guidelines established by the Program
  Coordinator (usually RMFC). Review account set up documentation, cardholders records,
  and all applicable IMPAC contractor provided reports, electronic system reports and
  supporting documents.
     2.9.1. Review of NAF IMPAC Documentation: Verifies that the RMFC issued and
     signed a written delegation of authority to purchase with nonappropriated funds using the
     IMPAC for each approving official and cardholder. If the RMFC is not warranted,
     delegations must be co-signed by a warranted contracting officer. Ensure delegations
     outline approving official and cardholder official responsibilities. Verify cardholder
     delegations include the maximum dollar amount for a single purchase. Ensure every
     cardholder received documented training.
     2.9.2. Review of IMPAC Processes and Reports: The review should encompass at least
     25% of all cardholders with the most purchases, but no less than two per base. Review
     the most recent IMPAC TBR00400 Account Cycle Report to determine the cardholders
     with the most purchases. Review the selected cardholders monthly purchase log to verify
     all purchases for the month are recorded on the log and any variances are noted on the
     statement. The cardholder must attempt to resolve all variances with the vendor within 30
     days of the statement date. If there are unresolved variances, the cardholder must
     complete a Cardholder Statement of Questioned Item (CSQI), attach it to the statement,
     and forward it to the approving official for forwarding to the contractor. The contractor
     must receive the CSQI within 60 days of the statement date in which the disputed item
     first appears. Ensure purchases are not split to stay within the single purchase limit.
     Reviews copies of receipts and verify that sales tax is not included. Verify the cardholder
     forwards all original receipts to the NAF AO at the time of purchase. Verifies that the
14                                                              AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


        approving official reviews each respective cardholders’ statement monthly and forwards
        certified statements to the NAF AO for payment within 10 working days after the end of
        the billing cycle.
        2.9.3. Review Billing Office - NAF AO Documentation and Processes: Verifies
        documents are input into the accounting system based upon the date of receipt. Verifies
        payments are made according to the amended Prompt Payment Act, within 23 days of
        receipt of the statement-billing file from the bank. The bank must receive payments
        before the billing cycle cut off on the 25th of the next month. Verify the statement-billing
        file from the bank reconciles to the total of all cardholder statement of account and
        discrepancies are resolved before the completion of the next month’s billing cycle.
        Verifies CSQIs are mailed to the bankcard center within 60 days of the invoice date.
        2.9.4. Reports to Review for Compliance: The following is a list of reports to verify
        compliance with applicable guidance.
            2.9.4.1. To check credit limits review account listing TBR00210.
            2.9.4.2. To check for accounts past due for more than one statement review the
            Account Aging Analysis Report, TBR00340.
            2.9.4.3. To check for sales tax, types of merchants and dollar amounts of purchase,
            review the Account Cycle Report, TBR00400.
     2.10. Review of Balance Sheet and Subsidiary Accounts: Review balance sheet accounts
     and their respective subsidiaries to validate reconciliation to the general ledger. Review
     supporting documentation for accuracy, validity, and currentness. Subsidiary accounts
     provide a breakdown of the reflected totals on the balance sheet. Verify annually that the
     NAF accounting office reconciles all subsidiary accounts to their general ledger control
     accounts. This review does not include reconciling the accounts. Begin the review process
     after the financial statements have been completed for the period and the NAF AO has
     completed the reconciliation of accounts. Recommend this task be spread throughout the
     period to allow an in-depth analysis of subsidiary accounts and discrepancies. Provide the
     RMFC the summary of results; if unresolvable discrepancies exist, provide a copy of the
     statement to the Services Commander, NAF Council, and the Finance Committee, if
     established. Ensure action is taken to investigate variances according to AFI 34-202,
     Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets.
     2.11. Review of Financial Studies and Analyses (EAs/INVSs). As a collateral
     responsibility, assists Services personnel in accomplishing special financial studies and
     analyses, including EAs and INVSs.
        2.11.1. Services is OPR for management-related areas of these studies, i.e.:
            2.11.1.1. conducting surveys
            2.11.1.2. developing requirements
            2.11.1.3. determining costs
            2.11.1.4. preparing budgets and proforma financial statements
            2.11.1.5. calculating rate of return and payback period for INVSs.
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                      15


     2.11.2. Internal Needs Validation Studies (INVS) are conducted by the base. The study
     consist of five (5) parts. Part I is completed by the Base Civil Engineers. It defines the
     scope of the project and provides a facility analysis to include cost. Part II is completed
     by the activity manager. It entails an operational analysis of the facility and impact on the
     operation if the project is complete. Part III is completed through the coordinated efforts
     of the activity manager, the Flight Chief, the RMFC and validated by the NAFFA. It
     entails historical financial data and projected impacts on operations. FM signs part III of
     the INVS. Part IV is completed by the Services Marketing section. It entails the results of
     customer surveys, demographics, and other considerations. Part V is completed by the
     Services commander or Director. It is a summary of the entire project with a value
     assessed to it based on calculations.
     2.11.3. The NAFFA should review all parts of the INVSs for reasonableness and internal
     consistency.
  2.12. Review of NAF AO, NAF HRO, and 5% of the Remaining NAF Employee Time
  and Attendance Employee Records. Review NAF accounting office (NAF AO), NAF
  Human Resource Office (HRO) and 5% of all remaining NAF employee payroll records
  annually. Review includes two to three pay periods. Purpose is to ensure that only
  authorized employees are paid, payroll is reported correctly, and proper approvals and
  authorizations are submitted. Request a personnel query from the Human Resource Office
  for NAF employees. Validate NAF Employee Register information, i.e., SSN, Cost Center,
  hourly pay rates against the query. Verify that employee personnel query information exists
  for every person on the payroll list to ensure there are no “ghost” employees. Verify
  employees have supporting American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) Form
  1187 in their record authorizing union dues allotment and supporting forms for NAF charity
  deductions. Verify 401(K) participant listing. Verify Group Insurance and Retirement
  Deduction listings are coded correctly. Verify leave is properly approved and signed for and
  that supporting documentation exists. Minor concerns and findings will be resolved at the
  activity manager, flight chief and FSS Resource Manager levels. When serious discrepancies
  exist, provide written findings through the FM to the Support Group Commander, the FSS
  Commander or Director and the FSS Resource Manager. Follow-up on recommended
  actions.
  2.13. Review Vending and Amusement Machine Controls. Reviews vending and
  amusement machine controls, including slot machines, and identifies internal control
  weaknesses. Provides profitability analysis and makes recommendations, as necessary. The
  NAFFA performs an annual independent observation of the slot machine harvest, including
  kiosk funds accountability and security procedures.
  2.14. Annual Certification of Services Annual Statement of Assurance: The NAFFA is
  responsible for conducting an annual certification of Services Statement of Assurance. The
  certification process verifies that the required internal management control system is in effect
  and functioning properly in accordance with AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund
  Assets and AFI 65-201, Management Control. The annual statement of assurance
  certification is accomplished by relying on NAFFA related findings and all outside audits (
  addressed in para. 2.8.) According to AFI 65-201, the following sources can be used as
  sources to assess controls: AFAA, DoDIG and GAO audits, inspection, or investigations,
  financial system reviews, program evaluations, self inspection programs (refer to AFI 34-
16                                                             AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


     202), quality assessments, and management knowledge gained from daily operations. The
     RMFC should provide the NAFFA with a copy of Services Annual Statement of Assurance.
     The NAFFA uses the criteria stated above to prepare certification of Services Annual
     Statement of Assurance.
     2.15. Miscellaneous - Review of Action Plans, OIs, Special Morale & Welfare (SM&W)
     Requests, Prior Year Fund Equity Adjustments and Waivers and other analysis as
     requested by Services Commanders/Directors and approved by FM:
        2.15.1. Action/Get Well Plan - Reviews and coordinates on initial assessments and
        action plans prepared by Services management for NAFIs and Services activities that
        don’t meet minimum financial requirements. Initial assessments and action plans should
        be realistic and address root causes and corrective actions.
        2.15.2. OIs - Reviews financial operating instructions and procedures during other
        reviews, i.e. surprise cash counts, and when revisions are made for adequacy and
        compliance with applicable guidance.
        2.15.3. SM&W Requests - The base FM or designee is responsible for coordinating on
        all SM&W expenditures. FM certifies that APFs Official Representation Funds are or are
        not authorized in accordance with AFI 65-603, Official Representation Fund - Guidance
        and Procedures and 65-601, Budget Guidance and Procedures.. If APFs are authorized,
        then FM certifies if funds are or are not available. In accordance with AFI 34-201, Use of
        Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS), if APFs are authorized but not available, NAFs are not
        to be used for the SM&W expenditure, except as specifically authorized in AFI 34-201,
        Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS), Chapter 12.
           2.15.3.1. Commander’s Delegation of Authority Letter - For recurring SM&W NAF
           expenditures, FM coordinates on the Commander’s Delegation of Authority letter to
           certify that expenditures are not authorized APF. Ensure the Delegation letter is
           reviewed by the NAF Council annually in accordance with Air Force Services
           Agency guidance.
           2.15.3.2. SM&W Quarterly Expenditure Report - Generated quarterly by the NAF
           AO to support financial statements in accordance with AFIs 34-201, Use of
           Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS) and 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund Financial
           Management and Accounting. The NAFFA coordinates on the expenditure report and
           reviews reconciliation to the consolidated “Q” cost center of the financial statement,
           in accordance with AFI 34-209.
           2.15.3.3. Prior Year Fund Equity Adjustments - Review and coordinate on prior year
           fund adjustments. Verify that adjustments are in accordance with AFMAN 34-214.
           2.15.3.4. Waivers - Review waiver request for validity according to applicable
           guidance. If valid, evaluate internal control impact and adverse impact. If necessary
           make recommendations to the OPR. Coordinate and return to Services.
           Nonconcurrences should also be coordinated on and returned to Services.
           2.15.3.5. Miscellaneous - Serves as recorder of the NAF Finance Committee, when
           established. Provides input to Services financial briefings, when requested.
     2.16. Tenants, Isolated Unit Funds, and Small Operations:
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                     17


      2.16.1. See AFI 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting,
      for definition of “small operations”, and AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds
      (NAFS), chapter 11, for definition of “tenant and isolated units”. The NAFFA conducts
      internal control reviews of tenant and MWR small operation activities at least once every
      two years to ensure internal controls are effective and efficient. Reviews may be
      accomplished more frequently if time and TDY funds permit, or if serious internal
      control deficiencies develop or are suspected.
      2.16.2. The RMFC prepares an operating instruction (OI) to ensure adequate internal
      controls exist. The NAFFA reviews new OIs and OI revisions for adequacy.
      2.16.3. Establish, Merge, Dissolve NAFIs. The NAFFA coordinates on packages and
      actions required for establishing, merging, or dissolving NAFIs. See AFI 34-201, Use of
      Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS) for basic policy. Services personnel request approval to
      use the base closure general ledger account codes from SAF/FMCEB, through MAJCOM
      SVFs and HQ AFSVA/SVF and HQ USAF/ILV.
   2.17. Review of NAFI Memorandums of Agreement. Review all new MOAs prior to
   implementation and each NAFI MOA annually with results reported to the NAF Council.
   The purpose of the review is to provide decision support to the Installation Commander
   regarding initial implementation or continuance, renegotiation, or cancellation of each MOA.
   Completed annual reviews or summaries will be submitted to the MAJCOM NAFFA.
   Ensure all costs were properly reported and analyze computed costs with both current and
   historical costs. Validate documentation supporting invoice and receiving processes. Validate
   the accounting procedures used for NAF and APF financial reporting. Validate funding is
   not received through both the MOA and direct APF funding for the same requirements.
   Validate the stated benefit to both the AF APF financial position and the NAFI are
   documented and reasonable for initial MOAs and are being realized for existing MOAs.
3. Financial Evaluations and Reporting.
   3.1. Evaluations: Requires the NAFFA to evaluate the reliability of financial reporting,
   effectiveness and efficiency of operations and compliance with applicable Air Force
   guidance for all assigned tasks. The main objective is to provide reasonable assurance that
   controls are in place to protect NAF resources.
   3.2. Levels of Reporting: Levels of reporting are based on two criteria: type of assigned
   tasks and severity of findings.
      3.2.1. Type of Assigned Tasks: All results of reviews are provided to Services
      management. Copies of the following reports should also be sent to other officials who
      have authority and or responsibility for oversight. Financial Analysis written results must
      be sent to the activity manager/flight chief, RMFC, and Services Commander/Director
      prior to forwarding to Financial Manager, the Support Group commander, the installation
      commander and the MAJCOM/FM and SV. All MCR reports must be sent to and
      coordinated through the Services Commander/Director, the FM, and the Support Group
      commander. MCR results should be reported to the NAF Council, the Finance and Audit
      Committee (if established at base level), MAJCOM/FM and SVand AFSVA will submit
      to AF/ILV and SAF/FMCEB. Accounts Receivable review requires written results to the
      NAF Council. PACA audit status must be forwarded to MAJCOM/FM and SV.
18                                                        AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


     3.2.2. Severity of Findings: Any finding with indications of fraud, theft or irregular
     activity should be reported to the proper authorities.




                                        ROBERT F. HALE
                                        Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial
                                        Management
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                   19


                                       ATTACHMENT 1
  MAJOR COMMAND AND BASE NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS (NAF) COUNCIL
                 FINANCE COMMITTEE CHARTER

A1.1. The MAJCOM NAF Council will appoint a Finance Committee. Base NAF Councils
may, at their discretion, appoint a Finance Committee. The NAF Council directs the functions of
the Finance Committee, including how frequently the Committee meets. Where the base NAF
Council chooses not to appoint a Finance Committee, the Council itself will fulfill the
responsibilities this AFI specifies for a Finance Committee.
A1.2. Suggested Membership:
   A1.2.1. At the MAJCOM level:
       A1.2.1.1. MAJCOM FM (or Deputy FM), who serves as chairperson.
       A1.2.1.2. Director, Services.
       A1.2.1.3. Director, Civil Engineering.
       A1.2.1.4. Staff Judge Advocate.
   A1.2.2. At the base or installation level:
       A1.2.2.1. Base FM, who serves as chairperson.
       A1.2.2.2. Commander, Services Squadron.
       A1.2.2.3. Base Civil Engineer.
       A1.2.2.4. Staff Judge Advocate.
A1.3. Organization:
   A1.3.1. At the MAJCOM level, the Commander will designate, any other members of the
   Committee in writing. At the base level, the Wing Commander or equivalent will designate,
   any other members in writing.
   A1.3.2. The Committee meets prior to each NAF Council meeting, at the call of the
   Committee Chairperson, and whenever directed by the NAF Council.
   A1.3.3. A quorum is a simple majority of the voting members or their designated
   representatives. Committee actions require a simple majority of the voting members present.
   A1.3.4. The Committee will keep a record of all its actions and proceedings and will report
   its actions to the NAF Council. The NAF Financial Analyst (NAFFA) will act as recorder,
   provide administrative support, and maintain records for the Committee.
   A1.3.5. The Committee may take any action within its authority, without meeting, if each
   member receives a written description of the matter requiring action. All voting members or
   their designees must have an opportunity to vote. Such Committee actions require a simple
   majority of the voting members.
A1.4. Responsibilities. The Committee will:
20                                                            AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


     A1.4.1. Recommend to the NAF Council financial policies, standards, goals, and get-well
     plans affecting items like cash flow, NAF and appropriated fund budgets, construction, and
     return on facility investments.
     A1.4.2. Review financial results of operations.
     A1.4.3. Review significant items covered in published audit, Office of Special
     Investigations, and Inspector General reports, Management Control Reviews, and internal
     control reviews, especially those involving fraud, waste, and abuse.
     A1.4.4. Review other information at the discretion of the Chairperson or as directed by the
     NAF Council or the Wing Commander (or equivalent).
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                                 21


                                    ATTACHMENT 2
               REFERENCE GUIDE FOR SERVICES PUBLICATIONS

CURRENT        REVISED
NUMBER         NUMBER
(Note: All Services publications are in the process of being renumbered, their new numbers are noted
below unless already complete or not being revised)
AFPD 34-1      AFPD 34-1         AIR FORCE SERVICES COMBAT SUPPORT PROGRAMS
AFPD 34-2      AFPD 34-4         MANAGING NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS
AFPD 34-3      Unchanged         NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
                                 AND ADMINISTRATION
AFPD 34-4                        FOOD SERVICE
AFPD 34-5                        MORTUARY AFFAIRS
AFPD 34-6                        AIR FORCE LODGING
AFPD 34-7                        CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
AFPD 34-8                        YOUTH PROGRAMS
AFPD 34-9                        LAUNDRY, DRY CLEANING, AND LINEN EXCHANGE
AFI 34-103     AFI 34-263        AIR FORCE CONSUMER AFFAIRS PROGRAM
AFI 34-104     AFI 34-264        SERVICES MARKETING AND PUBLICITY PROGRAM
AFI 34-105     AFI 34-205        PROGRAMMING FOR NONAPPROPRIATED FUND FACILITY
                                 REQUIREMENTS
AFI 34-106     AFI 34-265        AIR FORCE RELATIONSHIP WITH SERVICES-RELATED
                                 NATIONAL     AGENCIES   AND     PROFESSIONAL
                                 ORGANIZATIONS
AFI 34-107     AFI 34-266        THE AIR FORCE FITNESS AND SPORTS PROGRAM
AFI 34-109     AFI 34-267        AIR FORCE COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES CENTERS
AFI 34-110     AFI 34-268        AIR FORCE OUTDOOR RECREATION PROGRAMS
AFI 34-111     AFI 34-269        AIR FORCE SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
AFI 34-115     AFI 34-272        AIR FORCE CLUB PROGRAM
AFI 34-116     AFI 34-273        AIR FORCE GOLF COURSE PROGRAM
AFI 34-118     AFI 34-274        BOWLING PROGRAM
AFI 34-121     AFI 34-221        OTHER RECREATION MEMBERSHIP CLUBS PROGRAMS
AFJI 34-122    Will be           CIVILIAN NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS AND MORALE,
               replaced          WELFARE, AND RECREATION (Revised guidance will be in
22                                                   AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


                           AFIs 34-201 and 34-209)


AFI 34-124    AFI 34-224   AIR FORCE MORALE, WELFARE, AND RECREATION
                           ADVISORY BOARD (AFMWRAB)
AFI 34-125                 SERVICES LETTERS
AFI 34-127    AFI 34-227   EXCELLENCE-IN-COMPETITION (EIC)
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-228       AIR FORCE CLUB PROGRAM PROCEDURES
128
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-229       AIR FORCE SLOT MACHINE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
129
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-230       AIR FORCE GOLF COURSE PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
130
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-234       AIR  FORCE         SKILLS     DEVELOPMENT      PROGRAM
134                        OPERATIONS
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-237       AIR FORCE FITNESS AND SPORTS OPERATIONS
137
AFJI 34-139   Unchanged    EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES (COVER PAGE ONLY)
AFI 34-201    AFI 34-403   USE OF NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS (NAFS)
AFI 34-202    AFI 34-410   PROTECTING NONAPPROPRIATED FUND ASSETS
AFI 34-204    AFI 34-404   AIR FORCE SERVICES LOGISTICS SUPPORT PROGRAM
AFI 34-206    AFI 34-411   VENDING FACILITY PROGRAM FOR THE BLIND ON AIR
                           FORCE PROPERTY
AFI 34-208    AFI 34-408   PROPERTY AND CASUALTY PROGRAM
AFI 34-209    AFI 34-409   NONAPPROPRIATED FUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                           AND ACCOUNTING
AFJI 34-210   Unchanged    ARMY AND AIR FORCE EXCHANGE SERVICE OPERATING
                           POLICIES (COVER PAGE ONLY)
AFJI 34-211   Unchanged    ARMY AND AIR FORCE EXCHANGE SERVICE GENERAL
                           POLICIES (COVER PAGE ONLY)
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-412       CONTROL PROCEDURES FOR PROTECTING NAF ASSETS
212
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-413       NONAPPROPRIATED FUND PROPERTY AND CASUALTY
213                        CLAIMS ADMINISTRATION
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-414       PROCEDURES FOR NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS FINANCIAL
214                        MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                                 23


AFMAN 34- AFI 34-415        PROCEDURES FOR THE        CASH   MANAGEMENT        AND
215                         INVESTMENT PROGRAM
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-416        AIR FORCE COMMERCIAL SPONSORSHIP PROCEDURES
216
AFI 34-217   Revised        AIR FORCE AERO CLUB PROGRAM (Formerly AFI 34-117)
AFJMAN 34- Unchanged        PERSONNEL POLICIES (COVER PAGE ONLY)
218
AFI 34-219   Revised        ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE PROGRAM (Formerly AFI 34-119)
AFI 34-223   Revised        PRIVATE ORGANIZATION (PO) PROGRAM (Formerly AFI 34-
                            123)
AFI 34-227                  EXCELLENCE-IN-COMPETITION (EIC)
AFMAN 34- Revised           AERO CLUB OPERATIONS (Formerly AFI 34-132)
232
AFI 34-233   Revised        AIR  FORCE    OUTDOOR        RECREATION      PROGRAM
                            PROCEDURES (Formerly AFI 34-133)
AFMAN 34- Revised           AIR FORCE ENTERTAINMENT PROGRAM OPERATIONS
236                         (Formerly AFI 34-136)
AFMAN 34- Revised           AIR FORCE BOWLING PROGRAM MANAGEMENT (Formerly
238                         AFI 34-138)
AFI 34-241   Revised        MEAL CARD PROGRAM (Formerly AFI 34-402)
AFMAN 34- Revised           MORTUARY AFFAIRS PROGRAM PROCEDURES (Formerly
243                         AFMAN 34-508)
AFI 34-244   Revised        DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY (Formerly AFI 34-
                            502)
AFI 34-246   Revised        AIR FORCE LODGING PROGRAM (Formerly AFI 34-601)
IC 97-1                     IC 97-1 to AFI 34-246
AFMAN 34- Revised           AIR FORCE LODGING PROGRAM MANAGEMENT (Formerly
247                         AFMAN 34-603)
AFI 34-252   Revised        LAUNDRY, DRY CLEANING, AND LINEN EXCHANGE
                            (Formerly AFI 34-901)
AFMAN 34- Revised           LAUNDRY, DRY CLEANING, AND LINEN EXCHANGE
253                         (Formerly AFMAN 34-902)
AFI 34-254   Revised        SERVICES EDUCATION AND TRAINING (Formerly AFI 36-
                            2240)
AFPAM 34- Revised           ESCORTING DECEASED AIR FORCE MILITARY PERSONNEL
259
24                                                 AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


AFPAM 34- Revised         MORTUARY SERVICES BENEFITS FOR RETIRED AIR FORCE
260                       MEMBERS
AFPAM 34- Revised         MORTUARY SERVICES BENEFITS FOR MEMBERS WHO DIE
261                       WHILE ON ACTIVE DUTY
AFI 34-262   Revised      SERVICES PROGRAMS AND USE ELIGIBILITY (Formerly AFI
                          34-201)
97-1                      IC 97-1 to AFI 34-262
AFI 34-270   Revised      AIR FORCE LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SYSTEM (AFLIS)
                          (Formerly AFI 34-113)
AFI 34-271   Revised      AIR FORCE SHOOTING PROGRAM (Formerly AFI 34-114)
AFI 34-301   Unchanged    NONAPPROPRIATED FUND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
                          AND ADMINISTRATION
AFI 34-302   Unchanged    NONAPPROPRIATED FUND (NAF) EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT
                          PLAN
AFI 34-305   Unchanged    NONAPPROPRIATED FUND GROUP HEALTH PLANS
AFI 34-306   Unchanged    NONAPPROPRIATED FUND GROUP LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL
                          DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PLAN
AFI 34-307   Unchanged    NONAPPROPRIATED FUND FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN
AFI 34-308   Unchanged    WORKER’S COMPENSATION PROGRAM
AFI 34-309   Unchanged    NONAPPROPRIATED      FUND               UNEMPLOYMENT
                          COMPENSATION PROGRAM
AFMAN 34- Unchanged       NONAPPROPRIATED  FUND   PERSONNEL   PROGRAM
310                       MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURES
AFMAN 34- Unchanged       WORKERS’ COMPENSATION PROCEDURES
311
AFMAN 34- Unchanged       HUMAN RESOURCES ASSESSMENT              OF    PERSONNEL
312                       MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
AFMAN 34- Unchanged       UNEMPLOYMENT            COMPENSATION   ADMINISTRATION
314                       PROCEDURES
AFI 34-315   Unchanged    AIR  FORCE     NONAPPROPRIATED            FUND       (NAF)
                          EMPLOYEES’401(K) SAVINGS PLAN
AFI 34-401   AFI 34-239   FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-240      FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
405
AFI 34-407   Revised      AIR FORCE COMMERCIAL            SPONSORSHIP    PROGRAM
                          (Formerly AFI 34-207)
AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999                                            25


AFI 34-501   AFI 34-242     MORTUARY AFFAIRS PROGRAM
AFI 34-503   AFI 34-245     USAF BASE HONOR GUARD PROGRAM
AFPAM 34- AFI 34-255        GOVERNMENT QUARTERS AND DINING FACILITIES
602
IC 97-1                     IC 97-1 to AFPAM 34-602
AFJMAN 34-                  ARMED FORCES RECIPE SERVICE (COVER PAGE ONLY)
606v1
AFJMAN 34-                  ARMED FORCES RECIPE SERVICE (COVER PAGE ONLY)
606v2
AFI 34-701   AFI 34-248     CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
AFI 34-801   AFI 34-249     YOUTH PROGRAMS
AFMAN 34- AFI 34-250        AIR FORCE YOUTH SPORTS PROGRAM
804
AFI 34-805   AFI 34-251     AIR FORCE BEFORE AND AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
26                                                               AFI65-107 1 DECEMBER 1999


                                        ATTACHMENT 3
     FORMAT FOR NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS FINANCIAL ANALYST (NAFFA)
     ANNUAL COORDINATION OF NONAPPROPRIATED FUND (NAF) FINANCIAL
                      STATEMENT CERTIFICATION

NAFI:___________________________
      DATE:____________________


I have reviewed the reconciliation of the balances in the subsidiaries to the General Ledger
control accounts, as applicable to the NAFI stated above.


The following subsidiary accounts were reviewed in this quarter:


  I (have) (have not) verified that the NAF Accounting Office keeps subsidiary records on
balance sheet accounts and those accounts are properly reconciled to the General Ledger control
account balances.


  Subsidiary accounts not reconciled with the General Ledger control accounts (have) (have not)
been annotated on the financial statement.


  Action (has) (has not) been taken to investigate unresolved variances, in accordance with AFI
34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets.


This certification is true to the best of my ability, with a copy forwarded to the Services
Commander / Division Chief.




NAFFA ______________________________________________
(signature and Installation)
