BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-402
AIR FORCE                                                                                 19 JULY 1994

                                                                                 Financial Management

                                                           RELATIONS WITH THE DEPARTMENT
                                                       OF DEFENSE, OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT
                                                         INSPECTOR GENERALS FOR AUDITING,
                                                               AND ANALYSIS AND FOLLOW UP

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/FMPF                                                                   Certified by: SAF/FMPF
                                                                                 (Mr Vaughn E. Schlunz)
Supersedes AFR 11-38, 10 July 1992.                                                            Pages: 16

This instruction implements AFPD 65-4, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports and Liaison with
External Audit Organizations; and Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 7050.3, Access to Records
and Information by the Inspector General, Department of Defense, November 9, 1984; DoD Directive
7600.2, Audit Policies, February 2, 1991, DoD Directive 7600.10, Audits of State and Local Govern-
ments, Institutions of Higher Education, and Other Nonprofit Institutions, May 20 1991; and DoD Direc-
tive 7650.3, Followup on General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and Internal Audit
Reports, September 5, 1989, with Changes 1 through 3. This instruction explains Air Force relation with
DoD, Office of the Inspector General (DoDIG), Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Auditing
and, Analysis and Followup as related to audits and reviews of the Air Force. Relationship between the
Air Force and the General Accounting Office (GAO) is prescribed in AFI 65-401. Attachment 1 is a
glossary of references, abbreviations, and acronyms.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This is the initial publication of AFI 65-402, revising AFR 11-38.


1. Responsibilities and Authorities. The Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Auditing
(OAIG-AUD), under the direction of the DoDIG, conducts audits of DoD programs and activities. The
Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Analysis and Followup (OAIG-AFU), also under the direc-
tion of the DoDIG, establishes audit followup policy and manages an audit followup program for DoDIG
audit reports.
   1.1. The OAIG-AUD plans and conducts:
       •   Internal audits of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Organization of the Joint Chiefs
           of Staff, the unified commands and defense agencies.
2                                                                           AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994


       •   Interservice audits involving two or more DoD components and single service audits when the
           cognizant service audit activity can't provide needed audit coverage.
       •   Quick reaction audits.
       •   Other audits that the DoDIG considers appropriate.
       1.1.1. Relationships Between the Air Force and OAIG-AUD. Air Force personnel must coop-
       erate fully with OAIG-AUD auditors. Normally, when an auditor needs to discuss or conduct an
       audit in the Air Force, the auditor initially contacts the Director for Audit Liaison and Followup
       (SAF/FMPF). If an auditor contacts an Air Force office that did not receive notification of the
       audit, the people contacted should call their organization's point of contact who contacts SAF/
       FMPF to obtain a copy of the audit announcement. Air Force activities must give auditors work-
       ing on an audit:
           •   Adequate temporary working space and facilities.
           •   Prompt, unrestricted access to all Air Force facilities, personnel, and documents. See
               paragraph 2.4. for access procedures.
           •   Interviews with Air Force personnel with specific knowledge about areas under audit.
           •   Prompt and constructive comments to findings, recommendations, and estimated poten-
               tial monetary benefits.
           •   Assistance in determining appropriate security clearance requirements and obtaining full,
               prompt access to contractor facilities, personnel, and records.
           •   Briefings on access to special access programs.
    1.2. The OAIG-AFU:
       •   Develops, disseminates and provides oversight of military services compliance with audit fol-
           lowup policy.
       •   Keeps followup records of management actions and time schedules for responding to and act-
           ing on DoDIG findings and recommendations until final disposition.
       •   Evaluates management actions, taken or planned, to implement DoDIG recommendations and
           decides if these actions are adequate, alerts managers or the Secretary of Defense to any dis-
           crepancies.
       •   Mediates disagreements between Air Force managers and the OAIG-AUD on audit findings,
           recommendations, and estimated potential monetary benefits.
       •   Prepares memorandums on disagreements between Air Force and DoDIG that cannot be
           resolved at a lower management level for the Inspector General submission to the Deputy
           Secretary of Defense for decision.
       •   Monitors, evaluates, and reports to the Secretary of Defense on the DoD audit followup pro-
           gram.
       1.2.1. Relationships Between the Air Force and OAIG-AFU. Air Force personnel must coop-
       erate with OAIG-AFU representatives. They must promptly grant access to Air Force facilities,
       personnel, documents, or information relating to followup items. Report objections to releasing
       information per paragraph 2.4. Normally, followup personnel auditors who need to discuss an
AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994                                                                                3


     audit followup inquiry with Air Force personnel will initially contact SAF/FMPF. If an
     OAIG-AFU person contacts an Air Force office that was not notified of the audit followup, the Air
     Force official contacted should call the organization's central point of contact who then contacts
     SAF/FMPF to get a copy of audit followup request.
  1.3. Air Force Responsibilities. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management
  and Comptroller (SAF/FM) manages DoDIG audit liaison and followup, and resolves questions about
  access to facilities, personnel, and documents.
     1.3.1. Air Force Single Point of Contact. The Director for Audit Liaison and Followup (SAF/
     FMPF) who is assigned to the Deputy Assistant Secretary, Plans, Systems and Analysis (SAF/
     FMP) is the single point of contact for all audit matters with the DoDIG. The SAF/FMPF:
         1.3.1.1. Manages Air Force's day-to-day relations with DoDIG to achieve a cooperative, busi-
         ness like rapport.
         1.3.1.2. Receives DoDIG audit and audit followup announcements.
         1.3.1.3. Sends audit and followup announcements to Secretariat, Air Staff, major commands
         (MAJCOM), field operating agencies, direct reporting units, Air Force Reserve, and Air
         National Guard points of contact. In processing announcements, SAF/FMPF:
            •   Assigns the office of primary responsibility (OPR) and office of collateral responsibil-
                ity (OCR) to a Secretariat or Air Staff office.
            •   Distributes copies of announcements to the Secretariat, Air Staff, and MAJCOM
                offices.
            •   Prepares and distributes assignment instructions to Air Force offices, OPR and OCRs.
            •   Requests the OPR and OCR to designate a central point of contact.
         1.3.1.4. Notifies applicable Air Force activities of changes in the scope of the audit or fol-
         lowup review, visit of DoDIG personnel to Air Force activities, termination of audit or fol-
         lowup reviews, and closure of audit reports.
         1.3.1.5. Processes requests from DoDIG personnel for information, briefings, conferences,
         and other assistance.
         1.3.1.6. Maintains liaison with DoDIG and Air Force personnel to provide any information or
         assistance in solving audit problems.
         1.3.1.7. Receives, reviews, and processes DoDIG audit reports. In processing reports, SAF/
         FMPF:
            •   Determines OPR, OCR, and applicable MAJCOMs for each report.
            •   Prepares and distributes assignment instructions and a checklist to the Air Force cen-
                tral point of contact including required actions, suspense date, the designated point of
                contact, and so on.
            •   Summarizes reports of special interest to the Air Force and sends them to SAF/FM.
            •   Calls the point of contact to determine status of required comments.
            •   Coordinates Air Force status with auditors.
4                                                                        AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994


       •   Prepares other guidance and provides assistance.
    1.3.1.8. Reviews all Air Force comments to DoDIG reports to ensure their completeness,
    responsiveness, and timeliness. Note: SAF/FMPF's review of comments does not relieve the
    point of contact of the responsibility to prepare a complete and accurate response to the audit
    report.
    1.3.1.9. Distributes Air Force comments to DoDIG.
    1.3.1.10. Reports status of audits, audit reports, and Air Force comments to SAF/FM.
    1.3.1.11. Maintains formal records of DoDIG reports including:
       •   Copy of the DoDIG report.
       •   Management's position on each finding and recommendation.
       •   Name of the Air Force point of contact and personnel responsible for taking corrective
           actions.
       •   Planned actions and time schedule for completion.
       •   Copy of audit followup requests and Air Force responses.
    1.3.1.12. Receives, reviews, and processes DoDIG audit followup requests. In processing fol-
    lowup requests, SAF/FMPF:
       •   Identifies the Secretariat and Air Staff points of contact.
       •   Distributes a copy of the request to the point of contact and other interested Air Force
           offices.
       •   Prepares assignment instructions and a checklist for the point of contact which identi-
           fies required actions, suspense date, and other pertinent information.
       •   Calls the point of contact to determine the status of responses.
       •   Coordinates extension requests from the point of contact with OAIG-AFU.
       •   Prepares other guidance and provides assistance.
       •   Reviews proposed response to audit followup requests to ensure that they completely
           cover the issues raised. Note: SAF/FMPF's review of comments does not relieve the
           point of contact of the responsibility to prepare a complete and accurate response to
           the audit followup request.
       •   Makes sure that followup responses adequately define the potential monetary benefits
           and reflect the Director of Budget's (SAF/FMB) coordination.
       •   Makes sure that the appropriate Air Force official signs the report. The point of con-
           tact decides the final signatory level.
       •   Distributes the Air Force followup response by OAIG-AFU's suspense.
       •   Distributes audit closure letters to the central points of contact.
    1.3.1.13. Reports access issues and other matters pertaining to DoDIG audit activities to the
    Secretariat, Air Staff, or command point of contact.
AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994                                                                                 5


        1.3.1.14. Assesses and reports the timeliness of Air Force comments by comparing the audit
        suspense for each report to the actual date that comments were provided to the audit organiza-
        tion. Furnish reports per AFPD 65-4, figure A1.2.
     1.3.2. Secretariat, Air Staff, and Special Staff Offices. Each Secretariat, Air Staff, and Special
     Staff Office must designate a central point of contact in the staff to manage DoDIG assignments.
        1.3.2.1. The central point of contact:
            •   Gives the designee's name, office symbol, room, fax, and telephone numbers to SAF/
                FMPF.
            •   Manages DoDIG audit announcements, reports, followup requests and management
                comments. Meets all suspense dates set by DoDIG.
            •   Identifies a point of contact, an action officer, to manage each audit project and pre-
                pare Air Force comments within established suspense dates. If the central point of
                contact believes that another office should be the OPR, they must notify SAF/FMPF as
                soon as possible.
            •   Gives SAF/FMPF and DoDIG the name of the point of contact, office symbol, room,
                fax, and telephone numbers within 5 working days of receiving the audit announce-
                ment, report, or followup request.
            •   Ensures that the point of contact complies with paragraph 1.3.3.
            •   Advises SAF/FMPF when the point of contact will miss the established suspense date.
            •   Informs the Director, Assistant Secretary, Deputy Secretary or other management offi-
                cials of DoDIG activities within their areas of responsibility.
            •   Advises SAF/FMPF when the central point of contact or point of contact change.
     1.3.3. The Point of Contact:
        1.3.3.1. Monitors DoDIG activity for the project and is the single point of contact for the audit
        or followup review.
        1.3.3.2. Attends any audit entrance and exit meetings.
        1.3.3.3. Assesses the potential sensitivity and impact of the DoDIG audit or followup review
        on the Air Force. If necessary, the point of contact briefs the Deputy Chief of Staff and other
        officials.
        1.3.3.4. Prepares a statement of impact for the Office of the Secretary and the Chief of Staff,
        summarizing report highlights and potential effect on the Air Force.
        1.3.3.5. Reviews audit reports and followup requests. Prepares any necessary Air Force com-
        ments.
        1.3.3.6. Ensures completeness of Air Force comments to audit findings, recommendations,
        potential monetary benefits, and followup requests.
        1.3.3.7. Obtains all necessary coordination of Air Force comments (for example, with the Sec-
        retariat, Air Staff, MAJCOM).
6                                                                           AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994


          1.3.3.8. Obtains the appropriate signature. Final signatory level must be at a level sufficient
          to represent an official Air Force position.
          1.3.3.9. Delivers signed comments to SAF/FMPF by the suspense date and informs the central
          point of contact that the task is completed.
          1.3.3.10. Requests extension of a suspense date through the central point of contact from SAF/
          FMPF and gives reasons for the delay. Request an extension early enough to allow SAF/
          FMPF to discuss it with the DoDIG. The DoDIG does not usually approve extensions.
          1.3.3.11. Obtains all necessary comments from OCRs, MAJCOMs, and other offices. If the
          members of any Air Force office believe that the response should include their comments, they
          should call the point of contact for instructions.
          1.3.3.12. Implements action per Air Force comments.
          1.3.3.13. Maintains a record of all savings that result from implementing audit recommenda-
          tions.
          1.3.3.14. Reviews visit reports from MAJCOMs and ensures that they provide complete and
          accurate information.
          1.3.3.15. Responds to audit followup requests. Comments must confirm that corrective action
          was taken and include supporting documentation.
       1.3.4. MAJCOM Commanders. Each commander designates a point of contact at headquarters
       to manage DoDIG audit assignments and requests.
          1.3.4.1. The MAJCOM point of contact:
              •   Informs SAF/FMPF of his or her name, office symbol, and telephone number.
              •   Informs the commander and other appropriate officials of DoDIG activities.
              •   Coordinates DoDIG activities in the command by arranging visits, processing requests
                  for information and technical assistance, expediting Secretariat or Air Staff requests
                  for report comments, and processing other related audit activity.
              •   Monitors DoDIG auditors during visits to MAJCOM organizations in their command
                  and provides assistance when needed.
              •   Processes internal reports regarding DoDIG visits to their command organizations and
                  installations. (See paragraph 2.5. for visit report instructions.)
              •   Notifies SAF/FMPF when the MAJCOM point of contact changes.
       1.3.5. Installation and Activity Commanders. Each commander must designate a local point of
       contact to manage DoDIG activity, including visit notices and reports and monitoring DoDIG
       activities during visits. Commanders must provide logistical assistance to the DoDIG personnel
       during their visits.

2. Performing the Audit:
    2.1. Announcing the Audit. The DoDIG notifies SAF/FMPF by memoranda as far in advance as
    possible of an upcoming audit or followup review. Each memoranda includes:
AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994                                                                                   7


     •   General audit objectives.
     •   Project start date.
     •   A project control number.
     •   The name of DoDIG personnel (program director and project manager).
     2.1.1. When SAF/FMPF receives the memoranda, they update their automated audit tracking sys-
     tem and distribute the memoranda to Secretariat, Air Staff, and MAJCOMs points of contact.
     2.1.2. The SAF/FMPF letter specifies what action is required and the name and telephone number
     of SAF/FMPF's point of contact. If Secretariat, Air Staff, or MAJCOM officials require greater
     detail about the audit (such as specific audit objectives, organizations and activities to be visited,
     and so on), the point of contact may call the DoDIG project manager. The point of contact advises
     SAF/FMPF of their calls to the DoDIG.
  2.2. Auditor Visits to Air Force Installations. DoDIG gives installation commanders at least a
  7-calendar-days advance notice of any visit in connection with audits.
     2.2.1. The installation point of contact, through the MAJCOM point of contact, notifies SAF/
     FMPF on receiving a visit notice or when DoDIG auditors arrive without prior notice.
     2.2.2. The DoDIG notice must include the security clearance of each person listed and should go
     directly to the place of visit.
     2.2.3. The DoDIG personnel may telephone the point of contact to make arrangements for limited
     audit work, audit work of very short duration, or audit work of unusual urgency. The DoDIG per-
     sonnel should confirm the details in writing as soon as possible.
     2.2.4. The point of contact advises SAF/FMPF when DoDIG personnel informs him or her of a
     planned or "no-notice" visit if the point of contact did not receive a copy of the audit announce-
     ment memoranda.
     2.2.5. On arrival at the installation, DoDIG personnel visit the commander, identify themselves,
     and hold an entrance conference to explain the nature of the visit. All DoDIG personnel carry spe-
     cial identification cards which contain their photograph, signature, and a serial number.
     2.2.6. During the visit, DoDIG personnel should inform managers of audit or followup progress,
     changes in objectives, and potential findings.
     2.2.7. On completing the visit, DoDIG personnel holds an exit conference with the commander to
     discuss the results of the audit or followup.
  2.3. Visits to Air National Guard Activities (ANG). The DoDIG personnel notifies the National
  Guard Bureau (NGB) in advance of visits to ANG activities (10 U.S.C. 3015).
     2.3.1. The NGB promptly notifies affected State Adjutants Generals, US property and fiscal offic-
     ers, and unit commanders of the audit objectives and approximate dates of visit.
     2.3.2. The ANG activities contacts ANGRC/FMP immediately if a DoDIG personnel arrives
     before official NGB notification. ANGRC/FMP then contacts SAF/FMPF.
  2.4. Granting DoDIG Personnel Access to Information. Air Force personnel must ensure that
  DoDIG personnel receive factual, accurate, and complete information. Air Force instructions make
  no provision for denying Air Force information to DoDIG personnel.
8                                                                         AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994


    2.4.1. Individuals who have necessary material or information usually give access when asked
    without reference to higher authority.
    2.4.2. Only the Secretary of Defense can deny information or material that a properly cleared
    DoDIG person needs to complete an audit or followup review.
    2.4.3. When questions regarding DoDIG personnel access arise, follow these procedures:
       2.4.3.1. The point of contact will consult by telephone with higher headquarters and attempt
       to resolve the matter without taking formal action.
       2.4.3.2. If telephone discussions with higher headquarters do not resolve the dispute, the point
       of contact will send written objections to the Secretary of the Air Force through SAF/FMPF
       within 15 days of the initial DoDIG request.
           2.4.3.2.1. The point of contact asks the DoDIG personnel to submit the specific access
           request in writing.
           2.4.3.2.2. The office that receives an access request sends the request and their recommen-
           dations and supporting rationale to their MAJCOM point of contact for evaluation.
           2.4.3.2.3. No individual, commander, or unit head may deny an access request.
           2.4.3.2.4. While authorities review the request, the receiving Air Force point of contact,
           advises the DoDIG personnel that they referred the request for appropriate action.
    2.4.4. On receiving the request, the MAJCOM point of contact advises SAF/FMPF that a question
    involving DoDIG personnel access is under review.
    2.4.5. When the MAJCOM's review does not release the information to the DoDIG personnel, the
    MAJCOM point of contact:
       2.4.5.1. Sends the request and the command's recommendations to SAF/FMPF.
       2.4.5.2. SAF/FMPF then refers the matter to the Secretariat or Air Staff central point of con-
       tact for review.
    2.4.6. When the Secretariat or Air Staff point of contact review does not release the information,
    the central point of contact refers the request and recommendations to SAF/FM, through SAF/
    FMPF, for resolution.
       2.4.6.1. The SAF/FM is the senior Air Force official designated to resolve Air Force person-
       nel questions about DoDIG personnel access to Air Force information.
       2.4.6.2. Air Staff personnel must send access questions to SAF/FMPF, through their Secretar-
       iat, Air Staff, or command points of contact, for processing to SAF/FM.
    2.4.7. Release non-Air Force reports and documents only with the written consent of the originat-
    ing agency. Normally, DoDIG auditors obtain these documents from the originator.
    2.4.8. Air Force Federal Acquisition Supplement (AFFARS), Appendix AA, Formal Source
    Selection for Major Acquisitions, provides specific guidelines on releasing data that may be source
    selection sensitive.
    2.4.9. These Air Force instructions provide specific guidelines about releasing Air Force Inspec-
    tor General reports, Air Force Audit Agency reports, and other documents:
AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994                                                                                  9


         •   AFI 91-2, Inspector General--Complaints.
         •   AFI 91-201, Use, Disclosure, and Safeguard of Inspector General Records.
         •   AFI 91-202, The Inspector General Complaint Program.
         •   AFI 91-102, US Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) Inspections and Management
             Reviews.
         •   AFI 91-404, Investigating and Reporting Mishaps.
         •   AFPD 65-3, Internal Auditing.
         •   AFI 65-301, Audit Reporting Procedures. These documents contain specific procedures
             about releasing Air Force Audit Agency reports. Note: The Air Force Audit Agency,
             Directorate of Operations (AFAA/DO), manages release requests for Air Force audit
             reports.
  2.5. Reporting Visits. Following an exit conference, the point of contact prepares a complete visit
  report (RCS: SAF-FMP[AR]9439) and sends it to the MAJCOM central point of contact when:
     •   DoDIG personnel uncover problems that installation officials believe higher headquarters per-
         sonnel need to know.
     •   DoDIG personnel indicate that audit findings might be used in a report to the Secretary of the
         Air Force or the Secretary of Defense.
     •   The report will help personnel at higher headquarters better understand all aspects of the audit.
     2.5.1. Visit reports include:
         •   A project number.
         •   Names of the principal DoDIG and Air Force personnel involved.
         •   Inclusive date of the visit.
         •   Place and purpose of the visit.
         •   A summary of any discussions held, deficiencies disclosed, and information provided
             including copies of pertinent documents.
         •   Any corrective actions taken or recommended.
         •   Other significant information provided or unusual requests by DoDIG personnel.
         •   The name of the installation point of contact for the report.
     2.5.2. The MAJCOM central point of contact must send a copy of the visit report to SAF/FMPF
     for forwarding to the Secretariat or Air Staff point of contact.
     2.5.3. The visit report is designated emergency code C-3, continue reporting during emergency
     conditions, precedence delayed. Submit data requirements as prescribed, but they may be delayed
     to allow the submission of higher precedence reports. Submit by non-electronic means, if possible
     (see AFI 37-124, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
     Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections).
10                                                                               AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994


3. Reporting the Audit. The reporting process involves audit verification, audit reports, Air Force com-
ments, audit nonconcurrences, and audit followup. Note: The reporting requirement in this section is
exempt from licensing in accordance with paragraph 2.10.8 of AFI 37-124.
     3.1. Verifying the Audit:
        3.1.1. On finishing the audit, DoDIG auditors may give managers an outline of tentative findings
        and recommendations.
        3.1.2. Air Force managers should use the information to make preliminary comments and provide
        additional information before auditors issue a draft report.
        3.1.3. The auditor may revise or delete findings depending on Air Force comments and additional
        information.
        3.1.4. Air Force personnel must cooperate with the auditors attempts to verify audit findings.
        Audit verification is crucial because it allows Air Force managers and auditors to work out poten-
        tial conflicts and to correct errors before releasing a draft report.
        3.1.5. Auditors may verify the audit through face-to-face meetings, telephone calls, or formal or
        informal correspondence.
        3.1.6. Air Force personnel do whatever it takes to meet the suspense dates set by the auditor and
        give auditors all relevant information before they issue a draft report.
        3.1.7. When auditors verify the audit at commands or installations, the command point of contact
        must send copies of all formal and informal correspondence to SAF/FMPF for forwarding to the
        Secretariat or Air Staff point of contact.
        3.1.8. When auditors verify the audit at the Secretariat or Air Staff level, the point of contact coor-
        dinates official responses with appropriate command officials.
     3.2. Audit Reports. The DoDIG uses a two stage reporting process: draft and final.
        3.2.1. Draft Report. The draft audit report, which is a preliminary version of the report that
        DoDIG intends to issue and is available to the Air Force for review and comment.
            3.2.1.1. A draft report may contain findings, recommendations, and potential monetary bene-
            fit estimates.
            3.2.1.2. Air Force personnel may discuss draft reports with DoDIG auditors if they believe
            that discussions would clarify points of accuracy or reconcile substantive issues.
            3.2.1.3. Should the auditors decline to discuss a report, the point of contact should notify SAF/
            FMPF. In turn, SAF/FMPF will take all action necessary to arrange a report discussion.
            3.2.1.4. Air Force personnel may not release draft reports or their contents outside the DoD
            without the approval of the DoDIG.
        3.2.2. Final Reports. DoDIG auditors present their results in a final report that may include:
            •   Findings.
            •   Recommendations.
            •   Air Force comments.
AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994                                                                               11


         •   Audit responses.
         3.2.2.1. Air Force personnel must provide DoDIG comments to final audit reports only if:
             •   The Air Force did not comment on the draft report.
             •   No draft report was issued.
             •   The Air Force disagrees with a finding, recommendation, or an estimated monetary
                 benefit in the final report.
             •   The final report contains new or changed recommendations.
  3.3. Air Force Comments. Audit reports can significantly affect the DoD and Air Force. Accord-
  ingly, the Secretary of Defense; the Secretary of the Air Force; and the Chief of Staff, USAF, require
  prompt, responsive and constructive comments from managers to all audit reports.
     3.3.1. The DoDIG addresses audit reports and recommendations to SAF/FM and sometimes to a
     MAJCOM commander. In either case, the Secretariat or Air Staff point of contact must provide
     Air Force comments to the DoDIG.
         3.3.1.1. The point of contact:
             •   Responds to findings, recommendations, and estimates of potential monetary benefit
                 in DoDIG reports.
             •   Formulates the Air Force response by obtaining comments from MAJCOMs and other
                 OCRs. Makes sure to include coordinated comments from officials at the Secretariat,
                 Air Staff, commands, and SAF/FMPF.
             •   Routes input requests through MAJCOM points of contact (SAF/FMPF maintains a
                 complete listing of points of contact). Note: Coordinating responses with commands
                 and other OCRs takes considerable time. The point of contact must therefore give top
                 priority to preparing, processing, and coordinating comments.
             •   Obtains appropriate signature by the suspense date.
             •   Provides written comments on DoDIG audit reports in time to meet the suspense --
                 usually not more than 60 days from the report date.
             •   Requests any extension to a suspense date, orally or in writing, through SAF/FMPF as
                 soon possible. Note: The DoDIG does not usually authorize extensions. If Air Force
                 does not provide comments within the suspense, the DoDIG issues the final report
                 without Air Force input.
             •   Provides SAF/FMPF a copy of all management comments.
     3.3.2. When the Air Force does not provide comments within the suspense, personnel should pro-
     vide comments as soon as possible.
     3.3.3. If the Air Force disagrees with any part of the audit report or fails to comment, a noncon-
     currence exists. Resolve all nonconcurrences per DoD Directive 7650.3 and paragraph 3.4.
     3.3.4. Comments must:
         •   Agree or disagree with each finding, recommendation, and estimated potential monetary
             benefit statement.
12                                                                             AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994


            •   Propose suitable alternative methods of improvement.
            •   Describe any taken or planned corrective actions.
            •   Indicate when actions were completed and estimate when planned actions will be done. If
                corrective action will continue for an extended time period, the point of contact must set a
                suspense for each major planned segment.
            •   Be coordinated with the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget (SAF/FMB) if carrying
                out the audit recommendations will decrease requirements for programmed and budgeted
                resources.
     3.4. Nonconcurring With the Audit. When Air Force managers disagree with any part of a DoDIG
     audit report (finding, recommendation, or potential monetary benefit estimate), they must be prepared
     to support that disagreement to the level of the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the deciding official for
     DoDIG reports, if necessary.
        3.4.1. The DoDIG may decide to accept the Air Force position, or may transmit the disputed
        issues to the OAIG-AFU for mediation.
        3.4.2. The OAIG-AFU mediation officer reviews the Air Force and audit positions and attempts
        to facilitate an agreed-upon position. If this is not possible, the DoDIG may request adjudication
        by the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
        3.4.3. When parties reach an agreement:
            •   The OAIG-AFU mediation officer prepares a decision document containing the terms of
                the agreement.
            •   The Air Force official that signs the decision document must ensure that the Air Force
                meets the agreement terms.
        3.4.4. Issues that remain undecided 6 months after the date of the final audit report must be
        reported in the DoDIG semiannual report to the Congress if still undecided at the end of the report-
        ing period.
        3.4.5. The OAIG-AFU tracks action resulting from the adjudication process. Actions
        agreed-upon as a result of the mediation process are subject to followup audit.
     3.5. Followup Audit. Air Force and Audit share audit followup responsibility.
        3.5.1. After DoDIG issues a final report, the Air Force must implement findings and recommen-
        dations.
        3.5.2. The Air Force point of contact must document actions to correct conditions cited in audit
        reports and periodically provide DoDIG with updated status.
        3.5.3. The DoDIG monitors the status of followup actions using the Automated Report Tracking
        System (ARTS) and periodically updates the system. The ARTS contains the following basic
        information.
            •   Summary of each audit finding, recommendations, and estimated potential monetary ben-
                efits.
            •   Air Force position on each finding, recommendation, and estimated potential monetary
                benefit.
AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994                                                                                 13


           •   Air Force planned actions with time schedules for completion.
           •   Status of planned corrective actions.
           •   Status of potential monetary benefits, including both the audit estimate and the amount to
               which the Air Force agreed.
       3.5.4. On DoDIG's request, the Air Force point of contact provides the documentation necessary
       to help DoDIG to determine the status of Air Force corrective action on agreed-upon findings, rec-
       ommendations, and potential monetary benefits.
       3.5.5. The DoDIG conducts followup audits either as a separate review or as part of a current
       audit. Audit objectives define whether their effort includes prior audit findings and recommenda-
       tion for evaluation.

4. Audits of State and Local Governments, Institutions of Higher Education, and Other Nonprofit
Institutions. The Federal government (including DoD components) usually requires audits of state and
local governments, institutions of higher education, and other nonprofit institutions to which it provides
financial assistance. The Air Force must use the financial and performance audits from nonfederal and
independent auditors to oversee such federal assistance.
   4.1. The Air Force may request additional audits when regulation requires it or to ensure effective
   use of such assistance.
   4.2. The Air Force must plan, carryout, and separately fund any additional audit efforts to avoid
   duplication.
   4.3. The DoDIG:
       4.3.1. Guides, directs, and coordinates audits where DoD gives money to:
           •   State and local governments.
           •   Institutions of higher education.
           •   Other nonprofit institutions.
       4.3.2. Ensures that public or DoD auditors:
           •   Conduct audits.
           •   Issue reports.
           •   Resolve disagreements.
       4.3.3. Sends reports to appropriate DoD components.
   4.4. The Director for Accounting and Banking (SAF/FMPB):
       4.4.1. Coordinates with DoDIG on audits of financial assistance to any state and local govern-
       ments, institutions of higher education, and other nonprofit institutions.
       4.4.2. Advises the DoDIG when Air Force assistance to any state or local government, institution
       of higher education, or nonprofit institution exceeds $100,000 in a year.
       4.4.3. Verifies appropriate actions are taken to correct audit deficiencies.
14                                                                       AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994


     4.4.4. Coordinate with DoDIG on requests for additional audits of these governments and institu-
     tions.



                                           ROBERT F. HALE
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
                                           Financial Management and Comptroller
AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994                                                                          15


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMS

References
DoD Instruction 7050.3, Access to Records and Information by the Inspector General, Department of
Defense, November 9, 1984
DoD Directive 7600.2, Audit Policies, February 2, 1991
DoD Directive 7600.10, Audits of State and Local Governments, Institutions of Higher Education, and
Other Nonprofit Institutions, May 20, 1991
DoD Directive 7650.3, Followup on General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and Internal
Audit Reports, September 5, 1989, with Changes 1 through 3
AFI 37-124, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Pub-
lic, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections
AFPD 65-3, Internal Auditing
AFI 65-301, Audit Reporting Procedures
AFPD 65-4, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports and Liaison With External Audit Organiza-
tions
AFI 65-401, Air Force Relations With the General Accounting Office (GAO), March 1994
AFI 91-102, US Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) Inspections and Management Reviews
AFI 91-2, Inspector General--Complaints
AFI 91-201, Use, Disclosure, and Safeguard of Inspector General Records
AFI 91-202, The Inspector General Complaint Program
AFI 91-404, Investigating and Reporting Mishaps

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAA/DO—Air Force Audit Agency, Director of Operations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGRC/FMP—Air National Guard Readiness Center, Financial Management, Plans and Programs
Division
ARTS—Automated Report Tracking System
DoDIG—Department of Defense Inspector General
MAJCOM—Major Command
NGB—National Guard Bureau
16                                                                    AFI65-402 19 JULY 1994


OAIG-AFU—Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Analysis and Followup
OAIG-AUD—Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Auditing
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAF/FM—The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/FMB—Director of Budget
SAF/FMP—Deputy Assistant Secretary for Plans, Systems, and Analysis
SAF/FMPB—Director for Accounting and Banking
SAF/FMPF—Director for Audit Liaison and Followup
