BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-509
SECRETATY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                        19 SEPTEMBER 2008
                                                                Certified Current, 19 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                                                 Financial Management

                                                                           BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link)
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/FMCEE                                            Certified by: SAF/FMC (Mr. Richard Hartley)
                                                                                           Pages: 13

This is the first publication of Air Force guidance of the requirements for Business Case Analysis (BCA).
This instruction implements the business case analysis (BCA) provisions of OMB Circular A-11, Prepa-
ration and Submission, and Execution of the Budget, DoD 7000.14R, Volume 2B, Chapter 18, DoD
Financial Management Regulation, and AFPD 65-5, Cost and Economics. It gives policy guidance and
procedures for preparation of BCAs for Air Force command, management, and financial decisions
throughout the Air Force (AF). It applies to individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review, certify,
or approve BCAs including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units,
except where noted otherwise. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be
routed to SAF/FMCE and AF/A9 coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT
847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure records
created due to processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. The use of the name or mark of any specific man-
ufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply Air Force
endorsement.
2                                                                     AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                                 Chapter 1

                                      BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS


1.1. Definition. A business case analysis (BCA), also referred to as a business case or business plan, is a
decision support document that identifies alternatives and presents business, economic, risk, and technical
arguments for selecting an alternative to achieve organizational or functional missions or goals. BCAs do
not replace the judgment of the decision maker, but rather aid that judgment by considering possible alter-
natives, their costs, benefits, and risks, and the degree to which they meet program objectives, or are either
within budget constraints or require additional funding. A BCA can vary in size and scope depending on
the requirements of the decision maker or reviewing organization. The purpose of this instruction is to
illustrate what a BCA is by comparing it to other analytical products, explain when BCAs are required in
the Air Force, advise on when they may be completed even if not strictly required, state the responsibili-
ties of offices involved in completing a BCA, and refer individuals to additional, detailed guidance on
how to accomplish BCAs.

1.2. Relationship to Economic Analysis (EA), Analysis of Alternatives (AoA), and Evaluation of
Alternatives (EoA). There are many definitions of BCA in the private sector and the government. These
range in scope from a simple capital investment decision (e.g., lease versus purchase of equipment) to a
bottom up, enterprise-wide analysis of a business operation. The majority of references to BCA speak of
the more comprehensive, enterprise-wide perspective on business operations, which is the best practice in
the private sector. This broader sense of BCA is the definition the Air Force uses. The term “enter-
prise-wide” should typically be understood to mean a cross cutting practice that will affect the entire Air
Force or an entire MAJCOM. An example would be changing logistics procedures or how a support ser-
vice is delivered. A BCA would only be applicable to an installation level issue if it affected the entire
base at large such an Enhanced Use Leasing Study. Also, “business operations” should be interpreted to
mean both the business domain of the Air Force (support functions) and the operational domain of mili-
tary force projection. A commander may require a BCA to assist with a decision affecting operations,
though operational decisions are not made primarily from a financial perspective, but rather from the per-
spective of accomplishing the mission. In either situation, the focus should be on obtaining the best oper-
ational result for the funds expended. All of these analyses (EA, AoA, EoA, BCA), by definition, infer
there are multiple ways to obtain a desired end state.
    1.2.1. A BCA focuses on value to the organization from an enterprise-wide perspective; it seeks
    alignment with organizational goals and has a strategic focus. The most common example is the trans-
    formation of customer service delivery within comptroller squadrons at base level. Originally, mili-
    tary and civilian pay actions were initiated when a customer submitted paperwork to technicians in the
    comptroller’s squadron. The current method is for customers to submit many of their requests straight
    to the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) via an interactive internet site called
    “myPay”. The change has increased the speed with which actions are handled while reducing the
    number of financial management personnel needed at base level. Thus, a BCA is broad in scope and
    considers the far reaching implications of organizational change from a corporate perspective. The
    goal is to optimize variables from an enterprise-wide perspective. Paragraphs 1.2.1.1. through 1.2.1.3.
    distinguish between a BCA and other types of analysis such as EAs, AoAs, and EoAs. The purpose
    here is merely to contrast these analyses with BCAs, since each of these analyses have their specific
    guidance elsewhere.
AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                               3


     1.2.1.1. An EA tends to focus on value to the unit or installation, and tends to be more limited in
     scope, usually dealing with a small number of alternatives. An EA tends to optimize variables at
     the local level, which could result in sub-optimization at the enterprise-wide level. The goal of a
     BCA is to optimize investment decision outcomes from an enterprise-wide perspective, trading
     resources to achieve the best possible solution set. As an example, an EA may look at renovating
     an old enlisted dormitory versus building a new one. On the other hand, a BCA may look at why
     the Air Force is in the housing business and would examine operating our own dormitories versus
     outsourcing their construction and management versus paying all enlistees a housing allowance
     across the service.
     1.2.1.2. As the term BCA is used in this instruction, it goes beyond requirements for EAs in AFI
     65-501, Economic Analysis. Consult that AFI for a definition of EAs. Typically, an EA is per-
     formed for decisions involving a limited scope such as construction of a new dormitory versus
     modernizing an existing dormitory at base level. However, what is considered strategic or organi-
     zation wide may differ depending upon the nature of the decision and the level of command. In
     some cases, a base level decision may have complicated political or economic consequences
     requiring a more thorough analysis containing elements not seen in an EA such as a stakeholder
     analysis, training plan, or communication plan. For this reason, if an EA is required due to the
     thresholds in AFI 65-501, paragraphs 1.2.1.1. and 1.2.1.2., a BCA may be performed in lieu of an
     EA if the agency responsible for EA preparation feels the larger, more comprehensive BCA docu-
     ment is needed instead of an EA. This substitution of a BCA for an EA does not apply when an EA
     is specifically required due to legislation such as in the case of MILCON, family housing, or
     privatization programs.
     1.2.1.3. An AoA focuses on the value of a particular system solution, based on the costs and capa-
     bilities of that system. It identifies a small set of alternatives of system platform mixtures to meet
     the capability requirement needed, and analyzes operational effectiveness relative to cost for the
     various alternatives. The requirement for AoAs is in AF/A5R’s AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based
     Planning & Requirements Development, paragraph 5. Additional guidance on AoA responsibili-
     ties is in AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development.
     1.2.1.4. An EoA is an analysis required by OSD Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (ATL) for
     selected joint programs. At this time, the EoA concept is still in exploratory mode and the guid-
     ance contained in this AFI is based upon policy memos and data from the pilot programs using the
     concept. The EoA concept is to bring considerations of capabilities and affordability (costs rela-
     tive to capabilities) earlier into the acquisition decision making process (Milestone A compared to
     Milestone B, where fuller program cost estimates are developed). OSD has issued EoA guidance
     for some specific joint acquisition programs to be “pilot cases” for the EoA concept. Based on the
     experience from pilot projects OSD may later issue general EoA guidance. An EoA has some of
     the features of an AoA but emphasizes affordability, risk, and capabilities. An EoA is similar to a
     BCA in that an EoA evaluates various alternatives against one another for costs, benefits and risks,
     but it is different in that an EoA typically occurs during a joint planning decision. An EoA is
     directed by OSD ATL on some joint programs when a gap is realized between a potential strategic
     threat and the joint capabilities for countering the threat. An EoA considers solutions that can be
     material (procure a new system, procure additional copies of an existing system, modify an exist-
     ing system), non-material (change in doctrine or strategy), and divestiture (have different organi-
     zation take responsibility). Each alternative is evaluated for its specific costs, benefits, risks, and
     how well it fills the original capability gap that generated the study. As an example, a joint com-
4                                                                    AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008


       mander may realize that there is not enough logistics capability in theater. The gap can potentially
       be met by either purchasing more airlift assets, purchasing more sealift assets, modifying existing
       assets, or prepositioning stock in theater. The quantitative measure of each alternative to bridge
       the gap would be evaluated against its costs, other benefits, and inherent risks.
    1.2.2. This AFI (65-509) determines basic requirements and responsibilities for BCAs. Consult
    AFMAN 65-510, Business Case Analysis Procedures, for additional guidance on how to accomplish
    a BCA. If OMB, OSD, or specific Congressional legislation provides guidance on a particular BCA
    format, then such guidance takes precedence over the procedures in AFMAN 65-510.

1.3. Requirements.
    1.3.1. The Air Force develops a BCA when:
       1.3.1.1. Required by OMB Circular A-11, Preparation and Submission of Budget Estimates, Part
       7. OMB makes these requirements known through their annual call for submission of the Air
       Force budget, for which SAF/FMB is OPR. (Circular A-11 is frequently revised; check the OMB
       web site at www.omb.gov to make sure you have the most recent edition.) Federal agencies sub-
       ject to Executive Branch review that have major capital acquisitions submit a Capital Asset Plan
       and Business Case (called Exhibit 300) with their budget requests. Exhibit 300 does not, in and of
       itself, form a consolidated business case for an agency’s investments. This is due to the fact that it
       does not offer alternatives for a decision maker to decide upon; it is the result of a compilation of
       decisions, some of which may be based on business case analyses. The corporate agency Exhibit
       300 is supported by individual major acquisition program business cases which OMB may request
       for review. As such, a decision described in the exhibit 300 may require a supporting BCA. OSD
       provides the Air Force annual guidance on which systems will be included in DoD’s annual
       Exhibit 300. Circular A-11 states that Exhibit 300 is designed to coordinate OMB’s collection of
       agency information for its reports to the Congress required by the Federal Acquisition Streamlin-
       ing Act of 1994 (FASA Title V) and the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996; to ensure business cases for
       investments are well established and tied to mission statements, long-term goals and objectives,
       and annual performance plans developed pursuant to the Government Performance and Results
       Act (GPRA). For Information Technology (IT), exhibit 300s are designed to be used as one-stop
       documents for many IT management issues such as business cases for investments, IT security
       reporting, Clinger Cohen Act implementation, E-Gov Act implementation, Government Paper-
       work Elimination Act implementation, agency’s modernization efforts, and overall project
       (investment) management.
       1.3.1.2. Required by major acquisition programs as directed by SAF/AQ, SAF/XC, Air Force pol-
       icy, or DoD policy to support lifecycle management decisions. DoD Financial Management Reg-
       ulation, Volume 2B, Chapter 18, further codifies OSD financial requirements for business cases
       supporting major IT acquisitions. Defense Acquisition University’s Defense Acquisition Guide-
       book http://akss.dau.mil/dag/, Section 5.5.4, contains guidance and a template for business cases
       supporting acquisition programs, whether weapon systems or IT.
       1.3.1.3. Required by OSD AT&L for Performance-Based Logistics (PBL) programs. Guidance on
       PBL BCA requirements is found in AFI 63-107, Integrated Product Support Planning and Assess-
       ment (until AFI 63-107 is superseded by AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
       Management). As required by the roles and responsibilities section of this AFI, as well as AFI
AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                             5


       65-501, SAF/FM develops BCA policy, procedures, and guidance. SAF/FM also coordinates with
       AF/A4/7 on any BCA issues supporting PBL.
       1.3.1.4. A Program Objective Memorandum (POM) initiative, disconnect, or offset is presented to
       the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS: Group, Board, or Council) exceeding $500 million over
       the FYDP. The BCA requirement is waived if the initiative has a cost estimate or non-advocate
       cost assessment (NACA) that complies with Air Force cost estimating policy and guidance. See
       AFPD 65-5 for the definition of a NACA.
       1.3.1.5. Directed by Headquarters Air Force (HAF), defined as any Secretariat or Air Staff func-
       tional office, or a commander of field units. Functional OPRs must coordinate any new require-
       ment for a BCA or recurring BCAs with SAF/FMC.
       1.3.1.6. Requested by senior Air Force leadership, defined for this purpose as a general officer or
       senior executive service member. This requirement is from the HQ USAF perspective, MAJ-
       COMs may determine additional requirements. Note: the AFCS threshold (exceeding $500 mil-
       lion over the FYDP, para 1.3.1.4.) is a minimum from a HQ USAF perspective. Senior leadership
       may request a BCA whenever they believe it will help with decision making. MAJCOMs and
       installations are encouraged to set their own thresholds for their situation if, in their judgment,
       such thresholds would improve decision making. Field organizations preparing BCAs not required
       by this AFI do not have to include all the elements of a BCA found in AFMAN 65-510, but should
       consider the guidance in AFMAN 65-510 in the preparation process. MAJCOMs send copies of
       implementing guidance to SAF/FMCE.
   1.3.2. A BCA is not required if:
       1.3.2.1. The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), Congress, or the President directs a new or
       modified program and specifies how to implement the program such that there are no alternative
       means of accomplishment that need to be considered in executing the program. Congressional
       inserts in the Air Force budget process that specify the alternative that must be taken do not
       require a BCA.
       1.3.2.2. Legislation specifically exempts a project from a BCA.
   1.3.3. When an activity does not conduct a BCA for reasons in 1.3.2., the exemption from the normal
   requirement should be documented. OPRs for programs prepare a memo for the record (MFR) and
   coordinate with functional OCRs and the OPR’s servicing comptroller organization. Program OPRs
   must retain the coordinated MFR on file until the project has been completed. See paragraph 2.1. for
   information about other exceptions and waivers.

1.4. Responsibilities:
   1.4.1. SAF/FMC, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Cost and Economics), and AF/A9,
   Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned, are co-OPRs for providing overall guidance
   on Air Force BCAs. These offices jointly:
       1.4.1.1. Provide Air Force-wide guidance on BCA policy and procedures.
       1.4.1.2. Coordinate on supplementary guidance for specific BCAs developed by HAF functional
       offices. Since each Air Force line of business or operations is unique, functional OPRs are respon-
       sible for any supplementary guidance they believe necessary to accomplish a BCA in their func-
6                                                                 AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008


       tional area. However, supplemental guidance is not required if functional managers believe the
       guidance in AFMAN 65-510 is sufficient.
       1.4.1.3. SAF/FMC specifically reviews and coordinates on BCAs for weapons systems that
       require Defense Acquisition Board (DAB) or Air Force Review Board (AFRB) approval. AF/A9
       specifically reviews and coordinates on BCAs that focus primarily on operations or operational
       measures of effectiveness.
       1.4.1.4. Review and coordinate on all BCAs forwarded to the “Top 4,” i.e., SECAF, USECAF,
       CSAF, or VCSAF for reasonableness and compliance with this instruction and AFMAN 65-510.
       1.4.1.5. Review and coordinate on all BCAs forwarded outside the Air Force, whether to OSD,
       Congress or their staff members, OMB, other federal agencies, and any other external organiza-
       tion.
       1.4.1.6. Review BCAs in any functional area when requested by senior HQ USAF functional
       leadership or senior leadership of MAJCOMs or other field units.
       1.4.1.7. Review and coordinate on requests for waivers from BCA requirements forwarded from
       HAF and program offices.
       1.4.1.8. Review and coordinate on BCAs in their functional area forwarded by MAJCOMs.
       1.4.1.9. Review and coordinate on MAJCOM requests for a waiver from BCA requirements.
    1.4.2. Other HAF Functional Offices. Offices serving as functional OPRs for programs:
       1.4.2.1. Decide if a BCA is required or advisable for program approval or management.
       1.4.2.2. Issue special supplementary BCA guidance, as needed for their specific functional area,
       coordinated with SAF/FMC as demonstrated in para 1.3.1.2. If guidance impacts specifically on
       operational effectiveness measures, AF/A9 will coordinate as well.
       1.4.2.3. Serve as the OPR for development of a BCA in their functional area, whether the BCA is
       developed at HQ USAF or at field units. Functional OPRs may request assistance with BCA prep-
       aration, and review of BCA drafts, from SAF/FMC and AF/A9.
           1.4.2.3.1. SAF/AQ is OPR for issues and policies particular to BCAs supporting weapon sys-
           tem acquisition. SAF/AQ delegates preparation of BCAs supporting acquisition programs to
           the Program Manager (PM) and approves weapon system BCAs going forward to OSD and
           Congress.
           1.4.2.3.2. SAF/FMC specifically reviews and coordinates on BCAs supporting information
           technology requirements requiring AF Chief Information Officer (CIO) approval or Informa-
           tion Technology Acquisition Board (ITAB) approval. SAF/FMC also coordinates with AF/A4/
           7 on any BCA issues supporting PBL.
           1.4.2.3.3. SAF/XC is OPR for specific functional aspect issues and policies particular to
           BCAs supporting IT investments. In this regard, SAF/XC provides added, specific guidance
           on IT investment issues within BCAs.
           1.4.2.3.4. AF/A4 is OPR for specific functional aspect issues and policies particular to BCAs
           dealing with performance-based logistics (PBL) or other logistics or maintenance efforts.
           Their role is similar to SAF/XC as shown in the previous paragraph. Depending on the nature
AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                            7


         of the program, the Air Force Acquisition Executive may be the final approval for the BCA in
         question.
         1.4.2.3.5. AF/A9 is OPR for BCAs supporting operational considerations, and either per-
         forms, sponsors, reviews, or coordinates on BCAs analyzing military operations. Note: In para
         1.4.1. above, AF/A9 is co-OPR with SAF/FMC for general BCA guidance.
         1.4.2.3.6. The Air Force Services Agency (AFSVA) is OPR for providing guidance on BCAs
         for NAFI (nonappropriated fund instrumentalities) memorandum of agreements (MOAs).
         These BCAs follow special guidance not found in AFMAN 65-510. The reason for this is that
         their operations involve self-generated profits in addition to funds provided by Congress. Con-
         tact the Air Force Services Agency for specific formats in these BCAs.
  1.4.3. MAJCOM/FM.
     1.4.3.1. The MAJCOM/FM is responsible for reviewing and coordination of all BCAs and BCA
     waivers MAJCOM functional offices forward to MAJCOM/CC or HAF.
     1.4.3.2. The MAJCOM/FM acts as OCR for preparation of BCAs initiated at the MAJCOM level.
     The MAJCOM/FM may request assistance from the Center of Expertise (AFCAA/CoE) with
     BCAs on installation operations and support issues. Note: CoE assistance does not apply to BCAs
     supporting acquisition programs, IT programs, PBL BCAs, or any BCAs not related to installation
     operations and support issues.
     1.4.3.3. BCAs involving acquisition programs will be reviewed and coordinated by SAF/FMC
     and the Acquisition Decision Authority per para 2.2.2., 1.4.1.3., 1.4.2.3.1., and 1.4.2.3.2.
  1.4.4. MAJCOM Functional Offices :
     1.4.4.1. Review and coordinate on BCAs from command installations involving their functional
     area.
     1.4.4.2. Serve as OPR for the development of BCAs initiated at MAJCOM level involving their
     functional area. MAJCOM Functional offices should confer with their HAF counterpart and SAF/
     FMC to ensure the issue being examined truly requires a MAJCOM-initiated BCA.
     1.4.4.3. Forward the BCA to their counterparts at HAF, after coordination by the MAJCOM/FM,
     when BCAs require forwarding to HQ USAF.
     1.4.4.4. Serve as OPR for waivers from BCA requirements in their functional area and forward
     the request, after coordination with MAJCOM/FM and all affected MAJCOM functional offices,
     to HAF counterparts.
  1.4.5. Installation Functional Offices. Base or wing level functional offices:
     1.4.5.1. Serve as OPR for preparing BCAs required based on criteria in paragraph 1.3.
     1.4.5.2. Request assistance from the unit comptroller office in writing when a BCA is required.
     1.4.5.3. Coordinate final BCAs with their installation FM office and any installation functional
     offices involved in the analysis or any stakeholders in the outcome of the proposed action or deci-
     sion.
8                                                                     AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008


       1.4.5.4. When a waiver from a BCA requirement is requested, forwards the waiver request, coor-
       dinated with installation FM and all affected installation functional offices, through MAJCOM
       counterparts to the Air Force BCA OPR in paragraphs 1.4.1. and 1.4.2.
    1.4.6. Installation FM Offices. Base or wing level FM offices:
       1.4.6.1. Are OCR for preparing BCAs developed at their installation. Unit comptroller offices
       may request assistance from the Center of Expertise (AFCAA/CoE) with BCAs on installation
       operations and support issues. Note: CoE assistance does not apply to BCAs supporting acquisi-
       tion programs, IT programs, PBL BCAs, or any BCAs not related to installation operations and
       support issues.
       1.4.6.2. With the requesting functional office, determine as BCA OCRs those offices necessary to
       formulate alternatives, make assumptions, act as stakeholders, provide operational or cost data, or
       participate in a training or change management plan.
       1.4.6.3. Coordinate on completed BCAs or any request for a waiver from a BCA requirement.

1.5. Documentation Requirements:
    1.5.1. Thoroughly document your BCA so reviewers can replicate it. Reviewers must be able to trace
    costs to the most basic inputs and units of measure. Cite sources and dates for rates, factors, and esti-
    mates, including publications, memos, and letters. For estimates based on expert opinion, include the
    individual's office symbol, email address, and phone number.
    1.5.2. If an alternative in a BCA uses innovative methods, include in the BCA an explanation of the
    method and the rationale for using it.
    1.5.3. Clearly identify any funding or budget constraints. Keep in mind the funding requirement for a
    project may not be the same as the costs contained in the supporting BCA. Make sure the responsible
    budget analyst is aware of funding requirements.
    1.5.4. Follow BCA guidance and formats in AFMAN 65-510 for BCA documentation. This AFMAN
    contains the financial measures of merit to be used in Air Force BCAs.
    1.5.5. Be sure that you document data so well that the analysis can bear very close scrutiny by inde-
    pendent authority. To facilitate review, number all pages in a BCA, including attachments.
    1.5.6. Significantly Different Alternatives. If the BCA compares contractor and government perfor-
    mance, the analysis should, if applicable:
       1.5.6.1. Explain why the government's response to a functional specification significantly differs
       from the contractor's proposed method of construction or operation (for example, using coal
       instead of nuclear power for an energy plant).
       1.5.6.2. Explain any significant differences between the government's and the contractor's costs.
       Briefly explain in the executive summary and elaborate in the body of the BCA.
AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                             9


                                               Chapter 2

                                   SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS

2.1. Waivers/Exemptions:
   2.1.1. Authority to grant waivers from BCA requirements lies with the Air Force OPR for the pro-
   gram (see paragraphs 1.4.1. and 1.4.2.). Since BCA requirements often result from OSD, OMB, or
   Congress, the Air Force OPR would have to obtain the approval of the federal organization that gen-
   erates the BCA requirement.
   2.1.2. OPRs documenting exceptions from the BCA requirements based on the criteria in paragraph
   1.3.2. are discussed in paragraph 1.3.3.

2.2. Reporting and Review Procedures. BCAs sent to HAF are forwarded to program OPRs.
   2.2.1. When functional offices request SAF/FM or AF/A9 coordination, they must provide comments
   from their functional perspective along with the request.
   2.2.2. When functional offices must send a BCA to high levels (e.g., Congress, OSD, or senior Air
   Force officials) and the SAF/FM or AF/A9 review leads to a need for revisions to the BCA, SAF/
   FMCE or AF/A9 sends comments through the functional offices requesting the review. In cases of
   tight deadlines, SAF/FMCE or AF/A9 may, in consultation with HAF functional offices, request revi-
   sions to BCAs directly from MAJCOM functional or financial analysis offices.

2.3. FM Coordination. Coordination by comptroller personnel means that a BCA has been prepared
according to this instruction and that the financial aspects of the analysis have been properly prepared.
FM coordination does not mean that the comptroller organization endorses the recommendation con-
tained in the BCA. Only responsible functional officials can judge whether the recommendation is appro-
priate. Coordination by comptroller personnel attests to the proper use of economic principles in the
analysis and to the adequacy of documentation such that the BCA is a stand-alone document. Coordina-
tion by functional personnel indicates that the assumptions, reasoning and cost-benefit assessments in the
BCA are consistent with their area of technical expertise. Functional managers and reviewers at each
stage of the review process must coordinate on the BCA. BCAs forwarded to HAF must give evidence of
MAJCOM coordination.
   2.3.1. Coordinating officials include the comptroller and the program office equivalent at base level
   and MAJCOM levels. Other base level or MAJCOM offices that have provided significant inputs to,
   or are key stakeholders in the business process, must also coordinate. Examples include the Air
   National Guard and union.
   2.3.2. Do not forward a BCA outside the Air Force without MAJCOM coordination and coordination
   with the Air Staff BCA OPR in paragraphs 1.4.1. and 1.4.2.

2.4. Guidance for Specific Functional BCAs
   2.4.1. Additional BCA guidance on logistics BCAs can be found in the OSD’s “Business Case Model
   for the DoD Logistics Community: A Guide to Business Case Development;” and Defense Acquisi-
   tion University’s “Performance Based Logistics: A Program Manager's Product Support Guide.”
10                                                                   AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008


     2.4.2. While AFMAN 65-510 provides general Air Force procedures for BCAs, when specific OSD
     or Air Force guidance exists for particular programs such as PBL, the specific guidance takes priority
     over the general procedures in AFMAN 65-510, unless the OSD or Air Force OPR has agreed to allow
     the different procedures.
AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                           11


                                               Chapter 3

                   INFORMATION COLLECTION, RECORDS, AND FORMS

3.1. Information Collections: No information collections are created by this publication.

3.2. Records: The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363) and disposed of in
accordance with the AFRIMS RDS located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

3.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
   3.3.1. Adopted Forms: AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation for
   Change of Publication.
   3.3.2. Prescribed Forms: No prescribed forms are implemented in this publication.



                                           JOHN H. GIBSON, II,
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                           (Financial Management and Comptroller)
12                                                             AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development, 31 July 2006
AFI 63-107, Integrated Product Support Planning and Assessment, 10 November 2004
AFPD 65-5, Cost and Economics, 17 May 1993
AFI 65-501, Economic Analysis, 10 November 2004
AFMAN 65-510, Business Case Analysis Procedures, 7 December 2007
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records (will become AFMAN 33-363), 31 August 1994
AFRIMS RDS, https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm
40 USC 1401(3), Clinger-Cohen Act – Information Technology Management Reform Act, 1996
DoD Regulation 7000.14R, DoD Financial Management Regulation, Volume 2B, Chapter 8, Leases:
non-excess property of military departments (10 U.S.C. 2667), June 2007
OMB Circular A-11, Preparation and Submission, and Execution of the Budget, 2 July 2007
OMB Circular A-94, Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit-Cost Analysis of Federal Programs, 29
Oct 1992

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AFAE—Air Force Acquisition Executive
AFCAA—Air Force Cost Analysis Agency
AFCS—Air Force Corporate Structure
AF FM CoE—Air Force Financial Management Center of Expertise
AFRB—Air Force Requirements Board
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRPA—Air Force Real Property Agency
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
ATL—Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
BCA—Business Case Analysis
CIO—Chief Information Officer
AFI65-509 19 SEPTEMBER 2008                     13


EA—Economic Analysis
EoA—Evaluation of Alternatives
EUL—Enhanced Use Lease
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IT—Information Technology
ITAB—Information Technology Acquisition Board
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
NACA—Non Advocate Cost Assessment
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PBL—Performance Based Logistics
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
