                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 61-202
AIR FORCE                                                                                  25 JULY 1994

                                                                    Scientific/Research and Development

                                                          UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TECHNICAL
                                                                     PUBLICATIONS PROGRAM


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/AQT (Dr C.J. Chatlynne)                       Certified by: SAF/AQT (Col A. Michael Higgins)
Supersedes AFR 83-2, 15 June 1989.                                                           Pages: 9
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policies and procedures for processing, distributing, and publishing technical
documents generated in-house or by contract, subcontract, or grant (including reports published by feder-
ally funded research and development centers (FFRDC). It applies to all Air Force organizations generat-
ing scientific and technical information (STINFO). It does not apply to intelligence documents produced
by the National Air Intelligence Center. It implements AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Tech-
nical Information, and Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical
Information Program, February 15, 1983, and DoD Instruction 5200.21, Dissemination of DoD Technical
Information, September 27, 1979. Reports referenced in this instruction are exempt from licensing in
accordance with AFI 37-124, The Information Collections and Reports (ICR) Program.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction updates, clarifies, and streamlines previous guidelines.



1. Air Force STINFO Program:
   1.1. The STINFO program facilitates communication of information and data for use in planning and
   conducting Air Force research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E); engineering; production;
   logistics; and studies and analysis efforts.
       1.1.1. These efforts are not complete until you document and distribute the results to the appropri-
       ate activities. Documentation consists of any medium that transfers information, including paper,
       microform, electronic storage, and video recordings.
       1.1.2. Formal documentation is the permanent record of the effort and is the basis for a tangible
       end product. The documentation enhances activities’ ability to review, reference, and transfer
       technology. It maximizes the flow of technical information and minimizes the uncoordinated
       duplication of effort.
   1.2. Program managers, principal investigators, and researchers record as technical publications all
   significant scientific or technological observations, findings, recommendations, and results derived
   from:
       • Air Force RDT&E
       • Engineering
       • Production
       • Logistics
       • Studies and Analysis Efforts
       • Contracted Advisory and Assistance Services
       • Cooperative Research and Development Agreements
       • These publications contribute to the national scientific and technical information knowledge
           base. This requirement excludes these items:
       • Preliminary informal results of studies that you must disseminate for immediate action.
       • Reports conveying fiscal, administrative, or other nontechnical information.
       • Progress or letter reports by contractors or grantees that give, for administrative purposes, the
           status of R&D efforts.
       • Technical reports that satisfy requests from organizations outside DoD and that essentially
           duplicate the primary official government document.
   1.3. The Air Force sends technical publications to the research, engineering, and studies and analysis
   community, including supporting technical libraries, the Defense Technical Information Center
   (DTIC), and appropriate information analysis centers (IAC), consistent with established security con-
   trols and distribution limitations.
   1.4. The Air Force prepares technical publications using standard formats.
   1.5. The Air Force finalizes and distributes technical publications within 180 days after completing or
   terminating the work.

2. Local STINFO Officers:
   2.1. Oversee the technical publications program for their organizations in compliance with AFPD
   61-2; AFI 61-201, The Local Scientific and Technical Information Program; and this instruction.
   2.2. Carry out or confirm that other offices in their organization are carrying out these functions by
   preparing or reviewing supplements, policy letters, operating instructions, internal controls, and
   standing operating procedures, and by making site visits and performing independent audits.
      2.2.1. Prepare, submit, publish, and distribute technical reports documenting the scientific and
      technical results of research, engineering, and studies and analysis efforts, whether or not the
      results are conclusive and regardless of whether the work is done in-house, by grant, or by con-
      tract.




                                                2
NOTE:
When an effort terminates before completion without a final report, the principal investigator or equiva-
lent prepares a technical note or technical memorandum, unless the STINFO officer issues a waiver. Nor-
mally, each effort yields at least one technical publication.
       2.2.2. Ensure all RDT&E contracts (including contracts with FFRDCs) specify the technical data
       and other documentation of results that contractors must deliver in accordance with the Air Force
       supplement to DoD Directive 5000.1, Defense Acquisition. (Contracting officers list appropriate
       data item descriptors on the DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL). Except
       for data that standard federal acquisition regulation (FAR) clauses specifically require, the CDRL
       is the sole list of required data for delivery under a particular contract.)
       2.2.3. Encourage publication in professional journals for reporting the results of research efforts.
       2.2.4. Make sure that contractors apply proper distribution and export control statements to all
       deliverable technical data according to Military Standard 1806, Marking Technical Data Pre-
       pared by or for the Department of Defense.
       2.2.5. Make sure that Air Force contract monitors do not sign the DD Form 250, Material
       Inspection and Receiving Report, until they receive acceptable camera-ready copies of technical
       reports.
       2.2.6. Maximize the quality of technical publications. Review and edit all technical reports and
       similar documents (including journal articles) before publishing or submitting them to journals.
       2.2.7. Track and record the progress of expected technical publications from before the due date
       of the original draft through printing. You can use the work-in-progress database at DTIC to help
       identify efforts nearing completion for which a report will be published.
       2.2.8. Inform DTIC of changes occurring in technical publications, including changes of classifi-
       cation, distribution control, and revisions or substitutions in technical documents. Review your
       organization’s technical publications at least yearly to identify such changes. The DTIC technical
       reports’ database can help you in this effort.
       2.2.9. Use the following guidelines to handle patentable subject matter and invention disclosures:
           2.2.9.1. Immediately refer in-house unclassified reports that contain patentable subject matter
           to patent personnel and to the Office of Research and Technology Application (ORTA).
           Patent personnel (Staff Judge Advocate and the Air Force Legal Support Agency) evaluate
           these reports to decide if the author should immediately file a patent application. Do not dis-
           tribute unclassified reports outside the government that contain information on patentable sub-
           ject matter. Mark such documents with the appropriate distribution statement (see AFI
           61-204, Controlling the Dissemination of Scientific and Technical Information) restricting
           their distribution to the US Government (not Statement A, Approved For Public Release).
           Only after filing a patent application covering the subject matter with the Patent and Trade-
           mark Office, can you use Distribution Statement A (Approved for Public Release). You can
           then inform prior recipients of any changes in distribution.
           2.2.9.2. Handle contractor invention disclosures according to the contract clauses prescribed
           by FAR section 27.303.


                                                3
       2.2.10. Confirm that the public affairs office is clearing documents for public release.
       2.2.11. Do not include material that implies that the Government endorses or favors a product or
       service manufactured or supplied by a specific supplier in technical reports. If you must use a
       trade or product name for clarity, state that this does not constitute an Air Force endorsement.

3. Technical Report Formats:
   3.1. Responsible Air Force organizations, contractors, and grantees should prepare reports using a
   professional format. You can use the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standard Z39.18,
   Scientific and Technical Reports: Organization, Preparation and Production, as a guide. ANSI stan-
   dard is not required for journal articles.
   3.2. Use these rules as written without any changes:
       3.2.1. Report Documentation Page. Insert the Standard Form (SF) 298, Report Documentation
       Page, in all publications. SF 298 gives you guidelines for bibliographies and dissemination con-
       trols. You can put the form in front of the document immediately following the cover (preferred
       location) or at the end of the document as the last page of the publication. If you insert it at the
       front of the publication, you can use it as the title page or include a formal title page, too. When
       you send a journal article to DTIC, just attach SF 298.
       3.2.2. Report Numbers. Assign a number to all technical publications as a unique identifier.
       Base this number on ANSI Z39.23-1990, Standard Technical Report Number Format and Cre-
       ation.
       3.2.3. Putting Special Notices on Technical Publications:
           3.2.3.1. Put a review and approval statement on the inside front cover, or in the document
           preface. Use the following version as a guide:


                 THIS REPORT HAS BEEN APPROVED FOR PUBLICATION.
Project Engineer or Scientist            Supervisor
Signature                                Signature
Name and Rank                            Name and Rank
FOR THE COMMANDER

           3.2.3.2. Include on the inside or outside front cover, one or more of these statements:

"Do not return copies of this report unless contractual obligations or notice on a specific document
requires its return.
"This report is published in the interest of scientific and technical information exchange and does not con-
stitute approval or disapproval of its ideas or findings.
"Using Government drawings, specifications, or other data included in this document for any purpose
other than Government procurement does not in any way obligate the US Government. The fact that the
Government formulated or supplied the drawings, specifications, or other data does not license the holder


                                                 4
or any other person or corporation; or convey any rights or permission to manufacture, use, or sell any
patented invention that may relate to them.
"If you change your address, wish to be removed from this mailing list, or your organization no longer
employs the addressee, please notify (insert the appropriate organization and address)."
       3.2.4. If you include copyrighted material in the document, follow the procedures in AFI 51-303,
       Patents.

4. Technical Publications Types:
   4.1. In conjunction with the local STINFO officer, the author usually decides how to publish a docu-
   ment. The decision should be based on the nature of the information and its need by the Air Force and
   other DoD organizations and their contractors. Technical publications include:
       4.1.1. Technical reports that formally present results after completing an effort or major phase of
       an effort.
       4.1.2. Conference proceedings that compile presentations, lectures, or papers from meetings,
       symposia, conferences, or conventions.
       4.1.3. Journal articles that use formats set by publishers. Periodical or journal articles are techni-
       cal papers and sometimes satisfy final-report requirements for a work effort (for example results
       of basic research). A journal article may not be adequate, however, because it does not allow pub-
       lishing all the results. In this case, a technical report would also be required.
       4.1.4. Technical memoranda, technical notes, progress reports, or interim reports that record
       interim or partial results. These reports are highly useful for efforts that terminate before comple-
       tion where no final report will result.

5. Classifying and Restricting Distribution of Technical Publications:
   5.1. Do not classify basic scientific research or its results, except in rare cases when the information
   shows an especially significant scientific breakthrough and you have reason to believe that it is not
   known or in the state-of-the-art of other nations and classifying the material gives the United States a
   national security advantage. When you must classify a document, follow DoD 5200.1-R, Information
   Security Program Regulation, January 1987, with change 1, and AFPD 31-4, Information Security.
   5.2. Do not reference classified documents in unclassified reports that are approved for public
   release.
   5.3. Include information that increases the distribution limitation of a report only when such informa-
   tion is necessary to understand the report.
   5.4. Assign an unclassified, unlimited distribution statement only if the document contains no sensi-
   tive information. If any restriction exists, place the applicable distribution statement from AFI 61-204
   on the outside front cover. The public affairs office approves all unlimited distributions (Distribution
   Statement A, Approved for Public Release) after coordinating the documents through appropriate
   internal staff offices (for example legal, security, and foreign disclosure).
   5.5. The organization that ordered the work is the controlling DoD office of primary responsibility
   (OPR) and controls the distribution statement. When the performing organization is also a DoD activ-


                                                 5
   ity, however, the controlling office does not change the performing organization’s recommended dis-
   tribution statement without agreement from the performing organization.
   5.6. Include the responsible Air Force organization’s short title and OPR’s functional address symbol
   (FAS) for distribution statements B, C, D, E, F, or X. (See AFI 61-204 for a list of the distribution
   statements and instructions for their application.)
   5.7. For reports containing export control data, put this notice on the outside front cover immediately
   below the distribution statement:

" WARNING--This document contains technical data whose export is restricted by the Arms Export Con-
trol Act (22 U.S.C. 2751, et seq.) or the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. 2401,
et seq.). Violating these export laws subject you to severe criminal penalties. Disseminate in accordance
with the provisions of DoDD 5230.25."

6. Handling Contractors’ Distribution Restrictions (Limited Rights Legends). Show limited rights
legends to the contracting officer or designee to decide if the contract authorizes using such legends.
Even when a legend appears to be totally unauthorized, respect it until the contracting officer makes a
final determination.
   6.1. If a publication will be distributed outside the Government and if the legend has not been justi-
   fied according to the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), ask the contract-
   ing officer to require a justification.
   6.2. If the publication will not be distributed outside the Government or if the Government lacks the
   resources to investigate the contractor’s claim that the legend is justified, the Government may honor
   the legend without investigation. In this case, ask the contracting officer to advise the contractor as
   follows:

"The Government notes your legend limiting our rights to use (the name of the technical publication). We
will observe these restrictions for the present, even though we have not investigated the propriety of the
legend. This action does not prejudice the Government’s rights to later question the legend."

7. Preparing Technical Publications Involving Other Organizations. When multiple organizations
cooperate in technical efforts, the tasking document specifies who prepares and publishes the technical
document. You may use the collaborating organization’s identifying publication number with your own.

8. Distributing Technical Publications. Distribute technical publications as widely as possible, consis-
tent with security controls and distribution limitations:
   8.1. Distribute documents to the following organizations:
       • Air Force, DoD, other Federal organizations, and contractors who need the information to
          continue with an Air Force project
       • DTIC (see section 9)
       • Air University Library (HQ AUL/LSE), Maxwell AFB AL 36112-5564 (AFI 36-2303, Docu-
          ments and Publications for the AU Library)



                                                6
       •   Director, National Security Agency (P2213), Ft George G. Meade MD 22705-5000, if the
           report contains communications intelligence (COMINT), electronic intelligence (ELINT), or
           communications security (COMSEC) information.
   8.2. Do not distribute classified STINFO reports to recipients who simply say they have an "interest"
   in the general subject matter without first evaluating their clearance and access authorizations,
   need-to-know, and ability to properly store classified material.
   8.3. Distribute reports containing export-controlled data only to qualified contractors certified and
   registered with the Defense Logistics Services Center (DLSC) (AFI 61-204).
   8.4. Review and verify classified distribution lists (for example lists of those qualified to receive clas-
   sified documents) at least once a year (DoD 5200.1-R and AFPD 31-4).
   8.5. Refer DoD and other Federal Government agency requests for copies of publications to DTIC.
   Refer public requests for unclassified, unlimited publications to the National Technical Information
   Service (NTIS).

9. Distributing Technical Publications to DTIC:
   9.1. Send technical publications to DTIC within 180 days after completing the work or within 10 days
   of receiving the final printed report except:
       • Encrypted TOP SECRET reports that contain designated categories of intelligence or infor-
           mation from a foreign government that forbid the report's dissemination
       • Management reports containing nontechnical information about a project and administrative
           details
       • Technical documents for use by the originating activity only, such as working reports
   9.2. Send two high-quality paper copies of each publication and one digital copy (in an established
   digital format) to DTIC with DTIC Form 50, Accession Notice. The better the quality of the report
   you send to DTIC, the better their reproductions will be. You can get DTIC Form 50 from DTIC,
   Cameron Station, Alexandria VA 22304-6145. Note: Even if you don’t have high-quality copies,
   you must still submit the report to DTIC.
   9.3. DTIC:
       • Provides secondary distribution.
       • Announces and distributes all classified and unclassified reports (including confidential and
         secret reports that do not have special-access requirements).
       • Sends all unclassified, unlimited reports to NTIS for distribution to the general public.

10. Publication and Reprints of Articles in Technical Journals:
   10.1. Air Force policy encourages its scientific and technical personnel to publish research results in
   recognized journals. Journal publication is important to the Air Force's R&D program.
   10.2. Publishing technical accomplishments in professional journals may satisfy technical reporting
   requirements if the work was sponsored by program 6.1 or 6. 2 funds. Authors select the journal and
   comply with the journal's publication procedures and schedules. Prefer to publish in refereed jour-
   nals. This does not apply to limited-distribution, classified, and export-controlled information. If

                                                 7
publishing a journal article requires omitting important information that is limited, classified, or
export controlled, publish a technical report also to fully disseminate the information.
10.3. Air Force personnel may acquire reprints of their own articles for distribution.
10.4. The cost of publishing scientific results in professional journals is a necessary part of research.
The Air Force repays these costs according to paragraph 10.7.
10.5. Before submitting an article for publication in a professional journal, the author’s supervisor
must identify the material as official or unofficial. The technical management of the author’s activity
reviews and validates the technical content of the article, approves the article for publication, and ver-
ifies that:
    • The article's dissemination enhances Air Force-related R&D programs.
    • Defense security requirements are satisfied.
    • The publisher knows that official material is not subject to copyright law.
10.6. For official material, the local STINFO manager submits two copies of the article to DTIC with
a completed SF 298. For unofficial material for publication in a copyrighted journal, the STINFO
manager sends the completed SF 298 to DTIC. The form simply cites the issue and page numbers.
10.7. If the journal has page charges, authors may use project or other funds when all the following
conditions exist:
    • The journal's charges apply to all contributors and do not discriminate against the Govern-
        ment.
    • The Government does not bear the entire cost of the publication and the publication is not
        exclusively for the Government.
    • The article is concise and will be published in a reasonable page space according to accepted
        journalistic practice. (AFI 37-160, Air Force Publications and Forms Management Pro-
        grams, and the Government Printing Office Style Manual provide guidelines on style and
        usage.)
    • Any illustrations, figures, graphs, or tables in the article are simple. (Use ANSI Z39.18 for
        guidelines.)
    • The author submits the article to the publisher through official Air Force channels that meet
        all requirements for releasing technical information.
    • Billing charges from journals for published articles contain a statement similar to:
    • "For services performed in the review, editing, and publication of information on results of
        research performed by Department of Air Force personnel." ( Note: Authors should inform
        journals of this requirement before billing takes place. )
10.8. When possible, provide a camera-ready manuscript instead of paying page charges. Many pro-
fessional and technical journals accept or require camera-ready manuscripts in lieu of assessing page
charges. Not only is this approach less expensive for the author, but it allows the author to directly
control the quality of the article.
10.9. Reprints of official material may be acquired from the original publisher using RDT&E funds.
10.10. Submit one copy of each paper to the project officer or program manager at the same time that
you submit it for publication.

                                              8
   10.11. After publication, submit copies of published papers to the project officer or program manager
   designated by the sponsor.
   10.12. Print this warning on all journal articles:

"Opinions, interpretations, conclusions, and recommendations are those of the author and are not neces-
sarily endorsed by the United States Air Force."
   10.13. Before publishing a journal article based on R&D sponsored by other than program 6.1 or 6.2
   funds, you must have the article reviewed and get approval from the Air Force sponsor according to
   Air Force information-release policies and procedures. You may withhold certain unclassified, tech-
   nical information from public disclosure if it might jeopardize an important US technological or oper-
   ational advantage per DoDD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public
   Disclosure.
   10.14. You must include the following acknowledgment with all journal articles based on work
   funded or supported by the Air Force if you are an Air Force employee, member, contractor, or
   grantee:

"This research was sponsored by (name of sponsoring organization), Department of the Air Force grant or
contract number ( )."
   10.15. The Air Force allows the publication and public presentation of unclassified contracted funda-
   mental research results. Security classification controls information generated by Air Force-funded
   fundamental research in science, technology, and engineering performed under contract or grant at
   colleges, universities, and non-government laboratories. The Air Force does not authorize any other
   type of control unless required by law.
   Forms Prescribed
   SF 298, Report Documentation Page, and DTIC Form 50, Accession Notice.




                                          CLARK G. FIESTER
                                          The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition




                                                 9
