BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-610
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 20 JUNE 2013

                                                                         Financial Management

                                                       GUIDANCE FOR EXPENDITURES AT
                                                                DEPLOYED LOCATIONS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the ePublishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/FMBMM                                                         Certified by: SAF/FMB
                                                          (Maj Gen Edward L. Bolton Jr., USAF)
                                                                                       Pages: 7
Supersedes:    AFI65-610,
               17 October 2003


This instruction contains Commanders’ responsibilities for exercising good financial
management and cost stewardship in the expenditure of funds to support contingency operations.
This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-6, Budget. This instruction
applies to all Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard activities.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to SAF/FMBMM using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional‘ s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety.
1. Purpose. The purpose of this AFI is to provide guidance for administrative, general support,
and quality of life expenditures at deployed locations. It is not all-inclusive, but does include
references for specific areas as needed. Appropriated funds (APFs), e.g., Operation and
Maintenance (O&M) funds provided by Congress to the Air Force for contingency operations at
deployed locations, are to be spent on those requirements which are directly attributable to the
 2                                                                      AFI65-610 20 JUNE 2013


deployment of forces to the region in which the contingency operations are taking place, as well
as incremental costs at home stations incurred in support of such operations. That is, these are
incremental costs to the Air Force that would not have been incurred had the contingency
operation not been supported (DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR) 7000.14-R,
Volume 12, Chapter 23). Commanders and deployed personnel are responsible for ensuring all
purchases are necessary, prudent, and limited to those needed to support deployed mission
operations.
2. Responsibilities. It is imperative that commanders, and those upon whom they rely for
execution of the operation, exercise sound financial management and cost stewardship in the
expenditure of any Government funds to which they may have access, including funds to support
contingency operations. Commanders must ensure that all expenditures are accurately
documented and correctly reflected in summary logs. AFI 65-601, Volume I, Budget Guidance
and Procedures, provides detailed guidance for several of the areas addressed in this AFI. Other
related and applicable AFIs and DoD publications are referenced at Attachment 1.
3. Guidance. Funding guidance in AFIs are based upon law, direction in Congressional
Reports, OSD policy, and corporate Air Force decisions. They are applicable to funds directly
appropriated to the Air Force, as well as to funds received from DoD transfer accounts, e.g.,
Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Funds (OCOTF) and Defense Emergency Response
Funds (DERF). Exceptions to this guidance must be clearly identified in official AF, DoD, or
Joint Staff guidance.
     3.1. Contingency Operations, in many instances, involve deployment of members to austere
     and isolated locations, devoid of the amenities that are an integral part of the American
     standard of living and commonplace at established Air Force installations. However, the
     purpose of appropriated fund expenditures at deployed locations is not to recreate or
     duplicate all the support amenities available at established Air Force installations. Rather, it
     is to support contingency site operations at a level commensurate with contingency operation
     requirements, the deployment of members on scheduled rotations, and anticipated duration of
     contingency sites. All purchases made pursuant to this AFI will be consistent with this
     principle.
     3.2. Maintenance, Repair, and Construction funding rules and processes for contingency
     operations occurring outside the United States are described in AFI 32-1032, Planning and
     Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and Construction Projects,
     Chapter 7.
     3.3. When available, DoD transfer funds can be used only to support contingency operations.
     All personnel charged with the expenditure of regular appropriated funds or transfer funds
     are still bound by existing regulations and appropriations laws, regardless of funding
     availability or source. In addition, available resources must not be perceived as unlimited, but
     rather as limited by what is necessary to accomplish the mission as authorized in existing Air
     Force guidance. Therefore, lavish, extravagant, or unnecessary expenditures are unacceptable
     and not permitted. Additionally, expenditures should be scrutinized for the appearance of
     impropriety. The absence of a prohibition on a specific use of appropriated funds at deployed
     locations does not constitute authority to use them.
     3.4. If designated approval authorities or the Commander are uncertain regarding the
     propriety of a proposed expenditure, they should consult the appropriate Judge Advocate
AFI65-610 20 JUNE 2013                                                                          3


   (JA), Financial Management (FM) personnel, and/or the applicable forward deployed HQ
   functional for that deployed location. Expenditures that have had the appearance of
   impropriety have compromised Air Force credibility and resources during the appropriations
   process. Commanders at all levels must ensure effective review procedures are in place to
   avoid improper expenditures.
   3.5. Deployed personnel shall avoid expenditures or procurement actions that actually
   violate applicable laws, rules or ethical standards or even create the appearance of
   impropriety, loss of impartiality, or self-dealing, or appears to violate some other similar
   ethical responsibilities. Whether particular circumstances create an appearance that the law or
   these standards have been violated shall be determined from the perspective of a reasonable
   person with knowledge of the relevant facts.
4. Training and Oversight.
   4.1. Training. The MAJCOM Comptrollers and FM personnel at other headquarters
   responsible for deploying personnel will provide training on this AFI to deploying FM
   personnel and commanders. The MAJCOM Comptrollers may delegate training
   responsibility to numbered Air Force or Wing Comptrollers, but are ultimately responsible
   for FM training within their Commands.
   4.2. Oversight. The MAJCOM Comptrollers and FM personnel at other headquarters
   responsible for deploying personnel will establish procedures for regular oversight reviews of
   purchases in their areas of responsibility (AORs). These reviews will include government
   purchase cards, fund cite authorizations (AF Form 616s) and requests for purchase (AF Form
   9s). Reviewing personnel must take immediate corrective action on any improper
   expenditure(s) or those that have the appearance of impropriety. Corrective actions should
   include notifying deployed location commanders of improper expenditures discovered during
   oversight reviews; recommending investigations if warranted; and reducing funding in
   applicable areas if necessary.
   4.3. Internal control systems must be established at all levels to provide reasonable assurance
   of the effectiveness of the organization; the efficiency and economy of operations; safeguards
   over assets; the propriety of receipts and disbursements; and the accuracy and reliability of
   records and reports. Commanders must ensure that all expenditures are properly documented
   in sufficient detail to assure the propriety of the expenditure and provide an adequate audit
   trail. Commanders will set the tone for positive internal controls; financial managers will
   provide oversight assistance.
5. Support of Operations. If the local situation permits, lead times can be met, and airlift costs
do not raise the total cost beyond the local cost, U.S. sources should be used to support the
equipment and supply requirements at deployed locations. However, it is recognized that mission
requirements may dictate local purchase even though costs in local markets may be considerably
higher or result in lower quality equipment and supply items.
6. Office and Lodging Furnishings. Furnishings must be procured in minimum quantities with
functional and durable, not ornate or extravagant, quality.
7. Awards and Gifts. Authorized uses of appropriated funds for awards and gifts are limited.
(See AFI 65-603 Official Representation Funds and AFI 65-601, Volume I, Chapter 4, para. 4.31
for awards and gifts that are authorized to be procured with O&M funds.)
 4                                                                     AFI65-610 20 JUNE 2013


8. Recreational MWR Equipment.
     8.1. The expenditure of Air Force O&M (3400) and Other Procurement (3080) funds
     directly appropriated to the Air Force are authorized for recreational MWR equipment at
     contingency locations. However, funds specifically designated for Contingency Operations
     and provided to the Air Force from transfer accounts appropriated to OSD solely for that
     purpose are only available to procure recreational MWR equipment if the Air Force budget
     request for those funds identified such equipment as a requirement. Recreational equipment
     acquired under this provision must be free of charge to the user and available/accessible to
     most, if not all, deployed personnel at the contingency location. It cannot be located in
     individual offices or quarters. Recreational equipment used to generate revenues must be
     purchased with non-appropriated funds.
     8.2. Procurement of Recreation and Physical Fitness Equipment. The support element
     containing Air Force Services activities is the only organization authorized to purchase
     recreation and physical fitness equipment. Individual units are not authorized to procure it on
     their own authority. This provision also applies to television sets, DVDs, VCRs, CD players,
     etc., procured with APFs for recreational or fitness purposes.
9. Serving Materials. Serving materials (plates, dishes, utensils, etc.), other than those
procured by Services for use in a dining facility (fixed structure, transportable, or van), are only
authorized for procurement by protocol offices as outlined and authorized in AFI 65-601,
Volume I, Chapter 4, Paragraph 4.51.4. Serving materials procured under this authority are
chargeable to direct Air Force O&M appropriations and should not be ESP coded in support of
contingency operations.
10. Standard Information Technology (IT) Office Equipment. Such equipment shall be
procured for a contingency site using appropriated funds for contingency operations, if
authorized and available, and shall remain at that site for rotating units to use. In order to
minimize duplicate purchases, each successive deploying unit will not procure such equipment
specifically for its deployment unless the equipment becomes obsolete or irreparable.
Information Technology equipment and accessories, which may be mission-specific for a
particular deploying unit, shall accompany the unit when deploying and return with it on
redeployment. Personal IT accessories shall only be procured for personnel requiring such
accessories for mission accomplishment, not merely as a convenience. Such accessories shall
remain at the contingency site for rotating personnel and not taken home as personal equipment.
They remain government property without regard to where they are being used.
11. Holiday Observances. See AFI 65-601, Volume I, Chapter 4, Para. 4.28.2 provides
guidance on use of appropriated funds for decorations. Installation Commanders may approve
the use of appropriated funds (APF) to purchase seasonal decorations on a case by case basis. Be
prudent when using APFs for this purpose. The following conditions apply. Purchase decorations
only where all installation personnel may benefit from their use, e.g., a decorated Headquarters
building, Thanksgiving/Christmas decorations for the installation main dining facilities, base
Christmas tree, or decorated foyer of the Headquarters building. Do not use APFs to purchase
decorations for the interior of government offices or for personal use. The decorations may not
be religious in character. Also, do not use APFs to purchase or mail seasonal greeting cards.
Items for chapel programs and events must be procured in accordance with AFI 52-105, Vol II,
Chapel Tithes and Offering Fund (CTOF). The Commander’s best judgment is essential in
AFI65-610 20 JUNE 2013                                                                       5


avoiding extravagance or the appearance thereof, as well as ensuring appropriate sensitivity to
host/local customs.
12. Equipment Maintenance.
   12.1. Maintenance on equipment at the deployed location, and reconstitution maintenance
   when equipment has been redeployed to its home base, shall be accomplished using funds
   appropriated for contingency operations. Maintenance on equipment at a home station,
   including that designated for imminent deployment, is funded with direct Air Force
   appropriations, not funds appropriated for contingency operations.
   12.2. Equipment and supplies (i.e., Unit Type Code (UTC) and other organic unit items) left
   in-place at a deployed location at the direction of Air Force instructions, Commander Air
   Force Forces order, or designated approval authority, will be reconstituted using funds
   appropriated for contingency operations, when authorized and available. If funds
   appropriated for contingency operations are not available, use existing AF Total Obligation
   Authority (TOA) with the appropriate ESP code to reconstitute equipment and supplies left
   in-place at the deployed location. The deployed installation commander, or designated
   authority, will identify in writing the unit equipment and supplies being directed to remain
   in-place via memo with attached Unit Type Code (UTC) Logistic Details, Custodian
   Authorization Custody Receipt Listing (CA-CRL), or standardized Equipment and Supplies
   List. The memo will be the authority for the owning unit to take appropriate supply
   authorization, funding, and reconstitution actions upon return to home station.
13. Government Purchase Card (GPC) Purchases. Purchases using the GPC are subject to
the same laws, Congressional direction, and DoD policy as those made with other funding
mechanisms. Governing Air Force policy on the use of the GPC in support of
Contingency/Exercise Operations can be found in AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide
Purchase Card (GPC) Program, paragraph 4.1.7. The unauthorized use of the card is described
under AFI 64-117, paragraph 4.5. If a purchase is prohibited or questionable using other
procurement methods, it remains prohibited or questionable even if the GPC is used. The GPC is
simply an additional procurement vehicle to obtain goods and services, not additional authority
to purchase goods and services otherwise prohibited or questionable using any other procurement
vehicle, i.e., AF Form 9. Only warranted Contingency Contracting Officers (CCOs) are
authorized to use the purchase card in support of contingency/exercise operations according to
AFI 64-117. However, IAW AFI 64-117, Para. 4.1.7.2, cardholders who are not warranted CCOs
may continue to use their purchase cards when deployed with their unit only for exercises of
short duration (typically 30 days or less) and contingencies, when their unit’s funding will be
used.




                                           MARILYN M. THOMAS
                                           Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
                                           (Financial Management and Comptroller)
 6                                                               AFI65-610 20 JUNE 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-6, Budget, 01 May 1998
AFI 32-1032, Chapter 7, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance,
Repair, and Construction Projects, 15 Oct 2003
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, 20 Sep 2011
AFI 65-601, Vol I, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 Aug 2012
AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds - Guidance and Procedures, 24 Aug 2011
AFI 52-105, Vol II, Chapel Tithes and Offering Fund (CTOF), 10 Sep 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Volume 12, Chapter 23, Contingency Operations, Sep 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA)
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction; a publication issued to support an antecedent Air Force Policy
Directive.
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
APFs—Appropriated Funds
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing
CCO—Contingency Contracting Officer
DoD—Department of Defense
DoD FMR—Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
ESP Code—Emergency & Special Program (ESP) Code
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IT—Information Technology
JA—Judge Advocate
MAJCOM—Major Command
AFI65-610 20 JUNE 2013                                                                               7


O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense
UTC—Unit Type Code

Terms
Contingency Operation—Title 10 United States Code, Section 101(a) Paragraph 13 defines a
contingency operation as : a military operation that is designated by the Secretary of Defense as
an operation in which members of the Armed Forces are or may become involved in military
actions, operations, or hostilities against an enemy of the United States or against an opposing
military force; or a military option that results in the call or order to, or retention on, active duty
of members of the uniformed services under section 688, 12301 (a), 12302, 12304, 12304a,
12305, or 12406 of Title 10, chapter 15 of Title 10, or any other provision of law during a war
or during a national emergency declared by the President or Congress.
