BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-201
AIR FORCE                                                                                   1 MAY 1997

                                                                          AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                      Supplement 1
                                                                                          23 MAY 2003

                                                                                Financial Management

                                                                          MANAGEMENT CONTROL

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/FMPI                                                                   Certified by: SAF/FMP
       (Mr Arnold B. Brodsky)                                                      (Mr John J. Nethery)
Supersedes AFI 65-201, 1 July 1994.                                                           Pages: 19
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 65-2, Management Control Program. It provides a structure to estab-
lish, evaluate, and report on Air Force management controls (MC) in all functional areas.

(AMC) AFI 65-201, 1 May l997, is supplemented as follows: (This supplement does not apply to
AMC-gained Air National Guard and United States Air Force Reserve units.)

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates revised guidance from DoDD 5010.38, Management Control Program, August
26, 1996 and DoDI 5010.40, Management Control Program Procedures, August 28, 1996. It re-titles the
instruction "Management Control"; directs the MC program be integrated into daily operating and man-
agement practices and utilize existing organizationally required evaluation processes (paragraph 2.1. and
paragraph 2.4.4.); eliminates the requirement for vulnerability assessments (paragraph 2.1.) changes the
schedule of management control evaluation activities from a 5-Year Plan to a requirement that managers
will continuously monitor their vital management controls (paragraph 2.4.1.); and requires classifying
management controls as "vital" or "non-vital" for determining the necessity for reviews and material
weakness reporting (paragraphs 2.2.1., 2.4.2., 3.4.1.); and obsoletes AF Form 3523, Vulnerability
Assessment (Internal Management Control Program). A | indicates revisions from the previous edi-
tion.
2                                                            AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


                                              Chapter 1

                                 GOALS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Introduction. To meet Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) requirements, all gov-
ernment agencies must establish, evaluate and report on management controls, and submit an annual
Statement of Assurance to the President and the Congress.
    1.1.1. Managers must:
        • Apply controls to all administrative, operational and programmatic functions as well as
           accounting and financial management.
        • Ensure that management control costs don't exceed the expected benefits.
    1.1.2.   Use the annual Statement of Assurance to report:
        •    Compliance with the Act.
        •    Operational and programmatic management control system material problems.
        •    Plans for taking corrective action.
        •    If the agency's accounting system meets Comptroller General requirements.

1.2. Objectives. Management control systems should provide reasonable assurance that:
    • Obligations and costs comply with applicable law.
    • Air Force people safeguard all assets against waste, loss, unauthorized use, and misappropriation.
    • Personnel properly record and account for money used to operate the agency so that they can pre-
      pare reliable financial and statistical reports.
    • Program and administrative functions follow applicable laws and administrative policy.

1.3. Senior Responsible Official. The Assistant Secretary, Financial Management and Comptroller
(SAF/FM), is the Management Control Senior Responsible Official for ensuring that the evaluation of,
improvement of, and reporting on the Air Force management control system meets the requirements of
the FMFIA, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Department of Defense (DoD) regulations.

1.4. Director of Management Control. The Director of the MC program (SAF/FMPI):
    • Provides policy for the Management Control Program.
    • Issues guidance for compliance and reporting requirements.
    • Provides technical advice, training, and program direction.
    • Directs quality assurance reviews.
    • Manages the program through an extensive network of focal points (program offices of primary
       responsibility (OPR)) appointed by each primary reporting organization.
    • Receives and processes primary reporting organizations' inputs and prepares overall Air Force
       reports.
    • Initiates coordination action for the Annual Statement of Assurance by the Secretary of the Air
       Force.
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                        3


   •   Responds to inquiries from DoD, OMB, General Accounting Office (GAO) and the Congress.

1.5. Secretariat, Air Staff, MAJCOM, DRU Responsibilities:
   1.5.1. Secretariat and Air Staff Offices, MAJCOMs, and DRUs are primary reporting elements of the
   Air Force MC program. The heads of these organizations are the management control officials who
   carry out the MC program within their organizations. Specifically, organizational heads must:
       • Establish management controls to meet the objectives of the MC program.
       • Evaluate the management controls to ensure they are efficient and cost-effective.
       • Prepare an annual statement, signed by the commander, which states whether or not there is
          reasonable assurance that the objectives of the MC program were met. These statements col-
          lectively form the support for the Secretary of the Air Force Annual Statement of Assurance to
          the Secretary of Defense.
       • Report progress and compliance in response to SAF/FM direction on MC program implemen-
          tation and the status of material weakness corrective actions.
       • Prepare a management control plan, updated annually which maintains the inventory of
          assessable units.
       • Designate a Program OPR to manage the overall MC program in the organization. The pro-
          gram OPR is in the financial management and comptroller organization. EXCEPTION: At
          locations without a financial management organization (for example, Secretariat or Air Staff)
          the organization head designates the office to perform program OPR duties.
   1.5.1. (AMC) HQ AMC/FMPF serves as the command Internal Management Control Program
   (IMCP) OPR for the headquarters. Each AMC headquarters' directorate and special staff agency
   (SSA) is responsible for their internal controls and will designate a focal point responsible for IMCP
   duties. Notify AMC/FMPF of the name, office symbol, e-mail address and telephone number of the
   responsible individual. Update this information as requested.
   1.5.2. Subordinate organization commanders are responsible for their management controls. Each
   commander must:
       • Establish management controls to meet program objectives.
       • Continuously monitor and improve the effectiveness of vital management controls.
       • Furnish, upon request by higher headquarters, an internal annual statement giving reasonable
          assurance that they met the objectives of the MC program.
       • Carry out MC program responsibilities as higher headquarters delegates.
   1.5.2. (AMC) For AMC activities (wing-level and above), the comptroller (FM) serves as the organi-
   zation's IMCP OPR. At locations where a FM function does not exist, the organization commander
   will designate a focal point. The FM financial analysis office at the base supporting the Numbered Air
   Force (NAF) will be designated the IMCP OPR for the NAF. Notify AMC/FMPF of the name, FAX,
   e-mail address and telephone number of the responsible individual. Update this information as neces-
   sary.
   1.5.3. Assessable unit managers must operate an effective management control system, evaluate the
   control system, and correct known weaknesses. Whether controls apply to administrative or opera-
   tional functions or to program activities, the assessable unit manager must develop, implement, and
4                                                               AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


    maintain a management control system as an integral part of the systems used to operate the organiza-
    tion's programs and functions.

1.6. Field Operating Agency (FOA) Responsibilities. Secretariat and Air Staff organizations who
oversee field activities must include their FOAs in their MC programs. They may require separate FOA
management control plans and program OPRs. The oversight principal may have the FOA commander
provide a separate supporting statement of assurance. They should include documents that show the
FOA's compliance with the MC program to support the principal's statement.

1.7. Program OPR Responsibilities. Program OPRs form the MC Focal Point Network. Program
OPRs at field level may perform tasks similar to their counterparts at Secretariat and Air Staff offices, and
MAJCOM and DRU headquarters. The Program OPR:
    • Prepares and maintains the Management Control Plan.
    • Ensures that management control evaluations meet the required documentation standards.
    • Instructs functional OPRs on the concept of management control evaluations and provides train-
       ing on the MC program goals, policies, and procedures.
    • Monitors functional OPR management control program activity, provides appropriate feedback,
       and reports program status as required within the primary element.
    • Ensures that corrective actions are taken on material weaknesses.
    • Drafts the primary reporting element's year-end supporting Statement of Assurance.
    • Performs periodic quality control assessments of both the MC program activity and the reporting
       process.

1.8. Functional OPR Responsibility. Primary element functional OPRs manage the MC program
within their function. A functional OPR:
    • Ensures that management control program evaluations are performed completely, accurately, and
        adequately support the year-end statement.
    • Reports MC program activity to the program OPR as required.
    • Actively follows up on and corrects management control weaknesses identified by the MC pro-
        gram.
    • Closely coordinates with the Program OPR on all aspects of the function's MC program and
        reports on improvements and weaknesses.
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                         5


                                               Chapter 2

                                        IMPLEMENTATION

2.1. MC Process. The Air Force will implement the MC program at all levels. You should include as
part of your basic management structure MC processes to improve effectiveness and accountability for
results. Managers should prevent this process from becoming an isolated exercise. It should be consoli-
dated with daily operating and management practices and utilize existing evaluative processes.
   2.1.1. Implement the program as follows:
       2.1.1.1. Segment the Organization. Divide each primary and subordinate reporting organization
       into entities capable of being evaluated by management control assessment procedures.
       2.1.1.2. Develop a Management Control Plan. Maintain a written log (updated annually) of the
       organization's inventory of assessable units.
       2.1.1.3. Conduct Management Control Evaluations. Conduct periodic evaluations of vital man-
       agement controls.
       2.1.1.4. Take Corrective Actions. Correct deficiencies in management control with corrective
       action plans.
       2.1.1.5. Prepare Management Control Reports. Disclose material weaknesses in management
       control and monitor corrective action status through periodic reports.

2.2. Segmentation.
   2.2.1. Activities should be segmented along organizational, functional, or programmatic lines into
   assessable units (AU) or an appropriate alternative methodology that provides equivalent results while
   identifying the vital management controls. Assessable units must encompass the entire organization.
   No aspect of Air Force worldwide operations is exempt from FMFIA requirements.
   2.2.2. Air Force organizations may determine how far the segmentation should progress in order to
   achieve adequate oversight of management control responsibilities. Designate AUs of appropriate
   nature and size that a single manager may be held responsible for the assessment of management con-
   trols. To the extent practical, standardize AUs and associated vital management controls for the oper-
   ation of common functions and activities throughout major commands.
   2.2.3. A precise definition of an AU is impracticable so you cannot universally apply it. Base an ideal
   definition on characteristics rather than a set of rules. The following parameters apply. AUs must:
       • Have clear limits or boundaries (organizational, functional, programmatic, or any combina-
           tion of the three) and be identifiable to a specific responsible manager.
       • Be small enough to allow observations that provide reasonable assurance that management
           controls are in place and adequate. The senior manager of the AU should actively participate
           in the review process.
       • Be large enough that any detected material weakness might impair the mission.

2.3. Management Control Plan (MCP).
6                                                            AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


    2.3.1. Primary reporting elements of the Air Force MC program identified in paragraph 1.5.1. shall
    establish and maintain an inventory of their assessable units. The inventory will be maintained in a
    management control plan which should be updated annually.
    2.3.2. Use the MCP to monitor progress and ensure that planned actions are taken. You may use any
    format or document to record MCP information as long as all elements of your organization are cov-
    ered by an assessable unit.

2.4. Management Control Evaluation.
    2.4.1. Management control evaluations are performed to determine whether management control
    techniques exist and are implemented to ensure that management control systems are working effec-
    tively. Management control evaluations are of two broad types:
       2.4.1.1. A variety of alternative evaluation processes that provide adequate information regarding
       the effectiveness of control techniques, see paragraph 2.4.4.
       2.4.1.2. A specific detailed examination of management controls in a prescribed review format
       especially designed for that purpose, see paragraph 2.4.5.
    2.4.2. Assessable unit managers are responsible for continuously monitoring their vital management
    controls. When considering the scope and necessity for reviewing or testing management controls,
    managers should determine whether controls should be classified as "vital" or "non-vital". Vital man-
    agement controls are those most important to the accomplishment of the mission or responsibilities of
    an assessable unit. All assessable units have both vital and non-vital management controls.
    2.4.3. A common misconception is that MC responsibilities apply only to accounting or financial
    areas when, in fact, MC principles apply to all Air Force organizations. Managers must:
        • Develop a written description of their controls so that the system can be communicated to all
           personnel.
        • Evaluate their own controls so that excessive controls can be eliminated and weak controls
           can be improved.
    2.4.4. In order to streamline the process of reviewing management control systems and to better
    involve program and administrative managers, DoDD 5010.38 encourages managers to rely on alter-
    native management control reviews. Managers should not duplicate existing reviews that have
    included a specific assessment of vital management controls and are properly documented. Managers
    are encouraged to utilize the following sources of information for alternative management control
    reviews:
        • Management and oversight reviews
        • Computer security reviews
        • AFAA, DoDIG and GAO audits, inspections, or investigations
        • Financial system reviews
        • Program evaluations
        • Self inspection program
        • Quality assessments
        • Management knowledge gained from daily operations
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                            7


   2.4.5. If an existing assessment of controls is not available, then an appropriate management control
   review should be performed for the assessable unit. The Air Force has developed a generic review
   format that can be used for this purpose. It conforms with all program requirements of OMB and
   DoD, and is available from the SAF/FMPI program office. The generic Management Control Review
   (MCR) format is a simple and uniform way of conducting and documenting the accomplishment of a
   management control evaluation. It is structured to evaluate your controls in accordance with govern-
   ment-wide control standards. The review questions are based on the management control standards in
   OMB Circular A-123 and the testing requirement is in accordance with DoDI 5010.40.

2.5. Corrective Action Plan.
   2.5.1. Prepare a corrective action plan when you discover material weaknesses in management con-
   trols. The correction of management control weaknesses is an integral part of management account-
   ability. It makes no difference if the weakness is systemic or the weakness is merely a failure to
   follow established procedure. In both cases you must correct the weakness.
   2.5.2. The recommendations for corrective action should correlate with the risk. In some cases you
   should strengthen the existing controls, and in others, you should include new controls. You should
   select the controls on the basis of cost effectiveness versus their ability to provide reasonable, but not
   absolute assurance against loss, errors, irregularities, or operational or mission impairment.
   2.5.3. When determining the most desirable and alternative corrective actions, consider the way in
   which budget constraints or staff limitations affect the achievement of the control objectives. Manag-
   ers must always consider the materiality of the weakness and the cost implications of actions to cor-
   rect it.
   2.5.4. A corrective action plan identifies specific actions and completion dates for correcting the
   weakness. The plan lists the tasks, called milestones, together with interim target dates for accom-
   plishment of each task. You may revise milestones as required. The final milestone should be one of
   verifying that the corrective actions achieved the desired results. Correct the weakness as soon as pos-
   sible or at least resolve the problem to the point where the weakness is no longer considered material
   for reporting purposes.
8                                                               AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


                                                 Chapter 3

                                               REPORTING

3.1. General. The reports relating to the MC Program have been assigned Report Control Symbol
DD-Comp (AR) 1618. The Undersecretary of Defense, Comptroller issues reporting guidelines and for-
mats for all required reports. SAF/FM will issue appropriate call letters to primary reporting elements
transmitting the prescribed guidance and current reporting formats.

3.2. Secretary's Statement of Assurance.
    3.2.1. SAF/FM will prepare the Air Force Statement of Assurance according to instructions received
    annually from the Undersecretary of Defense, Comptroller. The statement will be based on a general
    assessment of the effectiveness of Air Force management controls. A cover memorandum will state
    the senior management assessment as to whether or not there is reasonable assurance that the Air
    Force's management controls are in place and operating effectively. It will take one of the following
    forms:
        • Unqualified statement of assurance. ("I have reasonable assurance that...."). Provide a firm
            basis and appropriate justification for reasonable assurance.
        • Qualified statement of assurance. ("I have reasonable assurance that....except for....").
            Explain why the material weakness(s) precludes an unqualified statement.
        • Negative statement of assurance. ("I do not have reasonable assurance that...."). Explain why
            the overarching effect of weaknesses negates reasonable assurance.
    3.2.2. The body of the statement will provide a description of how the MC program was implemented
    during the year, disclose material weaknesses, describe the plans and schedules for correcting those
    weaknesses, and give the status of corrective actions on prior year weaknesses. If applicable, the
    statement will also contain a separate report on accounting systems conformance to the Comptroller
    General requirements.

3.3. Supporting Statements of Assurance.
    3.3.1. Each primary reporting element (paragraph 1.5.1.) must submit a supporting Statement of
    Assurance. The reporting element must state unequivocally whether it found material weaknesses.
    SAF/FM will issue an annual call letter to primary reporting elements by August 1. These supporting
    statements formulate the collective basis for the Secretary's Statement and will include all of the infor-
    mation in paragraph 3.2. from the perspective of the primary element.
    3.3.2. Secretariat offices address their statements to the Secretary of the Air Force. Air Staff offices,
    MAJCOMS, and DRUs address their statements to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. All statements
    are due on October 10 and must be submitted to SAF/FMPI for processing and development of the
    Secretary's Statement.
    3.3.3. Field Operating Agencies will address their statements, if required by provisions of paragraph
    1.6., to the appropriate Secretariat or Air Staff oversight organization. Accordingly, oversight organi-
    zations' supporting statements of assurance will include responsibility for the evaluation and reporting
    on management controls of their designated FOAs.
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                          9


   3.3.4. Primary reporting elements must develop a building block process to support their annual state-
   ments. Some form of supporting letter of assurance from echelons at paragraph 1.5.2. and paragraph
   1.5.3. is required. An additional recommended technique is the establishment of an office-wide or
   command-wide steering committee to review the adequacy of the year's MC program and to deter-
   mine if material weaknesses exist.
   3.3.5. Assurance letters at subordinate levels probably will disclose weaknesses of varying degrees of
   significance to the primary element as a whole. Collect and analyze those crosscutting weaknesses or
   items common to several units and other weaknesses of significance and consider whether they are
   appropriate for inclusion in the assurance letter to the next higher level official.
   3.3.6. The period covered by the Statement of Assurance is the entire fiscal year. Practical consider-
   ations of preparing a year-end statement within a short lead time require an earlier cut off date for
   internal processing. Nevertheless, the declaration of reasonable assurance and disclosure of material
   weaknesses must cover the entire fiscal year. Reporting elements should adopt practicable summary
   review procedures to assure inclusion of all pertinent information in their annual statement.

3.4. Concept of Material Weakness.
   3.4.1. Weaknesses in management controls must be reported if they are deemed to be material. Non-
   compliance with vital management controls or ineffective vital management controls should be
   reported by the responsible assessable unit manager to more senior management. Management con-
   trols may be considered vital at one organizational level but not at another or more senior level. Clas-
   sification of management controls as vital or non-vital is a management judgment, though each
   assessable unit has management controls which should be classified as vital for that specific unit.
   3.4.2. Subordinate managers must report deficiencies which are either material enough to warrant the
   attention of more senior management or require the participation of more senior management to
   resolve. The information is modified as it is reported forward. As the aggregation progresses, senior
   management may delete less significant control deficiencies and may add new items which are only
   conspicuous at more senior organizational levels. This process culminates when the primary Air
   Force elements denoted in paragraph 1.5.1. report their most significant management control prob-
   lems at the end of the fiscal year.
   3.4.3. Management judges whether a weakness is material enough to warrant reporting to a level
   higher than that at which it was discovered.
   Managers should consider reporting a weakness to the next higher level if the manager requires partic-
   ipation of management at a higher level to help resolve the problem or, although they could resolve
   the problem at the lower level, it is serious enough, in the judgment of the manager, to bring to higher
   level management's attention as a point of information.
   3.4.4. Full disclosure is critical at each level because each level's input forms the basis for the next
   higher level's Statement of Assurance. Thus, what may be a material weakness at one level may not be
   material at the next higher level. At each level, however, material weaknesses share some common
   traits. Material weaknesses have the potential to:
      3.4.4.1. Impair fulfillment of essential operations or mission.
      3.4.4.2. Violate statutory or regulatory requirements.
      3.4.4.3. Deprive the public of needed government services.
10                                                               AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


        3.4.4.4. Endanger national security.
        3.4.4.5. Cause adverse publicity or embarrassment.
        3.4.4.6. Diminish credibility or reputation.
        3.4.4.7. Lead to waste or loss of funds, property, or other resources.
        3.4.4.8. Allow fraud or other criminal activity to go undetected.
        3.4.4.9. Cause harm, even though minor individually, because it can be extensive in the aggre-
        gate.
        3.4.4.10. Cause loss of control over a significant amount of the resources for which an organiza-
        tion is responsible (including resources other than money; i.e., personnel, equipment, etc.).

3.5. MC Reporting Categories.
     3.5.1. Identify and report all MC program information according to standard DoD reporting catego-
     ries to allow for the proper reporting to the USD Comptroller. This includes material weaknesses in
     the Statement of Assurance as well as assessable units and management control evaluations in the
     Management Control Plan. Each assessable unit should be assigned to only one category. The pre-
     dominate function of the assessable unit should be used to determine the MC reporting category. See
     Attachment 2 for the list of reporting categories.

3.6. Weakness Tracking System.
     3.6.1. Maintain a follow-up information system that logs and tracks all planned corrective actions and
     identifies responsible personnel and target dates. The extent of this tracking should be commensurate
     with the severity of the weakness. SAF/FMPI maintains a summary of all weaknesses to meet DoD
     reporting requirements. Primary elements must maintain a subordinate system to track their own
     material weaknesses. Information in the tracking system must include the weakness number assigned
     by DoD, the MC reporting category, narrative description of the problem, corrective action milestone
     chart and the name of the responsible official or point of contract for corrective action progress.
     3.6.2. You should track the status of corrective actions on all material weaknesses from their first
     reporting until their resolution. You may consider the weakness closed when you have verified that
     the corrective actions were effective.
     3.6.3. Use the audit follow-up tracking system to track the planned corrective actions for material
     control weaknesses stemming from audit reports. Corrective action status reports in the FMFIA pro-
     cess must be in accord with corrective action status reports in the audit follow-up process.

3.7. Management Control Plan Report.
3.7. (AMC) AMC headquarters staff will provide their annual statement of assurance to HQ AMC/FM
not later than 1 September; Numbered Air Forces (NAF) will provide their statements by 1 September.
Wing commanders will send their annual statements to the appropriate NAF by 15 Aug. The NAF internal
control review (ICR) focal point will consolidate and summarize annual statements from wing command-
ers. Address statements to AMC/CC, but forward final packages to HQ AMC/FMPF for consolidation
into the final report to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force not later than 7 October. The final report will be
sent to SAF/FMP and their office will consolidate and forward to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                         11


  3.7.1. The management control plan report summarizes program activity for the current year. SAF/
  FM will include guidance for the current year in the annual call letter. Include the report as an attach-
  ment to your supporting Statement of Assurance.
  3.7.2. Report management control plan data annually as of September 30. The number of assessable
  units in effect on the last day of the fiscal year must be reported. The summary schedule of MC eval-
  uations should report the number of alternative review sources and management control reviews
  (SAF/FM MCR format) accomplished and planned in each MC reporting category.
12                                                              AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


                                                 Chapter 4

                                     SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS

4.1. Financial Management Systems. The FMFIA (PL 97-255, Section 4) requires government
accounting and finance systems to conform to the principles, standards, and related criteria prescribed by
the Comptroller General. Additionally, the FMFIA requires annual reporting on the results of conform-
ance evaluations of accounting and finance systems.
     4.1.1. SAF/FMPS prepares the part of the Secretary's Annual Statement of Assurance that deals with
     the conformance of Air Force accounting and finance systems.
     4.1.2. The Defense Finance and Accounting Service-Denver Center (DFAS-DE) provides instruc-
     tions to MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA accounting system monitors on behalf of SAF/FMPS. At the end
     of each fiscal year, DFAS-DE will submit a draft report on Section 4 FMFIA reviews to SAF/FMPS
     to use in preparing the Secretary's Annual Statement of Assurance. The draft report is due by October
     10. As part of its functional responsibility for Air Force systems, DFAS-DE will:
         • Develop and maintain an inventory of Air Force accounting and finance systems.
         • Schedule conformance reviews of Air Force accounting and finance systems.
         • Evaluate documentation of conformance reviews.
         • Provide advice and recommendations on conditions found in Air Force systems that are
             potential non-conformances and material weaknesses.

4.2. Mixed Systems. Some assessable units operate support systems that provide information for pro-
cessing by accounting systems. These systems that interface with an accounting system are known as
"mixed systems".
     4.2.1. In order to support the evaluations required by Section 4, managers of assessable units that
     operate these mixed systems must evaluate the management controls of such systems and provide cer-
     tification on the adequacy of the management controls, when directed by the accounting system man-
     ager.
     4.2.2. The short form MCR format may be used to perform the mixed system review unless other
     instructions are provided by the Section 4 accounting system manager. The mixed system manager
     must maintain documentation of the review, and ensure that performance of the MCR is reported to
     the assessable unit functional manager for inclusion in the organization's MCP.

4.3. Potential Material Weaknesses.
     4.3.1. A wide variety of objective sources are available to assist you in the identification of manage-
     ment control weaknesses. These sources include but are not limited to: audits, inspections, investiga-
     tions, management assessments, creditable information of non-governmental origin, staff meetings,
     and management control evaluations.
     4.3.2. SAF/FM periodically will disseminate significant audit reports, or drafts of them, with poten-
     tial material weaknesses to affected primary elements. SAF/FM will request that the primary element
     review the audit and determine if a material weakness exists and should be reported. Primary ele-
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                        13


   ments should consider all open audit findings concerning management controls, agreed to by the man-
   ager, as potential material weaknesses.
   4.3.3. Office of Secretary of Defense Functional Elements may identify management control weak-
   nesses in their functional areas that they feel should be reported and corrected by the Air Force. Pri-
   mary elements will give strong consideration to these issues and work toward a consensus with OSD
   functional offices.

4.4. Documentation Requirements.
   4.4.1. All levels of Air Force management must maintain adequate documentation of their MC pro-
   gram activity. This is extremely important given the latitude granted to primary reporting elements to
   rely on existing organizationally required reviews as the primary tools for required assessments. Such
   assessments serve as the basis for supporting statements of assurance. Completion of assessments and
   the degree to which they influence the determination of reasonable assurance must be properly docu-
   mented.
   4.4.2. Maintain records for the MC program according to AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition
   Standards. If sensitive information is generated by the reviews and reports required under this
   instruction, the functional OPR must consider whether the reviews or reports should be marked "For
   Official Use Only", and protected from public disclosure (see paragraph 4.11.).

4.5. Automatic Data Processing (ADP). Automation introduces new or different elements of risk into
systems. Assuring that proper controls, manual or automated, are in place in automated systems as well
as management of the ADP function is an important aspect of the MC program. Both application controls
(over the operation of each application system) and general controls (over the management of the ADP
function) should be in place and reviewed.
   4.5.1. Application controls are unique to each application system. Proper controls assure that the
   application system does exactly what it is intended to do, and nothing more. Establish controls that
   are commensurate with the risk or magnitude of loss or harm that could result from improper opera-
   tion of the system.
   4.5.2. General controls apply to the overall management of the ADP function. They have a direct
   impact on the resources being expended for automation and should assure effective and efficient use
   of those resources as well as the quality of service to ADP users. General controls include:
       • Organizational controls for the ADP unit.
       • Systems design, development and modification controls.
       • Installation management controls.
       • Installation security controls.
       • System hardware and software controls.
   4.5.3. HQ USAF/SC is the functional OPR for ADP Controls. The DOD ADP Internal Control
   Guideline, DOD 7740. 1 -G, has been adopted as an additional tool for evaluating management con-
   trols within automated systems.

4.6. Host Tenant Relationships. Responsibilities of the MC program follow the chain of command.
14                                                             AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


     4.6.1. Tenant units on other MAJCOM bases must perform management control evaluations at the
     direction of the tenant unit's parent command.
     4.6.2. The Program OPR will make a recommendation to the commander where functions overlap or
     where functional OPRs disagree over who has responsibility for a certain action.

4.7. Quality Control.
     4.7.1. Establish quality control procedures that will adequately monitor the implementation of the
     management control culture. This includes ensuring that MC systems achieve their objectives, are
     adequately documented, identify and report material weaknesses, and that corrective actions are tested
     to ensure their effectiveness. Functional and program OPRs at all levels are responsible for quality
     control of the MC evaluation and reporting process.

4.8. Training.
     4.8.1. Managers are responsible for the continuous monitoring and improving of vital management
     controls. They should be knowledgeable and diligent in using the range of tools at their disposal to
     meet the requirements of this Instruction. Each primary reporting element must ensure that managers
     are provided appropriate training to enable them to fulfill their obligations.

4.9. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) Involvement.
     4.9.1. AFAA personnel may provide advice to reporting elements and subordinate organizations and
     bases in establishing management controls for their functions.
     4.9.2. AFAA reviews the Air Force's implementation of the FMFIA. In the course of the review and
     audit of the MC program, the AFAA may selectively evaluate completed management control evalu-
     ation and supporting documentation. The AFAA is included as an information addressee during the
     Secretariat and Air Staff coordination phase of the Annual Statement. The Auditor General provides
     the Secretary of the Air Force a year-end opinion letter on the evaluation of management's prepared-
     ness for executing the Annual Statement of Assurance.

4.10. Air Force Inspector General (IG) Involvement.
     4.10.1. The Air Force Inspector General operates an extensive inspection system throughout the
     worldwide activities of the Air Force. Some of the objectives of the inspection system relate to the
     MC program. The offices of the Inspector General may, on their own initiative or at the request of the
     commander, perform special management control reviews, studies, or other analyses, as either sepa-
     rate reviews or in conjunction with other efforts. Primary elements should work closely with IG offi-
     cials in the implementation of the MC program.
     4.10.2. Primary elements should review Air Force IG reports and inspections as a source of potential
     material weaknesses.
     4.10.3. Because of the special relationship between Secretary of the Air Force and SAF/IG, the
     Inspector General is a required signatory in the coordination process of the Secretary's Annual State-
     ment of Assurance. Likewise, MAJCOMs are required to include their Inspector General in the coor-
     dination process of the Commander's supporting Statement of Assurance.

4.11. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Implications.
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                      15


  4.11.1. The Department of the Air Force Annual Statement of Assurance may be made available,
  upon request, to the general public, except in the case of any Statement containing certain restricted
  information. The Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act specifies that information in the follow-
  ing categories be deleted from the Statement before it is made available to the public:
     4.11.1.1. Information specifically prohibited from disclosure by any provision of law.
     4.11.1.2. Information specifically required by Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of
     national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs.
     4.11.1.3. All other requests for information about the MC program, management control evalua-
     tion results, supporting Statements of Assurance or other information developed through the MC
     process are to be handled in accordance with procedures for release of information established by
     AFI 37-131, Freedom of Information Act Program.




                                   ROBERT F. HALE
                                   Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
                                   Financial Management and Comptroller
16                                                            AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


                                             Attachment 1

        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
NOTE. Program OPRs at Secretariat, Air Staff, major command (MAJCOM), field operating agency
(FOA), and direct reporting unit (DRU) levels should maintain current copies of the documents listed
below. (SAF/FMPI can provide copies of these documents on request).
PL 97-255, Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act
DoD Directive 5010.38, Management Control Program, August 26, 1996
DoDI 5010.40, Management Control Program Procedures, August 28, 1996
DoD 7740. 1 -G, Department of Defense ADP Internal Control Guideline, July 1988
OMB Circular A-123, Management Accountability and Control, June 21,1995
OMB Circular A-127, Financial Management Systems, July 23, 1993

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADP—Automatic Data Processing
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AMCR—Alternative Management Control Review
DFAS-DE Center—Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Denver
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FMFIA—Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
GAO—General Accounting Office
MC—Management Control
MCE—Management Control Evaluation
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCP—Management Control Plan
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility

Terms
Assessable Unit—The basic segment for which management controls are evaluated. An assessable unit
may be an organization, program, function, system or any other applicable division of Air Force activities
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                        17


capable of being evaluated by management control assessment procedures. An assessable unit shall be of
an appropriate size to assure that a reasonable span of management control will allow for adequate control
analysis.
Management Control—A system of guidance, instructions, regulations, procedures, rules or other
organization instructions intended to determine the methods to be employed to carry out mission or
operational actions or objectives, and ensure that programs achieve intended results. The term
"management control" applies to all Air Force activities.
Management Control Evaluation—A review performed of an assessable unit to determine whether
management control techniques exist and are effectively implemented to accomplish administrative,
operational, and mission objectives.
Management Control Program—The formal effort of an organization to ensure that MC systems are
working effectively through assignment of responsibilities at the policy level, issuance and
implementation of guidance, conduct of management control evaluations, and reporting to senior
management.
Management Control Plan—A written plan (updated annually) that details the inventory of assessable
units throughout the organization along with the progress toward accomplishment of scheduled
management control evaluations. It need not be lengthy and any format may be used so long as it
conveys, with a reasonable certainty, the completion of required program activity.
Material Weakness—A determination by management that a condition exists (of sufficient importance
to be reported to the next higher level of command) in which the designated control procedures or the
degree of operational compliance therewith does not provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of
the MC program are being accomplished.
Reasonable Assurance—A judgment, based upon an evaluation of all available information, that the
organization's systems of management control are operating in a manner that achieves the objectives of
the FMFIA.
Vital Management Controls—Those management controls most important to the accomplishment of the
mission, and for which noncompliance would require disclosure to more senior management.
18                                                             AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003


                                              Attachment 2

                                   MC REPORTING CATEGORIES
Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation. Covers the basic project definition, approval, and tran-
sition from basic research through development, test, and evaluation as well as all DoD contractor opera-
tions involved in accomplishing the project work. Excludes the support functions covered in separate
reporting categories such as Procurement and Contract Administration.
Major Systems Acquisition. Covers items designated as major systems and that are subject to the proce-
dures of the Defense Acquisition Board (DAB), the Military Services acquisition review councils, or the
Selected Acquisition Reporting System. DoD Directive 5000.1 may be helpful when evaluating a weak-
ness for inclusion in this category.
Procurement. Covers the decisions to purchase items and services together with certain actions to award
and amend contracts, e.g., contractual provisions, type of contract, invitation to bid, independent govern-
ment cost estimate, technical specifications, evaluation and selection process, pricing, and reporting.
Contract Administration. Covers the fulfillment of contractual requirements including performance
and delivery, quality control and testing to meet specifications, performance acceptance, billing and pay-
ment controls, justification for contractual amendments, and actions to protect the best interests of the
government.
Force Readiness. Includes the operational readiness capability of combat and combat support (both
Active and Reserve) forces, based on analyses of the use of resources to attain required combat capability
or readiness levels.
Manufacturing, Maintenance, and Repair. Covers the management and operation of in-house and con-
tractor-operated facilities performing maintenance and repair of, and/or installation of modifications to,
materiel, equipment, and supplies. Includes depot and arsenal-type facilities as well as intermediate and
unit levels of military organizations.
Supply Operations. Encompasses the supply operations at the wholesale (depot and inventory control
point) level from the initial determination of material requirements through receipt, storage, issue report-
ing, and inventory control (excluding the procurement of materials and supplies). Also covers all supply
operations at retail (customer) level, including the accountability and control for supplies and equipment
of all commodities in the supply accounts of all units and organizations (excluding the procurement of
material, equipment, and supplies).
Property Management. Covers construction, rehabilitation, modernization, expansion, improvement,
management, and control over real and installed property, and facilities (both military and civil works
construction). Includes all phases of property life-cycle management from determination of need through
disposition. Also covers disposal actions for all materiel, equipment, and supplies, including the Defense
Re-utilization and Marketing System.
Communications or Intelligence or Security. Covers the plans, programs, operations, systems, and
management activities for accomplishing the communications and intelligence missions. Includes safe-
guarding classified resources but not peripheral assets and support functions covered by other reporting
categories. Also covers the DoD programs for protection of classified information.
AFI65-201_AMCSUP1_I 23 MAY 2003                                                                             19


Information Technology. Covers the design, development, testing, approval, deployment, use and secu-
rity of electronic data processing systems, computers, and other technologies for processing management
information. Includes requirements justification for equipment and software.
Personnel or Organization Management. Covers authorizations, recruitment, training, assignment,
use, development, and management of military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense.
Also includes the operations of headquarters organizations. Contract personnel are not covered by this
category.
Comptroller and or Resource Management. Covers the budget process, finance and accounting, cost
analysis, productivity and management improvement, and the general allocation and continuing evalua-
tion of available resources to accomplish mission objectives. Includes pay and allowances for all DoD
personnel and all financial management areas not covered by other reporting categories, including those
in connection with OMB Circular A-76.
Support Services. Includes all support services functions financed from appropriated funds not covered
by the other reporting categories, such as health care, veterinary care, and legal and public affairs services.
All non-appropriated fund activities are also covered by this category.
Security Assistance. Covers management of DoD Foreign Military Sales, Grant Aid, and International
Military Education and Training Programs.
Other (Primarily Transportation). All functional responsibilities not contained in the previously noted
categories, including management and use of land, sea, and air transportation for movement of personnel,
materiel, supplies, and equipment using both military and civilian sources.
