BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 61-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             14 MARCH 2013

                                                        Scientific/Research And Development

                                                        MANAGEMENT OF SCIENCE AND
                                                                      TECHNOLOGY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: SAF/AQR                                                             Certified by: SAF/AQ
                                                                     (Lt Gen Charles R. Davis)
Supersedes:   AFI61-101, 9 May 2005                                                   Pages: 19


This instruction provides roles and responsibilities for management of Air Force Science &
Technology (S&T) and addresses S&T planning, governance, and execution. It applies to all Air
Force organizations excluding Pacific Air Forces, United States Air Forces in Europe, Air Force
Reserve Command, and Air National Guard. This instruction implements Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 61-1, Management of Science and Technology. Supplements to this
instruction must be coordinated through the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force,
Science, Technology and Engineering (SAF/AQR). Send all recommendations for changes or
comments to SAF/AQR, via email to SAFAQR.workflow@pentagon.af.mil (SAF/AQR
Workflow) or to 1060 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1060, through appropriate
channels using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records
Information Management System.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to document roles and responsibilities for Air Force S&T planning,
governance, Capability Collaboration Teams (CCT), Flagship Capability Concepts (FCC), Joint
Capability Technology Demonstrations (JCTD), and S&T-related Memorandums of Agreement
(MOA) or Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) that were not addressed in the previous AFI.
It also reflects changes in guidance and procedures dealing with Applied Technology Councils
(ATC) and Advanced Technology Demonstrations (ATD). This is a major revision to AFI 61-
101 and must be reviewed in its entirety.
 2                                                                                               AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013



Chapter 1—AIR FORCE S&T MANAGEMENT                                                                                                         3
       1.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................    3
Figure 1.1.   Air Force S&T Planning Framework. ....................................................................                       4
       1.2.   Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................             5

Chapter 2—AIR FORCE S&T PLANNING                                                                                                           9
       2.1.   Air Force S&T Planning. .......................................................................................              9
       2.2.   Capability Collaboration Team Technology Needs Identification. .......................                                       9
Figure 2.1.   Role of S&T within Capability Development Process. .........................................                                 9
       2.3.   Capability Collaboration Team Technology Solutions Formulation. ....................                                         9
       2.4.   Technology Transition Plans (TTP). ......................................................................                   10
Table 2.1.    Required Elements for Technology Transition Plans. ...........................................                              10
       2.5.   Memorandum of Agreement/Memorandum of Understanding. ............................                                           10
Table 2.2.    Required Elements for S&T-related MOA and MOU. ..........................................                                   11
       2.6.   Development Planning. ..........................................................................................            11

Chapter 3—AIR FORCE S&T GOVERNANCE                                                                                                        12
       3.1.   Air Force S&T Governance. ..................................................................................                12
       3.2.   Applied Technology Councils (ATC). ...................................................................                      12
       3.3.   Air Force S&T Group and Board. ..........................................................................                   13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND OTHER SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION                                                                                                                  15
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                        3



                                           Chapter 1

                            AIR FORCE S&T MANAGEMENT

1.1. Overview. This instruction establishes guidance and procedures for planning, governance,
and execution of the Air Force S&T Program. The Air Force S&T Program consists of Basic
Research, Applied Research, and Advanced Technology Development (research, development,
test and evaluation [RDT&E] budget activity categories 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3, respectively). The
S&T Program must be responsive to Air Force capability needs while guarding against
technological surprise. It includes in-house laboratory and contracted activities to produce both
evolutionary and revolutionary technology-enabled opportunities.
   1.1.1. The Air Force plans and executes its S&T Program in accordance with the approved
   Air Force S&T Strategy and the associated Air Force S&T Plan as influenced by both
   external and internal “drivers” [contact SAF/AQR for access to the latest versions of these
   documents]. S&T drivers may include the National Military Strategy (NMS), the
   Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), Department of Defense (DoD) Guidance, Operating
   Concepts, wargames and exercises, long-term visionary reports and guidance and planning
   documents associated with the Air Force Strategic Planning System (AFSPS). Furthermore,
   the Air Force strives to maintain an appropriately balanced investment portfolio across basic
   research, applied research, and advanced technology development.
   1.1.2. Core Function Lead Integrators (CFLI) inform Air Force S&T investment through
   their Core Function Master Plan(s) (CFMP). CFLIs for each Air Force Service Core
   Function (SCF) produce a CFMP in collaboration with key stakeholders across the Air Force,
   including Headquarters Air Force (HAF) functionals and the Major Commands (MAJCOM).
   As part of the CFMP process, CFLIs identify key risk areas associated with their plan and
   may establish CCTs to evaluate materiel aspects of associated capability needs and to better
   vector capability development. The CFMPs align SCF strategy, operating concepts, and
   capability development, to include S&T specifically focused toward their SCF, to provide 20
   to 30-year constructs for enhancing Global Vigilance, Global Reach, and Global Power
   across the range of military operations (AF/A8 responsible for Air Force strategy and SCF
   policy matters).
   1.1.3. The Air Force S&T planning process provides a framework for the operational,
   acquisition, and S&T communities to work together in order to understand Air Force
   capability needs, identify associated technology needs and potential solutions, and then
   develop technology options for acquisition and operational community consideration. An
   input to this process may be capability needs identified through Capabilities-Based
   Assessments (CBA) or other capability planning analyses (refer to AFI 10-601, Operational
   Capability Requirements Development for more information on CBAs). A wide range of
   technology solution providers should be considered throughout Air Force S&T planning
   activities as necessary (e.g., Air Force Research Laboratory [AFRL], Army Research
   Laboratory, Naval Research Laboratory, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
   [DARPA], National Aeronautics and Space Administration [NASA], academia, industry, and
   appropriate foreign sources).
 4                                                                                      AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013


      1.1.4. The Air Force S&T planning framework is depicted in Figure 1.1 It reflects how
      S&T planning and governance fit within the larger DoD and Service planning, programming,
      and governance constructs. The box at the center top represents the technology needs and
      solutions identification process which encompass a range of collaborative activities.
      Collaboration among the MAJCOMs/CFLIs, acquisition centers, Program Executive Officers
      (PEO), and the Technology Executive Officer (TEO) is essential to (1) ensure S&T
      stakeholders understand Air Force capability needs and associated technology needs in order
      to develop potential technology solutions addressing those needs, and (2) to inform Air Force
      senior leaders, MAJCOMs, and the acquisition community of technology opportunities and
      the art of the possible.

Figure 1.1. Air Force S&T Planning Framework.

                                            Collaborative S&T Needs / Solutions
           S&T Drivers                                    Process
         NMS, QDR, DPG,                        Capability Collaboration Teams
        AF Strategy, AFSEA                                 (CCTs)                     ACC               Candidate
        Operating Concepts,           Identify S&T Needs                              AETC              FCCs, Draft
                                         & Formulate                                  AFGSC             S&T MOAs,
              CFMPs,
                                         Technology                                   AFMC              Candidate
          AF/ST Studies,                                         MAJCOM/CFLI
                                           Solutions                                  AFSOC               JCTDs
         AF S&T Strategy,                                       S&T Governance        AFSPC
            Wargaming                                          Applied Technology     AMC
                                                                 Councils (ATCs)
     S&T Solutions (e.g., ATDs)
     Responsive to MAJCOM /
                                                                                                AF S&T Group
      CFLI Capability Needs
                                                                                              Review & Recommend
                                   AFROC                         AF S&T Board
                              Validate for AF/CV               Prioritize & Endorse
                                   Approval


           POM Build
         AFMC/ACS—S&T                                                                            S&T Execution
                                                    AF Corporate Structure
     MAJCOMs/CFLIs—Follow-on
             funding


      1.1.5. Once technology needs are understood and potential solutions identified, S&T
      governance reviews, integrates, prioritizes, endorses, and commissions S&T efforts as
      appropriate. The ATCs provide a forum to review a wide range of S&T matters. At a
      minimum, ATCs review and approve ATDs, recommend candidate FCCs for consideration
      by the Air Force S&T Group and Board, and review the S&T portfolio supporting each
      respective SCF. The Air Force S&T Group and Board are embedded within the S&T
      planning framework and are responsible for assessing and integrating Air Force technology
      needs, vetting and prioritizing candidate FCCs, and deliberating on other S&T matters as
      required. The Air Force S&T Group is an O-6 level body that makes recommendations to
      the Air Force S&T Board with respect to issues brought before the Group for consideration.
      Significant S&T programs endorsed by the Air Force S&T Board (e.g., FCCs, JCTDs, HAF-
      level S&T-related MOAs and MOUs) are validated by the Air Force Requirements Oversight
      Council (AFROC).
      1.1.6. To execute the S&T component of commissioned ATDs, JCTDs, and FCCs, the TEO
      assigns an S&T program manager and is responsible for resourcing the S&T effort; the
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                           5


   sponsoring MAJCOMs conduct necessary Joint Capabilities Integration and Development
   System activities and prepare related documentation and plan and program appropriate
   resources for follow-on acquisition activities; and the Centers conduct associated
   development planning (DP) and pre-acquisition planning as required. Periodic updates are
   provided to the ATCs, Air Force S&T Group, Board, and AFROC as necessary.
1.2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ):
       1.2.1.1. Appoints the AFRL Commander as the TEO.
       1.2.1.2. Serves as the Air Force focal point for scientific and engineering integrity for the
       Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and other HAF elements.
   1.2.2. Science, Technology and Engineering Directorate (SAF/AQR):
       1.2.2.1. Serves as the Air Force S&T Executive to represent, advocate, and defend the
       Air Force S&T Program to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the other
       Services, and Congress.
       1.2.2.2. Serves as the SAF/AQ primary interface to the TEO.
       1.2.2.3. Serves as the Air Force focal point for information requests about the Air Force
       S&T Program and requests for representation or participation by S&T subject matter
       experts.
       1.2.2.4. Develops the Air Force S&T Strategy, in coordination with the TEO, to identify
       Air Force-level tenets and priorities for the S&T Program.
       1.2.2.5. Issues S&T planning and programming guidance to the TEO and Headquarters
       Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) consistent with Air Force corporate constraints,
       priorities, and intent.
       1.2.2.6. In coordination with SAF/FMB develops S&T budgeting guidance for
       execution, including Budget Activity Code and Program Element Code details, consistent
       with Air Force corporate constraints, priorities and intent for Program Authorization
       issuance to TEO and Headquarters AFMC.
       1.2.2.7. Initiates reprogramming actions consistent with Air Force Corporate Structure
       S&T planning, programming, and budgeting guidance.
       1.2.2.8. Represents and supports the Air Force S&T Program in Air Force corporate
       processes.
       1.2.2.9. Co-chairs the Air Force S&T Group and Board.
          1.2.2.9.1. Provides Secretariat functions for the Air Force S&T Group and Board.
          1.2.2.9.2. Tracks status and maintains history of commissioned FCCs and Air Force-
          level S&T-related MOAs and MOUs.
       1.2.2.10. Participates in MAJCOM ATC deliberations and serves as focal point to other
       HAF elements for ATC activities.
6                                                               AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013


       1.2.2.11. Conducts annual reviews of the S&T portfolio to include ATDs, FCCs, JCTDs
       (as appropriate), in-house research efforts, and S&T-related Air Force level MOAs and
       MOUs.
       1.2.2.12. Serves as focal point for the status and activities of ATDs, FCCs, and JCTDs
       (as appropriate) to the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and
       other HAF elements.
       1.2.2.13. Provides oversight and guidance for the management and execution of Air
       Force reviews of contractor Independent Research and Development (IR&D).
       1.2.2.14. Integrates Special Access Program (SAP) RDT&E and non-SAP RDT&E, S&T
       planning activities and strategy, and directs advanced technology development programs
       and monitors new technologies in coordination with SAF/AQL.
       1.2.2.15. Coordinates with SAF/AQ Capability Directorates to facilitate transition of
       significant S&T programs or projects (e.g., ATDs, FCCs, and JCTDs) to the appropriate
       follow-on acquisition or sustainment activity.
    1.2.3. Acquisition Integration Directorate (SAF/AQX). Participates in Air Force S&T
    Group and Board deliberations.
    1.2.4. Directorate of Special Programs (SAF/AQL). Directs SAP advanced technology
    development programs and monitors new technologies, which may satisfy operational
    requirements or capitalize on technology opportunities, in coordination with SAF/AQR.
    1.2.5. Directorate of Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A5R):
       1.2.5.1. As AFROC Chair, ensures significant S&T efforts are considered by the
       AFROC for validation.
       1.2.5.2. Participates in Air Force S&T Group and Board deliberations.
          1.2.5.2.1. Assesses linkage between S&T initiatives and required capability to inform
          Air Force S&T Group and Board deliberations.
    1.2.6. Directorate of Strategic Planning (AF/A8X):
       1.2.6.1. Participates in Air Force S&T Group and Board deliberations.
       1.2.6.2. Incorporates appropriate S&T concepts into Air Force Strategic Plans with
       special emphasis on long-range strategic planning as an input to Air Force programming.
       1.2.6.3. Ensures CFLIs incorporate S&T planning information into CFMPs.
    1.2.7. Directorate of Programs (AF/A8P):
       1.2.7.1. Participates in Air Force S&T Group and Board deliberations.
       1.2.7.2. Ensures linkages between priority Air Force S&T efforts (i.e., FCCs) and
       follow-on transition and acquisition efforts are understood and considered during Air
       Force resource allocation decisions.
    1.2.8. Major Commands (Air Combat Command [ACC] , Air Education and Training
    Command [AETC], Air Force Global Strike Command [AFGSC], AFMC, Air Force
    Special Operations Command [AFSOC], Air Force Space Command [AFSPC], Air
    Mobility Command [AMC]):
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                    7


     1.2.8.1. Participate in Air Force S&T Group and Board deliberations.
     1.2.8.2. Provide prioritized capability needs that require materiel solutions and may
     require S&T investment to AFMC or AFSPC as appropriate.
     1.2.8.3. Establishes CCTs to derive technology needs from MAJCOM/CFLI-documented
     capability needs and to formulate and recommend S&T solutions that address those
     needs.
     1.2.8.4. Chair annual ATCs, as appropriate, which include representation by the TEO,
     PEOs, acquisition centers, SAF/AQR, and appropriate MAJCOM/CFLI, to vet
     technology needs and solutions and ensure progress in commissioned/graduated S&T
     initiatives.
     1.2.8.5. Notify SAF/AQR of MAJCOM involvement in JCTDs.
     1.2.8.6. Notify SAF/AQR of all current and proposed MOAs or MOUs for S&T-related
     projects or activities.
     1.2.8.7. Participate in technology transition planning Integrated Product Teams (IPT) as
     appropriate.
  1.2.9. AFMC, in addition to MAJCOM responsibilities (see paragraph 1.2.8 above):
     1.2.9.1. Plans and programs the Air Force S&T Program.
     1.2.9.2. Collects and consolidates MAJCOM/CFLI-provided capability needs.
     1.2.9.3. As appropriate, ensures Air Force Life Cycle Management Center and Air Force
     Nuclear Weapon Center participation in CCTs to derive technology needs from
     MAJCOM/CFLI-documented capability needs and to formulate and recommend S&T
     solutions that address those needs.
     1.2.9.4. Reports to MAJCOMs/CFLIs on how the proposed S&T Program addresses
     MAJCOM/CFLI-documented needs.
     1.2.9.5. As appropriate, assigns an AFMC lead Center for commissioned ATDs, FCCs,
     or JCTDs.
        1.2.9.5.1. Ensures establishment of an IPT for each commissioned ATD, FCC, or
        JCTD and leads transition planning, culminating in the generation of a Technology
        Transition Plan (TTP).
        1.2.9.5.2. Coordinates approval of the TTP (or similar document) for each
        commissioned FCC or ATD and any subsequent revisions.
     1.2.9.6. Tracks status and maintains history of commissioned ATDs.
  1.2.10. AFSPC, in addition to MAJCOM responsibilities (see paragraph 1.2.8 above):
     1.2.10.1. Collects and consolidates MAJCOM/CFLI-provided Space and Cyberspace-
     related capability needs.
     1.2.10.2. As appropriate, ensures Space and Missile Systems Center participation in
     CCTs to derive technology needs from MAJCOM/CFLI-documented capability needs
     and to formulate and recommend S&T solutions that address those needs.
8                                                                 AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013


       1.2.10.3. As appropriate, assigns the Space and Missile Systems Center as lead Center
       for commissioned ATDs, FCCs, or JCTDs.
          1.2.10.3.1. Ensures establishment of an IPT for each commissioned ATD, FCC, or
          JCTD and leads transition planning, culminating in the generation of a TTP.
          1.2.10.3.2. Coordinates the approval of the TTP (or similar document) for each
          commissioned FCC or ATD and any subsequent revisions.
    1.2.11. The Technology Executive Officer (TEO):
       1.2.11.1. Plans and executes the Air Force S&T Program in accordance with guidance
       provided by SAF/AQ.
       1.2.11.2. Develops Air Force S&T Plan, in coordination with SAF/AQR, to implement
       the Air Force S&T Strategy.
       1.2.11.3. Participates in Acquisition Executive forums and supports the annual review of
       the S&T portfolio by SAF/AQ.
       1.2.11.4. Ensures AFRL participation in CCTs to derive technology needs from
       MAJCOM/CFLI-documented capability needs and to formulate and recommend S&T
       solutions that address those needs.
       1.2.11.5. Ensures AFRL participation and support of Center-led technology transition
       planning IPTs.
       1.2.11.6. Directs, administers, and controls activities for Air Force S&T relating to
       patents, inventions, trademarks, copyrights, royalty payments, and matters connected
       therewith.
       1.2.11.7. Provides guidance to AFRL personnel on scientific and engineering integrity
       and educates AFRL scientists, engineers, and their supervisors on their duties, rights, and
       protections with respect to scientific and engineering integrity.
       1.2.11.8. Ensures safeguards and processes are in place to protect critical program
       information.
       1.2.11.9. Co-chairs the Air Force S&T Group and Board.
       1.2.11.10. Notifies SAF/AQR of AFRL involvement in all JCTDs.
       1.2.11.11. Manages and executes Air Force reviews of contractor IR&D activities.
    1.2.12. Program Executive Officers (PEO):
       1.2.12.1. Ensures program office participation in CCTs, as appropriate, to derive
       technology needs from MAJCOM/CFLI-documented capability needs and to formulate
       and recommend S&T solutions that address those needs.
       1.2.12.2. Ensures appropriate acquisition program participation in FCC and ATD IPTs.
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                                    9


                                           Chapter 2

                                AIR FORCE S&T PLANNING

2.1. Air Force S&T Planning. The Air Force will plan its S&T Program in accordance with
the approved Air Force S&T Strategy and guidance and planning documents associated with the
AFSPS (reference AFPD 90-11). The foundation of the S&T planning process is an agreed-upon
set of maintained S&T core competencies balanced with an investment portfolio of basic
research, applied research, and advanced technology development that produce both evolutionary
and revolutionary technologies. During Air Force S&T planning, near-, mid-, and far-term
warfighter capability needs, affordability, performance, competitive incentives, sustainability,
industrial base, and energy use are considered. Air Force S&T funds may be applied in the
absence of a validated user requirement or programmed funding for formal acquisition.
2.2. Capability Collaboration Team Technology Needs Identification. The CBA forms the
analytic basis for how capability needs are identified and is an integral part of the capabilities
planning process. For documented MAJCOM/CFLI capability needs that require materiel
solutions, CFLIs will establish CCTs to determine if S&T is required to address any associated
technology needs. The CCTs will include subject matter expert representatives from the
MAJCOM/CFLI, appropriate Center and/or PEO, AFRL, and other stakeholders as appropriate.
The output of the CCTs is a set of vetted technology needs required for ongoing or prospective
materiel solutions supporting documented capability needs. Technology needs resulting from
this process may be documented and prioritized by CFLIs in their CFMPs.

Figure 2.1. Role of S&T within Capability Development Process.
                                       Early planning, analysis, and systems engineering activities
                                          provide linkages between operational needs, system
 CFLI / MAJCOM
                                      performance requirements, technology needs & opportunities,
    Capability
                                           potential lifecycle costs, and establishes a technical
     Needs
                                                   foundation for materiel development
  Identification

                         CBA

                                        Requirements
                                         Refinement /
                                          Concept
                                        Development
           S&T Opps /
           S&T Needs
                                                                                    Materiel solutions /
                                                                                    ongoing or planned
                                                                                   acquisition programs
                                  S&T Opps /
                                  S&T Needs

                                                                Focused S&T projects (e.g., ATDs,
                                                                FCCs, etc.) to advance technology
                                                                and reduce system acquisition risk

2.3. Capability Collaboration Team Technology Solutions Formulation. Following
technology needs collaboration, CCTs will continue to identify potential technology solutions
 10                                                                       AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013


that address the identified technology needs. Recommended technology solutions resulting from
this process may become S&T projects that AFRL initiates and executes through internal
planning processes or may be proposed as candidate ATDs, FCCs, or JCTDs which require
approval by their respective governing bodies. Furthermore, technology solutions may
necessitate a collaborative development activity with another Service or United States
Government organization requiring an MOA or MOU. International partners should be
considered when potential technology solutions are investigated in order to access foreign
expertise, funding, and strengthen S&T cooperation. As shown in Figure 2.1, S&T activities
will inform capability planning and foster related technology maturation efforts to reduce system
acquisition risks. Technology needs identification and technology solutions formulation
processes also inform Air Force S&T governance, the AFSPS, and the Air Force planning,
programming, and budgeting processes.
2.4. Technology Transition Plans (TTP). Stakeholder organizations participate in technology
transition planning once an S&T solution is deemed necessary to support a MAJCOM/CFLI
capability need and associated Center technology need. For solutions that may become ATDs or
FCCs, formation of an IPT is necessary for transition planning to include development and
execution of the TTP. The IPT membership can be drawn from the existing CCTs as appropriate
and at a minimum, should include the MAJCOM/CFLI, Lead Center and/or PEO, and laboratory.
AFMC and AFSPC, as appropriate, will ensure the establishment of transition planning IPTs and
completion of the associated TTPs once commissioned.
    2.4.1. TTPs document roles and responsibilities of organizational participants in S&T
    programs.
    2.4.2. TTPs for ATDs and FCCs must include the elements listed below in Table 2.1.

Table 2.1. Required Elements for Technology Transition Plans.

Description of Air Force capability and technology need the S&T program will address

Description of S&T program, objectives, and schedule

Identification of resources required (funding, manpower, etc.) to execute the S&T program

Description of plan to transition the technology and associated acquisition or sustainment strategy

Estimation of resources required for follow-on transition, acquisition, or sustainment activities

Enumeration of organizational roles and responsibilities

Signature Page (with signatories from the appropriate MAJCOM/CFLI, Center or PEO, and laboratory)

2.5. Memorandum of Agreement/Memorandum of Understanding. The Air Force will
periodically enter into formal agreements with other Services and outside agencies (e.g.,
DARPA, NASA) to execute S&T projects, conduct demonstrations, or to mature technologies
with the intent to transition to an acquisition or sustainment program. For the purpose of this
instruction, these are referred to as “S&T-related MOAs/MOUs.” Air Force-level MOAs and
MOUs are those MOAs/MOUs requiring HAF-level signature and should be used to document
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                               11


the commitments and obligations of each organization for an S&T project, both during and after
completion of the S&T activity.
    2.5.1. S&T-related MOAs or MOUs that require HAF signature must be reviewed and
    endorsed by the Air Force S&T Group and Board (reference Chapter 3 of this instruction)
    before submission to the AFROC for validation. Due to rapid timelines associated with
    MOAs/MOUs, coordination and approval of documents may occur electronically.
    2.5.2. All Air Force S&T-related MOAs or MOUs with other Services and non-Air Force
    government agencies or organizations must include the elements listed in Table 2.2 in
    addition to complying with the requirements of DOD Instruction 4000.19, Interservice and
    Intragovernmental Support Agreements, 9 August 1995.

Table 2.2. Required Elements for S&T-related MOA and MOU.

Description of Air Force capability need or technology challenge the S&T project will address

Description of S&T project, objectives, and schedule

Identification of resources required (funding, manpower, etc.) to execute the S&T project

Description of plan to transition the technology and associated acquisition or sustainment strategy

Estimation of resources required for follow-on transition, acquisition, or sustainment activities

Enumeration of Air Force and external organization roles and responsibilities

Signature page with notation on effective dates and/or duration of the agreement

2.6. Development Planning. DP encompasses the engineering analysis and technical planning
activities that provide the foundation for informed investment decisions on the fundamental path
a materiel development will follow to effectively and affordably meet operational needs. The
relationship between activities supporting both DP and S&T planning are described below:
    2.6.1. Air Force S&T planning activities must support, and take into consideration
    information resulting from, Air Force DP efforts. S&T communities will identify technology
    maturity as well as technology opportunities (e.g., the art of the possible) to inform the
    development and consideration of candidate concepts.
    2.6.2. AFMC or AFSPC, as appropriate, will conduct the necessary DP to assist transition of
    ATDs, FCCs, and Air Force-led JCTDs into acquisition programs. DP communities will
    identify technology needs, technical risk areas, intelligence sensitivity and supportability
    issues (per AFI 14-111), and reliability, availability, maintainability, supportability and data
    rights requirements of candidate concepts to inform S&T planning.
 12                                                            AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013


                                         Chapter 3

                           AIR FORCE S&T GOVERNANCE

3.1. Air Force S&T Governance. Governance is necessary to strengthen alignment of S&T
focus areas to Air Force-wide capability needs and to provide greater visibility and
accountability within the Air Force S&T portfolio. HAF, MAJCOMs, Centers, and AFRL
participate in Air Force S&T governance. Governance for S&T planning resides at the
MAJCOM and HAF levels.
3.2. Applied Technology Councils (ATC). ATCs are S&T governance bodies organized by
SCF. The S&T content and related agenda topics considered at ATCs must correspond to each
MAJCOM/CFLI’s Program Objective Memorandum (POM) responsibilities.
   3.2.1. Organization. ATC membership is dictated by the unique set of missions that fall
   within each SCF. At a minimum, each ATC must include the MAJCOM/CV (as CFLI
   representative), the appropriate AFMC and AFSPC Center commanders, and SAF/AQR, or
   their designated representatives. AETC will be invited to all ATCs to ensure education and
   training considerations are addressed. ATCs are chaired by the respective MAJCOM/CV.
   AFMC or AFSPC, as appropriate, will define and assign secretariat functions for each ATC.
   3.2.2. ATCs will:
      3.2.2.1. Be held annually, as necessary, and be completed within an appropriate
      timeframe to support the Air Force S&T Group and Board fall cycle. If required, ATCs
      may be conducted out-of-cycle to address urgent S&T-related matters.
      3.2.2.2. Ensure proposed S&T solutions are aligned with SCF capability needs and
      related CFMP priorities.
      3.2.2.3. Endorse candidate FCCs for consideration by the Air Force S&T Group and
      Board.
      3.2.2.4. Review, prioritize, and commission candidate ATDs.
      3.2.2.5. Review status of existing ATDs to ensure organizational responsibilities are
      being conducted in accordance with the signed TTP and continue, decommission, and
      graduate ATDs as appropriate. ATDs will graduate when S&T objectives defined in the
      TTP are met as determined by the ATC. As appropriate, ATCs will track status of
      graduated ATDs.
      3.2.2.6. Submit proposed HAF-level agreements with other Services and/or outside
      agencies (i.e., MOA or MOU) for execution of an S&T-related project to the Air Force
      S&T Group and Board for review and endorsement.
      3.2.2.7. Review the S&T portfolio to include all ATDs, JCTDs, FCCs, S&T-related
      MOAs and MOUs, and other S&T projects and issues as necessary, applicable to
      capability needs aligned by Service Core Function.
      3.2.2.8. Provide documentation of ATC decisions to organizations represented on Air
      Force S&T Group and Board, within 30 days following each ATC.
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                  13


   3.2.3. Advanced Technology Demonstrations (ATD). ATDs are planned in collaboration
   with the operator/user and contain a clearly defined transition target. All ATDs must:
       3.2.3.1. Be commissioned by an ATC.
       3.2.3.2. Have a TTP that will be signed by the MAJCOM, the appropriate Center or
       PEO, and AFRL/CC. ATDs without a signed TTP will be decommissioned at the
       subsequent ATC review.
       3.2.3.3. Complete S&T content within the following POM Future Years Defense
       Program (FYDP).
   3.2.4. Flagship Capability Concepts (FCC). All FCCs must:
       3.2.4.1. Receive the endorsement of an ATC or, if an ATC is not held, from the
       respective MAJCOM/CV (as CFLI representative); be reviewed and prioritized by the
       Air Force S&T Group and Board; and validated by the AFROC, as documented in an
       AFROC Memorandum, before commissioning.
       3.2.4.2. Have a TTP that will be signed by the MAJCOM, the appropriate Center or
       PEO, and AFRL/CC. FCCs without a signed TTP will be decommissioned at the
       subsequent Air Force S&T Board review.
       3.2.4.3. Complete S&T content within the following POM FYDP.
   3.2.5. Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations (JCTD). JCTDs are approved and
   governed at the OSD level. Candidate JCTDs will be reviewed and nominated by the
   appropriate CFLI(s), by the Air Force S&T Group and Board as determined by SAF/AQR,
   and sent to the AFROC for validation upon recommendation by the Air Force S&T Board.
3.3. Air Force S&T Group and Board. The purpose of the Air Force S&T Group and Board is
to ensure S&T efforts are properly aligned with Air Force needs to facilitate transition and
ultimate deployment to the Air Force operational community. This will be accomplished by
assessing and integrating Air Force technology needs, reviewing and endorsing FCCs, vetting
S&T-related MOAs and MOUs, reviewing and endorsing candidate JCTDs, and maintaining
cognizance of MAJCOM-sponsored ATDs.
   3.3.1. Organization. The Air Force S&T Group is an O-6-level body and the Air Force
   S&T Board is at the 1- and 2-star level. Membership for both includes SAF/AQR (co-chair),
   AFRL (co-chair), AF/A5R, AF/A8P, AF/A8X, SAF/AQX, ACC, AETC, AFGSC, AFMC,
   AFSPC, AFSOC, AMC, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, Air Force Nuclear
   Weapons Center, and the Space and Missile Systems Center. The Air Force Intelligence
   Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA) will participate in an advisory capacity
   at the Group and Board level; the MAJCOM Chief Scientists (or equivalent) will serve as
   advisors to the Air Force S&T Board; and the Air Force Chief Scientist (AF/ST) Military
   Assistant will serve as an advisor to the Air Force S&T Group.
   3.3.2. The Air Force S&T Group. Makes recommendations to the Air Force S&T Board
   with respect to issues brought before the Group for consideration.
   3.3.3. The Air Force S&T Board will:
       3.3.3.1. Integrate and align Air Force S&T priorities in accordance with Air Force
       strategic priorities.
14                                                            AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013


     3.3.3.2. Review, prioritize, and endorse candidate FCCs and submit endorsed FCCs to
     the AFROC for validation.
     3.3.3.3. Review status of existing FCCs to ensure organizational responsibilities are
     being conducted in accordance with the signed TTP and recommend continuation,
     decommissioning, or graduation as necessary.
     3.3.3.4. Ensure linkage between S&T efforts and DP activities as necessary.
     3.3.3.5. Review proposed S&T-related MOAs and MOUs prior to submission to the
     AFROC for validation.
     3.3.3.6. Review and endorse candidate JCTDs prior to submission to the AFROC for
     validation.
     3.3.3.7. Periodically review status of ongoing ATDs and S&T projects related to HAF-
     level MOAs/MOUs and other S&T issues as required.




                                         CHARLES R. DAVIS, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         Military Deputy
                                         Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition)
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                     15


                                        Attachment 1
     GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND OTHER SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 16-5, Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution Processes, 27 September 2010
AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012
AFPD 61-1, Management of Science and Technology, 18 August 2011
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 March 2009
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 8 April 2009
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 12 July 2010
AFI 14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-Cycle, 18 May 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFDD 1-02, Air Force Glossary, 11 January 2007
DoDI 3100.08, The Technical Cooperation Program, 7 August 2012
DoDI 3200.20, Scientific and Engineering Integrity, 26 July 2012
DoDI 5134.16, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems Engineering (DASD(SE)), 19
August 2011
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support Agreements, 9 August 1995
CJCSI 3170.01, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012
Joint Publication (JP) 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,
8 November 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFROC—Air Force Requirements Oversight Council
 16                                                    AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013


AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPS—Air Force Strategic Planning System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ATC—Applied Technology Council
ATD—Advanced Technology Demonstration
CBA—Capabilities-Based Assessment
CCT—Capability Collaboration Team
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CFMP—Core Function Master Plan
DARPA—Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DP—Development Planning
FCC—Flagship Capability Concept
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IPT—Integrated Product Team
IR&D—Independent Research and Development
JCTD—Joint Capability Technology Demonstration
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NMS—National Military Strategy
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PEO—Program Executive Officer
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
QDR—Quadrennial Defense Review
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test & Evaluation
S&T—Science and Technology
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                            17


SCF—Service Core Function
SAP—Special Access Program
TEO—Technology Executive Officer
TTP—Technology Transition Plan

Terms
NOTE—This glossary helps readers understand the terms in this publication. It is not intended
to include all pertinent terms. Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of
Military and Associated Terms, 8 November 2010, and Air Force Doctrine Document 1-2, Air
Force Glossary, 11 January 2007, contain standard terms and definitions for Department of
Defense and Air Force use.
Advanced Technology Demonstration (ATD)—A demonstration of the maturity and potential
of advanced technologies for enhanced military operational capability or cost effectiveness. In
the Air Force, ATDs are commissioned by an Applied Technology Council with scope,
objectives, and organizational responsibilities defined in a Technology Transition Plan.
Advanced Technology Development—Research efforts that have moved beyond Applied
Research and into the development and integration of hardware for field experiments and tests.
Also referred to as “6.3” or RDT&E Budget Activity Code 3.
Applied Research—Systemic study to gain knowledge or understanding necessary to determine
the means by which a recognized and specific need may be met. Also referred to as “6.2” or
RDT&E Budget Activity Code 2.
Applied Technology Council (ATC)—S&T governance body organized by Service Core
Function.
Basic Research—Systemic study directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of the
fundamental aspects of phenomena and of observable facts without specific application towards
processes or products in mind. It includes all scientific study and experimentation directed
toward increasing fundamental knowledge and understanding in those fields of the physical,
engineering, environmental, and life sciences related to long-term national security needs. It is
farsighted high payoff research that provides the basis for technological progress. Also referred
to as “6.1” or RDT&E Budget Activity Code 1.
Budget Activity—A broad category of activity contained within a specific appropriation.
Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA)—The CBA is the Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System analysis process. It answers several key questions for the validation
authority prior to their approval: define the mission; identify capabilities required; determine the
attributes/standards of the capabilities; identify gaps/shortfalls; assess operational risk associated
with the gaps/shortfalls; prioritize the gaps/shortfalls; identify and assess potential non-materiel
solutions; provide recommendations for addressing the gaps/shortfalls.
Capability Collaboration Team (CCT)—Established by CFLIs and comprised of subject
matter experts from MAJCOM/CFLIs, Centers, and AFRL. CCTs work collaboratively to fully
understand MAJCOM/CFLI-documented capability needs that may require a materiel solution
and determine if S&T is required for any associated technology needs. The CCTs also
 18                                                                 AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013


collaboratively formulate potential S&T solutions (e.g., technology development, risk reduction,
or maturation projects) to address the S&T needs previously identified. Once established, CFLIs
may utilize CCTs to identify materiel concepts and produce capability development roadmaps
outlining the timeframe for requirements development, DP, S&T, and acquisition activities.
Capability Gap—The inability to execute a specified course of action. The gap may be the
result of no existing capability, lack of proficiency or sufficiency in an existing capability
solution, or the need to replace an existing capability solution to prevent a future gap (CJCSI
3170.01H, 10 January 2012).
Capability Need (or Need)—see “Capability Requirement”
Capability Requirement (or Requirement)—A capability required to meet an organization’s
roles, functions, and missions in current or future operations. To the greatest extent possible,
capability requirements are described in relation to tasks, standards, and conditions in accordance
with the Universal Joint Task List or equivalent DoD Component Task List. If a capability
requirement is not satisfied by a capability solution, there is also an associated capability gap
which carries a certain amount of risk until eliminated. A requirement is considered to be ‘draft’
or ‘proposed’ until validated by the appropriate authority (CJCSI 3170.01H, 10 January 2012).
Core Function Lead Integrator (CFLI)—SECAF/CSAF-designated leader who serves as the
principal integrators for their assigned SCFs and the corresponding Air Force CFMPs. CFLIs
guide SCF process and SCF-related appropriation priorities by orchestrating the development of
SCF in collaboration with key stakeholders across the Air Force, including MAJCOMs, the Air
Reserve Components, and functional authorities.
Core Function Master Plan (CFMP)—Developed by CFLIs, in collaboration with all key
stakeholders across the Air Force, including MAJCOMs, the Air Reserve Components, and
functional authorities, CFMPs align strategy, operating concepts, and capability development by
SCF, to provide 30-year constructs for enhancing Global Vigilance, Global Reach, and Global
Power across the range of military operations.
Development Planning (DP)—Encompasses the engineering analysis and technical planning
activities that provide the foundation for informed investment decisions on the fundamental path
a material development will follow to effectively and affordably meet operational needs (DoDI
5134.16, 19 August 2011).
Flagship Capability Concept (FCC)—Similar to an ATD, an FCC is a demonstration of the
maturity and potential of advanced technologies for enhanced military operational capability or
cost effectiveness. FCCs are commissioned by the AFROC with scope, objectives, and
organizational responsibilities defined in a Technology Transition Plan.
Integrated Product Team (IPT)—A multidisciplinary group of people who are collectively
responsible for delivering a defined product or process.
Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations (JCTD)—An OSD approved program that seeks
to rapidly and collaboratively demonstrate, assess, and transition solutions to address Combatant
Commanders’, Joint, Interagency, and Coalition problems.
Materiel Solution—A new item (including ships, tanks, self-propelled weapons, aircraft, etc.,
and related spares, repair parts, and support equipment, but excluding real property, installations,
AFI61-101 14 MARCH 2013                                                                        19


and utilities) developed or purchased to satisfy one or more capability requirements (or needs)
and reduce or eliminate one or more capability gaps (CJCSI 3170.01H, 10 January 2012).
Science and Technology (S&T)—Includes Basic Research, Applied Research, and Advanced
Technology Development.
Science & Technology Group and Board—S&T governance body comprised of HAF and
MAJCOM representation.
Service Core Function (SCF)—SCFs delineate the appropriate and assigned core duties,
missions, and tasks of the Air Force as an organization, responsibility for each of which is
assigned to a CFLI. SCFs express the ways in which the Air Force is particularly and
appropriately suited to contribute to national security. SCFs are an integral aspect of the AFSPS,
and provide the framework for Air Force organizing, training, and equipping efforts.
Technology Executive Officer (TEO)—The individual dedicated to executive management and
supervision of the Air Force S&T portfolio, analogous to a Program Executive Officer. The TEO
shall be appointed and assigned by, and is accountable to, the Air Force Service Acquisition
Executive.
Technology Need—Technology that is unavailable, but potentially attainable, and determined
necessary for ongoing or prospective materiel solution(s) that support a capability need(s).
Technology Solution—Technology project or program, either ongoing or proposed, that address
a technology need(s).
Technology Transition—Process of inserting critical technology into military systems to
provide effective weapons and support system needed by the warfighter to carry out assigned
missions.
Technology Transition Plan (TTP)—Defines scope, objectives, and organizational roles and
responsibilities for an S&T project or program (e.g., ATD, FCC).
