BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-137
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              29 MARCH 2012

                                                                                   Acquisition

                                                   ASSURANCE OF COMMUNICATIONS,
                                                     NAVIGATION, SURVEILLANCE/AIR
                                                   TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT (CNS/ATM),
                                                      NAVIGATION SAFETY, AND NEXT
                                                   GENERATION AIR TRANSPORTATION
                                                   SYSTEM (NEXTGEN) PERFORMANCE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQQ                                                           Certified by: SAF/AQX
                                                                         (Mr. Blaise Durante)
Supersedes:   AFI63-1301, 2 August 2006                                               Pages: 18


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 63-1,
Integrated Life Cycle Management. This Instruction applies to all organizations that manage Air
Force (AF) manned aircraft and remotely piloted aircraft (RPA), including the Air National
Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). It defines AF processes required to
establish and preserve Communications, Navigation, Surveillance/Air Traffic Management
(CNS/ATM), Navigation Safety, and Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen)
performance. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Cite all applicable report control
numbers in accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management
Program Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to SAF/AQQ using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. This AFI may be supplemented at any
level, but all supplements must be routed to SAF/AQQ for review and receive coordination prior
to certification and approval.
 2                                                                  AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication substantially revises AFI 63-1301 and must be completely reviewed. The
Instruction clarifies and updates roles, responsibilities, and processes regarding the acquisition,
modification and integration of CNS/ATM, Navigation Safety, and NextGen capabilities. It
reflects incorporation of AFPD 63-13 into AFPD 63-1 and supersedes AFI 63-1301.
1. INTRODUCTION
     1.1. Purpose. The purpose of this Instruction is to ensure United States Air Force aircraft
     continue to safely operate in worldwide airspace. The procedures in this Instruction are
     designed to coordinate AF efforts to ensure acquisitions, integrations, and modifications fully
     address CNS/ATM capability standards. This Instruction defines the roles, responsibilities,
     processes and procedures associated with assurance of CNS/ATM, navigation safety, and
     NextGen performance; to include those of the CNS/ATM Center of Excellence (COE)
     located at ESC/HBA, Aerospace Management Systems Division, Hanscom AFB, MA.
     Throughout this AFI the term ―COE‖ refers to the CNS/ATM COE.
     1.2. Background. The 1944 Chicago Convention of the International Civil Aviation
     Organization (ICAO) reaffirms nations’ exclusive sovereignty over airspace above their
     territory and the nation’s authority to dictate terms of access. AF policy emphasizes
     conformance to national and international standards for safe access to global airspace.
     Conformance with CNS/ATM capability standards is not to be interpreted as ceding
     jurisdiction or regulatory authority to civil or foreign regulators. Aircraft not meeting
     CNS/ATM capability standards may be subjected to ground delays waiting for clearance,
     directed to operate on less optimum routes, or denied airspace access.
     1.3. Intent. The intent of this Instruction is to address the roles, responsibilities, and
     processes regarding all acquisition, integration, and modification of CNS/ATM, Navigation
     Safety, and NextGen capabilities. This Instruction is applicable to commercial derivative
     aircraft (CDA) when CNS/ATM acquisition, integration, and modification require AF
     operational approval. This Instruction does not provide authority to deviate from the
     guidance in AFPD 62-6, USAF Air Worthiness or AFI 62-601, USAF Airworthiness. Note:
     Airworthiness determinations for all USAF platforms are the responsibility of the Technical
     Airworthiness Authority (TAA).
     1.4. Navigation Safety. This Instruction supports the AF objective to enhance navigation
     and safety capabilities. Navigation safety describes a family of technologies that promote
     aviation safety, increase aircrew situational awareness, increase survivability, improve
     navigational performance, or gather information needed to evaluate an incident. The term
     ―CNS/ATM,‖ as used in this Instruction, includes navigation safety equipment for AF
     aircraft.
     1.5. Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen). This Instruction also
     supports the United States NextGen initiative to increase safety and efficiency of operations
     in the National Airspace System (NAS) and similar efforts as they evolve around the globe.
     The DOD has a vested interest in ensuring and enhancing its ability to operate seamlessly
     with civil aviation in both national and international airspace. IAW the Deputy Secretary of
     Defense (DEPSECDEF) Memorandum, Implementation of Next Generation Air
     Transportation System within the Department of Defense (NextGen), 28 Dec 2007
AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012                                                                     3


   (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/content/nextgen), the AF is the Department of
   Defense (DOD) Lead Service for NextGen and shall facilitate NextGen efforts across the
   DOD. This Instruction addresses the AF aircraft equipage portion of the much larger and
   broader national NextGen national effort. The term ―CNS/ATM,‖ as used in this Instruction,
   includes AF aircraft equipage efforts associated with NextGen.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. Note: Many of the topics in this section are further
described in paragraph 3, Processes and Procedures; and in Attachment 1, Terms.
   2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) shall:
      2.1.1. Establish guidance for acquisition of CNS/ATM capabilities.
      2.1.2. Monitor and review programs to ensure aircraft acquisition, integration, and
      modification activities adhere to appropriate CNS/ATM policies, guidance, and
      supplements.
      2.1.3. Resolve disputes regarding CNS/ATM issues requested by a Program Executive
      Officer (PEO).
   2.2. Capability Directors, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
   (SAF/AQI, SAF/AQP, SAF/AQQ) shall support and advocate implementation of
   CNS/ATM acquisition, integration, and modification programs for aircraft and systems to
   ensure greatest possible access to airspace consistent with mission requirements.
   2.3. Director, Global Reach Programs, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
   Acquisition (SAF/AQQ) shall act as SAF/AQ focal point for CNS/ATM and navigation
   safety.
   2.4. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Science, Technology and
   Engineering) for Acquisition (SAF/AQR) shall:
      2.4.1. Act as SAF/AQ engineering guidance lead to ensure effective integration of
      CNS/ATM requirements into related systems engineering instructions.
      2.4.2. Act as SAF/AQ science and technology guidance lead to ensure effective
      integration of CNS/ATM requirements into related science and technology instructions.
   2.5. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition Integration) for
   Acquisition (SAF/AQX) shall act as the SAF/AQ integrated life cycle management (ILCM)
   guidance lead to ensure effective integration of CNS/ATM requirements into related ILCM
   instructions.
   2.6. Deputy Chief of Staff, Air Force Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5)
   shall:
      2.6.1. Ensure CNS/ATM requirements are identified and support prioritization to execute
      the AF’s global mission.
      2.6.2. Assist COE, MAJCOMs and Program Managers (PMs) with interpretation of
      CNS/ATM capability standards and identifying associated aircrew, air traffic controller,
      and airfield manager training requirements.
      2.6.3. Appoint subject matter experts to represent DOD at national and international
      CNS/ATM policy, rulemaking, and standards development forums.
4                                                                AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


       2.6.4. Charter a cross-functional AF CNS/ATM Working Group to document
       overarching CNS/ATM requirements and assist MAJCOMs in acquiring common
       CNS/ATM capabilities. Open attendance to other services or organizations as
       appropriate.
       2.6.5. Notify the FAA, ICAO, and appropriate nation(s) upon receipt of a Major
       Command (MAJCOM) CNS/ATM operational approval.
       2.6.6. Obtain exceptions to CNS/ATM capability standards upon MAJCOM request.
       2.6.7. Act as AF office of primary responsibility (OPR) in fulfilling duties as the DOD
       Lead Service for NextGen IAW the DEPSECDEF Memorandum, Implementation of Next
       Generation Air Transportation System within the Department of Defense (NextGen), 28
       Dec 2007 (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/content/nextgen).
          2.6.7.1. Advise DOD components on design, development, and implementation of
          future CNS/ATM services and systems.
          2.6.7.2. Ensure the NextGen vision for the NAS meets DOD requirements, and that
          DOD resources are appropriately focused and managed.
              2.6.7.2.1. Coordinate with each Service to develop, document, and seek
              validation of DOD NextGen program requirements.
              2.6.7.2.2. Establish and provide administrative support for a DOD Joint Program
              Office (JPO) for NextGen. The JPO will coordinate DOD activities related to the
              NextGen effort, facilitate technology transfer for those research and development
              activities with potential NextGen application, and advocate for DOD interests,
              requirements, and capabilities in NextGen.
    2.7. Air Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA) shall:
       2.7.1. Evaluate and standardize AF aircraft operational policies and procedures to ensure
       compatibility with CNS/ATM performance requirements.
       2.7.2. Serve as AF representative to the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA)
       Safety of Navigation Executive Steering Group.
       2.7.3. Assist COE, MAJCOMs, and PMs with application of CNS/ATM capability
       standards to operational and associated training requirements.
       2.7.4. Coordinate on MAJCOM operational approvals.
       2.7.5. Serve as AF focal point for CNS/ATM performance monitoring efforts, such as
       reduced vertical separation minimum (RVSM) recurrent monitoring, automatic
       dependent surveillance-broadcast (ADS-B) monitoring, and Mode S monitoring.
       2.7.6. Participate in the Digital Working Group, AF CNS/ATM Working Group, and
       other CNS/ATM forums.
    2.8. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Commander (AFMC/CC) shall maintain
    and budget for the CNS/ATM Center of Excellence.
    2.9. Major Commands (MAJCOMs) shall:
       2.9.1. Develop, document, and fund CNS/ATM operational requirements.
AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012                                                                    5


     2.9.2. Notify the appropriate PM of any issue impacting CNS/ATM capability
     immediately upon discovery.
     2.9.3. Request the PM accomplish a CNS/ATM performance assessment (PA) when
     required.
     2.9.4. Grant aircraft CNS/ATM operational approval IAW AFI 11-202V3, General
     Flight Rules, after verification that aircraft conform with host nation CNS/ATM
     capability standards.   Exceptions, restrictions, or use of equivalent safety and
     performance requirements will be documented in the operational approval.
     2.9.5. Notify AF Director of Operations (AF/A3O) and appropriate PM when an aircraft
     CNS/ATM operational approval is signed by the MAJCOM Director of Operations (A3)
     and provide a copy of the signed operational approval to AF/A3O, AFFSA, COE, and the
     appropriate PM.
     2.9.6. Update weapon system concepts of operations (CONOPS), concept of
     employment (CONEMP), and maintenance concepts when required. Provide updated
     documents to the weapon system’s PM.
     2.9.7. Develop CNS/ATM operational and maintenance training.
     2.9.8. Implement a process for reporting and resolving potential errors in both
     commercial and government furnished navigation data.
     2.9.9. Participate in the Digital Working Group, AF CNS/ATM Working Group, and
     other CNS/ATM forums.
  2.10. CNS/ATM Center of Excellence (COE) shall:
     2.10.1. Actively participate in airspace standards forums.
     2.10.2. Track and monitor CNS/ATM capability standards.
     2.10.3. Generate generic performance matrices (GPMs) from applicable CNS/ATM
     capability standards.
        2.10.3.1. Exercise technical authority and configuration control responsibilities for
        GPMs.
        2.10.3.2. Publish a new/revised GPM within 90 calendar days of publication of a new
        or updated CNS/ATM capability standard.
            2.10.3.2.1. Alert MAJCOMs, PMs and the TAA of a new and/or updated
            CNS/ATM capability standard within 30 calendar days of publication by a civil
            authority.
            2.10.3.2.2. Alert MAJCOMs and PMs of a new and/or updated GPM within 30
            calendar days of publication by the COE.
        2.10.3.3. Ensure GPMs do not direct specific design solutions.
        2.10.3.4. Ensure GPMs recommend verification methodologies.
     2.10.4. Create and maintain technical support memorandum of understanding (MOU)
     and performance assessment report (PAR) templates. Provide current templates to PMs
     when required.
6                                                             AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


    2.10.5. Establish a technical support MOU with every PM that requires COE support.
    2.10.6. Support PMs in preparation of tailored performance matrices (TPMs), when
    required.
    2.10.7. Provide an analysis of TPMs, prior to publication, for CNS/ATM performance
    requirements upon request of the PM.
    2.10.8. Conduct PAs and generate PARs when required by the PM.
    2.10.9. Review PARs and required artifacts submitted by an PM to determine if the PA
    validates performance requirements documented in the TPM.
    2.10.10. Issue a letter of compliance (LOC) to the PM within 30 calendar days of PAR
    receipt, or as agreed to in the technical support MOU. The PM is the release authority for
    an LOC.
       2.10.10.1. Issue an LOC, within 30 calendar days, after PM notification of any
       CNS/ATM non-compliance.
       2.10.10.2. Issue an LOC, within 30 calendar days, after PM notification that the non-
       compliance has been resolved.
    2.10.11. Be responsible for government furnished navigation data chain certification.
       2.10.11.1. Provide functional expertise and manpower to maintain the NGA Type 1
       navigation data chain certification IAW appropriate standards.
       2.10.11.2. Perform periodic and event driven audits of NGA's navigation data
       processing for compliance with appropriate standards.
       2.10.11.3. Perform audits on organizations that establish processes to develop
       Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPS) and grant these organizations a Type 1
       Letter of Acceptance (LOA). Provide copies of Type 1 LOAs to AFFSA and
       MAJCOMs.
       2.10.11.4. Perform Type 2 navigation data chain certification audits as required and
       provide formal documentation of the certification in an LOA to the PM.
    2.10.12. Develop and maintain contracts to supply CNS/ATM products for AF
    stakeholders (see paragraph 3.1.5. for details on the CNS/ATM equipment contract
    strategy). Ensure equipment on the contracts has approved frequency allocations for
    CNS/ATM transmitters/receivers IAW AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum
    Management.
    2.10.13. Maintain a website for dissemination of CNS/ATM and NextGen information,
    such as GPMs and Type 1 LOAs.
    2.10.14. Participate in the Digital Working Group, AF CNS/ATM Working Group, and
    other CNS/ATM forums.
    2.10.15. Facilitate recurring communication on CNS/ATM performance requirements,
    policies, and procedures among CNS/ATM stakeholders.
    2.10.16. Resolve issues impacting implementation of CNS/ATM capability with PMs.
    Unresolved issues will be elevated to the PM’s PEO and the PEO responsible for the
AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012                                                                    7


     COE. Final adjudication authority for unresolved issues at the PEO level will be
     SAF/AQ.
  2.11. Program Managers (PMs) shall:
     2.11.1. Create and execute a technical support MOU with the COE and other support
     organizations to ensure CNS/ATM acquisitions, integrations, and modifications are
     properly supported. Prior to drafting an MOU or PAR, obtain the current template from
     the COE.
     2.11.2. Ensure GPMs are tailored to define CNS/ATM performance requirements.
        2.11.2.1. Exercise technical authority and configuration control responsibilities for
        TPMs.
        2.11.2.2. Prepare TPMs in time to support major program contract activities (request
        for proposals, engineering change proposals, contract change proposals, etc.).
        2.11.2.3. Ensure COE provides an analysis of the TPM, prior to publication, for
        CNS/ATM performance requirements.
        2.11.2.4. Ensure the TAA provides an analysis of the TPM, prior to publication, for
        CNS/ATM airworthiness certification requirements
     2.11.3. Ensure CNS/ATM activities are included in the acquisition strategy, integrated
     master plan (IMP), integrated master schedule (IMS), and other planning documents.
     2.11.4. Ensure CNS/ATM acquisitions, integrations, and modifications meet the
     performance requirements published in the TPM.
     2.11.5. Ensure PAs are accomplished when required by a MAJCOM.
     2.11.6. Provide PA status to MAJCOM upon request.
     2.11.7. Ensure a PAR is accomplished for every PA using the PAR template available
     from the COE.
     2.11.8. Submit the PAR, required artifacts, and LOC request to the COE.
     2.11.9. When required, provide the LOC to the MAJCOM and TAA as evidence of
     compliance with CNS/ATM performance requirements. An LOC, by itself, is
     insufficient to support issuance of an operational approval. The PM is the release
     authority for an LOC.
     2.11.10. Notify MAJCOM, COE, and TAA of any issue impacting CNS/ATM capability
     immediately upon discovery.
     2.11.11. Obtain CNS/ATM products through the COE-managed contracts and approved
     products list unless not financially advantageous or technically suitable. Decisions to
     deviate from this direction shall be documented in the acquisition strategy/life cycle
     management plan.
     2.11.12. Analyze life cycle cost of commercial navigation data versus government
     furnished navigation data. IAW DODI 5000.56, Programming Geospatial-Intelligence
     (GEOINT), Geospatial Information and Services (GI&S), and Geodesy Requirements for
     Developing Systems, all acquisition programs shall make maximum use of standard
8                                                                AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


       military data and digital databases provided by the NGA and the National System for
       Geospatial Intelligence (NSG). Document the analysis/decision in the acquisition
       strategy/life cycle management plan.
       2.11.13. Ensure all CNS/ATM functions have approved frequency allocations for
       transmitters/ receivers IAW AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management.
       2.11.14. Resolve issues impacting implementation of CNS/ATM capability with the
       COE. Unresolved issues will be elevated to the PM’s PEO and the PEO responsible for
       the COE. Final adjudication authority for unresolved issues at the PEO level will be
       SAF/AQ.
       2.11.15. Participate in the Digital Working Group, AF CNS/ATM Working Group, and
       other CNS/ATM forums.
3. PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES
    3.1. Publication of a CNS/ATM Capability Standard to Distribution of Operational
    Approval. This process starts with the publication or revision of a CNS/ATM capability
    standard and produces an operational approval resulting in airspace access for the aircraft
    (Figure 3.1). The PM determines when these processes and procedures apply to CDA
    maintaining FAA type certification.
       3.1.1. CNS/ATM Capability Standards. CNS/ATM capability standards are created by
       national/international civil aviation authorities and recognized standards development
       organizations. All stakeholders who monitor CNS/ATM capability standards and/or
       interface with host nation civil aviation authorities, foreign defense ministries, and air
       navigation service providers report proposed, pending, or published changes, policy
       changes, or other CNS/ATM issues to AF/A3O and the COE upon discovery.
AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012                                                                      9


Figure 3.1. CNS/ATM Capability Standard to Operational Approval Process.


             Civil Authority                                 MAJCOM
           Publishes CNS/ATM       COE Publishes            Determines
                Standard               GPM                 Operational
                                                         Impact & Solution




                                                                      SPM Supports
                             SPM
      SPM Tailors                                COE Issues            Operational
                         Accomplishes
        GPM                                        LOC                  Approval
                           PA & PAR
                                                                         Process




                 MAJCOM                                       Warfighter
                                      AF/A3O
                  Grants                                      Achieves
                                    Notifies Civil
                Operational                                   Airspace
                                     Authority
                 Approval                                      Access


Note: This figure does not capture airworthiness certification processes. Reference AFI 62-601,
USAF Airworthiness, 11 June 2010, for information regarding airworthiness processes.
       3.1.2. Generic Performance Matrix (GPM). The COE monitors CNS/ATM capability
       standards and converts these standards into a set of generic performance requirements
       documented in a GPM. A GPM does not define performance requirements for specific
       aircraft. GPMs provide examples of verification methodologies successfully used by
       commercial developers to conform with CNS/ATM capability standards. A GPM,
       created and maintained by the COE, is prepared for each CNS/ATM capability. The
       GPM forms the basis for a TPM.
          3.1.2.1. The COE alerts MAJCOMs and PMs of publication of a new or updated
          CNS/ATM capability standard.
          3.1.2.2. The COE develops/modifies a GPM upon publication of a new or updated
          CNS/ATM capability standard. The COE notifies MAJCOMs and PMs when a new
          or revised GPM is published.
          3.1.2.3. MAJCOMs determine, with PM support, how to address CNS/ATM
          capability standards for aircraft (materiel or non-materiel solution).
       3.1.3. Technical Support Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). The MOU establishes
       a working relationship and timelines between the PM, the COE, and technical support
       organizations needed to ensure CNS/ATM acquisitions, integrations, and modifications
       are supported throughout a program’s life cycle. Inclusion of the COE on all CNS/ATM
10                                                             AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


     technical support MOUs provides early and appropriate expectation management of the
     services an PM will require of the COE, even if only to execute an LOC and Type 2
     LOA. If required, a memorandum of agreement (MOA) may establish these relationships
     (see Terms section for MOU/MOA definition).
        3.1.3.1. If the MAJCOM decision is to address a CNS/ATM capability with a
        materiel solution, the PM prepares and executes a technical support MOU using the
        template available from the COE.
        3.1.3.2. It is recommended that the MOU be executed early in a CNS/ATM
        acquisition, integration or modification planning process.
     3.1.4. Tailored Performance Matrix (TPM). The PM must tailor a GPM in order to
     define a set of performance requirements for a specific aircraft. Compliance with this set
     of performance requirements will ensure the aircraft conforms to CNS/ATM capability
     standards. TPMs identify specific supporting artifacts included in a PA and the criteria
     required to verify compliance of each performance requirement. Prior to TPM
     publication, PMs will request a COE analysis of the TPM for CNS/ATM performance
     requirement compatibility with CNS/ATM capability standards. Additionally, the PM
     will request a TAA analysis of the TPM for airworthiness certification requirements. The
     PM will provide feedback to the COE and TAA on the incorporation of this analysis prior
     to publishing the TPM.
     3.1.5. CNS/ATM Equipment Contract Strategy. The COE currently maintains multiple
     indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (ID/IQ) contracts for CNS/ATM hardware and
     software procurement. The ID/IQ contracts can be used by AF, DOD, and federal
     organizations to minimize life cycle expenses associated with aircraft specific solutions
     where a certified and widely used piece of equipment is available. Where possible, the
     COE negotiates extended warranty clauses not usually available through commercial
     means. Refer to the following website for more information regarding CNS/ATM
     hardware     and      software    procurement     from     the    ―iGATM        catalog‖:
     https://igatm.hanscom.af.mil/igatm/servlet/gatm.servlets.LoginServlet.
        3.1.5.1. The MAJCOM and PM use the iGATM catalog when analyzing procurement
        options.
        3.1.5.2. The PM determines whether available products are financially advantageous
        or technically suitable. Guidance on the iGATM website provides detailed
        instructions on how to execute a procurement contract.
     3.1.6. Performance Assessment (PA).          A PA validates how each performance
     requirement within the TPM was addressed. PA results are documented in a PAR, and
     include CNS/ATM functionality added to an aircraft, and the degree to which the
     integrated systems perform with respect to applicable CNS/ATM performance
     requirements. The PM ensures a PA is accomplished when required by a MAJCOM.
     MAJCOMs may require a PA to verify compliance with documented TPM criteria in a
     new or modified aircraft configuration, or to determine CNS/ATM functionality provided
     by an existing aircraft configuration.
AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012                                                                    11


     3.1.7. Performance Assessment Report (PAR).           A PAR documents the
     outcomes/findings of a PA. The PM submits a PAR to the COE with required artifacts
     and an LOC request.
     3.1.8. Letter of Compliance (LOC). An LOC documents compliance with CNS/ATM
     performance requirements.
         3.1.8.1. In accordance with the MOU, the COE analyzes the PAR and issues an LOC
         that documents the compliance/non-compliance areas.
         3.1.8.2. The PM provides an LOC to the MAJCOM and TAA when required.
     3.1.9. Operational Approval. IAW AFI 11-202V3, a MAJCOM approves operational
     use of CNS/ATM and navigation safety systems.
         3.1.9.1. The PM submits the PA, PAR, and LOC to support MAJCOM CNS/ATM
         operational approval.
         3.1.9.2. Operational workarounds for issues impacting CNS/ATM capability should
         be coordinated with AFFSA prior to signing an operational approval.
         3.1.9.3. The MAJCOM grants aircraft CNS/ATM operational approval after
         verification that the aircraft conforms to CNS/ATM capability standards. Exceptions,
         restrictions, or the use of equivalent safety and performance requirements are
         documented in the operational approval.
         3.1.9.4. The MAJCOM forwards operational approval to AF/A3O who notifies the
         FAA, ICAO, and ICAO regional monitoring agencies of the AF’s intent to operate
         the aircraft in the specified airspace.
         3.1.9.5. The MAJCOM provides a copy of the signed operational approval to
         AF/A3O, AFFSA, the appropriate PM, and COE. AFFSA serves as the repository for
         AF operational approvals.
  3.2. Discovery of an Issue Impacting CNS/ATM Capability. Paragraph 3.1 and Figure 1
  describe the typical acquisition process regarding a new or modified CNS/ATM capability
  standard. This paragraph provides guidance for issues arising outside of the typical process
  that impact CNS/ATM capability.
     3.2.1. CNS/ATM stakeholders notify the PM upon discovery of an issue impacting
     CNS/ATM capability.
     3.2.2. The PM notifies the affected MAJCOMs, COE, and TAA upon discovery of an
     issue impacting CNS/ATM capability. Stakeholders communicate and collaborate to
     determine the impact of the CNS/ATM related issue and take actions to mitigate
     degraded CNS/ATM capabilities.
     3.2.3. The COE amends or issues an LOC as required.
     3.2.4. The PM provides the LOC to the MAJCOM and TAA, as required, to take
     appropriate actions.
  3.3. Aeronautical Navigation Data Chain Certification.
12                                                             AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


     3.3.1. Type 1 Data Chain Letter of Acceptance (LOA). The COE performs periodic and
     event driven audits of the production and distribution of digital aeronautical navigation
     data to meet current CNS/ATM capability standards. The Type 1 LOA covers the
     portion of the data chain from an originating nation-state source to the developed
     electronic database that is made available to users. There is no identified compatibility
     with any specific aircraft system in a Type 1 LOA.
     3.3.2. Type 2 Data Chain Letter of Acceptance (LOA). When the CNS/ATM capability
     standard requires a navigation accuracy of Area Navigation/Required Navigation
     Performance (RNAV/RNP) of 4 nautical miles or tighter, the COE audits the responsible
     entity for converting and distributing the Type 1 LOA approved electronic database. The
     approved electronic database is converted to an aircraft-specific electronic database
     which is compatible with the aircraft system to ensure performance requirements are met
     and the CNS/ATM capability standard is satisfied.
     3.3.3. Avionics/Weapons/Electronics (AWE) Conversion Tool Certification. As part of
     the Type 2 LOA, the COE certifies the MAJCOM-approved AWE database conversion
     tools used to convert the Type 1 LOA approved electronic database into an image that is
     compatible with the aircraft navigation system. These AWE tools must also conform to
     applicable CNS/ATM capability standards.




                                          David M. Van Buren
                                          Air Force Service Acquisition Executive
AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012                                                                  13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DODI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support, 9 August 1995
DODI 5000.56, Programming Geospatial-Intelligence (GEOINT), Geospatial Information and
Services (GI&S), and Geodesy Requirements for Developing Systems, 9 July 2010
FAA Order 8110.101, Type Certification Procedures for Military Commercial Derivative
Aircraft, 7 September 2007
HAFMD 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), 8 April 2009
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March
2007
AFPD 62-6, USAF Airworthiness, 11 June 2010
AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 April 2009
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 12 July 2010
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFI 13-201, Airspace Management, 1 December 2006
AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management, 18 July 2005
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 62-601, USAF Airworthiness, 11 June 2010
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, 6 November 2009
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 26 February 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DEPSECDEF Memorandum, Implementation of Next Generation Air Transportation System
within the Department of Defense (NextGen), 28 Dec 2007 (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/content/nextgen)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
ADS-B—Automatic Dependent Surveillance–Broadcast
 14                                                      AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


AF—Air Force
AF/A3/5—USAF Operations, Plans, and Requirements
AF/A3O—USAF Director of Operations
AFFSA—Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AWE—Avionics/Weapons/Electronics
C2 & CS—Command and Control, Communication Systems
CDA—Commercial Derivative Aircraft
CNS/ATM—Communications, Navigation, Surveillance/Air Traffic Management
COE—Center of Excellence
CONEMP—Concept of Employment
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
DEPSECDEF—Deputy Secretary of Defense
DOD—Department of Defense
ESC—Electronic Systems Center
ESC/HBA—Aerospace Management Systems Division
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
GATM—Global Air Traffic Management
GPM—Generic Performance Matrix
IAW—In Accordance With
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
ID/IQ—Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity
ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management
IMP—Integrated Master Plan
IMS—Integrated Master Schedule
AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012                                                                15


JPO—Joint Program Office
LOC—Letter of Compliance
LOA—Letter of Acceptance
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPSSF—Mission Planning System Support Facility
NAS—National Airspace System
NextGen—Next Generation Air Transportation System
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NSG—National System for Geospatial Intelligence
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Performance Assessment
PAR—Performance Assessment Report
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RNAV—Area Navigation
RNP—Required Navigation Performance
RTCA—Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics
RVSM—Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum
SAE—Service Acquisition Executive
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
SAF/AQI—Director, Information Dominance Programs, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
Acquisition
SAF/AQP—Director, Global Power Programs, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
Acquisition
SAF/AQQ—Director, Global Reach Programs, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
Acquisition
SAF/AQR—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Science, Technology, and
Engineering) for Acquisition
SAF/AQX—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition Integration) for
Acquisition
 16                                                                 AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


TAA—Technical Airworthiness Authority
TERPS—Terminal Instrument Procedures
TPM—Tailored Performance Matrix

Terms
Acquisition—the conceptualization, initiation, design, development, test, contracting,
production, deployment, and disposal of a directed and funded effort that provides a new,
improved, or continued materiel, weapon, information system, logistics support, or service
capability in response to an approved need.
Acquisition Program—a directed, funded effort that provides a new, improved, or continuing
materiel, weapon or information system, or capability in response to an approved need.
Aeronautical Navigation Data Chain—the aeronautical data chain is a series of interrelated
links where each link provides a function that facilitates the origination, transmission, and use of
aeronautical data for a specific purpose. The path that aeronautical data takes is from its creation
(source) to its end use (navigation solution).
Artifact—documentation provided by a PM verifying compliance of each line item of a tailored
performance matrix.
CNS/ATM Capability Standards—standards adopted by national and/or international civil
authorities or recognized standards development organizations specifying the CNS/ATM
capabilities necessary to gain access and operate in national or international airspace.
Commercial Derivative Aircraft—civil aircraft procured or acquired by the military (reference
FAA Order 8110.101).
Enterprise—the related activities performed for a common purpose including all activities,
whether performed in one or more functional or organizational units.
iGATM—the COE-managed website with information regarding CNS/ATM hardware and
software procurement. Also known as the ―iGATM catalog.‖ Registration and guidance
available              at               the                following       website:
https://igatm.hanscom.af.mil/igatm/servlet/gatm.servlets.LoginServlet.
Generic Performance Matrix—the set of generic performance requirements derived from
CNS/ATM capability standards for a given CNS/ATM capability. A GPM does not define
performance requirements for specific aircraft. GPMs provide examples of verification
methodologies successfully used by commercial developers to conform to CNS/ATM capability
standards. The GPM forms the basis for a TPM.
Integrated Life Cycle Management—the seamless governance, transparency, and integration
of all aspects of infrastructure, resource management, and business systems necessary for
successful development, acquisition, fielding, and sustainment of systems, subsystems, end
items, and services to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs.
Letter of Compliance—a letter documenting compliance/non-compliance with CNS/ATM
performance requirements provided by the COE.
AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012                                                                       17


Memorandum of Agreement—a document that defines general areas of conditional agreement
between two or more parties—what one party does depends on what the other party does (e.g.,
one party agrees to provide support if the other party provides the materials). MOAs that
establish responsibilities for providing recurring reimbursable support should be supplemented
with support agreements that define the support, basis for reimbursement for each category of
support, the billing and payment process, and other terms and conditions of the agreement.
Reference DODI 4000.19.
Memorandum of Understanding— a document that defines general areas of understanding
between two or more parties—explains what each party plans to do; however, what each party
does is not dependent on what the other party does (e.g., does not require reimbursement or other
support from receiver). Reference DODI 4000.19.
Modification—a change to the form, fit, function, or interface of an in-service, configuration-
managed AF asset.
Operational Approval—the process and documentation verifying an aircraft’s CNS/ATM and
navigation safety systems meet CNS/ATM capability standards before operational use. Lead
MAJCOMs approve operational use of CNS/ATM and navigation safety systems. Operational
approval is based upon compatibility with CNS/ATM performance requirements including
adequacy of training, operating procedures, maintenance, and logistics support. MAJCOMs
ensure that required aircrew and maintainer proficiency and training is maintained and
documented, and that flight manuals, technical orders, and operating instructions are updated to
include appropriate procedures and information on CNS/ATM use and functions (AFI 11-202V3,
General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010, paragraphs 2.16 – 2.16.2).
Performance Assessment—the process that results in a Performance Assessment Report (PAR)
that documents CNS/ATM functionality added to an aircraft, and the degree to which the
integrated systems perform with respect to the applicable CNS/ATM performance requirements.
This report, along with other applicable artifacts, is prepared specifically in support of the
operational approval process.
Performance Requirement—a requirement defining the extent to which a mission or function
should be executed, generally measured in terms of quantity, quality, coverage, timeliness, or
readiness.
Program—systems, subsystems, end items, services, or activities on the AF acquisition master
list, systems in sustainment, weapon systems designated in AFPD 10-9, or identified as services
category activities.
Program Executive Officer—the individual dedicated to executive management and
supervision of a portfolio of mission-related Acquisition Category (ACAT) and selected
programs. The PEO shall be chartered by and is accountable to the Service Acquisition
Executive (SAE).
Program Manager—in accordance with DODD 5000.01, the PM is the Air Force designated
individual with responsibility for and authority to accomplish system objectives for development,
production, and sustainment to meet the user’s operational needs. For systems in acquisition, the
PM is accountable for credible cost, schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the MDA.
For systems in sustainment, the PM is accountable for credible cost, schedule, performance, and
materiel readiness to the AFMC/CC, AFSPC/CC, or designee. ACAT I and ACAT II PMs will
 18                                                                 AFI63-137 29 MARCH 2012


be chartered by the SAE and the PEO. Delegated ACAT II and III PMs shall be chartered by the
PEO.
Radio Frequency Equipment Certification—approved Military Communications-Electronics
Board application for radio frequency allocation (DD Form 1494) and associated Joint
Frequency Working Group file number.
Stakeholders—individual or organizational entities (users, developers, acquirers, technologists,
testers, budgeters, sustainers, and industry) that are, or will be, associated with implementing and
supporting the associated system, subsystem, or end item capability requirements.
Tailored Performance Matrix—a set of performance requirements for each unique CNS/ATM
capability. Compliance with this set of performance requirements will ensure the aircraft
conforms to CNS/ATM capability standards. TPMs form the basis for the aircraft’s CNS/ATM
performance requirements and assessment.
Technical Airworthiness Authority—the AF official authorized to define airworthiness
standards, approve the certification basis, issue findings of compliance, and issue Military Type
Certificates and other flight releases (AFI 62-601, Attachment 2).
Technical Data—information, regardless of the form or method of the recording, of a scientific
or technical nature, including computer software documentation. As applied in this publication,
it includes information required for the design, development, production, manufacture, assembly,
operation, training, testing, repair, maintenance, or modification of defense articles. Relative to
software it includes information on system functional design, logic flow, algorithms, application
programs, operating systems, and support software for design, implementation, test operation,
diagnosis, and repair. It does not include computer software or data incidental to contract
administration or general scientific, mathematical, or engineering principles commonly taught in
schools or information in the public domain.
Total Ownership Cost—total ownership cost encompasses all costs associated with
development, production, operations, support, and disposal of a weapon system.
Type 1 Data Chain Letter of Acceptance (LOA)—the Type 1 LOA provides recognition that a
data supplier’s processes for producing aeronautical data comply with FAA AC 20-153a,
RTCA/DO-200A and the data quality requirements of the user with no identified compatibility
with an aircraft system.
Type 2 Data Chain Letter of Acceptance (LOA)—the Type 2 LOA provides recognition that
the various links (organizations) in the data chain do not corrupt, nor do they alter, any of the
data quality attributes of the supplied data. This LOA also recognizes the link's (organization's)
compliance with FAA AC 20-153a, RTCA/DO-200A and the data quality requirements of the
user. The Type 2 LOA also identifies compatibility of the delivered data with a particular
avionic system (navigation solution).
