                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 64-106
AIR FORCE                                                                               25 MARCH 1994

                                                                                              Contracting

                                                     AIR FORCE INDUSTRIAL LABOR RELATIONS
                                                                                ACTIVITIES


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/AQCO                                                                    Certified by: SAF/AQC
       Kathryn D. Ekberg                                                     Brig Gen Robert W. Drewes
Supersedes AFR 79-1, 31 March 1992.                                                              Pages: 7
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System. It describes authorized union activities
on installations and the duties and responsibilities of Air Force personnel when a labor dispute occurs. It
tells what the Air Force does about labor dispute demonstrations on Air Force installations and at overseas
commands and activities. To ensure a full understanding of industrial labor relations activities, contact
your servicing Regional Labor Office. A listing of Regional Labor Offices is in Attachment 1.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first issuance of AFI 64-106, revising AFR 79-1.



1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Deputy Assistant Secretary (DAS) for Contracting. SAF/AQC approves, publishes, and
   implements all industrial labor relations policy and assigns a labor relations focal point from existing
   personnel strength.
   1.2. Labor Relations Coordinator. Is the liaison with the regional labor advisor and has ready
   access to the installation commander. Appointment of a labor relations coordinator does not prevent
   direct communications between the regional labor advisor and the installation commander or other
   staff members when the situation requires it.
   1.3. Regional Labor Advisors. Are identified in Attachment 1 and are assigned by geographic area.
   The regional labor advisor:
       • Advises the SAF/AQC labor relations focal point of any actions or activities that may impact
          SAF/AQC, contracting offices, or labor relations policies.
      •   Coordinates on all industrial labor relations actions and Air Force responses not covered by
          this instruction.
      •   Monitors and reports status of major collective bargaining agreements and labor management
          relations affecting significant Air Force programs.
      •   Guides and assists Air Force commands and installations on labor issues.
      •   Coordinates program operations.
   1.4. Major Command, Field Operating Agency, and Installation Commander. Each appoints a
   labor relations coordinator and alternate from existing personnel strength and advises the regional
   labor advisor of the names. Installation commanders communicate with local union officials as the
   need arises and include local labor organizations in their community relations programs.
   1.5. Air Force Personnel. Air Force personnel do not interfere with or try to influence collective
   bargaining or labor disputes between contractors and labor unions representing contractor employees.
   Air Force personnel cooperate with Federal and state agencies relating to industrial labor relations
   activities. Air Force personnel maintain neutrality in labor disputes. Air Force personnel refer all
   contractor labor relations matters to the head of the contracting office. Such matters include:
       • Potential contact with national or international level labor union organizations.
       • Notice of potential or actual labor disputes.
       • Notice of potential or actual picketing or other demonstrations.
   1.6. Contracting Officers. Comply with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) part 22 and its sup-
   plements concerning industrial labor relations matters. The contracting officer coordinates with the
   regional labor advisor on all actions and responses not covered by this instruction or the FAR.

2. Labor Disputes:
   2.1. Reporting. The cognizant contracting activity reports and takes action in accordance with FAR
   22.101-3 and its supplements when notice of a potential or actual labor dispute is received from any
   source. Such labor disputes include those:
       • At contractor facilities with significant Air Force contracts.
       • Operating on Air Force installations as the result of Air Force contracts or subcontracts.
       • On Air Force installations but not operating under an Air Force contract, such as schools,
          banks, and credit unions, or contractors operating under contract with other agencies.
   2.2. Performance During a Dispute. If work is necessary for health, sanitation, safety, or other rea-
   sons, and a contractor can not work as required because of a labor dispute, the installation commander
   may authorize the use of in-house personnel instead of contractor personnel after coordination with
   the regional labor advisor. In no event will commanders use Air Force military or civilian personnel
   to supplement the contractor's nonstriking work force. The contract services must be performed
   exclusively by contractor employees or exclusively by Air Force employees.
   2.3. Picketing and Other Demonstrations:
      2.3.1. The installation commander minimizes impact on the Air Force mission by (generally) not
      permitting picketing or other demonstrations on Air Force installations and by limiting picketing
      outside installations to one or more gates. By restricting a struck contractor's base entry and exit

                                               2
to specific gates, and enforcing that restriction, the union is obliged to limit its picketing to those
same gates. Neutral contractor employees and others not involved in the dispute can access the
installation without crossing a picket line by using other gates.
2.3.2. When pickets appear, or when the installation commander receives notice of possible pick-
eting, the commander:
    • May request the presence of the regional labor advisor if justified.
    • Consults with the labor relations coordinator and the regional labor advisor on a course of
        action to minimize the impact of the picketing.
    • Decides if a reserve gate or gates should be established.
    • Informs all military and civilian personnel of the labor situation, gives the Air Force pol-
        icy of strict neutrality, instructs personnel to refrain from expressing an opinion on the
        merits of the labor-management dispute, and emphasizes the need to obey any special traf-
        fic instructions.
   •   Notifies local civil law enforcement officials that pickets may congest public access routes
       adjacent to the installation and request their assistance in keeping routes clear. Reviews
       installation boundaries and jurisdiction with local law officials.
2.3.3. If installation commanders require a reserved gate, they:
    • Send appropriate letters to the contractor and unions involved (see sample letter Attach-
        ment 2).
    • Conspicuously place signs at the reserved gates. The signs must be easily readable from a
        distance of 75 feet by vehicle operators and pedestrians entering the installation, and must
        contain the following wording: " NOTICE: THIS ENTRANCE MUST BE USED BY
        EMPLOYEES, VENDORS, AND SUPPLIERS OF (Name of contractor involved in
        dispute) WHO ENTER AND EXIT THIS INSTALLATION, BY ORDER OF THE
        INSTALLATION COMMANDER."
    • Places signs at all other base entrances to read: " NOTICE: EMPLOYEES, VENDORS,
        AND SUPPLIERS OF (Name of Contractor) MUST ENTER AND EXIT THE
        ____________________________ ENTRANCE TO_____________________ AIR
        FORCE BASE, BY ORDER OF THE INSTALLATION COMMANDER.”
    • Maintain a separate log of events and activities at the picket gate and at the picket line
        area.
2.3.4. Air Force members and employees continue to perform their own normal installation or
contractor plant functions during a labor dispute.
2.3.5. Guards must monitor gates for compliance with the reserved gate restrictions. The union
may post observers at neutral gates to monitor compliance. Use of other gates by contractor per-
sonnel involved in the dispute may result in the union legally picketing all gates to the installation.
The labor relations coordinator informs the regional labor advisor if pickets or personnel involved
in the dispute (including vendors and subcontractors) use other than the designated gate. If this
occurs, the installation commander may be required to revise the gate system.
2.3.6. If installation commanders believe that the safety of Air Force personnel entering, exiting,
or working at the Air Force installation or plant would be endangered by strike or picketing activ-

                                          3
       ities, the commanders ask the regional labor advisor for assistance in arranging safe entrance and
       exit of Air Force employees. The regional labor advisor may negotiate to limit the number of
       pickets and establish conduct standards for those picketing.
   2.4. Disputes at Overseas Commands:
       2.4.1. Industrial labor relations activities, including labor disputes, at overseas commands are
       normally governed by laws and regulations of the host country. However, overseas commands
       should comply with this regulation where possible in administering their industrial labor relations
       affairs. Command labor relations coordinators refer questions or problems on how US labor laws
       apply in overseas areas, or submit requests for industrial labor relations assistance, to the appropri-
       ate regional labor advisor ( Attachment 1).
       2.4.2. Due to the time delays inherent in receiving DD Form 1507, Work Stoppage Report, mes-
       sages from overseas, where actual or potential work stoppages may impact on Air Force programs
       or contracts, the labor relations coordinator:
           • Immediately telephones the regional labor advisor.
           • Follows each telephone report with a DD Form 1507 message.
           • Provides daily updates by fax until the situation stabilizes.

3. Employing Off-Duty Military Personnel. Off-duty military personnel can not work at an hourly rate
of pay less than the minimum or prevailing wage. The Air Force does not permit off-duty employment in
jobs temporarily vacated by a firm's striking employees. However, off-duty Air Force military personnel
who were employed by a contracting firm before it became involved in a labor dispute need not be
required to terminate employment solely because of the dispute.

4. Union Activity on Air Force Installations:
   4.1. Authorized Activities. Installation commanders shall not permit union activity on Air
   Force-owned or controlled property except as provided in this instruction. Note: For unions repre-
   senting Federal employees see AFI 36-701, Labor Management Relations (formerly AFR 40-711).
       4.1.1. Union representatives may conduct legitimate union business with their members who are
       employed by on-base contractors or meet with Air Force or contractor officials regarding union
       business, subject to the constraints of this instruction.
       4.1.2. Unions may hold bargaining unit certification or decertification elections on Air Force
       installations under the supervision of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). Installation
       commanders must provide a suitable place for such elections on request of the NLRB, but only
       after coordinating the request with the regional labor advisor.
       4.1.3. Unions may hold collective bargaining agreement ratification votes on an Air Force instal-
       lation or controlled sites at the discretion of the commander.
       4.1.4. Unions may not conduct internal elections on Air Force installations or controlled sites.
   4.2. Installation Access. The installation commander, in coordination with the regional labor advi-
   sor, establishes local procedures governing labor union representative's access to contractor employ-
   ees on Air Force installations. The commander may issue indefinite entry passes to labor union
   representatives who visit regularly. Include the following restrictions:

                                                 4
•   Access is for organizational purposes or the conduct of legitimate union business with mem-
    bers.
•   The representative's entry shall not violate safety or security requirements and can not include
    access to secure or controlled areas.
•   The representative's entry, presence, or activity shall not interfere with base operations or the
    contractor's activities.
•   The representative may only distribute union literature and contact individual contractor
    employees outside the contractor's work areas and during the contractor employees'
    non-working hours, such as before work, during lunch time, or after work.
•   The representative may not hold meetings, collect dues, or make speeches.




                                  RICHARD E. HAWLEY, Lt General, USAF
                                  Principal Deputy, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                  for Acquisition




                                          5
                                     Attachment 1

                            REGIONAL LABOR ADVISORS

Southeastern Regional Labor Advisor
Patrick AFB FL 32925-0728
407-494-6734 (Commercial) DSN 854-6734
Areas Serviced: AL, AR, FL, GA, LA, MS, NC, SC, TN

Northeastern Regional Labor Advisor
Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5000
513-257-7579 (Commercial) DSN 787-7579
Areas Serviced: CT, DE, DC, IL, IA, IN, KY, MA, MD, ME, MI, MN, MO, NH,
NJ, NY, OH, PA, RI, VA, VT, WI, WV, USAFE

Central Regional Labor Advisor
Peterson AFB CO 80914-5000
719-554-1770 (Commercial) DSN 692-1770
Areas Serviced: CO, KS, MT, ND, NE, NM, OK, SD, TX, WY, Canada

Western Regional Labor Advisor
Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-0147
805-734-8232, EX 6-7711/6-7712 (Commercial) DSN: 276-7711
Areas Serviced: AK, AZ, CA, HI, ID, NV, OR, UT, WA, PACAF




                                       6
                                               Attachment 2

                   SAMPLE LETTER FOR RESERVED GATE PROCEDURES

(This letter is only a guide; the wording, style, and form are optional.)

FROM: CC

SUBJECT: Reserved Gate Procedure in the Event of Picketing

TO: (One copy goes to the contractor and one to the picketing union)


     I have been advised that a labor dispute may result in picketing of (contractor) during performance of
contract _____________________________ at (base).

     The Air Force maintains strict neutrality in contractor labor disputes. Consistent with this policy, I
must make every effort to ensure the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission is not adversely
affected by your dispute.

    Accordingly, observe the following procedures for the duration of the dispute or until otherwise
removed by official action:
   a. Do not picket within the confines of the installation.
   b. All employees, vendors and suppliers of (contractor) will enter and exit the installation only
      through the reserved gate: (gate designation, may be more than one).
   c. Confine demonstrations, including picketing, to the reserved gate, (restate the reserved gates).


     The Government will post appropriate signs identifying the reserved gate at all entrances to the
installation. You must ensure all individuals are aware of and fully comply with these procedures. Direct
any questions or problems regarding these procedures to (point of contact for commander) at (phone no.)


CC signature block




                                                  7
