BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-112
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             9 AUGUST 2006
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 26 July 2011

                                                                                    Acquisition

                                                              COCKPIT WORKING GROUPS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQRE                                                           Certified by: SAF/AQR
                                                                        (Dr. Steven H. Walker)
                                                                                       Pages: 7


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive, 63-1/20-1, Acquisition
and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, by setting the objectives, membership, and
responsibilities of cockpit working groups (CWG). CWGs include acquisition, test, and flight
standards personnel and operational aircrews in cockpit design and configuration at the earliest
stages of development and modification. The CWG ensures that decisions affecting the cockpit
or remote operator station account for human factors and operational environment.

Interim Change (IC) #1 updates the title of the implemented directive, the certifying official’s
name, the approving official’s signature block and updates acronyms and terms

Field activities must send implementing publications to the higher headquarters functional OPR
for review and coordination before publishing. No waivers may be granted for any part of this
publication. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to SAF/AQRE
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Interim Change (IC) #1 updates the title of the implemented directive, the certifying official’s
name, and updates acronyms and terms.
 2                                                                   AFI63-112 9 AUGUST 2006


1. Establishment of a CWG. Establish a CWG for every Air Force aircraft that involves
cockpit or remote operator station development, or substantially modifies a cockpit or remote
operator station. The CWG is responsible to the Program Manager through the CWG
chairperson.
2. CWG Objectives:
     2.1. Provide the PM with technical guidance and a current operational perspective to help
     evaluate the operational suitability and effectiveness of the proposed cockpit/remote
     operator station designs to include human factors evaluations such as situation awareness,
     workload, accommodation, control/display evaluation, and task analyses.
     2.2. Clarify and evaluate operational tasks and critical mission elements, and evaluate
     simulated mission scenarios.
     2.3. Provide formal lead command liaison with the program office and prime contractor in
     the earliest stages of the cockpit/remote operator station design process.
     2.4. Ensure the use of simulations throughout the entire cockpit/remote operator station
     design process.
     2.5. Provide an audit trail for decisions on cockpit/remote operator station issues.
3. Membership. CWGs include members and advisors:
     3.1. Members need a broad understanding of their organization and its concerns. They make
     cockpit design recommendations to the CWG chairperson. Appointment is for at least 2 years
     to guarantee continuity of critical information.
        3.1.1. Members include:
            3.1.1.1. The CWG chairperson (selected by the PM).
            3.1.1.2. Crew station or human factors engineering representative.
            3.1.1.3. Senior aircrew representatives from the requirements and the operations
            offices of the lead command, user commands and reserve components, as deemed
            necessary.
            3.1.1.4. An Air Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA) representative.
            3.1.1.5. A representative from the Responsible Test Organization (RTO) or Air Force
            Flight Test Center (AFFTC).
            3.1.1.6. An Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC)
            representative.
        3.1.2. The CWG chairperson may also select other members. For multi-service
        acquisition programs, the CWG includes members from the lead command of all
        involved services.
     3.2. Advisors identify cockpit/remote operator station design issues and provide technical
     input that members can use as the basis for recommendations. Representatives from the Air
     Force Safety Center, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), test centers, and other agencies
     advise as needed. The chairperson can limit attendance at CWG meetings.
AFI63-112 9 AUGUST 2006                                                                       3


4. Responsibilities. Through the program office, the CWG offers a unified government position
on matters pertaining to cockpit development and modification. The CWG bases its position on
members’ collective experience and technical knowledge. The CWG must get approval from the
PM and lead command for any recommended changes that affect the contract (cost, schedule,
and performance). Approved changes will be incorporated by the contracting officer.
   4.1. Program Manager (PM). The following PM responsibilities apply to all aircraft
   programs involving cockpit/remote operator station development or substantial modification:
       4.1.1. Establish a CWG during Engineering and Manufacturing Development or as early
       as possible.
       4.1.2. Appoint a CWG chairperson.
       4.1.3. Contact the Crew Systems Branch of Aeronautical Systems Center, Engineering
       Directorate (ASC/ENFC) for information on how to establish and organize a CWG.
       4.1.4. Write a CWG charter for the program under development.
       4.1.5. Refer to the CWG Handbook for guidance.
       4.1.6. Review CWG training materials to ensure that CWG members receive appropriate
       training before they begin working on the project.
       4.1.7. Review and evaluate CWG recommendations.
       4.1.8. Maintain a database of CWG issues and design decisions.
       4.1.9. Keep up-to-date, accurate CWG meeting records.
       4.1.10. Provide the simulation and data analysis for the cockpit design.
       4.1.11. Establish a Cockpit Evaluation Team (CET) to support the CWG.
       4.1.12. Appoint, if needed, additional CWG members and advisors such as pilot
       physicians and military test pilot school graduates.
   4.2. User Command(s):
       4.2.1. Appoint a senior aircrew member to represent the requirements office and a senior
       aircrew member to represent the operations office at CWG meetings.
       4.2.2. Provide the CWG with an expert subjective analysis of the cockpit design.
       4.2.3. Clarify the critical elements of the project to the CWG and System Developer.
       4.2.4. Assess mission scenarios for simulator exercises.
       4.2.5. For each aircrew position, assign aircrew members who represent the aerospace
       system’s current or future operator community as CET members.
       4.2.6. Appoint additional advisors such as pilot physicians, if needed.
   4.3. AFMC:
       4.3.1. Appoint engineers and scientists who know cockpit design methodology and
       human factors principles to serve on the CWG.
4                                                                    AFI63-112 9 AUGUST 2006


       4.3.2. Evaluate proposed cockpit designs for manpower, personnel, training, human
       factors, safety, occupational health, and personnel survivability issues that affect system
       performance and operation.
       4.3.3. Provide CWG training for the chairperson, members, and advisors.
       4.3.4. Ensure training is accomplished before participating in CWG meetings.
       4.3.5. Share information with CWG members and advisors concerning standardization
       requirements, procedures, tools, and techniques for cockpit evaluation.
       4.3.6. Maintain CWG databases to store accumulated information and to allow various
       CWGs to standardize data.
       4.3.7. Revise the CWG Handbook.
       4.3.8. Appoint aircrew members with flight test experience as CET members to support
       the CWG.
    4.4. AFOTEC:
       4.4.1. Appoint a qualified AFOTEC senior aircrew member and/or human factors
       engineer to the CWG.
       4.4.2. Assess proposed cockpit designs for functionality and early operational assessment
       (as required).
       4.4.3. Identify aircrew members with flight test experience to the CET if required.
       4.4.4. Assess lessons learned from flight testing.
    4.5. AFFSA:
       4.5.1. Appoint an instrument flying expert to the CWG.
       4.5.2. Assess proposed cockpit designs for Air Force instrument flying requirements.
       4.5.3. Appoint additional advisors for instrument flight expertise.
    4.6. RTO/AFFTC:
       4.6.1. Appoint a qualified RTO/AFFTC senior aircrew member to the CWG..
       4.6.2. Evaluate proposed cockpit designs for functionality.
       4.6.3. Identify aircrew members with flight test experience to the CET if required.
       4.6.4. Assess lessons learned from flight testing.
    4.7. Advisor Organizations:
       4.7.1. Appoint appropriate personnel as advisors to the CWG.
AFI63-112 9 AUGUST 2006                                                                5


     4.7.2. Assess proposed cockpit designs in terms of the particular concerns of the
     participating organization.




                                      BLAISE J. DURANTE
                                      Deputy Assistant Secretary (Acquisition
                                      Integration) Assistant Secretary (Acquisition)
 6                                                                 AFI63-112 9 AUGUST 2006


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFPD 63-1/20-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 03 Apr 2009
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847,Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFSA—Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AFFTC—Air Force Flight Test Center
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
ASC—Aeronautical Systems Center
CET—Cockpit Evaluation Team
CWG—Cockpit Working Group
PM—Program Manager
RTO—Responsible Test Organization

Terms
Cockpit—Space in an aircraft or remote operator station designed for a pilot, or pilots and crew,
or qualified operator(s), including the flight deck and other crew operating stations.
Cockpit Evaluation Team (CET)—Group of experienced aircraft operators participating in
CWG design studies and simulations. Provides subjective inputs to the CWG on the proposed
design.
Cockpit Working Group (CWG)—Team comprised of acquisition, test, and flight standards
personnel and experienced aircraft operators ensuring that manpower, personnel, training, human
factors, safety, and personnel survivability are considered in the cockpit/remote operator station
design.
Cockpit Working Group Handbook—The CWG Handbook contains information regarding the
purpose, membership, specific objectives, activities, and products of CWGs according to
program phase, a model CWG charter, and previous lessons learned.
Cockpit Working Group Training Program—Educates CWG members on their
responsibilities, the current state of technology in cockpit design, human factors issues, cockpit
standards, and other CWG lessons learned.
Lead Commands—Major command (primary customer) with primary responsibility for the
weapon system. Other operating commands support the lead command on request.
AFI63-112 9 AUGUST 2006                                                                    7


Program Manager (PM)—The designated individual with responsibility for and authority to
accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s
operational needs. The PM shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance
reporting to the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA). (DODD 5000.1)
Substantial Cockpit Modification—Cockpit/remote operator station modifications that
substantially change aircrew operational procedures, or mission-oriented operations of the
aircraft (aircrew-vehicle interface). This includes display upgrades and any significant crew
station geometry changes.
