BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 62-601
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              11 JUNE 2010

                                                      AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                          Supplement
                                                                               12 MAY 2011

                                                                 Developmental Engineering

                                                                  USAF AIRWORTHINESS

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQRE                                                         Certified by: SAF/AQR
                                                                      (Dr. Steven H. Walker)
                                                                                     Pages: 29
                                          (AFMC)
OPR: HQ AFMC/EN                                                 Certified by: HQ AFMC/ENS
                                                                           (Richard B. Smith)
                                                                                     Pages:3


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 62-6, USAF Airworthiness, and
applies to all aircraft organizationally operated by components of the Air Force (AF) , both
manned and unmanned, including aircraft operated by Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
Air National Guard (ANG). It does not apply to non-AF aircraft operated by AF aircrew in
accordance with AFI 11-401, Aviation Management. Airworthiness responsibilities for aircraft
procured under Foreign Military Sales (FMS) cases shall be defined in the Letter of Offer and
Acceptance (LOA) for the case.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to SAF/AQRE using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

To ensure standardization, any organization supplementing this instruction must send the
implementing publication to SAF/AQR for review and coordination before publishing.
 2                                                                           AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


(AFMC) This publication supplements AFI 62-601, USAF Airworthiness, 11 June 2010, and
applies to all aircraft organizationally operated by components of the Air Force (AF), both
manned and unmanned, including aircraft operated by Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
Air National Guard (ANG). Air Force Materiel Command supplementary material is printed in
boldface type and indicated by “(Added)(AFMC).”

(AFMC) This supplement documents the designation of the Director of the Engineering
Directorate at Aeronautical Systems Center, ASC/EN as the USAF Technical Airworthiness
Authority (TAA). The Director, ASC/EN, assumes the TAA authority and responsibilities. It
also assigns ASC/EN as the HQ AFMC POC.

(AFMC) Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to HQ AFMC/ENS,
Building 262, 4375 Chidlaw Road, Wright-Patterson AFB OH, 45433-5006 using Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ AFMC/EN. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) at Air Force (AF) Portal:



Chapter 1—ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS OF AIRWORTHINESS                                                                                              4
       1.1.    Airworthiness. ........................................................................................................     4
       1.2.    Independent Airworthiness Determination. ...........................................................                        4
       1.3.    Independent Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA). ......................................                                 4
       1.4.    Issue Resolution. ....................................................................................................      6
       1.5.    Airworthiness Planning. .........................................................................................           6
       1.6.    Tailored and Modification Airworthiness Certification Criteria Documents. .......                                           6
       1.7.    Airworthiness Assessment Process. .......................................................................                   7
       1.8.    First Flight Executive Independent Review Teams. ..............................................                           10
       1.9.    Airworthiness Certification of Modified Air Systems. ..........................................                           10
       1.10.   Commercial-Derivative Aircraft (CDA). ...............................................................                     11
       1.11.   FAA Certification of AF Developed Aircraft. .......................................................                       11
       1.12.   Military Certified Aircraft from Other DOD Components. ...................................                                12
       1.13.   Airworthiness Certification in Jointly Managed Acquisition Programs. ...............                                      12
       1.14.   Certification of Temporary Equipment. .................................................................                   12
       1.15.   Service Life and Condition for Safe Operation. ....................................................                       12
       1.16.   Interrelationship of Safety Hazard Risk Acceptance Process to Airworthiness Assessment
               Process. .................................................................................................................. 13
       1.17.   Exemptions and Waivers. ......................................................................................            13
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                                                     3


     1.18.   Product Acceptance Process. .................................................................................          14
     1.19.   Operational Airworthiness. ....................................................................................        14
     1.20.   Special Access Programs. ......................................................................................        15
     1.21.   Commander’s Prerogative on Mission Capability. ................................................                        15

Chapter 2—RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES                                                                                          16
     2.1.    Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ): ..........................                              16
     2.2.    The Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA): ...................................................                       16
     2.2.    (AFMC) As directed by AFPD 62-6, paragraph 2. ................................................                         16
     2.3.    HQ Air Force Materiel Command, AFMC: ...........................................................                       17
     2.3.    (AFMC) The HQ AFMC OPR is ASC/EN. ...........................................................                          17
     2.4.    Major Commands (MAJCOMs): ...........................................................................                  17
     2.5.    Air Force Program Executive Officers (AFPEOs) and Designated Acquisition Officials
             (AFDAOs): ............................................................................................................ 18
     2.6.    Program Managers (PMs): .....................................................................................          18
     2.7.    AFMC Test Centers, Test Organizations, and Laboratories: .................................                             19
     3.1.    Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................   19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      20

Attachment 2—AIRWORTHINESS PROCESS RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                 24

Attachment 3—PROCEDURE FOR CLASSIFICATION OF MODIFICATIONS                                                                          26

Attachment 4—RISK ACCEPTANCE TABLE                                                                                                  29
 4                                                      AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011



                                            Chapter 1

                      ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS OF AIRWORTHINESS

1.1. Airworthiness. Airworthiness is the verified and documented capability of an air system
configuration to safely attain, sustain, and terminate flight in accordance with (IAW) the
approved aircraft usage and operating limits. The air system Program Manager (PM) is
responsible for planning and executing airworthiness programs for managed aircraft IAW AFPD
62-6 and this instruction. Establishing and maintaining airworthiness throughout the entire air
system life cycle is essential to assuring Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
(OSS&E).
1.2. Independent Airworthiness Determination. Independent airworthiness determination is a
process by which an authority outside of the program execution chain is responsible for
approving the flight operation of an air system configuration and the conditions of that operation.
Airworthiness determinations shall be made based upon the processes in this instruction.
1.3. Independent Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA). The Commander, HQ Air
Force Materiel Command (AFMC), designates the TAA as directed by AFPD 62-6. The TAA is
a General Officer/SES-level technical leader whose activities include the following:
     1.3.1. Independent Airworthiness Approval. The TAA, or delegated official per
     paragraph f2.2.6, shall approve the basis for air system airworthiness certification, tailored
     airworthiness certification criteria (TACC), and reportable modification airworthiness
     certification criteria (MACC) documents; make findings of compliance for program
     airworthiness certification applications; and issue Military Type Certificates (MTC), Military
     Experimental Flight Releases (MEFR), Military Restricted Flight Releases (MRFR), and
     non-design-based special flight releases.
     1.3.2. AF Airworthiness Board (AB). The TAA, or delegated official per paragraph 2.2.6,
     chairs the AF Airworthiness Board (AB). The AB provides advice and recommendations to
     the TAA regarding the disposition of airworthiness actions requested by all air system PMs.
     Membership of the AB consists of senior engineering functional organization representatives,
     an Air Force Safety Center (AFSC) representative, and a representative from owning AFMC
     engineering organizations (as requested by the TAA). The TAA may elect to include (for
     specific AB meetings) representatives from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and
     applicable test organizations. The Wing Commander/Director and PM of the air system
     under consideration, an operational MAJCOM representative, and other program
     stakeholders may also be invited to participate as advisors. In summary, the AB:
        1.3.2.1. Provides recommendations to the TAA regarding approval of TACC and MACC
        documents submitted by PMs.
        1.3.2.2. Provides recommendations to the TAA regarding findings of compliance with
        the approved system certification basis and TAA issuance of MTCs.
        1.3.2.3. Provides recommendations to the TAA regarding the issuance of MEFRs for
        flight test and developmental aircraft.
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                             5


     1.3.2.4. Provides recommendations to the TAA regarding the issuance of MRFRs for
     aircraft which do not fully comply with the certification basis and which are assessed to
     have serious to high risk.
     1.3.2.5. Provides recommendations to the TAA for approval or disapproval of waivers
     and exemptions to applicable MIL-HDBK-516 criteria and applicable FAA Federal
     Aviation Regulation (FAR) requirements for commercial derivative passenger carrying
     aircraft.
     1.3.2.6. Provides recommendations to the TAA regarding the issuance of non-design-
     based special flight releases.
  1.3.3. Airworthiness Process Management. The TAA develops, documents, and deploys
  standard processes and issues supplementary guidance as needed to assess and maintain the
  airworthiness of AF aircraft.
  1.3.4. Airworthiness Project Support Teams. The TAA designates, when requested by air
  system PMs, project support teams to assist programs in planning airworthiness activities.
  The designated support team functions as liaison to the AB throughout airworthiness process
  planning and execution, and assists the TAA in reaching findings of compliance for
  airworthiness certification.
  1.3.5. Subject Matter Expert (SME) Accreditation. The TAA defines accreditation
  requirements for airworthiness SMEs, and accredits individuals to serve as SMEs. SMEs
  provide direct support to the AB in reviewing program airworthiness efforts.
  1.3.6. Delegated Technical Authorities (DTAs). The TAA defines accreditation
  requirements and accredits individuals as DTAs. DTAs are accredited at one of two levels:
  Director of Engineering (DOE) or equivalent, and Chief Engineer (CE) or equivalent.
  Individuals occupying air system DOE and air system CE positions shall obtain accreditation
  as DTAs. DTA accreditations are valid for a period defined by the TAA and may be
  renewed pending satisfaction of renewal criteria defined by the TAA. DTAs may
  temporarily subdelegate their authority one level down to qualified personnel IAW local
  instructions; however, responsibility for sub-delegated actions remains with the DTA.
  Subdelegations shall be documented.
     1.3.6.1. Chief Engineer DTAs (CE/DTAs). DTAs at the Chief Engineer level
     coordinate on applications for MTCs; coordinate on product acceptance documents and
     Military Certificates of Airworthiness (MCAs); approve deviations from MTC
     compliance; classify modifications as airworthiness related or not airworthiness related;
     and approve final MACCs for aircraft undergoing nonreportable modifications. Refer to
     Attachment 2 for a listing of CE/DTA responsibilities.
     1.3.6.2. Director of Engineering DTAs (DOE/DTAs). In addition to CE/DTA
     authority, DTAs at the DOE level have the authority to classify modifications as
     reportable or nonreportable. DOE/DTAs are required to submit an annual summary
     report of reportable/nonreportable modification determinations to the TAA, and
     participate in periodic reviews of their DTA related activities with the TAA. Refer to
     Attachment 2 for a listing of DOE/DTA responsibilities.
 6                                                      AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


     1.3.7. Airworthiness Audits. The TAA conducts organizational airworthiness audits to
     verify ongoing adherence to airworthiness policies and processes.
1.4. Issue Resolution. Airworthiness issues shall be resolved at the lowest level possible. PMs
may appeal a DTA decision to the TAA. Wing Commanders/Directors may appeal a TAA
decision to AFMC/EN. Center Commanders/PEOs may appeal AFMC/EN decisions to
SAF/AQR.
1.5. Airworthiness Planning. Airworthiness planning shall be accomplished early in the
acquisition cycle for new aircraft programs and for modification programs which impact the
airworthiness of existing aircraft. This planning shall define the overall program approach to
achieving and maintaining air system airworthiness and create the framework within which
detailed airworthiness planning and execution is accomplished. Top level airworthiness planning
shall be documented in the system Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP) and shall be
implemented through the program acquisition strategy, the System Engineering Plan (SEP), and
the Integrated Master Plan (IMP). Early and frequent engagement with the TAA is highly
encouraged during airworthiness planning. Airworthiness planning documentation shall include:
     1.5.1. A description of the overall approach to obtaining and maintaining airworthiness
     certification or flight release
     1.5.2. A description of the certification basis development/approval process and schedule for
     TAA interactions
     1.5.3. Approach and activities for obtaining first flight release and conducting the flight test
     program, as applicable
     1.5.4. Description of airworthiness related entrance and exit criteria for major program
     reviews
     1.5.5. For contractor executed efforts, the approach by which airworthiness activities will be
     incorporated into program contractual documents (IMP, work statements, and specifications).
1.6. Tailored and Modification Airworthiness Certification Criteria Documents. All AF
aircraft programs which follow the design-based airworthiness assessment process (see
paragraph 1.7) shall develop a TACC document. Programs shall develop MACC documents for
modifications which impact airworthiness (see paragraph 1.9 for additional information on
modifications). The PM shall obtain documented agreement from the TAA regarding the exact
version of MIL-HDBK-516 to be used in developing the proposed certification basis prior to
release of development acquisition packages. PMs for new programs and reportable
modification programs shall obtain TAA approval of the proposed certification basis contained
in draft TACC or MACC documents no later than completion of critical design review (CDR) or
prior to the start of system level design verification activities. The program CE/DTA approves
the certification basis for nonreportable modifications (refer to paragraph 1.9).
     1.6.1. Certification Basis Definition. The foundation of TACC and MACC documents is
     the certification basis. Programs shall establish the certification basis early in the
     development process. This is typically accomplished by the following steps:
        1.6.1.1. Select the applicable criteria from MIL-HDBK-516, Airworthiness Certification
        Criteria and document the rationale for all criteria deemed not applicable to the
        certification basis. New “program unique” criteria may be included in the certification
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                    7


       basis definition if suitable criteria for a specific air system application cannot be found in
       MIL-HDBK-516. (Note: although criteria from MIL-HDBK-516 may be declared not
       applicable, the criteria themselves may not be modified);
       1.6.1.2. For each applicable criterion, define specific requirements to be met. This is
       accomplished by tailoring (as necessary) the recommended “standard” from MIL-HDBK-
       516 for each criterion;
       1.6.1.3. For each applicable criterion, define activities to show compliance with each
       standard. This is accomplished by tailoring (as necessary) the recommended “method of
       compliance” from MIL-HDBK-516.
   1.6.2. Draft TACC and MACC Documents. Draft TACC and MACC documents are
   created in the early stages of preliminary design and are refined over the course of the
   development effort, and approved NLT CDR or equivalent. Draft TACC/MACC documents
   shall include the proposed certification basis and a description of the air system covered and
   any modifications (for MACCs).
   1.6.3. Final TACC and MACC Documents. Final TACC and MACC documents shall
   include the approved certification basis, the system description, document identifiers needed
   to maintain configuration control, references to operating limitations or restrictions that apply
   to the air system (these are typically included in operating manuals), a summary of the “show
   compliance” results, references to the source of “show compliance” data for each criterion in
   the certification basis, and identification of any noncompliance with applicable airworthiness
   criteria along with associated risk(s).
   1.6.4. TACC and MACC Documents for FAA Certified Aircraft. Military air systems
   which utilize FAA type certification as the certification basis shall include military
   certification criteria derived from MIL-HDBK-516 in the TACC/MACC only for items
   which are not included in the FAA issued type certification (i.e., military-unique items listed
   on an FAA Form 8130-2 or 8130-31). Final TACC/MACC documents for FAA type
   certified air systems will comply with the content requirements described in paragraph 1.6.3
   above; however, the FAA type certification data sheet (TCDS) is included in the
   TACC/MACC as the certification basis for FAA type certified items, and FAA type
   certification constitutes the “show compliance” data for these items. If the program planning
   does not include maintenance of the FAA type certification, the certification basis shall be
   constructed IAW paragraph 1.6.1 and approved by the TAA.
1.7. Airworthiness Assessment Process. Aircraft shall be assessed for airworthiness, and
determinations made, before any flight authorization may be granted. PMs shall request the
TAA to make a determination to proceed with one of two possible alternative assessment
processes: a design-based airworthiness assessment or a non-design-based airworthiness
assessment. Design-based assessments are the preferred approach, while non-design based
assessments are typically performed on a “by-exception” basis for unique aircraft or situations.
   1.7.1. Design-Based Airworthiness Assessment. A design-based airworthiness assessment
   shall be conducted when (a) an airworthiness certification basis can be established consisting
   of a specified set of design criteria, and (b) the design of an air system can be assessed for
   compliance with the specified criteria. This is the only path which will lead to military
   certification of the type design and airworthiness certification of individual aircraft.
8                                                  AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


    1.7.1.1. Issuance of a MEFR. Programs planning to conduct development flight testing
    shall develop and document an experimental flight release basis. The PM shall submit a
    draft experimental flight release basis (along with a copy of the previously approved
    certification basis) to the TAA for approval. After approval of the experimental flight
    release basis the program shall develop the “show compliance” data for the experimental
    flight release. For programs which require a First Flight Executive Independent Review
    Team (FFEIRT) (see paragraph 1.8), the TAA may issue a MEFR after reaching a finding
    of compliance with the experimental flight release basis. A MEFR constitutes release for
    first flight and authorization to initiate the flight test program. It applies to
    developmental and flight test aircraft and is valid for the duration of the flight test
    program or as defined by the issuing authority. Since developmental aircraft typically fly
    within an initially restricted operating envelope that is incrementally expanded over the
    course of the flight test program, the MEFR will include flight envelope expansion
    criteria as needed. The CE/DTA may be delegated authority to make incremental
    findings of compliance that flight envelope expansion criteria have been successfully
    met. For programs which do not require a FFEIRT the CE/DTA approves the
    experimental flight release basis, issues a finding of compliance, MEFR, and approves
    envelope expansion.
    1.7.1.2. Issuance of MTC. The PM shall obtain a MTC prior to system entry into
    dedicated Operational Test & Evaluation (OT&E) or delivery of aircraft for first
    operational use. When the program “show compliance” activities (e.g., tests, modeling
    and simulation activities, analyses, inspections, demonstrations) identified in the
    approved certification basis have been completed, the PM shall submit to the TAA an
    application, signed by the PM and CE/DTA, which includes the final TACC/MACC and
    a request for a finding of compliance with the approved certification basis. In the event
    that one or more instances of noncompliance exist with respect to the approved
    certification basis then the application must include a request for exemption (refer to
    paragraph 1.17). After verification of compliance with the certification basis, formal risk
    acceptance by the appropriate risk acceptance authority (IAW DoDI 5000.02), and
    coordination by the AB members, the TAA may approve the final TACC/MACC and
    issue a MTC for the type design defined in the application. Issuance of a MTC indicates
    that:
       1.7.1.2.1. Aircraft design documentation accurately defines the configuration which
       meets the certification basis.
       1.7.1.2.2. The aircraft design is in compliance with the approved certification basis,
       including any approved exemptions.
       1.7.1.2.3. The design package includes all necessary technical information required
       to construct, maintain, and operate the aircraft system within the approved conditions
       of operation throughout its approved service life.
       1.7.1.2.4. Mission usage has been defined and approved, and the flight manual
       accurately describes the permissible flight envelope.
       1.7.1.2.5. A service life limit has been established and approved for the type design
       (refer to paragraph 1.15).
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                              9


     1.7.1.3. Issuance of MCA. Coincident with issuance of the MTC, the TAA shall
     authorize the PM to issue MCAs. The TAA may rescind or restrict the PM's authority in
     this regard if issues with the MTC warrant such action. MCAs are issued by the PM for
     individual aircraft in the type design covered by the MTC (typically at acceptance of new
     or modified aircraft) when the delivered aircraft is in compliance with the MTC and IAW
     the program product acceptance process (refer to paragraph 1.18). The MCA remains in
     effect for the approved service life as long as the air system configuration is in a
     condition for safe operation (i.e., properly maintained in accordance with approved
     maintenance documentation, and the system is operated in accordance with the approved
     flight manual and within the approved mission usage).
     1.7.1.4. Issuance of Military Restricted Flight Release (MRFR). A PM, in
     recognition of a compelling military need, may request that the TAA issue a MRFR for
     aircraft for which the TAA has declined to issue an MTC due to significant
     noncompliance with the approved certification basis. A PM requesting a MRFR shall
     include a request for waiver (refer to paragraph 1.17). A MRFR may be issued only after
     appropriate waiver(s) are approved by the TAA, and will be issued for a finite duration;
     upon expiration it may be re-issued after re-evaluation and acceptance of residual risks.
     A MRFR authorizes flight operations for specific aircraft under defined conditions.
     Limitations and restrictions to flight operations identified as necessary by the TAA will
     be listed in the release and communicated by the PM to the affected MAJCOM. The
     appropriate risk acceptance authority (refer to Attachment 4) must accept the risk, and an
     equivalent level official in the MAJCOM must coordinate on the risk acceptance.
     Removal/modification of flight restrictions may be approved by the TAA after evidence
     of appropriate risk mitigation is presented by the PM. If all certification basis
     noncompliance has been corrected, the PM may request TAA issue an MTC (see
     paragraph 1.7.1.2)
         1.7.1.4.1. There may be occasions when an aircraft has sustained damage which
         renders it not airworthy under the MCA issued for that aircraft. In these cases the
         CE/DTA is delegated authority to issue a MRFR for a “one time” flight under defined
         and controlled conditions. The CE/DTA shall conduct a risk assessment of such a
         flight and shall obtain acceptance of the risk at the appropriate level IAW Attachment
         4. The MAJCOM conducting the “one time” flight must coordinate on the risk
         acceptance at a level commensurate with the risk acceptance authority before a
         MRFR may be issued. The conditions of operation and applicable restrictions for the
         one time flight will be documented in the MRFR.
         1.7.1.4.2. An aircraft which has been granted flight release via a MRFR shall not be
         used for carrying passengers. Refer to Attachment 1 for the definition of passenger.
  1.7.2. Non-Design-Based Airworthiness Assessment. A non-design-based airworthiness
  assessment is conducted when it has been determined by the TAA that a design-based
  airworthiness certification cannot reasonably be accomplished, but when there is a
  compelling military need to operate the air system. This would typically be the case for a
  system in which design and/or airworthiness criteria compliance information is prohibitively
  difficult or costly to obtain. When followed to a successful conclusion, the result of this
  process is TAA issuance of a special flight release. This allows operation of aircraft for
  which the design based certification basis and/or certification compliance status is unknown
 10                                                   AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


   or indeterminate. The non-design-based special flight releases process is used to identify and
   assess the inherent risks of operating these aircraft and to formally acknowledge acceptance
   of these risks by the organization responsible for their flight operations.
       1.7.2.1. The AF special flight release process is based on an assessment of overall
       system risk in the planned operating environment and risk handling to acceptable levels
       primarily through imposition of special operating limits/restrictions and procedures. A
       special flight release permits air system operations for a finite duration under limited
       operating circumstances in fulfillment of specific military missions at specified locations.
       1.7.2.2. The special flight release process shall not be used for granting flight
       authorization of AF operated passenger-carrying aircraft.
1.8. First Flight Executive Independent Review Teams. First Flight Executive Independent
Review Team assessments are required for new air system development programs and for some
reportable modification programs. Programs initiating reportable modification programs shall
consult the TAA when submitting their draft certification basis to obtain a determination that a
FFEIRT is, or is not, required. The TAA shall make the determination and notify the PM
accordingly. If a FFEIRT is required, the TAA shall select the FFEIRT chairperson and appoint
the team members. PMs shall ensure that development contracts include tasking and funding to
support FFEIRT reviews and will plan for the FFEIRT to engage with the program no later than
CDR or equivalent. The FFEIRT shall assess compliance of airworthiness activities performed
during development to the experimental flight release basis. The FFEIRT will assess the risk for
first flight and for the development flight test program. After formal risk acceptance by the
appropriate authority IAW Attachment 4, and review of the FFEIRT findings, the TAA may
issue a MEFR. If the request for flight release is not approved, the TAA shall provide the PM
with an identification of additional actions which must be accomplished to secure approval.
1.9. Airworthiness Certification of Modified Air Systems. This paragraph applies to all
permanent and temporary modifications as defined in AFI 63-131, Modification Program
Management, to include service life extensions and /or major mission modifications.
Modifications to commercial derivative passenger-carrying aircraft shall not cause the aircraft to
lose FAA type certification.
   1.9.1. Modification Determinations. Determination of modifications as reportable,
   nonreportable, or no impact to airworthiness shall be documented, along with the rationale
   for the determination. All airworthiness related modifications require development of a
   MACC document; however, only reportable modifications require MACC review and
   approval by the TAA (refer to Attachment 3 for the procedure for determining whether a
   modification is reportable). The TAA may issue MTCs for air systems with reportable
   modifications after finding compliance with the modification certification basis and
   approving the final MACC for the modification. Nonreportable modification MACCs may
   be approved by CE/DTAs; these shall be included in or appended to the air system TACC
   and maintained as part of the system airworthiness baseline. A new MTC shall not be issued
   for type designs incorporating nonreportable modifications.
   1.9.2. Temporary Modifications. The PM shall ensure that aircraft maintain airworthiness
   upon removal of temporary modifications and are returned to an approved configuration
   IAW AFI 63-131.
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                11


1.10. Commercial-Derivative Aircraft (CDA). FAA type certification is the preferred method
of certifying airworthiness of AF operated CDA; this method is appropriate when the military
usage will be no more severe than the FAA certified flight envelope and usage environment.
CDA require the issuance of a MTC by the TAA; MTCs for CDA are based on the FAA type
certification and a finding of compliance with the approved military certification basis for any
items not certified by the FAA (if any). MIL-HDBK-516 shall be used to define applicable
military airworthiness certification criteria, standards, and methods of compliance for any items
listed on an FAA form 8130-2 or 8130-31 (i.e., items which are not included in the FAA TC).
FAA special airworthiness certificates in the experimental category are not an acceptable
certification basis for AF CDA airworthiness certification. Refer to AFI 21-107, Maintaining
Commercial Derivative Aircraft, for maintenance requirements for CDA.
   1.10.1. Commercial derivative passenger-carrying aircraft. The primary mission of
   these aircraft is transport of passengers. PMs for commercial derivative passenger-carrying
   aircraft shall obtain and maintain FAA type certification (see FAA Order 8110.101 and AFI
   63-131) of the type design. The PM shall request exemption(s) for any FAR noncompliance
   (the TAA must approve the airworthiness standard(s) to be met for the exemptions).
1.10.2. FAA Certified Modifications. MACCs for FAA certified modifications shall include
the FAA TCDS as the certification basis, and “FAA type certification” shall be used to show
compliance with the certification basis. The TAA shall be notified of FAA certified reportable
modifications; the TAA shall issue a new MTC for these modified aircraft. The PM issues
MCAs to individual aircraft based on conformance to the FAA TC, military airworthiness
criteria (as applicable), and the program product acceptance process.
1.11. FAA Certification of AF Developed Aircraft. Airworthiness certification of aircraft
developed by AF may be accomplished by obtaining an FAA type certification of the military
type design. PMs who wish to obtain an FAA certification of a military unique design shall
consult with the TAA early in the program to determine the feasibility of this approach. If a
positive determination is made, then the TAA shall approve the use of the FAA certification
approach.
   1.11.1. There is no direct correlation or substantive equivalence between the FARs and MIL-
   HDBK-516 military airworthiness criteria. Therefore, FAA type certification of a military
   design shall be used only when the air system is designed from the outset to comply with the
   FARs. Any military-unique items not covered under the FAA type certification shall be
   listed on an FAA form 81302 or 8130-31 and shall comply with applicable military
   airworthiness standards. TACCs for these aircraft will include the FAA TCDS as the
   certification basis along with the applicable criteria, standards, and methods of compliance
   from MIL-HDBK-516 for any military-unique items.
   1.11.2. The TAA issues a MTC for the type design; the MTC cites the FAA type
   certification and compliance with military airworthiness criteria (if applicable) as the basis
   for the military type certification. The PM issues MCAs to individual aircraft based on
   conformance to the FAA type certification, military airworthiness criteria (as applicable), and
   the program product acceptance process. FAA special airworthiness certificates in the
   experimental category are not an acceptable certification basis for AF airworthiness
   certification.
 12                                                     AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


1.12. Military Certified Aircraft from Other DOD Components. Aircraft designs certified
by other United States Armed Forces may be accepted as airworthy by the TAA if the
certification basis is known and understood and the planned AF usage is consistent with the
certified configuration and operating environment. An application for airworthiness certification
shall be submitted by the PM to the TAA. The certification basis shall be the previous
certification; however, the TAA may request data used in the previous certification process to
assist in reaching a finding of compliance for AF airworthiness certification. For additional
information, refer to the Memorandum of Agreement between the United States Air Force, the
United States Navy, and the United States Army on Mutual Acceptance of Airworthiness Data,
5 February 2007 (available from AFMC/EN).
1.13. Airworthiness Certification in Jointly Managed Acquisition Programs. The Air Force
often participates in jointly managed programs with one or more of the other US military
services, either as the lead service or as a member. These joint programs typically employ a
tailored airworthiness certification process which may or may not precisely follow the AFPD 62-
6 defined process. Since the AF will ultimately operate aircraft developed and produced by these
programs, the following AF actions are required:
   1.13.1. The TAA shall approve the certification basis for airworthiness certification for all
   AF operated variants.
   1.13.2. The TAA shall issue findings of compliance for airworthiness certification and shall
   issue a MTC for all AF-operated variants.
   1.13.3. MCAs shall be issued under the authority of the AFPEO/AC for all AF-operated,
   jointly managed aircraft.
1.14. Certification of Temporary Equipment. Although temporary equipment is not part of
the baseline configuration of an air system, it can affect airworthiness. Therefore, all temporary
equipment proposed for use with an air system shall be in the air system certification basis. For
legacy air systems DOE/DTAs shall assess the risk associated with proposed temporary
equipment items and shall classify these items as reportable or nonreportable modifications.
PMs shall plan and execute airworthiness activities for temporary equipment IAW this
determination. Authorized temporary equipment shall be included in the program documentation
of the type design.
1.15. Service Life and Condition for Safe Operation. MTCs are valid for the approved
service life of the type design. PMs shall establish and document a recommended system service
life limit (SLL) expressed in flight hours, years of service, or other suitable metric for each type
design and shall include this SLL in all applications for MTCs. The TAA shall approve and
document a SLL in the MTC at the time of issuance. PMs shall include the approved SLL in
MCAs issued for individual aircraft within a type design, and shall provide a copy to the
MAJCOMs for fleet management.
   1.15.1. PMs shall assess the status of fielded aircraft throughout their life cycle to ensure that
   all aircraft for which a MCA has been issued are in a condition for safe operation, i.e., that
   they have not exceeded the approved SLL, that environmental (e.g., corrosion) or other
   factors have not degraded airworthiness, that aircraft are properly maintained in accordance
   with approved maintenance documentation, and the aircraft are operated in accordance with
   the approved flight manual within the approved mission usage. The PM shall immediately
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                 13


   implement appropriate risk mitigation activities or revoke the MCA of any aircraft found not
   to be in a condition for safe operation. (Note: MCAs need not be revoked for conditions
   correctable by normal maintenance IAW approved maintenance documentation).
   1.15.2. PMs may wish to implement service life extension programs (SLEPs) for systems
   which are approaching the SLL imposed by the MTC. For purposes of airworthiness
   certification, SLEPs shall be considered to be reportable modifications and shall follow the
   processes defined in this instruction for the conduct of these activities.
1.16. Interrelationship of Safety Hazard Risk Acceptance Process to Airworthiness
Assessment Process. Airworthiness assessments and individual safety hazard risk acceptance
are two separate and distinct processes. The results of the individual safety hazard risk
acceptance process shall be used by the TAA to support system airworthiness assessments.
Safety hazard risk acceptance is accomplished at the individual hazard level by the PM chain of
authority (PM/PEO/CAE), while the issuance of MTCs and other flight releases is accomplished
at the air system level by the TAA.
   1.16.1. Safety Hazard Risk Acceptance. Noncompliance with an applicable airworthiness
   certification criterion is an indication of a potential safety hazard or other limitation in the
   design of the system and may have airworthiness ramifications. A key factor in the decision
   process that may lead to airworthiness certification is the successful resolution of individual
   safety hazards or the acceptance of their residual risk by the appropriate decision authority
   prior to the submittal of the airworthiness application to the TAA. Per DODI 5000.02,
   Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, Enclosure 12, paragraph 6, the Component
   Acquisition Executive (CAE) is the acceptance authority for system safety risks classified as
   high; the PEO-level is the acceptance authority for serious safety risks; and the PM is the
   acceptance authority for medium and low safety risks. Further implementation details of this
   requirement for AF programs are identified in AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap
   Prevention Program. MIL-STD-882 describes the process for classification of high and
   serious risks and provides further guidance on the risk acceptance requirements for individual
   hazards.
1.17. Exemptions and Waivers. In conjunction with issuance of an MTC, TAA (or delegate)
may issue a permanent exemption to an applicable airworthiness certification criterion if the PM
provides adequate substantiation and risk acceptance documentation. If the TAA cannot approve
an exemption request and issue an MTC, the PM can request a temporary waiver to the
airworthiness criterion to allow limited aircraft operations until a permanent solution can be
completed. For nonreportable modifications, authority to approve exemptions and waivers is
delegated to CE/DTAs.
   1.17.1. PMs must show that their aircraft type design fully complies with the approved
   airworthiness certification basis before the TAA can issue an MTC. If an applicable
   airworthiness certification criterion is not satisfied, the PM shall include a request for
   permanent exemption from the criterion. Each exemption request shall substantiate the need
   for the exemption, provide the results of a risk hazard assessment, and include risk
   acceptance documentation by the appropriate authority (refer to Attachment 4) and evidence
   of coordination with the MAJCOM at a level commensurate with the risk acceptance
   authority. Approved exemptions shall be noted in the MTC.
 14                                                  AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


   1.17.2. If the TAA declines to approve a requested exemption or issue a MTC he/she shall
   notify the PM and shall define additional action(s) to enable the airworthiness process to
   proceed. These actions could take the form of defining additional activities required to
   demonstrate design compliance with the criteria in question, or alternatively, issuing
   instructions to prepare a waiver to support issuance of a MRFR. Waiver requests shall
   substantiate the need for the waiver; include the results of a risk assessment, a risk closure
   plan, and proposed waiver time limits; provide recommended aircraft operating
   limitations/restrictions; and include risk acceptance documentation signed by the appropriate
   authority (refer to Attachment 4) and evidence of coordination with the MAJCOM.
   Approved waivers shall be noted in the MRFR.
1.18. Product Acceptance Process. Programs are required to implement a formal product
acceptance process to ensure that individual aircraft are built and delivered IAW the approved
engineering baseline and the MTC. The TAA may conduct audits to verify program adherence
to acceptance processes (refer to paragraph 1.3.7). The product acceptance process shall include
the following:
   1.18.1. Implementation of a formal configuration management process to ensure control of
   the product definition baseline at all levels of the supply chain.
   1.18.2. Implementation of quality assurance processes at all levels of the product supply
   chain.
   1.18.3. Use of explicit product acceptance criteria based on characteristics of the system
   design at all levels of the supply chain.
       1.18.4. If the CE/DTA finds that all requirements of the product acceptance process have
       been satisfied at the time of delivery of each new or modified aircraft, the CE/DTA shall
       coordinate on the acceptance documentation (the CE/DTA may delegate this authority in
       writing). The PM may then issue a MCA for that aircraft. If the product acceptance
       process finds noncompliances with approved MTCs, the CE/DTA may approve
       deviations for individual aircraft. All deviations for a particular aircraft must be
       approved before the PM may issue an MCA for that aircraft. Programs shall maintain a
       record of exemptions, waivers, and deviations approved by the CE/DTA.
1.19. Operational Airworthiness. The MAJCOMs have responsibility for maintaining aircraft
configuration control and shall ensure that no unauthorized changes are made by their activities
(Note: This instruction does not differentiate between lead and component MAJCOM
responsibilities). This is accomplished by establishing and implementing aircrew and
maintenance personnel training and evaluation requirements and by defining and adhering to
approved operating procedures for each type design. If unauthorized configuration changes are
discovered, the MAJCOM shall take appropriate action to ensure the safety of the affected
aircraft and notify the PM. The PM may revoke the MCA but may reissue the certificate after
the aircraft has been returned to an approved configuration. Refer to AFI 63-131.
   1.19.1. Operation of Non AF Owned or Managed Aircraft. These aircraft may be
   operated by AF aircrew members only when approved IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation
   Management.
   1.19.2. Statement of Operating Intent. PMs shall request a statement of operating intent
   from the MAJCOM early in the development process to assist in the definition of operational
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                          15


   usage and intended maintenance profiles of aircraft systems. The PM shall request updates
   to these statements every five years or whenever significant changes to mission usage
   and/operations are planned.
1.20. Special Access Programs. Special access programs shall follow the processes included
herein, and shall contact the TAA to coordinate appropriate levels of independent reviews,
delegations, and approvals.
1.21. Commander’s Prerogative on Mission Capability. This instruction does not infringe on
the MAJCOM commander’s prerogative to operate airworthy, but less than fully mission
capable, aircraft systems.
 16                                                   AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


                                          Chapter 2

                        RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES

2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ):
   2.1.1. Ensures that airworthiness requirements are included in AF acquisition directives and
   policies, including those addressing joint programs.
   2.1.2. Resolves disputes regarding airworthiness process and procedural issues when
   requested by Air Force Program Executive Officers (AFPEOs) or Designated Acquisition
   Officials (AFDAOs).
   2.1.3. Serves as the risk acceptance authority for “high” safety risks IAW Attachment 4.
2.2. The Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA):
2.2. (AFMC)As directed by AFPD 62-6, paragraph 2 5.1, the Commander, AF Materiel
Command (AFMC/CC) designates the Director of the Engineering Directorate at Aeronautical
Systems Center, ASC/EN, as Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA) for the USAF. The
Director, ASC/EN, assumes the TAA responsibilities and authorities.
   2.2.1. Chairs the AF Airworthiness Board (AB).
   2.2.2. Approves type design certification basis documents.
   2.2.3. When requested, determines if a FFEIRT is required and notifies the PM. Selects the
   FFEIRT chairperson.
   2.2.4. Issues MTCs for type designs and authorization to PMs to issue MCAs when the PM
   has shown compliance with the approved certification basis.
   2.2.5. Issues a MEFR, MRFR, or non-design-based special flight release when required risk
   assessment, risk management, and risk acceptance actions have been accomplished and
   documented by the PM.
   2.2.6. Delegates airworthiness authorities at his/her discretion. The terms and conditions of
   the delegation shall be documented.
   2.2.7. Accepts type certifications, airworthiness certifications, and certification data from
   other military services or FAA airworthiness authorities when the certification basis is known
   and understood, and the certified configurations and environment are consistent with the
   planned usage contained in the statement of operating intent.
   2.2.8. Documents and issues decisions based on AB recommendations.
   2.2.9. Establishes accreditation criteria for delegated airworthiness positions and accredits
   individuals as DTAs who meet accreditation requirements.
   2.2.9. (AFMC) Defines accreditation requirements for airworthiness subject matter experts
   (SMEs), and accredits individuals to serve as SMEs. Accredited SMEs shall provide direct
   support to the AB and FFEIRTs.
   2.2.10. Conducts organizational airworthiness audits to verify ongoing adherence to
   established airworthiness policies and processes.
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                  17


   2.2.11. Publishes interim airworthiness direction between formal updates to this instruction.
2.3. HQ Air Force Materiel Command, AFMC:
2.3. (AFMC)The HQ AFMC OPR is ASC/EN. All other AFMC units shall provide support to
accomplish these tasks, as requested by ASC/EN. With the exception of 2.3.11, ASC/EN has the
authority and responsibility to accomplish the tasks listed below.
   2.3.1. Staffs and supports the AB.
   2.3.2. Identifies and proposes subject matter experts and DTAs to the TAA for accreditation.
   2.3.2. (AFMC) AFMC units shall identify and propose individuals who meet the TAA-
   defined accreditation requirements (see paragraph 2.2.9) to ASC/EN for TAA accreditation
   as SMEs and DTAs.
   2.3.3. Provides qualified personnel to staff airworthiness project support teams.
   2.3.4. Develops and issues supporting guidance and training as required to implement this
   AFI, including establishing, updating, and distributing process guidelines and tools for
   issuance of military type certifications, aircraft certifications and flight releases.
       2.3.4.1. (Added-AFMC) ASC/EN shall develop and publish Airworthiness Bulletins to
       document processes to be followed by the USAF Airworthiness Board and AFMC
       organizations. Bulletins shall be issued by the TAA or delegate.
   2.3.5. Leads, staffs, and supports FFEIRTs and conducts other safety-of-flight related
   investigations and airworthiness assessments.
   2.3.6. Updates, coordinates, publishes, and distributes MIL-HDBK-516, Airworthiness
   Certification Criteria, including tailorable standards and methods of compliance for the
   approved airworthiness criteria.
   2.3.7. Works with other U.S. military services, the FAA, and other civil and military aviation
   authorities to establish and maintain airworthiness organizational interrelationships and
   understandings.
   2.3.8. Supports development and revision of joint (DoD, Army, Navy, and AF)
   airworthiness processes and documents to facilitate cross-service acceptance of airworthiness
   certifications and releases.
   2.3.9. Submits proposed revisions to this instruction.
   2.3.10. Disseminates flight safety related information as needed to increase awareness of
   flight safety technical issues and flight safety concerns consistent with privilege guidelines as
   identified in AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and as approved by AFSC/JA.
   2.3.11. Resolves disputes regarding airworthiness process and procedural issues when
   requested by Wing Commanders/Directors.
2.4. Major Commands (MAJCOMs):
   2.4.1. Review, coordinate, and sign airworthiness risk acceptances as requested and
   appropriate.
   2.4.2. Notify passengers flying on non-FAA-certified aircraft of the inherent risks of flying
   on military certified aircraft.
 18                                                  AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


   2.4.3. Ensure operation and maintenance of aircraft in their fleet is accomplished in
   accordance with approved technical data.
   2.4.4. Maintain aircraft configuration control to ensure no unauthorized changes are made.
2.5. Air Force Program Executive Officers (AFPEOs) and Designated Acquisition Officials
(AFDAOs):
   2.5.1. Ensure that managed aircraft systems employing design-based airworthiness
   assessments have successfully completed airworthiness reviews prior to first flight and have
   appropriate flight releases or certifications issued prior to the start of dedicated OT&E (or
   first MAJCOM operation if dedicated OT&E is not employed).
   2.5.2. Serve as the risk acceptance authority for “serious” safety risks IAW Attachment 4.
2.6. Program Managers (PMs):
   2.6.1. Obtain statements of operating intent from the MAJCOM early in the development
   cycle to assist in defining the usage spectrum and intended maintenance profiles of aircraft
   systems.
   2.6.2. Develop Tailored Airworthiness Certification Criteria documents for newly acquired
   aircraft and Modification Airworthiness Certification Criteria documents for modifications to
   existing aircraft systems which have airworthiness impact.
   2.6.3. Obtain TAA approval of TACC and reportable MACC documents.
   2.6.4. Request and support FFEIRT assessments prior to first flight of developmental aircraft
   and selected aircraft with reportable modifications.
   2.6.5. Serve as the risk acceptance authority for medium/low safety risks IAW Attachment 4.
   2.6.6. Obtain risk acceptance for all serious or high safety risks IAW Attachment 4.
   2.6.7. Obtain certification basis exemptions (as necessary) from the TAA when applying for
   a MTC.
   2.6.8. Obtain certification basis waivers (as necessary) from the TAA to support issuance of
   a MRFR.
   2.6.9. Obtain waivers from the CE/DTA (as necessary) before issuing MCAs for aircraft
   which do not fully conform to the MTC and/or the product acceptance process.
   2.6.10. Ensure that aircraft maintain airworthiness when temporary modifications are
   removed and the aircraft are returned to an approved configuration IAW AFI 63-131.
   2.6.11. Obtain documented recommendations from original equipment manufacturers
   (OEM) and/or aircraft prime contractors as necessary when making airworthiness
   certification and safety-of-flight assessments.
   2.6.12. Ensure that test plans, work statements, and contracts include specific tasking and
   requirements to support airworthiness assessments and to verify system compliance with the
   approved certification basis.
   2.6.13. Obtain MTCs for each managed type design prior to the start of dedicated OT&E (or
   first MAJCOM operation if dedicated OT&E is not employed).
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                  19


   2.6.14. Obtain MTCs for type certified aircraft with reportable modifications.
   2.6.15. Develop and implement formal air system product acceptance processes.
   2.6.16. Issue MCAs for individual aircraft prior to delivery to a MAJCOM, when the aircraft
   conforms to the approved military type design and is in a condition for safe operation.
   2.6.17. Establish and execute monitoring and surveillance processes for fielded systems to
   identify when fielded aircraft no longer meet MTC requirements due to age, usage,
   unforeseen issues, etc. Implement risk mitigation actions and/or remove MCAs as
   appropriate.
   2.6.18. Maintain and manage air system data and configurations in support of life cycle
   airworthiness. Ensure that all airworthiness certification documentation, including TACC
   and MACC documents, supplemental and supporting data, associated verification data,
   airworthiness certificates and flight releases, and waiver and exemption packages are
   maintained for the life of the aircraft system. Include instructions for life cycle airworthiness
   in technical orders and/or maintenance instructions.
   2.6.19. Ensure that de-modified aircraft conform to the approved military type design and
   are in a condition safe for operation prior to MAJCOM usage of former test assets.
   2.6.20. Obtain non-design-based special flight releases from the TAA for any aircraft for
   which it is impossible or impractical to conduct a design-based airworthiness assessment.
2.7. AFMC Test Centers, Test Organizations, and Laboratories:
   2.7.1. If delegated, make and document a positive safety-of-flight determination prior to the
   first flight of temporarily modified aircraft. Fully document any configuration changes and
   inform the PM.
   2.7.2. Prohibit alterations or modifications to aircraft without the approval of the
   airworthiness authority or the delegated safety-of-flight determining authority.
   2.7.3. Define and implement local implementation instructions consistent with this AFI.

3.1. Adopted Forms.

AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             DAVID M. VAN BUREN
                                             Air Force Service Acquisition Executive

                                             (AFMC)

                                             RUSSELL B. HOWARD, SES
                                             Director, Engineering and
                                             Technical Management
 20                                                  AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
DODD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibility for Weapon Systems, 8 March 2007
AFPD 62-6, USAF Airworthiness , 11 June 2010
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 18 May 2009
AFI 21-107, Maintaining Commercial Derivative Aircraft, 19 July 1994
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, 6 November 2009
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
MIL-STD-882, Standard Practice for System Safety, 10 February 2000
MIL-HDBK-516, Airworthiness Certification Criteria, 29 February 2008
FAA Order 8110.101, Type Certification Procedures for Military Commercial Derivative
Aircraft, 7 September 2007

Terms
Airworthiness—The verified and documented capability of an air system configuration to safely
attain, sustain, and terminate flight in accordance with approved usage and limits.
Airworthiness Certification—A repeatable process which documents compliance with the
approved certification basis.
Certification Basis—The set of approved airworthiness certification criteria, standards, methods
of compliance, and exemptions that apply to a specific air system. It is typically derived from
MIL-HDBK-516, Airworthiness Certification Criteria.
Commercial Derivative Aircraft (CDA)—Any fixed- or rotary-wing aircraft procured as a
commercial, FAA type certified, off-the-shelf nondevelopmental item, and whose serial number
is listed on an FAA Type Certificate Data Sheet.
Commercial Derivative Passenger Carrying Aircraft—Any CDA used primarily for the
transport of passengers.
Delegated Technical Authority (DTA)—Senior engineers in leadership positions who meet
criteria established by the TAA and are authorized to exercise delegated airworthiness
authorities.
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                   21


Deviation—A specific written authorization to depart from a particular requirement(s) of an
item's current approved configuration documentation for a specific number of units or a specified
period of time, and to accept an item which is found to depart from specified requirements, but
nevertheless is considered suitable for use "as is" or after repair by an approved method.
Exemption—Documentation of permanent air system design feature that does not comply with
an airworthiness certification criterion in the TACC or MACC.
Finding of compliance (find compliance)—TAA concurrence that the “show compliance” data
supports the determination of airworthiness.
Flight Release—Documentation which authorizes flight of specific aircraft at specific locations
under approved conditions and limitations.
(Added-AFMC) Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP)—Describes the overall acquisition
and program management strategies, as well as the life cycle sustainment support strategy.
Provides a vehicle to identify and request the required statutory and regulatory approvals for
implementation of the program strategies.
Military Certificate of Airworthiness (MCA)—The document issued by a PM to each
individual aircraft that provides evidence of compliance with its approved MTC and its condition
relative to safe operation.
Military Experimental Flight Release (MEFR)—The document issued to individual test or
developmental aircraft which provides evidence of the level of compliance with a limited set of
airworthiness criteria defined for test purposes and its condition relative to safe operation.
Military Restricted Flight Release (MRFR)—The document which indicates that an aircraft
carries a significant degree of flight risk and authorizes flight only under defined conditions and
restrictions, and at specific locations.
Military Type Certificate (MTC)—The TAA issued document which provides evidence that
the aircraft system type design is in full compliance with its approved certification basis.
Modification—A change to the form, fit, function, or interface (F3I) of an in-service AF
hardware or software configuration item (CI). For additional terms and guidance related to
modifications, consult AFI 63-131.
Modification Airworthiness Certification Criteria (MACC) Document—A document
comprised of the certification basis for the modification, a description of the aircraft covered, a
description of the modification, operating limitations or restrictions that apply to the modified
aircraft, references to “show compliance” data, and a summary of any noncompliance with an
applicable airworthiness criteria.
Nonreportable Modification—Any permanent or temporary configuration change or alteration
to an item, change in capability, or change in mission usage that does not have a potentially
significant impact on airworthiness (see Attachment 3 to this AFI).
Passenger—Any person on board an air vehicle who is not trained regarding the passenger
safety/emergency capabilities of that particular air vehicle and mission. For a specific flight, this
includes any person who does not have active crewmember duties and is not essential for
accomplishing mission tasks. NOTE: Mission training constitutes specialized air vehicle training
beyond preflight safety briefings.
 22                                                    AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


Program Manager (PM)—The DODI 5000.02 designated individual with responsibility for,
and authority to accomplish, program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to
meet user’s operational needs. PMs for sub-systems support overall system objectives as
required by the System Program Manager (SPM). PMs for acquisition programs are accountable
for credible cost, schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the MDA. PMs addressed by
this AFI are those who are responsible for weapon systems identified in AFPD 10-9, Lead
Command Designation and Responsibility for Weapon Systems, space systems, and programs
identified on the Acquisition Program Master List and Sustainment Program Master List. PMs
are assigned in accordance with AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
Management.
Reportable Modification—Any permanent or temporary configuration change or alteration to
an item, change in capability, change to the service life limit, or change in mission usage that has
a potentially significant impact on airworthiness (see Attachment 3 to this AFI).
Safety of Flight—The property of a particular air system configuration to safely attain, sustain,
and terminate flight within prescribed and accepted limits for injury/death to personnel and
damage to equipment, property, and/or environment.
Service Life Limit (SLL)—The maximum permissible period of aircraft operational service
expressed in units of time and/or operating hours/cycles. The approved SLL shall be documented
in MTCs and MCAs. Extensions to the SLL are considered reportable modifications for the
purpose of airworthiness.
Showing of compliance (show compliance)—Substantiating data provided by the PM that
supports a finding of compliance by the TAA.
(Added-AFMC) Systems Engineering Plan (SEP)—The "living" document capturing a
program's current and evolving systems engineering strategy and its relationship with the overall
program management effort. The SEP’s purpose is to guide all technical aspects of the program,
addressing the entire set of scientific, technical, and managerial efforts needed to conceive,
evolve, verify, deploy, support, and sustain a robust product, platform, system, or integrated
system-of-systems (SoS) capability to meet user needs across the life cycle.
Tailored Airworthiness Certification Criteria (TACC) Document—It is comprised of a
description of the aircraft system; the certification basis; any operational limitations or
restrictions that must be implemented in order to ensure airworthiness of the aircraft; references
to “show compliance” data; and a summary of any noncompliance with applicable airworthiness
criterion in the certification basis.
Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA)—The AF official authorized to define
airworthiness standards, approve the certification basis, issue findings of compliance, and issue
Military Type Certificates and other flight releases. (See attachment 2)
Temporary Equipment—Any item or equipment (including carry-on equipment) which is not
permanently installed in an air system and which can be operated (i.e., is not inert) during air
system operation.
Type Design—Description of the physical configuration of similar aircraft systems which, from
an airworthiness perspective, are functionally equivalent.
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                        23


Waiver—Documentation of a temporary air system design feature that does not comply with an
airworthiness certification criterion in the TACC or MACC.
24                                                AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


                                     Attachment 2
                    AIRWORTHINESS PROCESS RESPONSIBILITIES

                                                  Responsibility
 Product/Activity

                                                       Chief Engineer/   Wing Director of
                          PM             TAA                DTA          Engineering/ DTA
  Airworthiness
Assessment Process      Requests       Approves          Coordinates        Coordinates
  Determination

  Airworthiness
     Related
                        Requests                          Approves
  Modification
  Determination

   Reportable/
  Nonreportable
                        Requests                         Recommends          Approves
  Modification
  Determination

                        Requests
Certification Basis                    Approves          Coordinates     CE/DTA Alternate
                        Approval

                         Shows
Final TACC/MACC                         Finds
                       Compliance
    (Reportable                      Compliance and      Coordinates     CE/DTA Alternate
                      and Requests
   Modification)                       Approves
                        Approval

                         Shows
   Final MACC
                       Compliance                     Finds Compliance
  (Nonreportable                                                         CE/DTA Alternate
                      and Requests                      and Approves
   Modification)
                        Approval

     Military            Shows
                                        Finds
Experimental Flight    Compliance
                                     Compliance and      Coordinates        Coordinates
 Release (FFEIRT      and Requests
                                        Issues
    Required)           Approval

     Military            Shows
Experimental Flight    Compliance                     Finds Compliance
                                                                         CE/DTA Alternate
 Release (FFEIRT      and Requests                        and Issues
  Not Required)         Approval
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                         25


                                                     Responsibility
 Product/Activity

                                                          Chief Engineer/    Wing Director of
                            PM             TAA                 DTA           Engineering/ DTA
                           Shows
                                          Finds
   Military Type         Compliance
                                       Compliance and       Coordinates      CE/DTA Alternate
    Certificate         and Requests
                                          Issues
                          Approval

                           Finds
Military Certificates
                        Compliance       Delegates          Coordinates      CE/DTA Alternate
 of Airworthiness
                         and Issues

Military Restricted      Requests       Approves &
                                                            Coordinates      CE/DTA Alternate
 Flight Release          Approval         Issues

Military Restricted
                         Requests
  Flight Release                                         Approves & Issues   CE/DTA Alternate
                         Approval
(One- Time Flight)

   Exemption to
 Certification Basis     Requests
                                         Approves           Coordinates      CE/DTA Alternate
(TACC, FAA FARs,         Approval
 Reportable MACC)

   Exemption to
 Certification Basis     Requests
                                                             Approves        CE/DTA Alternate
  (Nonreportable         Approval
      MACC)

     Waiver to           Requests
                                         Approves           Coordinates         Coordinates
 Certification Basis     Approval

   Waiver to
                         Requests
 MTC/Acceptance                                              Approves        CE/DTA Alternate
                         Approval
    Process

                        Approves or                        Coordinates or
Aircraft Acceptance                                                          CE/DTA Alternate
                         Delegates                           Delegates

 Non-design-based
                         Requests       Approves &
   special flight                                           Coordinates         Coordinates
                         Approval         Issues
     release)
 26                                                                                         AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


                                                                       Attachment 3
                       PROCEDURE FOR CLASSIFICATION OF MODIFICATIONS

A3.1. All modifications have the potential to impact airworthiness of an aeronautical system.
For this reason all design, operational usage, flight envelope changes, and service life extensions
to an air system require an airworthiness assessment. The purpose of such an assessment is to (a)
determine if the modification is airworthiness related, and (b) for airworthiness related
modifications to classify the modification as reportable or nonreportable. Modifications
determined to be unrelated to airworthiness are not governed by this instruction. The
classification of modifications as reportable or nonreportable is done as follows:
A3.2. The CE/DTA shall conduct or direct an assessment of the modification to determine the
degree of airworthiness impact. This assessment shall consider the risks associated with the
proposed modification in terms of the probability of occurrence and the severity of occurrence.

Table A3.1. Modification Risk Analysis.

                                                                                            SEVERITY
                                                     Negligible                    Marginal                      Critical                  Catastrophic
                                               Could result in injury or    Could result in injury or   Could result in               Could result in death,
                                               illness not resulting in a   occupational illness        permanent partial             permanent total
                                               lost work day, or minimal    resulting in one or more    disability, or injuries or    disability, or irreversible
         PROBABILITY                           environmental damage         lost work day(s), or        occupational illness that     severe environmental
                                               not violating law or         mitigable environmental     may result in                 damage that violates law
                                               regulation.                  damage without violation    hospitalization of at least   or regulation.
                                                                            of law or regulation        three personnel, or
                                                                            where restoration           reversible environmental
                                                                            activities can be           damage causing violation
                                                                            accomplished.               of law or regulation.
  Frequent:
  Continuously experienced; likely to
  occur often in the life of an item, with a
  probability of occurrence greater than
  10-1 in that life.
  Probable:
  Will occur frequently; will occur several
  times in the life of an item, with a
  probability of occurrence less than 10-1
  but greater than 10-2 in that life.
  Occasional:
  Will occur several times; likely to occur
  some time in the life of an item, with a
  probability of occurrence less than 10-2
  but greater than 10-3 in that life.
  Remote:
  Unlikely, but can reasonably be
  expected to occur; unlikely but possible
  to occur in the life of an item, with a
  probability of occurrence less than 10-3
  but greater than 10-6 in that life.
  Improbable:
  Unlikely to occur, but possible; so
  unlikely it can be assumed occurrence
  may not be experienced, with a
  probability of occurrence less than 10-6
  in the life of the item.



                          Reportable Modification                    Non Reportable Modification
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                      27


Table A3.2. Examples of Airworthiness Related Modifications.

 (a) Changes that affect structural integrity, propulsion/drive system operation (including
 software), aircraft performance, aerodynamic characteristics (including drag, control response,
 and stability), electromagnetic characteristics, navigational system effectiveness, flight control
 system power requirements, significant software revisions, weight and balance, air crew
 station noise levels, restrict air crew vision or performance, or increase the danger to the crew
 or passengers in the event of an accident.

 (b) Modification to the exterior contour/mold line of the air vehicle (addition/removal of
 antenna, wing fence, ventral fin, vortex generator, air induction system, auxiliary inlets, etc.)

 (c) Modification of the displays, annunciation or critical information presented to the aircrew
 which may affect situational awareness, aircraft control, weapons launch, etc.

 (d) Aircraft modifications incorporating a source of energy or that can be energized to emit
 any form of radiation that may be hazardous, such as explosive ordnance, explosive or
 flammable fluids, laser energy, and so forth.

 (e) Changes that affect the operating limits and/or emergency procedures prescribed by the
 operator’s flight manual.

 (f) Modification to weapons release/firing system, including stores management system and
 associated weapons system software.

 (g) Installation of nondevelopmental items (NDI) or commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS)
 equipment and effects of its installation on the authorized configuration.

 (h) Changes that affect the prescribed limits for continued airworthiness, including additions,
 deletions, or reconfiguration of hardware and software, and material substitutions.

A3.3. Table A3. 1 illustrates the criteria for classifying modifications. CE/DTAs shall utilize
this table unless the TAA has delegated responsibilities to them specifying alternative
reportability criteria. The CE/DTA shall examine the modification (including all design and/or
mission usage changes) and estimate the unmitigated consequences of potential hazards and the
probability of each (The intent is that the development/qualification program for the
modification, if properly conceived and executed, will mitigate the hazard down to an acceptable
level. However, for purposes of assessing the potential airworthiness impact of the change it is
necessary to evaluate the unmitigated risk). Table A3.1 also provides working definitions for use
in determining the level and probability of the hazard.
A3.4. Table A3. 2 contains a number of examples of the types of changes which would
typically be classified as airworthiness related; depending on the risk characterization they may
also be reportable modifications. These examples may be used as guidance to assist in executing
the process.
A3.5. If any aspect of the modification has a combination of hazard severity and frequency of
occurrence that falls in the yellow portion of Table A3.1, the modification is classified as
 28                                                 AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


reportable. The depth and formality of the technical analysis to complete Table A3.1 for any
modification will depend on the complexity and criticality of the modification, relying on the
technical judgment of the CE/DTA.
A3.6. For those modifications determined by CE/DTA to be airworthiness related, the CE/DTA
shall provide reportable/nonreportable classification recommendations to the DOE/DTA. The
DOE/DTA shall, in turn, determine the final classification. The program shall execute the
modification program in concert with the DOE/DTA modification classification decision in
accordance with this instruction.
AFI62-601_AFMCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                                                                                                    29


                                                                    Attachment 4
                                                     RISK ACCEPTANCE TABLE

                                        Negligible                       Marginal                           Critical                     Catastrophic
               Hazard            Could result in one or more      Could result in one or more of
                                                                                                   Could result in one or more
                                                                                                                                     Could result in one or more
                                                                                                   of the following: permanent
              Category           of the following: injury or      the following: injury or
                                                                                                   partial disability, injuries or
                                                                                                                                     of the following: death,
                                 illness resulting in less than   occupational illness resulting                                     permanent total disability,
                                                                                                   occupational illness that may
                                 10                               in 10 or more lost work days,                                      loss
                                                                                                   result in hospitalization of at
                                 lost work days, loss less        loss exceeding $100K but less                                      exceeding $10M, or
                                                                                                   least three personnel, loss
                                 than $100K, or minimal           than $1M, or reversible                                            irreversible significant
                                                                                                   exceeding $1M but less than
 Frequency                       environmental impact.            moderate environmental
                                                                                                   $10M, or reversible               environmental impact.
     of                                                           impact.
                                                                                                   significant environmental
 Occurrence                                                                                        impact.


  Frequent:
  Likely to be experienced
  several times by a
  fleet/inventory within a 12-                13                               7                                3                                 1
  month
  period; a probability of
  occurrence greater than 10-1
  over 12 months.



  Probable:
  Likely to be experienced by
  a fleet/inventory within a
  12-month period; a                          16                               9                                5                                 2
  probability of occurrence
  less than 10-1 but greater
  than 10-2 over 12 months.




  Occasional:
  May be experienced by a
  fleet/inventory within a 12-
  month period; a probability                 18                              11                                6                                 4
  of occurrence less than 10-2
  but greater than 10-3 over
  12 months.


  Remote:
  Unlikely, but possible to be
  experienced by a
  fleet/inventory within a 12-
  month                                       19                              14                               10                                 8
  period; a probability of
  occurrence less than 10-3
  but greater than 10-6 over
  12
  months.

  Improbable:
  So unlikely, it can be
  assumed occurrence may
  not be experienced by a                     20                              17                               15                                12
  fleet/inventory within a 12-
  month period; a probability
  of occurrence of less than
  10-6 over 12 months.


          LEGEND                 RISK LEVEL                                           ACCEPTANCE AUTHORITY
            1-5                     High                                  Component Acquisition Executive (CAE)
            6-9                    Serious                                   Program Executive Officer (PEO)
           10 – 20               Medium/Low                                      Program Manager (PM)
