BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-125
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             15 MARCH 2004
                                                  Incorporating Change 1, 9 NOVEMBER 2009
                                                        AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
                                                                            COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                1 MARCH 2012

                                                                                     Acquisition

                                                    NUCLEAR CERTIFICATION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AAC/NW (Mr. Harold Camacho)                                         Certified by: SAF/AQX
                                                                           (Mr. Blaise Durante)
                                                                                        Pages: 42
                                           (AFSOC)
OPR: HQ AFSOC/A4RE                                              Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A4R1
                                                                     (Mr. James M. Phillips Jr.)
                                                                                       Pages:3


This initial instruction implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive (DoDD) 3150.2,
DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program, DoD Manual 3150.2-M, DoD Nuclear Weapon
System Safety Program Manual, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 63-1, Acquisition
System. This instruction outlines the procedures and responsibilities for managing the Air
Force’s Nuclear Certification Program. It delineates roles and responsibilities of the functional
areas and introduces the detailed standards necessary for assurance of the nuclear certification
required by Air Force Instruction (AFI) 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability,
and Effectiveness (OSS&E). Specifically, it defines the overall macro-process for establishing
and preserving the nuclear certification of Air Force nuclear systems over their life cycle by
prudent use of disciplined engineering practices, assurance of proper operation and maintenance,
and feedback to Single Managers (SMs). This instruction applies to Air Force personnel
involved in the research, design, development, testing, acquisition, operation, maintenance, and
modification of nuclear weapons and their related systems and subsystems. Consult Air Force
Pamphlet (AFPAM) 63-126, Nuclear Certification Process, for more guidance, including
detailed process flow charts and descriptions. Ensure that all records created as a result of
 2                                                AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFPD 37-1,
Information Management and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil. Additionally, consult cited policy directives, instructions, manuals,
and their supplements for specific policies, procedures, and requirements. Send requests for
deviations, interpretations or recommendations to change, add or delete requirements of this
instruction, to the Air Armament Center Nuclear Weapons Directorate (AAC/NW), 1551
Wyoming Blvd SE, Kirtland AFB, NM 87117-5617.

Implementation will be accomplished using the following criteria, depending upon where the
weapon system or mission support product such as hardware (HW), software (SW), technical
data, etc., is in the Nuclear Certification process:

Fielded weapon systems/products: Comply with the new Sustainment Phase Weapon
systems/products prior to fielding, but after the Nuclear Certification Impact Statement (NCIS)
has been completed:

Identification Phase: N/A

Administration Phase: SM must get Nuclear Certification Summary (NCS) from AAC/NW
before release.

Fielding and Sustainment Phase: Comply with new Fielding and Sustainment Phases.

Weapon systems/products prior to fielding and before the NCIS has been completed: Comply
with this Instruction.

(AFSOC) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 15 March
2004, incorporating IC-1, 9 November 2009, is supplemented as follows: It implements
policy on Nuclear Certified Equipment (NCE) Program to AFSOC wings and units. It applies to
AFSOC wings/units which operate, maintain, acquire, sustain, or modify specialized and non-
specialized equipment/vehicles listed in the Master Nuclear Certification List (MNCL) at
https://wwwmil.nwc.kirtland.af.mil/MNCL/index.cfm. This supplement does not apply to
AFSOC gained Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units
unless associated or mobilized where AFSOC is the lead. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Forms 847 to HQ AFSOC/A4R, Logistics Readiness Division.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change provides new guidance for establishing, implementing and managing
Nuclear Certified Equipment (NCE) Management Programs at the Single Manager (paragraph
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                                                                             3


2.4), Lead/Using Command (paragraph 2.6), and User (paragraph 2.7) levels; identifies which
aspects of the NCE Management Program affects non-nuclear tasked units as well as nuclear
tasked units; provides expanded guidance for the Lead/Using command’s nuclear certification
process OPR and changes the identification of OPR to “Command Nuclear Certification
Manager (paragraph 2.6.9); provides the Master Nuclear Certification List (MNCL) URL for
reporting MNCL discrepancies; adds the following acronyms to Attachment 1, Glossary of
References and Supporting Information: Nuclear Certified Equipment (NCE), Nuclear Certified
Item (NCI); adds the following terms and definitions to Attachment 1, Glossary of References
and Supporting Information: Non-Specialized Equipment, Nuclear Certified Equipment, Nuclear
Certified Item; Specialized Equipment, and Support Equipment. A margin bar indicates newly
revised material.

Chapter 1—PROGRAM DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                  5
       1.1.   Nuclear Certification. .............................................................................................             5
       1.2.   Overview of USAF Nuclear Certification Program. ..............................................                                   5
Figure 1.1.   Nuclear Certification Major Components. .............................................................                            5
Figure 1.2.   Design Certification Components. .........................................................................                       5
Figure 1.3.   Operational Certification Components. .................................................................                          6

Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                           7
       2.1.   SAF. .......................................................................................................................     7
       2.2.   HQ USAF. .............................................................................................................           7
       2.3.   Air Armament Center Nuclear Weapons Directorate (AAC/NW). .......................                                                9
       2.4.   Single Manager of nuclear capable/certified weapons systems and nuclear mission
              support products. ....................................................................................................          10
       2.5.   Nuclear Certification Manager (NCM). .................................................................                          11
       2.6.   Lead/Using Command. ..........................................................................................                  11
       2.7.   User. .......................................................................................................................   14

Chapter 3—NUCLEAR CERTIFICATION PROCESS                                                                                                       16
       3.1.   Process Overview. .................................................................................................             16
Figure 3.1.   Nuclear Certification Process Phases. ....................................................................                      16
       3.2.   Identification Phase. ...............................................................................................           16
       3.3.   Administration Phase. ............................................................................................              17
       3.4.   Fielding Phase. .......................................................................................................         21
       3.5.   Sustainment Phase. ................................................................................................             23

Chapter 4—TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                               27
       4.1.   Nuclear Certification Process Training Requirements. ..........................................                                 27
 4                                                                  AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


Chapter 5—DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                  28
      5.1.   Documentation and Reporting Requirements. .......................................................                      28
Table 5.1.   Reporting Requirements for Nuclear Certification. ...............................................                      28
      5.2.   Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................   33

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      35

Attachment 2—NUCLEAR CERTIFICATION PROCESS: MACRO VIEW                                                                              42
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                                                5



                                                                Chapter 1

                                                PROGRAM DESCRIPTION

1.1. Nuclear Certification. The Air Force Nuclear Certification Program ensures all
procedures, software, personnel, equipment, facilities, and organizations are certified before
conducting nuclear operations with nuclear weapons or nuclear weapon systems. Nuclear
certification occurs when a determination is made by the Air Force that procedures, software,
equipment, and facilities, are sufficient to perform nuclear weapon functions and personnel and
organizations are capable of performing assigned nuclear missions. Nuclear Certification is a
part of OSS&E, as directed by AFI 63-1201.
1.2. Overview of USAF Nuclear Certification Program. As illustrated in Figure 1.1, the Air
Force Nuclear Certification Program has two major components: Design Certification and
Operational Certification.

Figure 1.1. Nuclear Certification Major Components.


    Nuclear                           Design                                Operational
  Certification
        SM               =          Certification
                                       Single Manager
                                                                +           Certification
                                                                          Lead/Using Command


    1.2.1. The Air Armament Center’s Nuclear Weapons Directorate (AAC/NW) / Certification
    Management Division (AAC/NWC) grants nuclear certification when the system is design
    certified and at least one operational unit is Operationally Certified. The SM is responsible
    for obtaining and maintaining Design Certification for nuclear weapon capable systems in
    accordance with requirements identified in this AFI. The Lead/Using Command is
    responsible for obtaining and maintaining a unit’s Operational Certification in accordance
    with this AFI.

Figure 1.2. Design Certification Components.

                       Compatibility           Nuclear Safety
  Design                                                                Rules                      T.O.
Certification      =   Certification
                        AAC/NW or
                                          +      Design
                                               Certification
                                                                +    Development
                                                                        AFSC
                                                                                   +             Certification
                                                                                               TOMA/ICBM NCM
  Single Manager        ICBM NCM                   AFSC

    1.2.2. Design Certification occurs when each of four components, as illustrated in Figure
    1.2, is accomplished for the weapon system:
          1.2.2.1. AAC/NW or the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Nuclear Certification
          Manager (NCM) provides Compatibility Certification.
          1.2.2.2. Headquarters Air Force Safety Center (HQ AFSC) provides Nuclear Safety
          Design Certification.
          1.2.2.3. The Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group (NWSSG) develops/revises Weapon
          System Safety Rules (WSSRs). The Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) approves the
          WSSRs and HQ AFSC publishes them.
 6                                                       AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


        1.2.2.4. The SM’s Technical Order Management Agency (TOMA), or Nuclear
        Certification Manager (NCM) for ICBMs, has approved and published the appropriate
        technical orders (T.O.s).

Figure 1.3. Operational Certification Components.


      Operational
      Certification
      Lead/Using Command
                           =   Qualification
                                Training
                                               +   PRP    +   Nuc Surety
                                                               Training    +   INSI


     1.2.3. Operational Certification for a unit occurs, as illustrated in Figure 1.3, when the
     Lead/Using Command qualifies its personnel to perform the mission, certifies them in the
     Personnel Reliability Program (PRP), trains them in nuclear surety, and assigns a “Ready”
     rating on an Initial Nuclear Surety Inspection (INSI). Each unit must be Operationally
     Certified by the Lead/Using Command to be considered nuclear-mission capable. However,
     Nuclear Certification of the weapon system is granted based on Operational Certification of
     only the first unit. Subsequent units will be certified as required.
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                             7


                                         Chapter 2

                           ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. SAF.
   2.1.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition) (SAF/AQ):
      2.1.1.1. Directs nuclear-related acquisition programs except ICBMs through the Program
      Executive Officer (PEO).
      2.1.1.2. Sets Air Force Acquisition Policy. Develops policy and guidance, in
      conjunction with HQ USAF/XON, for managing nuclear capable/certified weapons
      systems and nuclear certified mission support products.
      2.1.1.3. Ensures SMs follow this policy and guidance.
      2.1.1.4. Ensures the General Counsel and the Judge Advocate General are advised and
      conduct the appropriate legal reviews of the intended acquisition of a potential weapon or
      weapon system. The reviews shall be conducted again before the award of a system for
      the weapon or weapon system and before the award of the initial production contract.
      Additional guidance and information are contained in AFPD 16-6, Arms Control
      Agreements, AFI 16-601, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control
      Agreements, and AFI 51-402, Weapons Review.
   2.1.2. The Under Secretary of the Air Force (Space Acquisition) (SAF/USA):
      2.1.2.1. Directs all ICBM nuclear-related acquisition programs through the PEO for
      Space.
   2.1.3. Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG):
      2.1.3.1. Pursuant to AFI 90-201, manages Air Force nuclear inspection policy (including
      plans, guidance, and procedures) and provides oversight of inspection policy
      implementation.
      2.1.3.2. Ensures Major Commands (MAJCOMs) with nuclear capable assigned/gained
      units follow Nuclear Surety Inspection (NSI) guidance as outlined in AFI 90-201,
      Inspector General Activities, Chapter 3, Air Force Nuclear Surety Inspection Program,
      and T.O. 11N-25-1, DoD Nuclear Weapons Technical Inspection System.
2.2. HQ USAF.
   2.2.1. Directorate of Nuclear and Counterproliferation (HQ USAF/XON):
      2.2.1.1. Monitors compliance/non-compliance with the Air Force Nuclear Certification
      Program and analyzes the potential or actual impact on nuclear operations.
      2.2.1.2. Develops policy and guidance in conjunction with SAF/AQX (Acquisition
      Integration Directorate) for management of nuclear capable/certified weapons systems
      and nuclear certified mission support products.
   2.2.2. Directorate of Operational Requirements (HQ USAF/XOR):
8                                                AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


       2.2.2.1. Ensures the need for nuclear certification is addressed in: 1) the Initial
       Capabilities Document (ICD)/Capability Development Document (CDD)/Capability
       Production Document (CPD) for a new nuclear-capable weapon system, or for a major
       modification to the same; and/or 2) the AF Form 1067 for modifications to a new or
       existing nuclear-capable system.
       2.2.2.2. Coordinates with the Lead/Using Command to identify the cost and time impact
       of nuclear certification as early as possible in the Requirements Generation Process.
    2.2.3. Directorate of Security Forces (HQ USAF/XOF):
       2.2.3.1. Prioritizes and plans the upgrade and installation of nuclear security sensor
       systems through the Base Physical Security System program.
       2.2.3.2. Establishes policy and guidance on nuclear security and monitors NSI
       results. Develops and coordinates DoD Directives on nuclear security policy as a
       member of the Security Policy Verification Committee.
    2.2.4. Directorate of Maintenance (HQ USAF/ILM):
       2.2.4.1. Monitors compliance/non-compliance with the USAF Nuclear Certification
       Program.
       2.2.4.2. Reviews USAF policy and guidance for daily unit management of nuclear
       capable/certified weapons systems and equipment.
    2.2.5. Chief of Safety (HQ USAF/SE):
       2.2.5.1. Oversees the Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program.
          2.2.5.1.1. HQ AFSC supports HQ USAF/SE in fulfilling this responsibility:
              2.2.5.1.1.1. Implements an effective Nuclear Safety Design Certification
              Program, as outlined in AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design
              Certification Program.
              2.2.5.1.1.2. Publishes design and evaluation criteria according to AFI 91-107,
              Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear
              Weapon Systems; AFMAN 91-118, Safety, Design and Evaluation Criteria for
              Nuclear Weapon Systems; and AFMAN 91119, Safety, Design and Evaluation
              Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software.
              2.2.5.1.1.3. Approves safety design and rules development portions of the
              Certification Requirements Plan (CRP).
              2.2.5.1.1.4. Approves test and maintenance programs for operational facilities.
              2.2.5.1.1.5. Approves weapon maintenance programs performed in Air Force
              facilities.
              2.2.5.1.1.6. Provides nuclear safety design certification for hardware, software,
              and procedures to be used with nuclear weapons, as outlined in AFI 91-103.
              2.2.5.1.1.7. Designates and certifies critical components according to AFI 91-
              105, Critical Components.
              2.2.5.1.1.8. Reviews nuclear surety deficiency reports (DRs) for trends or design
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                          9


              deficiencies, which require decertification or use restriction.
              2.2.5.1.1.9. Appoints the NWSSG chair, executive officer, project officers, and
              selected technical advisors and provides administrative support for the NWSSG
              process as prescribed in AFI 91-102.
              2.2.5.1.1.10. Ensures the NWSSG conducts scheduled studies and reviews and
              develops/revises WSSRs, as required by AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System
              Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules.
              2.2.5.1.1.11. Ensures the NWSSG Support Staff reviews nuclear certified weapon
              system modifications, changes in operational procedures, or proposed tests to
              determine if nuclear surety is affected.
              2.2.5.1.1.12. Publishes a semiannual report containing the status of NWSSG
              recommendations according to AFI 91-102.
              2.2.5.1.1.13. Provides NSI program oversight as detailed in AFI 90-201.
2.3. Air Armament Center Nuclear Weapons Directorate (AAC/NW).
   2.3.1. Serves as the Air Force’s office of primary responsibility (OPR) for nuclear
   certification.   Grants nuclear certification based upon completion of all necessary
   certification components as described in this document and other referenced documents.
   2.3.2. Manages the Air Force Nuclear Certification Program.
      2.3.2.1. Provides guidance to SMs and MAJCOMs on the Nuclear Certification Program.
      2.3.2.2. Develops a Nuclear Certification training program and provides the appropriate
      templates/course outlines to be used at the various levels of certification process
      involvement (e.g., Air Staff agencies, SM, Lead/Using Command, User, etc.).
   2.3.3. Reviews NCIS for completeness and accuracy.
   2.3.4. Issues the NCS or Design Certification Summary upon completion of certification
   actions.
   2.3.5. Manages the Master Nuclear Certification List (MNCL).
   2.3.6. Provides aircraft nuclear compatibility certification.
      2.3.6.1. Develops and publishes criteria for nuclear weapon system compatibility
      certification.
      2.3.6.2. Performs Aircraft Monitor and Control (AMAC) and surveillance tests on USAF
      and non-U.S. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) operational nuclear capable
      aircraft and air-launched missiles systems as required for nuclear compatibility
      certification.
   2.3.7. Provides technical input to Air Force safety publications regarding nuclear weapon
   systems.
   2.3.8. Develops and coordinates the Basic CRP.
   2.3.9. Evaluates and coordinates the CRP.
   2.3.10. Maintains corporate expertise for the Nuclear Certification process.
 10                                               AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


   2.3.11. Maintains files of pertinent Nuclear Certification documentation and data.
   2.3.12. Chairs or co-chairs Nuclear Weapons Delivery System Project Officer Groups
   (POG) for aircraft systems and Nuclear Surety Working Groups (NSWG) for ICBM
   Systems. Chairs the Nuclear Airlift POG (NALPOG).
   2.3.13. Provides the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) voting member and technical
   support for the USAF NWSSG safety studies and operational safety reviews.
   2.3.14. Serves as the Air Force independent review agency for the Air Force Nuclear Safety
   Certification Program as defined in AFI 91-103 and provides Technical Nuclear Surety
   Analysis (TNSA) to support nuclear weapon system safety studies conducted by the USAF
   NWSSG per AFI 91-102.
   2.3.15. Develops and publishes assigned Nuclear Weapons T.O.s. Serves as the Air Force
   TOMA, Technical Content Manager (TCM), and Aircrew Flight Manual Management
   Agency for USAF and NATO Category I Nuclear Weapons Basic Information and Loading
   Procedures, Air Transport Procedures and Aircrew Delivery Procedures T.O.s and Category
   11N air launched missile warhead mate/demate T.O.s.
2.4. Single Manager of nuclear capable/certified weapons systems and nuclear mission
support products.
   2.4.1. Serves as operating official responsible for program execution of an approved weapon
   system program.
   2.4.2. Establishes, implements, and executes a nuclear certification program to accomplish
   the requirements specified herein and necessary to provide and maintain a nuclear capability.
   Identifies funding requirements to the Lead Command for input to the Planning,
   Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) system submission.
   2.4.3. Identifies items requiring nuclear certification and assesses modifications to determine
   if nuclear certification is affected or required.
   2.4.4. Notifies the Lead/Using Command whenever weapon system software, firmware,
   facilities, procedures, and hardware have been nuclear certified and are ready for release/use
   or have been decertified.
   2.4.5. Appoints an NCM to act as the SM’s primary interface with the nuclear certification
   community.
   2.4.6. Develops an acquisition strategy that includes certification for any new, modified, or
   additional nuclear capability.
   2.4.7. Develops appropriate documents such as an NCIS to initiate and complete the nuclear
   certification process.
   2.4.8. Reports nuclear certification funding, execution, and implementation issues through
   the appropriate acquisition and/or sustainment management chain.
   2.4.9. Fields, sustains, and maintains the configuration of nuclear hardware and software.
   2.4.10. Ensures personnel who directly support the SM are appropriately trained on their
   nuclear certification responsibilities.
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                            11


   2.4.11. Releases a new nuclear certified item to the end user only via a Technical Order, or
   modified nuclear certified item via a Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO) or Interim
   TCTO (ITCTO).
   2.4.12. Develops OSS&E Plan. Documents all modifications/changes to the configuration
   management and baseline documents to ensure changes will either not affect nuclear
   certification or certification is re-accomplished.
   2.4.13. Serves as the OPR for the Certification Requirements Plan (CRP).
   2.4.14. Establishes procedures at the appropriate level to monitor and track the accuracy of
   identification information for systems or Nuclear Certified Items (NCI) identified in the
   Master Nuclear Certified List (MNCL) for which the program office has engineering or
   management responsibility.
      2.4.14.1. Reports discrepancies via the MNCL feedback/problem reporting process at
      https://wwwmil.nwc.kirtland.af.mil/MNCL/index.cfm.
2.5. Nuclear Certification Manager (NCM).
   2.5.1. Serves as the SM’s primary representative within the program office for day-to-day
   management and execution of the Nuclear Certification Program.
   2.5.2. Coordinates all functional elements of the weapon system necessary to achieve
   nuclear certification.
   2.5.3. Coordinates support from engineering, logistics, test, structures, weapons, plans, and
   programs, etc., to ensure a nuclear capability is obtained and sustained.
   2.5.4. Plans and develops programs for the SM’s Nuclear Certification Program, including
   coordinating the management approach and budgetary estimates; developing program
   schedules; recommending contracting strategies; and interfacing with related weapon system
   programs, agencies, and contractors.
   2.5.5. Coordinates the development of all nuclear certification requirements with applicable
   organizations, including contractors, AAC/NW, HQ AFSC, test agencies, National Nuclear
   Security Administration (NNSA), Lead/Using Command, and higher headquarters.
   2.5.6. Monitors the weapon system Nuclear Certification process to maintain weapon system
   configuration and certification.
   2.5.7. Manages nuclear certification training for appropriate program office personnel.
   2.5.8. Represents the SM at weapon system POGs/Working Groups.
2.6. Lead/Using Command.
   2.6.1. Accomplishes the required documentation and processes described by this AFI, and
   other directives, as required. Some requirements such as updating the weapon system
   ICD/CDD/CPD, are accomplished by the Lead Command. Other requirements such as
   conducting NSIs are accomplished by the Using Command. In some instances, the Lead
   Command and Using Command may be the same.
   2.6.2. Documents nuclear certification as a threshold requirement in the ICD/CDD/CPD for
   any weapon system to be developed that will maintain a nuclear mission capability.
12                                               AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


  2.6.3. Provides the Concept of Operations (CONOPS) to AAC/NWC for a weapon system
  under development, which will have a nuclear mission capability, for an existing weapon
  system/platform that will have the capability added to its Designed Operational Capability
  (DOC) statement, or for an existing nuclear-capable weapon system/platform.
  2.6.4. Develops and maintains an accurate OPDD for each nuclear-capable/certified weapon
  system.
  2.6.5. Provides operational support and expertise to the SM for identifying and conducting
  testing as required (e.g., SEEK EAGLE, Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E),
  Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E), and Force Development Evaluation (FDE)) for
  modifications to current nuclear certified hardware/software items.
  2.6.6. Performs T.O. verification and provides T.O. updates as required to the SM for
  nuclear certified items and weapon systems.
  2.6.7. Develops and maintains training and nuclear mission certification programs in
  accordance with (IAW) applicable T.O.s and AFIs to prepare unit personnel for attaining
  Operational Certification.
  2.6.8. Conducts INSIs to establish a unit’s Operational Certification prior to employing a
  new or modified weapon system. Reports the results to MAJCOM commander and
  applicable staff and AF agencies.
  2.6.9. Designates a Command Nuclear Certification Manager (NCM) to serve as the focal
  point for coordinating and managing the command’s day-to-day nuclear certification
  program activities related to the development and fielding of new or modified systems,
  hardware or software requiring nuclear certification. The Command NCM:
     2.6.9.1. Manages the Command’s Nuclear Certification Impact Statement and
     Certification Requirements Plan development, review, and coordination processes.
     2.6.9.2. Ensures Nuclear Certification Impact Statements are properly coordinated and
     evaluated to determine impacts on the operational certification of the weapon system,
     item of equipment or software, or maintenance, handling and storage facilities.
     2.6.9.3. Ensures the Command’s operational certification requirements are documented
     in the Certification Requirements Plan for new acquisition and modification efforts.
     2.6.9.4. Serves as the Command’s point of contact for T.O. Verification efforts
     conducted in support of the nuclear certification process.
     2.6.9.5. Establishes and maintains a standardized process for authorizing the release of
     new and modified nuclear certified items to the user.
     2.6.9.6. Identifies/designates MAJCOM staff and unit level positions requiring initial
     and recurring annual nuclear certification process training as directed by this Instruction.
     2.6.9.7. Provides nuclear certification process guidance to MAJCOM staff and nuclear
     tasked units.
  2.6.10. Conducts and reports the results of periodic inspections (e.g., NSIs, Nuclear
  Operational Readiness Inspections [NORIs], Unit Effectiveness Inspections [UEIs], and
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                             13


  Nuclear Surety Staff Assistance Visits [NSSAVs]) to the MAJCOM commander and
  applicable staff and AF agencies.
  2.6.11. Establishes the command’s Nuclear Certified Equipment (NCE) Management
  Program. Appoints a MAJCOM NCE Program Manager to act as the single point of contact
  for the MAJCOM program and to establish policies and procedures for the management of
  NCE used by nuclear and non-nuclear tasked operational units. These policies and
  procedures shall:
  2.6.11. (AFSOC) HQ AFSOC/A4RE, Distribution, Energy & Equipment Branch, will
  manage the NCE Program for Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC).
     2.6.11.1. Ensure that units with a nuclear weapon mission use only authorized
     procedures and nuclear certified equipment (NCE), nuclear certified items (NCI) and
     software in operations involving nuclear weapons and nuclear weapon systems.
     2.6.11.2. Direct commanders of wings, groups or GSU’s (applies to both nuclear and
     non-nuclear tasked units) that operate, maintain, acquire, sustain, or modify NCE to
     appoint NCE monitors at appropriate levels within the unit to manage the unit NCE
     management program.
     2.6.11.2. (AFSOC) Wing, Group or GSU commanders with assigned NCE will
     designate, by letter, primary and alternate unit NCE monitors (for those units that
     maintain NCE). Additionally, wing/group/GSU will designate, by letter an overall
     installation POC for their NCE Program. Unit NCE monitor designation letters will be
     submitted to the Wing, Group or GSU overall installation POC. Overall installation POC
     designation letters will be submitted to HQ AFSOC/ A4RE.
     2.6.11.3. Require 100% of unit assigned NCE (applies to both nuclear and non-nuclear
     tasked units) be surveyed and documented on an annual basis to ensure legibility of
     identification information (i.e., data plate, information plate, appropriate markings, etc.)
     and that the information matches the MNCL listing (this may be incorporated into
     periodic inspections NOTE: For assets in WRM/extended storage, or otherwise inspected
     at intervals exceeding 12 months, complete and document this survey during the
     inspection nearest this annual requirement IAW appropriate technical data).
     Discrepancies will be reported via command channels to the appropriate program office
     with engineering authority for the item or system in question and via the MNCL
     feedback/problem                      reporting                  process                  at
     https://wwwmil.nwc.kirtland.af.mil/MNCL/index.cfm.
     2.6.11.3. (AFSOC) Vehicle Management will ensure all vehicle NCE is surveyed and
     documented annually utilizing the most recent AF Form 4354, Vehicle Preventative
     Maintenance and Inspection (PM&I) checklist for Nuclear Certified vehicles. The
     applicable forms unit NCE monitors use to document annual inspections on equipment
     such as AGE equipment or chains and tie downs will be the DD Form 1574-1,
     Serviceable Label–Material tag (equipment), AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support
     Equipment Record (equipment), AFTO Form 95, Significant Historical Data (i.e. MHU-
     141 trailer) or the -21 shop log book (chains and tie downs). All records will be filed and
     maintained IAW applicable DOD/AFI guidance.
 14                                                AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


       2.6.11.4. Ensure unit level procedures are implemented to survey MNCL changes to
       determine impact on unit operations. The frequency of this surveillance will be
       established by the MAJCOM based on the unit’s mission requirements, but will be
       sufficient to ensure that the requirement identified in paragraph 2.6.11.1 is met.
       2.6.11.4. (AFSOC) Vehicle Management and Unit NCE Monitors will ensure MNCL
       changes in nuclear certification status or equipment/vehicle inventories are reviewed and
       documented             monthly              via         the           MNCL              at
       https://wwwmil.nwc.kirtland.af.mil/MNCL/index.cfm with proof of review kept on
       file.
       2.6.11.5. Provide guidance to units with a nuclear weapon mission for monitoring the
       certification status of the unit’s nuclear certified equipment.
   2.6.12. Provides combat delivery aircraft as necessary to support flight-testing of
   NNSA/USAF air-carried test munitions.
   2.6.13. Provides operational aircraft assets and personnel as necessary to support
   compatibility certification testing on USAF and non-U.S. NATO operational, nuclear-
   capable aircraft, and air launched missile systems.
   2.6.14. Ensures funding requirements to obtain and maintain nuclear certification are
   included in weapon system PPBE submissions.
   2.6.15. Manages nuclear weapon maintenance, storage and handling facility nuclear
   certification-related activities (e.g., developing and submitting Nuclear Certification Impact
   Statements for modifications to nuclear certified maintenance, storage and handling
   facilities).
2.7. User.
   2.7.1. (Nuclear tasked units) Ensures the certification status and configuration of nuclear
   certified facilities, hardware, (i.e., Nuclear Certified Equipment (NCE), to include support
   equipment, aerospace ground equipment, munitions material handling equipment, and
   vehicles) and software have been verified prior to use. Prior to use means that the verification
   will be accomplished at a point (determined by MAJCOM policy established IAW
   paragraph 2.6.11 above) prior to the item being used in an operation involving nuclear
   weapons or nuclear weapon systems.
   2.7.2. Maintains and operates assigned weapon system(s) IAW current AFIs and T.O.s, and
   Lead/Using Command's guidance.
   2.7.3. Identifies and documents system deficiencies to nuclear certified facilities, nuclear
   certified systems, nuclear certified equipment and items, nuclear certified software,
   procedures and policies IAW applicable reporting requirements and guidance (i.e., AFI 91-
   204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations
   and Reports, for nuclear safety deficiency reporting; T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Material
   Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System) and forwards issues with proposed solutions
   to the appropriate MAJCOM functional agencies.
   2.7.4. Establishes and maintains Operational Certification sustainment training and
   personnel certifications IAW applicable AFIs and MAJCOM guidance.
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                  15


  2.7.5. Corrects MAJCOM Inspector General (IG) identified deficiencies IAW applicable
  AFIs and MAJCOM guidance.
  2.7.6. Manages the unit NCE management program and monitors the MNCL IAW
  MAJCOM established policies required by paragraph 2.6 and this AFI.
 16                                                AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


                                           Chapter 3

                         NUCLEAR CERTIFICATION PROCESS

3.1. Process Overview. The Air Force Nuclear Certification process consists of four main
phases: Identification, Administration, Fielding, and Sustainment (Figure 3.1). See Attachment
2 for a macro view of the Nuclear Certification process. The details of the major components of
each phase are provided in AFPAM 63-126. First, the Identification Phase describes the actions
taken by the SM and/or Lead/Using Command to identify the need for and begin the Nuclear
Certification process. Second, the Administration Phase includes actions necessary to obtain or
continue the nuclear certification of a weapon system. Third, the Fielding Phase involves the
releasing of hardware, software, or procedures for the use in or in support of a nuclear weapon
system or its subsystems. Finally, the Sustainment Phase begins when the fielding process is
complete and includes all the actions that maintain the nuclear certification status of a weapon
system.

Figure 3.1. Nuclear Certification Process Phases.



      Identification      Administration        Fielding      Sustainment



3.2. Identification Phase. Identification is the process of: (1) identifying when a new or
modified system, component, or nuclear mission support product requires nuclear certification
and determining how a modification could affect nuclear certification; (2) formally notifying
AAC/NWC of a potential impact to the nuclear certification of a weapon system or support item
with an NCIS; (3) defining the top level certification requirements in the Basic CRP; and (4)
developing and coordinating the detailed nuclear certification requirements, roles,
responsibilities, and schedules in the CRP.
   3.2.1. Identification Phase Process. The Identification Phase begins with the nuclear
   weapon system requirements identification process. The SM is provided the direction and
   resources to deliver a capability to the user or warfighter IAW AFI 63-101, Acquisition
   System. The SM, in conjunction with the Lead/Using Command and HQ USAF/XOR,
   identifies new weapon systems or modifications to existing weapon systems that impact or
   may impact nuclear certification. Systems or items requiring nuclear certification should
   have these requirements documented early in the requirements generation or acquisition
   process. For new capabilities, nuclear certification requirements should be documented no
   later than in the CDD. Lead/Using Commands must identify any operational change that
   impacts nuclear certified weapon systems (e.g., new Primary Nuclear Airlift Force (PNAF)
   certified unit, new unit with nuclear mission, new or modification to nuclear storage facility).
   The first step in the Identification process is to identify the requirement for a new item or an
   item that requires modification. The second is to determine if the item will require nuclear
   certification or will change the status of a previously certified item. The third step is to
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                             17


   determine exactly what is required to achieve or maintain the nuclear certification of the
   weapon system or item.
   3.2.2. Nuclear Certification Impact Statement. Once the SM identifies a potential impact
   to a weapon system’s/item’s nuclear certification, the SM documents it in the NCIS. The
   NCIS is prepared by the SM and routed to the AAC/NWC through the SM’s NCM. The
   NCIS describes the proposed new/modified system hardware/software/process and evaluates
   the potential for a nuclear certification impact. It also provides necessary data for
   AAC/NWC to define the basic certification requirements. The NCIS includes a functional
   description of the proposed system/modification or test program and its potential for nuclear
   certification impact. The NCIS addresses the system/modification/test program in enough
   detail to substantiate a recommended certification approach. As a minimum, the NCIS
   addresses any potential impact to AFI 91-107 directed criteria and degradations to existing
   nuclear weapon system safety features. Additionally, the NCIS identifies the potential
   impact to compatibility certification, published T.O.s, WSSRs, and Operational Certification.
   AAC/NWC will coordinate the NCIS with the appropriate offices in HQ AFSC, AAC/NW,
   and Lead/Using Command, as necessary; to evaluate which certification requirements must
   be met for the weapon system. AAC/NWC will notify the SM if no certification action is
   required.
   3.2.3. CRP Preparation Process. If certification is required, AAC/NWC will prepare the
   Basic CRP and obtain coordination from all appropriate process owners: AAC/NW or ICBM
   NCM for compatibility certification, HQ AFSC for nuclear safety design certification and
   WSSR development, TOMA/ICBM NCM for T.O.s, and Lead/Using Command for
   Operational Certification. Each Administration Phase process described below is addressed
   in a separate appendix of the Basic CRP. The SM provides the specific information to
   complete the Basic CRP appendices and generates the CRP. The CRP is then sent to
   AAC/NWC for final evaluation and coordination from all appropriate process owners. When
   all coordination is complete, AAC/NWC approves the CRP and returns it to the SM for
   execution. A copy of the CRP is sent to all appropriate process owners.
3.3. Administration Phase. The Administration Phase includes actions necessary to obtain or
continue the nuclear certification of a weapon system prior to fielding. The Administration
Phase begins when AAC/NWC approves the CRP. There are five distinct processes within the
Administration Phase: 1) Compatibility Certification, 2) Nuclear Safety Design Certification, 3)
Rules Development, 4) Technical Orders Certification, and 5) Operational Certification.
Activities during this phase include the documentation of modifications, evaluation, testing, and
analysis needed to obtain compatibility, safety, WSSRs, T.O.s, and the Operational Certification
of the weapon system. AAC/NWC will issue the NCS when all actions required by the CRP are
accomplished. The NCS initiates an update to the MNCL and complete the Administration
Phase.
   3.3.1. Compatibility Certification. Compatibility Certification is the process of certifying
   that the equipment item or weapon system meets design and evaluation requirements for the
   mechanical, electrical, and aerodynamic interface between the delivery vehicle or equipment
   item and the nuclear weapon.
       3.3.1.1. Aircraft Compatibility Certification. AAC/NW interface and coordination
       with NNSA via Sandia National Laboratory is required to obtain the Major Assembly
18                                              AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


     Release (MAR) and Aircraft Compatibility Control Drawing (ACCD) as appropriate.
     The process begins with the approval of the compatibility certification appendix to the
     CRP and includes all actions required for AAC/NW to issue the Nuclear Compatibility
     Certification Statement (NCCS). AAC/NW will ensure the appropriate SM and other
     affected agencies complete a CRP for a system modification or acquisition. To obtain
     compatibility certification, the SM will generate the compatibility certification documents
     such as the Electrical Interface Control Drawing (EICD), Mechanical Interface Control
     Drawing (MICD), Final Design Approval Report (FDAR), and appropriate T.O.s as
     specified in the CRP. Any requirements for testing and analysis to complete the
     Compatibility Certification process will also be identified in the CRP. AAC/NW will
     coordinate the required tests and analysis with the SM, test organizations (e.g., 49th Test
     and Air Force SEEK EAGLE Office [AFSEO]), and NNSA as needed. In addition,
     AAC/NW will ensure HQ USAF/XON and NNSA are aware of system modifications or
     acquisitions (via the weapon and/or weapon system POG as required) to obtain initial
     release or updates to the Nuclear Weapon MAR and ACCD, as appropriate. Once
     required tests and analyses have been completed, the SM is required to update the
     compatibility certification documents as indicated by test results and analyses. The
     AFSEO provides flight clearance recommendations and SEEK EAGLE Certification
     IAW AFI 63-104, The SEEK EAGLE Program. Upon completion of all actions
     identified in the CRP for compatibility certification, AAC/NW will issue an initial or
     updated NCCS. The NCCS is provided to AAC/NWC to confirm completion of the
     Compatibility Certification portion of the Administration Phase.
     3.3.1.2. Initial Surveillance and Aircraft Monitor and Control (AMAC)
     Testing. AAC/NW will determine if initial surveillance and/or AMAC testing is
     necessary for each type of aircraft nuclear weapon system. AAC/NW will conduct/direct
     testing as required. The results of initial surveillance and/or AMAC testing shall be
     maintained and published in a surveillance test database or appropriate repository. These
     results shall also be published in a test report following each test and shall be used by
     AAC/NW as source data to justify nuclear compatibility certification. AAC/NW will
     provide surveillance/AMAC test results to the system SM.
     3.3.1.3. ICBM Compatibility Certification. The goals of Compatibility Certification
     for ICBMs is similar to that for aircraft as it certifies the equipment item or weapon
     system meets mechanical and electrical compatibility requirements between the delivery
     vehicle and the nuclear weapon. For ICBM systems, Compatibility Certification is
     accomplished by the ICBM NCM in conjunction with Air Force Space Command
     (AFSPC) coordination. Interface and coordination with AAC/NW and NNSA is required
     to obtain the MAR, if necessary. The process begins with the Basic CRP, which includes
     the compatibility certification requirements. Any special testing or analysis necessary to
     complete certification will be identified. After all testing and analysis are complete; the
     SM will coordinate with the Lead/Using Command and provide the NCCS to
     AAC/NWC. The NCCS is provided to AAC/NWC to confirm completion of the
     Compatibility Certification portion of the Administration Phase.
  3.3.2. Nuclear Safety Design Certification. Nuclear Safety Design Certification is the
  process of evaluating the hardware and/or software associated with nuclear weapon systems
  for compliance with nuclear safety certification design and evaluation criteria. The
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                           19


  Administration Phase of Nuclear Design Safety Certification begins with an approved CRP
  that has identified the need to obtain Nuclear Safety Design Certification. The CRP also
  outlines the applicable design and evaluation criteria in AFI 91-103, AFI 91-107, AFMAN
  91-118, and/or AFMAN 91-119, which must be satisfied to meet the requirements of Nuclear
  Safety Design Certification. HQ AFSC/SEW (Weapons, Space, and Nuclear Safety
  Division) will send a Nuclear Safety Design Certification Letter to AAC/NWC to confirm
  completion of the Nuclear Safety Design Certification portion of the Administration Phase.
     3.3.2.1. Nuclear Safety Design Certification Requirements. The SM must comply
     with the nuclear safety design certification requirements identified in the approved CRP
     and document these actions IAW AFI 91-103. The decision to grant nuclear safety
     design certification is based on compliance with design criteria and an adequate exercise
     of the design as specified by the evaluation criteria outlined in the CRP. Discrepancies
     and/or deviations from or with respect to design and evaluation criteria are assessed for
     risk (based on a qualitative or quantitative assessment of likelihood and consequence) and
     impact to operational requirements.
  3.3.3. Rules Development. The development of a new weapon system or a significant
  design or mission change to an existing weapon system may dictate that Rules Development
  be included in the CRP. The Rules Development process involves SECDEF approval of an
  Air Force Safety Rules Package. WSSRs are operational restrictions/requirements designed
  to insure nuclear weapon systems are compliant with the four DoD safety standards as
  defined by DoD Directive 3150.2. As one component of Nuclear Certification, WSSRs must
  be approved by the SECDEF prior to operational use of nuclear weapon systems.
  Administration of the Rules Development portion of the Nuclear Certification process
  addresses new nuclear weapon systems or significantly modified nuclear weapon systems as
  described in AFI 91-102. The requirement to convene the NWSSG and conduct a safety
  study is documented and agreed to in the approved CRP. HQ AFSC/SEW will send a copy
  of the rules approval letter to AAC/NWC to confirm completion of the Rules Development
  portion of the Administration Phase.
  3.3.4. Technical Order Certification. Technical Order Certification is the process of
  certifying the procedures involved in a weapon system’s nuclear mission operations,
  maintenance, troubleshooting, OPCERT, DECERT, handling, movement, restraint
  configuration, loading, unloading, delivery, and testing. The TOMA/ICBM NCM shall
  ensure that these procedures are verified, complete, accurate, and safe. Compliance with
  nuclear WSSRs, requirements in 91-100 series AFIs, nuclear safety, nuclear compatibility,
  and design safety features is the responsibility of the TCM. The process begins with the
  approval of the technical orders certification appendix to the CRP, which describes all T.O.-
  related actions required for AAC/NWC to certify the procedures. When technical data is
  approved, the TOMA/ICBM NCM will send a formal technical order approval notification to
  AAC/NWC. SMs may devise local procedures for approval and reporting Technical Order
  Certification. For example, the NCM may be assigned review and approval authority. If
  requested, the SM will provide AAC/NWC advance copies of T.O.s for new items or weapon
  systems or for those systems with substantial changes to existing procedures for additional
  review of nuclear certification issues.
  3.3.5. Operational Certification. Operational Certification procedures apply to a variety of
  circumstances: a new weapon system that will have a nuclear capability, an existing weapon
20                                               AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


  system that has had the nuclear-mission capability added to the unit’s DOC statement or an
  existing nuclear-capable unit that has received a capability modification. One of these
  conditions will drive the requirement to include the Operational Certification appendix to the
  CRP.
     3.3.5.1. Lead/Using Command. The Lead/Using Command has the primary
     responsibility to complete the requirements of this certification. The Lead/Using
     Command will develop and implement a tailored nuclear qualification program for each
     type of weapon system accomplishing this certification. The program will include
     nuclear-mission qualification training, training programs to ensure compliance and
     proficiency in all applicable NSI events as listed and described in AFI 90-201, and
     aircrew/missile crew nuclear mission certifications as applicable to the unit’s DOC
     statement. The Lead/Using Command will develop the overall operational certification
     plan and coordinate this plan with the SM.
     3.3.5.2. Unit Nuclear Qualification Programs. A variety of programs will be initiated
     at the operational unit to prepare personnel for their nuclear mission roles. Units are
     required to initiate required administrative actions to ensure personnel possess the
     appropriate security clearances IAW DoD 5200.1R, Information Security Program and
     AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management commensurate with the level of
     training they will receive. Unit commanders will identify, evaluate, and PRP-certify
     selected individuals IAW AFI 36-2104, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability
     Program. Required nuclear surety training will be conducted IAW AFI 91-101, Air
     Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program. Applicable nuclear qualification training and
     task evaluations will be accomplished and personnel will be graded and qualified IAW
     applicable operations and maintenance T.O.s, AFIs, and Lead/Using Command’s
     supplements and instructions.
     3.3.5.3. Initial Nuclear Surety Inspection. The Lead/Using Command, in coordination
     with HQ AFSC, will determine a unit’s need for an INSI and ensure this requirement is
     included in the CRP. The Lead/Using Command will determine when a unit is eligible
     for an INSI based on their assessment of the unit’s level of nuclear mission proficiency.
     The Lead/Using Command’s IG will schedule and conduct the inspection IAW the
     guidelines described in AFI 90-201. The unit must receive a “Ready” rating to be
     considered nuclear-mission capable. Additional training and Lead/Using Command
     assistance will be provided to the unit if they receive a “Not Ready” rating and the unit
     will be re-evaluated IAW AFI 90-201. When a unit successfully completes an INSI, the
     Lead/Using Command will send an Operational Certification Letter to AAC/NWC to
     confirm CRP Operational Certification actions are complete. Even though numerous
     “like units” may be accomplishing the same operational certifications for a new
     capability, the Operational Certification Letter is required to be sent to AAC/NWC only
     after the first unit passes their INSI.
  3.3.6. Administrative Phase Completion. Throughout the Administration Phase,
  AAC/NWC will monitor the status of the certification process. There are five specific items,
  which indicate completion of a particular process. The CRP identifies which of these areas
  are required for nuclear certification. These include: (1) An initial or updated NCCS from
  AAC/NW/ICBM NCM indicating that all actions for Compatibility Certification are
  complete, (2) The Nuclear Safety Design Certification Letter from HQ AFSC, (3) Formal
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                              21


   technical order approval letter from the TOMA/ICBM NCM, (4) Rules Approval notification
   from HQ AFSC/SEW, and (5) an Operational Certification Letter from the Lead/Using
   Command indicating completion of Operational Certification requirements for the first
   Operationally Certified unit. When the first four items are accomplished, AAC/NWC will
   update the MNCL to indicate that Design Certification is complete. Subsequently, a Design
   Certification Summary will be sent to the SM signifying that all design certification actions
   are complete. Once Operational Certification is complete and AAC/NWC is satisfied all
   actions specified in the CRP are complete, they will notify the SM with a NCS. The MNCL
   will then be updated as required. This completes the Administration Phase.
3.4. Fielding Phase. The Fielding Phase procedures ensure an item is sent to the user in the
desired, nuclear certified configuration to support the tasked mission. The Fielding Phase
typically begins with AAC/NWC issuing a Design Certification Summary or NCS to the SM
(Note: Nuclear Certification = Design Certification + Operational Certification of one unit).
The Fielding Phase typically ends with the user employing the new, nuclear certified, weapon
system configuration to meet nuclear-mission taskings. This phase also addresses situations that
require the release of a new or modified item to the user prior to design certification or weapon
system nuclear certification being complete (e.g., conventional-only release or release for
operational-certification actions [i.e., training purposes only]). All items affecting a nuclear
certified weapon system configuration will be released via a T.O./TCTO and units will process
them IAW AFI 21series guidance.
   3.4.1. Release Process. “Release” refers to the process of sending a new or modified item
   to the user with a T.O. or TCTO. Various release conditions are: a) items that modify an
   existing nuclear certified weapon system configuration; b) items that add nuclear capability
   to an existing non-nuclear certified weapon system; or c) an entirely new nuclear certified
   weapon system. New or modified weapon system configurations/items can be released to the
   user as one of four Release Cases, described below. The Lead/Using Command determines
   the Release Case and authorizes the SM to release the item along with any necessary
   restrictions. The need to include restrictions may come from many sources including
   operational test results, other limitations identified during OSS&E certifications, and
   circumstances as directed by Lead/Using Command requirements. Non-nuclear mission
   requirements may drive the need to field items destined for use on nuclear certified weapon
   systems before an item has been appropriately certified. However, the Air Force Nuclear
   Certification Program has been designed to find the appropriate balance between operational
   flexibility and nuclear surety. Note: The Nuclear Certification process will not be
   accelerated to allow for earlier-than-planned fielding if the certification process owners
   determine the adequacy or completeness of the process is in question or adversely affected.
       3.4.1.1. Release Cases. In the Fielding Phase, there are four likely scenarios for release.
       The use of “Release Cases” is intended to provide the Lead/Using Command and SM
       with standardized terminology for the release of items affecting nuclear certified weapon
       systems.
           3.4.1.1.1. Release Case 1: “Release Now, Certification Complete.” Release of a
           new or modified item for which Nuclear Certification is complete. After the SM
           receives a NCS, the SM will send a release recommendation to the Lead/Using
           Command based on the completion of necessary OSS&E certifications and
           Lead/Using Command requirements. When the Lead/Using Command’s internal and
22                                           AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


     external coordination requirements are satisfied, the Lead/Using Command will
     authorize the SM to distribute the item to specified units. The Lead/Using Command
     will specify the required unit actions in the release instructions for both an
     Operationally Certified unit as well as units not yet Operationally Certified. Only
     units that have completed Operational Certification for the new/modified weapon
     system configuration may use the nuclear certified, weapon system configuration in
     support of a nuclear mission with war reserve weapons or certified critical
     components.
     3.4.1.1.2. Release Case 2: “Release Now, Certify Now.” Release of a new or
     modified item for which only Design Certification is complete. The most likely
     reason for this Release Case is the need to release an item so the user can conduct
     operational certification actions (i.e., qualification training or preparing for and
     accomplishing an INSI). After the SM receives a Design Certification Summary, the
     SM will send a release recommendation to the Lead/Using Command based on the
     completion of necessary OSS&E certifications and Lead/Using Command
     requirements. When the Lead/Using Command’s internal and external coordination
     requirements are satisfied, the Lead/Using Command will authorize the SM to
     distribute the item to specified units. Typically, this type of release would include the
     authorization for units to use the item/weapon system configuration to conduct
     operational certification actions. Since the released item has not yet been nuclear
     certified, the item shall not be used in support of an operational nuclear mission with
     war reserve weapons or certified critical components. After the SM receives an NCS,
     the SM will send an updated release recommendation to the Lead/Using Command.
     When the Lead/Using Command’s internal and external coordination requirements
     are satisfied, the Lead/Using Command will specify required actions in the release
     instructions for both Operationally Certified units as well as units not yet
     Operationally Certified. Only units that have completed Operational Certification for
     the new/modified weapon system configuration may use the nuclear certified, weapon
     system configuration in support of a nuclear mission with war reserve weapons or
     certified critical components.
     3.4.1.1.3. Release Case 3: “Release Now, Certify Later.” Release of a new or
     modified item for which: 1) Design Certification and/or Nuclear Certification is not
     complete; and 2) the Lead/Using Command does plan to complete nuclear
     certification in the future. When operational requirements dictate, the Lead/Using
     Command may direct the SM to develop and release an item with the intention of
     design-certifying the item or nuclear-certifying the new/modified weapon system
     configuration after release (e.g., avionics software revision). The SM will submit an
     NCIS to AAC/NWC stating the Lead/Using Command’s “Release Case 3” intention.
     The Lead/Using Command must restrict the affected nuclear certified platform to a
     “conventional-only” role until nuclear certification actions have been accomplished
     and address the impact of the non-nuclear certified weapon system configuration on
     operational requirements. For example, even though the aircraft at a unit currently
     are conventional use only, the unit has a requirement to meet their DOC nuclear-
     mission requirements. AAC/NWC will coordinate the restricted release request with
     all affected certification process owners and provide appropriate direction to the SM
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                                 23


           in the Basic CRP. Once the SM receives a Design Certification Summary, the SM
           will send an updated release recommendation to the Lead/Using Command. When
           the Lead/Using Command’s internal and external coordination requirements are
           satisfied, the Lead/Using Command will update its release instructions to the
           appropriate units. Typically, this release update would include authorization for units
           to use the item/weapon system configuration to conduct operational certification
           actions. Since the released item has not yet been nuclear certified, the item shall not
           be used in support of an operational nuclear mission with war reserve weapons or
           certified critical components. After the SM receives an NCS, the SM will send an
           updated release recommendation to the Lead/Using Command.                   When the
           Lead/Using Command’s internal and external coordination requirements are satisfied,
           the Lead/Using Command will specify required actions in the release instructions for
           both Operationally Certified units as well as units not yet Operationally Certified.
           Only units that have completed Operational Certification for the new/modified
           weapon system configuration may use the nuclear certified, weapon system
           configuration in support of a nuclear mission with war reserve weapons or certified
           critical components.
           3.4.1.1.4. Release Case 4: “Release Now, Never Certify.” Release of a new or
           modified item for which: 1) Design Certification and/or Operational Certification has
           not been initiated or completed; and 2) the Lead/Using Command does not plan to
           initiate or complete nuclear certification in the future.          When operational
           requirements dictate, the Lead/Using Command may direct the SM to develop and
           release an item with no intention of design-certifying the item or nuclear-certifying
           the new/modified weapon system configuration. The SM will submit an NCIS to
           AAC/NWC stating the Lead/Using Command’s “Release Case 4” intention.
           AAC/NWC will coordinate the restricted release request with all affected certification
           process owners and provide appropriate direction to the SM in the Basic CRP. The
           Lead/Using Command must restrict the affected nuclear certified weapon system to a
           “conventional-only” role and address the impact of the non-nuclear certified weapon
           system configuration on operational requirements. For example, even though the
           aircraft at a unit currently are conventional use only, the unit has a requirement to
           meet their DOC nuclear-mission requirements.
3.5. Sustainment Phase. The Sustainment Phase includes all actions necessary to maintain
nuclear certification of a weapon system once operational. Activities during this phase include
weapon system deficiency reporting, reporting the results of periodic system testing,
inspections/evaluations, and periodic procedure reviews. A nuclear certified system or item
enters the Sustainment Phase once fielded/operational and remains in the Sustainment Phase
until retirement, decertification or changes in the design/operational use necessitate reentry to the
Identification Phase for nuclear certification process. The status of all nuclear certification
activities for both Design Certification (compatibility, safety, rules development, and technical
orders) and Operational Certification (qualification training, PRP, nuclear surety training, and
NSI/INSI) are monitored in the Sustainment Phase for changes that alter the nuclear certification
status of a weapon system. Any change that alters the certification status would drive the
process back to the Identification Phase of Nuclear Certification. There are five distinct ongoing
processes within the Nuclear Certification Sustainment Phase. These are Compatibility
 24                                               AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


Certification, Nuclear Safety Design Certification, Rules Development, Technical Order
Certification, and Operational Certification.
   3.5.1. Compatibility Certification. The Compatibility Certification process of the
   Sustainment Phase is the process of maintaining the Compatibility Certification of a certified
   weapon system or component. Compatibility Certification confirms a weapon system or
   equipment item meets the requirements for the interface (mechanical, electrical, and
   aerodynamic) between the delivery vehicle and nuclear weapon based upon established
   design and evaluation requirements.
      3.5.1.1. Aircraft Compatibility Certification Process. The process begins once the
      Lead/Using Command receives the nuclear certified system/item and it includes all
      actions required for AAC/NW to maintain the nuclear compatibility certification
      statement. Once the Lead/Using Command receives the nuclear certified system/item,
      the AF unit is required to conduct initial and periodic operational checks IAW applicable
      technical orders. AAC/NW will be provided Category I and critical or major Category II
      DRs, as defined in T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Materiel Deficiency Reporting and
      Investigating System for those items listed in the MNCL. AAC/NW will also be
      provided those testing results to determine if the deficiencies identified or the testing
      results impact the compatibility certification status of the system. Similarly, AAC/NW
      will be provided inspection and evaluation reports generated by the Lead/Using
      Command (e.g., NSI, NORI, Tactical Evaluation [TAC Eval], etc.) to determine if the
      compatibility certification may be affected by inspection or evaluation findings. The
      system SM must be informed of system deficiencies affecting compatibility certification
      via the reporting processes and/or from AAC/NW. If the SM determines a baseline
      configuration change is required, the SM must initiate the Nuclear Certification
      Identification Phase detailed in Section 3.2.
          3.5.1.1.1. Surveillance Testing. The AAC/NW will conduct recurring annual
          surveillance and/or AMAC tests for each type of certified nuclear aircraft weapon
          system. The Lead/Using Command will provide combat delivery aircraft as
          necessary to support flight-testing of NNSA/USAF air-carried nuclear weapons.
          They will also provide operational aircraft assets and personnel as necessary to
          support AMAC and surveillance testing on USAF and non-U.S. NATO operational
          nuclear-capable aircraft and air-launched missile systems.
          3.5.1.1.2. Testing Results. The results of recurring surveillance and/or AMAC
          testing shall be maintained and published in a surveillance test database or
          appropriate repository. These results shall also be published in a test report following
          each test and shall be used by AAC/NW as source data to justify continuing the
          nuclear compatibility certification. AAC/NW shall also provide the surveillance test
          reports to the system SM.
      3.5.1.2. ICBM Compatibility Certification. The ICBM NCM in conjunction with the
      Lead/Using Command monitors compatibility certification throughout sustainment.
      They conduct periodic testing (e.g., Simulated Electronic Launch Minuteman [SELM],
      etc.) and monitor DRs, inspections, etc. to ensure the weapon system continues to meet
      all nuclear compatibility certification requirements. Any impact to compatibility
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                               25


     certification will result in return to the Identification Phase and subsequent submission of
     an NCIS.
  3.5.2. Nuclear Safety Design Certification. The Nuclear Safety Design Certification
  process of the Sustainment Phase is ongoing once a certified weapon system is fielded. It
  involves those actions, which assess if a change in the status of the nuclear safety design
  certification of hardware or software is appropriate (e.g., decertification or use restriction)
  IAW AFI 91-103. The need to modify the weapon system and restart the certification
  process, decertification or use restriction of a certified item will result in reentry into the
  Identification Phase. Formal notification is provided to AAC/NWC when decertification or
  use restrictions are implemented against safety design certified items so these changes can be
  documented in the MNCL.
  3.5.3. Rules Development. The Rules Development process of the Sustainment Phase
  involves those actions, which result in either approval or disapproval of an Air Force Safety
  Rules Package. This phase includes all documentation and staffing actions necessary to
  support Operational Safety Reviews (OSRs) by the NWSSG IAW AFI 91-102 and DoD
  3150.2-M. OSRs evaluate existing nuclear certified weapon systems on a recurring basis.
  Exit from the Rules Development Sustainment process occurs with either approval or
  disapproval by the SECDEF of an Air Force Safety Rules Package and implementation of
  Air Staff-approved recommendations, which may or may not require initiation of the Nuclear
  Certification process. AAC/NWC is formally notified of the approval and publication of
  WSSRs and determines the impact to the nuclear certification of the weapon system. If there
  is no impact, then no action is required. If they require a change to the weapon system or
  otherwise impact the nuclear certification of that weapon system, then the process of
  initiating a nuclear certification action and return to the Identification Phase will be the next
  step.
  3.5.4. Technical Order Certification Sustainment. The actions in this phase establish a
  mechanism to identify and process changes to published T.O.s and other nuclear mission
  essential guidance. The TOMA/ICBM NCM will address changes.
  3.5.5. Operational Certification. The Sustainment Phase Operational Certification process
  begins once a unit is Operationally Certified. A copy of a unit’s evaluation and inspection
  report will be forwarded to AAC/NWC as required by Table 5.1.
     3.5.5.1. Unit Program Management. A Lead/Using Command with a nuclear mission
     must ensure units maintain and conduct follow-on (continuation) training programs.
     These training programs include recurring qualification and certification programs,
     Nuclear Surety programs, and a viable PRP.
     3.5.5.2. Lead/Using Command Evaluations and Inspections. The Lead/Using
     Command IG will perform periodic inspections IAW AFI 90-201 and Lead/Using
     Command supplements. Units with areas rated “Unsatisfactory” under pass/fail criteria
     outlined in AFI 90-201 and T.O. 11N-25-1 may be reinspected prior to inspection team
     departure. If the area is not reinspected to at least a “Marginal’ level, the inspected unit
     must discontinue that portion of the operation until reinspected or corrective measures are
     implemented and approved by the MAJCOM commander pending reinspection. Other
     inspections or staff assistance visits are also conducted to verify that a unit is in
     compliance with all certification requirements. Lead/Using Command oversight can
26                                               AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


     include but is not limited to NSSAVs, NORIs, Unit Compliance Inspections (UCIs), and
     Combat Capability Assessment. If an inspection or evaluation documents a nuclear
     operational certification deficiency, the issue(s) may require entry into the Identification
     Phase.
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                              27


                                           Chapter 4

                               TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

4.1. Nuclear Certification Process Training Requirements. AAC/NWC will develop course
templates to provide program office, Lead/Using Command, unit, and executive-level initial
orientation/recurring training. This training will cover general principles and policies regarding
the certification process. Personnel assigned to positions, which deal with nuclear weapons, or
nuclear weapon delivery systems shall receive nuclear certification process training
commensurate with their level of responsibility.
   4.1.1. Program Offices. System Program Directors (SPDs) and SMs assigned to program
   offices with nuclear certified equipment or Product Group Managers (PGM)
   developing/modifying equipment which is expected to require certification will receive, at a
   minimum, executive-level training upon assignment. NCMs will complete initial training
   within 30 days of assignment and recurring training annually. SMs are responsible for
   identifying personnel requiring training and ensuring completion prior to performing duties,
   which affect nuclear certification. Personnel assigned to program offices with nuclear
   certified equipment will receive initial training within 30 days of assignment.
   4.1.2. Lead/Using Command. Lead/Using Command personnel with nuclear-related duties
   will receive initial training upon assignment. Lead/Using Command staff members with
   nuclear-related duties and commanders who perform nuclear-related duties or who have
   subordinates who do will receive executive level training upon assignment. MAJCOMs are
   responsible for identifying personnel requiring training and ensuring completion prior to
   performing duties, which affect nuclear certification.
   4.1.3. Units. MAJCOMs will designate those positions under their control that have
   responsibilities under this instruction. Those positions will require initial nuclear
   certification training and annual recurring training commensurate with their duties. This
   training will be developed by the unit and approved by the MAJCOM.
 28                                             AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


                                       Chapter 5

               DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

5.1. Documentation and Reporting Requirements. There are specific               certification
documentation and reporting requirements. These are summarized in Table 5.1.

Table 5.1. Reporting Requirements for Nuclear Certification.
        Type             OPR        When         Submit To              Remarks
    of Document                   Submitted
AF Form 847,          Users       As            SM             SM acts on TO change
Recommendation                    Required                     request.
for Change of
Publication
AFTO Form 22,         Users       IAW T.O.      SM
TM Change                         00-5-1, Air
Recommendation                    Force
and Reply                         Technical
                                  Order
                                  System
Basic Certification   AAC/NWC     See note      SM             AAC/NWC provides copies
Requirements Plan                                              to all appropriate
(CRP)                                                          certification process owners.
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                  29


        Type             OPR     When      Submit To            Remarks
   of Document                 Submitted
Certification       SM         See note    AAC/NWC       Once the SM attaches the
Requirements Plan                                      required appendices and
(CRP)                                                  finalizes the Basic CRP, the
                                                       document becomes the
                                                       CRP. Upon receipt of an
                                                       NCIS, AAC/NWC will
                                                       contact the appropriate
                                                       process owners to determine
                                                       the actions necessary to
                                                       obtain or maintain Nuclear
                                                       Certification. If there is no
                                                       impact, the SM will be
                                                       advised no certification
                                                       action is required. If it is a
                                                       component ID change only,
                                                       an update to the MNCL will
                                                       be accomplished. If there is
                                                       an impact, the AAC/NWC
                                                       will then develop a Basic
                                                       CRP within 30 days to
                                                       advise the SM of these
                                                       actions. AAC/NWC
                                                       coordinates the CRP with
                                                       certification process owners
                                                       and provides the approved
                                                       CRP to the SM for
                                                       execution.
Design Certification AAC/NWC   As          SM          Issued when compatibility,
Summary                        Required                safety, safety rules, or T.O.
                                                       procedures are certified
                                                       either in part or as a whole.
                                                       AAC/NWC will prepare a
                                                       Design Certification
                                                       Summary to advise the SM
                                                       that all Design Certification
                                                       actions prescribed in the
                                                       CRP are complete. This
                                                       Summary grants Design
                                                       Certification.
 30                                               AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


       Type                  OPR        When    Submit To              Remarks
  of Document                        Submitted
Dull Sword Reports      Unit,        As        IAW AFI 91-    Units submit upon
                        Weapon       Required; 204            discovery of a potential
                        Safety       Submit to                nuclear safety deficiency.
                        Manager      MAJCOM
                        (WSM)        / HQ AFSC
                                     /
                                     AAC/NW,
                                     etc.
Formal Technical        TOMA/ICB     As        AAC/NWC        Documents completion of
Order Approval          M NCM        Required                 all T.O. development
Notification                                                  actions.
Initial and Final       SM           As           AAC/NW      SM develops NSAR, which
NSAR                                 Required                 is the primary source
                                                              document to build the
                                                              TNSA, and describes
                                                              nuclear safety deficiencies.
Initial and Final       HQ           IAW AFI      HQ
NWSSG Report            AFSC/SEW     91-102       USAF/SEI,
                                                  NWSSG
Initial and Final       AAC/NW       IAW AFI      NWSSG
TNSA                                 91-102
Lead/Using              Lead/Using   After        AAC/NW,     Report critical/major
Command Nuclear         Command      inspection   HQ          deficiencies which impact
Inspection Reports      IG           completion   AFSC/SEW,   nuclear certification.
or extracts of                                    SM          Provide copy of formal NSI
certification related                                         report and messages of INSI
information from                                              inspection results.
NSIs, NORIs,
UCIs, TAC EVAL
summaries from
USAFE
Lead/Using              Lead/Using   Prior to     SM          Lead/Using Command
Command Release         Command      release of               accomplishes the required
Authorization                        an item                  coordination to ensure the
                                                              conditions are met (i.e., Is
                                                              the unit ready to receive the
                                                              item?).
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                 31


        Type            OPR      When      Submit To            Remarks
   of Document                 Submitted
Master Nuclear       AAC/NWC   As          AAC/NWC     The MNCL is the sole
Certification List             Required                source used to verify
(MNCL)                                                 nuclear certification and
                                                       replaces T.O. 00-110N-16,
                                                       Equipment Authorized for
                                                       Use with Nuclear Weapons
                                                       and portions of ICBM-12-1
                                                       T.O.s. The MNCL is a
                                                       web-based tool designed to
                                                       define the hardware,
                                                       software, technical data,
                                                       configuration, and other
                                                       information that is
                                                       encompassed within the
                                                       definition of nuclear
                                                       certification. Its purpose is
                                                       to enable users to identify
                                                       nuclear certification status
                                                       of a weapon system, sub-
                                                       system, component,
                                                       software, or support
                                                       equipment. The MNCL will
                                                       be linked to the home page
                                                       for AAC/NW at:
                                                       http://www.nwd.kirtland.af.
                                                       mil and managed by
                                                       AAC/NWC.
Material/Quality     User      IAW T.O.    SM
Deficiency Reports             00-35D-54
 32                                           AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


        Type              OPR      When        Submit To            Remarks
   of Document                   Submitted
Nuclear                All SMs   See note     AAC/NWC,     NCIS is required to start the
Certification Impact                          SM, HQ       process toward achieving
Statement (NCIS)                              AFSC/SEW     the nuclear certification of
                                                           an item. This statement
                                                           advises AAC/NWC that a
                                                           new weapon system or a
                                                           change to an existing
                                                           weapon system, equipment
                                                           item or procedure should be
                                                           evaluated for its impact to
                                                           the nuclear certification
                                                           status of a weapon system.
                                                           The NCIS must be
                                                           submitted at least 45 days
                                                           prior to the release of a
                                                           request for proposal or an
                                                           equivalent program
                                                           milestone.
Nuclear                All SMs   As changes   AAC/NWC      All SMs must appoint a
Certification                    occur                     Nuclear Certification
Manager’s (NCM)                                            Manager. SMs shall identify
Appointment Letter                                         the organization’s NCM in
                                                           writing. The letter must
                                                           include POC information
                                                           including name, grade or
                                                           rank, office and address,
                                                           telephone number, and
                                                           email address. SMs will
                                                           send a copy of the letter to
                                                           AAC/NWC within thirty
                                                           days of appointment.
Nuclear                AAC/NWC   As           SM           Issued when all aspects of
Certification                    Required                  Design Cert and Op Cert are
Summary                                                    achieved. AAC/NWC will
                                                           prepare a Nuclear
                                                           Certification Summary to
                                                           advise the SM that Design
                                                           Certification and
                                                           Operational Certification
                                                           actions prescribed in the
                                                           CRP are complete. This
                                                           Summary grants nuclear
                                                           certification.
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                           33


        Type                OPR       When       Submit To              Remarks
   of Document                      Submitted
Nuclear                AAC/NW       As          AAC/NWC       Issued when all aspects of
Compatibility          or ICBM      Required                  Compatibility Certification
Certification          NCM                                    are accomplished.
Statement (NCCS)
Nuclear Safety         HQ           As          AAC/NWC       Provides notification that all
Design Certification   AFSC/SEW     Required                  nuclear safety design
Letter                                                        certification actions have
                                                              been completed.
Nuclear Safety         HQ           As          AAC/NWC,      Update MNCL. Note: Using
Design                 AFSC/SEW     Required    SM,           Command can implement
Decertification/Use                             Lead/Using    use restrictions at their
Restriction                                     Command       discretion.
Notification
Nuclear Surety         SM           As          HQ            SM conducts Nuclear
Evaluation                          Required    AFSC/SEW,     Surety Evaluation to
                                                AAC/NW        determine if the mod
                                                              satisfies nuclear surety
                                                              requirements.
NWSSG                  HQ           IAW AFI     IAW AFI 91-
Recommendations        AFSC/SEW     91-102      102
Status Report
Operational            Lead/Using   As          AAC/NWC       Documents that all required
Certification Letter   Command      Required                  Op Cert actions have been
                                                              completed.
Operational Plan       Lead/Using   IAW AFI     NWSSG,
Data Document          Command      91-102      AAC/NW,
(OPDD)                                          HQ
                                                USAF/XON
Rules Approval         HQ           As          AAC/NWC       Provides notification that all
Notification           AFSC/SEW     Required                  required safety rules have
                                                              been approved by SECDEF.
Safety Rules           HQ           As          HQ            HQ USAF/SEI coordinates
Coordination           AFSC/SEW     Required    USAF/SEI      package through Air Staff,
Package                                                       DTRA, JCS, and OSD to
                                                              SECDEF
SM Release             SM           As          Lead/Using    SM provides release
Recommendation                      Required    Command       recommendation for use of
                                                              the system to the Lead
                                                              Operating Command.

5.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal,
 34                                              AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual Change Recommendation and Reply
NOTE: Submit for a new nuclear weapon system/item or for the modification of a nuclear
weapon system/item which impacts nuclear certification. Also required for units assuming or
resuming a nuclear mission commitment or when a unit with a nuclear mission relocates and
must reestablish the appropriate programs and pass an INSI.




                                           MARVIN R. SAMBUR
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                           (Acquisition)

                                           (AFSOC)

                                           JOHN J. HALLER, JR., GS-15, DAF
                                           Executive Director of Logistics
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                          35


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.1R, Information Security Program
DoD Directive 3150.2, DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program
DoD Manual 3150.2-M, DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program Manual
AFI 16-601, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreement
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management
(Added-AFSOC) AFI 33-363, Management of Records, 1 May 2006
AFI 36-2104, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program
AFI 51-402, Weapons Review
AFI 63-101, Acquisition System
AFI 63-103, Nuclear Weapons Program Management
AFI 63-104, The SEEK EAGLE Program
(Added-AFSOC) AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 15 March 2004
AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program
AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety
Rules
AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Certification Program
AFI 91-105, Critical Components
AFI 91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear
Weapon Systems
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFPAM 63-126, Nuclear Certification Process
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFMAN 91-118, Safety, Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems
AFMAN 91-119, Safety, Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software
AFPD 16-6, Arms Control Agreements
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management
AFPD 37-1, Information Management
AFPD 63-1, Acquisition Systems
 36                                             AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


T.O. 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order System
T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Materiel Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System
T.O. 00-110N-16, Equipment Authorized for Use with Nuclear Weapons
T.O. 11N-25-1, DoD Nuclear Weapons Technical Inspection System
(Added-AFSOC) Prescribed Forms
(Added-AFSOC) None.
(Added-AFSOC) Adopted Forms
(Added-AFSOC) -21 shop log book
(Added-AFSOC) AF Form 4354, Vehicle Preventative Maintenance and Inspection (PM&I)
(Added-AFSOC) AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record
(Added-AFSOC) AFTO Form 95, Significant Historical Data Record
(Added-AFSOC) DD Form 1574-1, Serviceable Label–Material tag

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-AFSOC) A4RE—Distribution, Energy and Equipment Branch
AAC/NW—Nuclear Weapons Directorate
AAC/NWC—AAC/NW’s Certification Management Division
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACCD—Aircraft Compatibility Control Document
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AFSC/SEW—AFSC/Weapons, Space, and Nuclear Safety Division
AFSEO—Air Force SEEK EAGLE Office
(Added-AFSOC) AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AMAC—Aircraft Monitor and Control
CDD—Capability Development Document
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CPD—Capability Production Document
CRP—Certification Requirements Plan
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                              37


DAC—Designated Acquisition Commander
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DR—Deficiency Reports
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency
EICD—Electrical Interface Control Drawing
FDAR—Final Design Approval Report
FDE—Force Development Evaluation
HQ—Headquarters
HQ USAF/IL—HQ Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff of Installations and Logistics
HQ USAF/ILM—HQ Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff of Installations and Logistics,
Maintenance Division
HQ USAF/SE—HQ Air Force Chief of Safety
HQ USAF/SEI—HQ Air Force Chief of Safety Issues Division
HQ USAF/XOF—HQ Air Force Directorate of Forces
HQ USAF/XON—HQ Air Force Directorate of Nuclear & Counterproliferation
HQ USAF/XOR—HQ Air Force Directorate of Requirements
HW—Hardware
IAW—In Accordance With
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
IG—Inspector General
INSI—Initial Nuclear Surety Inspection
ITCTO—Interim Time Compliance Technical Order
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAR—Major Assembly Release
MICD—Mechanical Interface Control Drawing
MNCL—Master Nuclear Certification List
NALPOG—Nuclear Airlift Project Officers Group
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NCCS—Nuclear Compatibility Certification Statement
 38                                            AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


NCE—Nuclear Certified Equipment
NCI—Nuclear Certified Item
NCIS—Nuclear Certification Impact Statement
NCM—Nuclear Certification Manager
NCS—Nuclear Certification Summary
NNSA—National Nuclear Security Administration
NORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
NSI—Nuclear Surety Inspection
NSSAV—Nuclear Surety Staff Assistance Visit
NSWG—Nuclear Surety Working Group
NWSSG—Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group
OPDD—Operational Plan Data Document
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSR—Operational Safety Review
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PGM—Product Group Manager
PNAF—Primary Nuclear Airlift Force
POG—Project Officers Group
PPBE—Planning, Programming, and Execution System
PRP—Personnel Reliability Program
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AQ—SAF/Assistant Secretary for Acquisition
SAF/AQX—SAF/Assistant Secretary for Acquisition, Acquisition Integration Directorate
SAF/IG—SAF/The Inspector General
SAF/USA—SAF/Under Secretary for Space Acquisition
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SELM—Simulated Electronic Launch Minuteman
SM—Single Manager
SNL—Sandia National Laboratories
SPD—System Program Director
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                          39


SW—Software
TCM—Technical Content Manager
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
TNSA—Technical Nuclear Surety Analysis
TO—Technical Order
TOMA—Technical Order Management Agency
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UEI—Unit Effectiveness Inspection
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
WSM—Weapon Safety Manager
WSSR—Weapon System Safety Rules
WR—War Reserve

Terms
DECERT—(ICBM only term) Action by proper authority to remove a certified critical
component from operational use. When it becomes necessary to remove an operationally
certified critical component from the operational weapon system, DECERT is accomplished
prior to removing two-person control. DECERT consists of removal of classified/code material
and the subsequent removal from nuclear certified control.
Design Certification—This occurs when each of four components is accomplished for the
weapon system: Compatibility Certification, Nuclear Safety Certification, Weapon System
Safety Rules (WSSRs) Approval, and Technical Orders Approval.
Lead Command—The MAJCOM that serves as an operator’s interface with the Single Manager
for a weapon system as defined by AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems
Management. This term is not to be confused with that MAJCOM designated by HQ
USAF/XOR as OPR for authoring a requirements document (i.e., This MAJCOM would be the
“Using Command”). Although, in most cases, the MAJCOM designated by HQ USAF/XOR to
sponsor a requirement will become the "Lead Command" for a weapon system.
Major Assembly Release (MAR)—A Sandia National Laboratories (SNL) prepared, DOE/AL
approved statement that war reserve (WR) weapon material is satisfactory for release on a
designated effective date to the DoD for specified uses which are qualified by exceptions and
limitations.
Non-Specialized Equipment—Equipment used with nuclear weapons but not specifically
designed for that purpose. (USAF)
Nuclear Certification—This occurs when a determination is made by the applicable Service
that procedures, personnel, equipment, facilities, and organizations are capable of performing
assigned nuclear weapon functions and missions. Nuclear certification is a part of OSS&E, as
 40                                                AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


directed by AFI 63-1201. The Air Force Nuclear Certification Program has two major
components: Design Certification and Operational Certification.
Nuclear Certified Equipment—Peculiar (i.e., system specific) and common specialized or non-
specialized support equipment whose design meets applicable design criteria and is nuclear
certified IAW AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program and identified in the MNCL.
Nuclear Certified Item—Procedures, equipment, software, facilities, systems, subsystems or
components which are nuclear certified IAW AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program.
Nuclear Surety—All functions and activities to ensure Air Force nuclear systems are designed,
developed, operated, maintained, transported, and controlled to provide maximum safety to the
public and operating personnel while protecting the environment and maintaining reliability to
support mission accomplishment.
Nuclear Weapon System—A combat delivery vehicle with its nuclear weapon or weapons and
associated support equipment, noncombat delivery vehicles, facilities, and services. (USAF
definition).
Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group (NWSSG)—The NWSSG is composed of
representatives from applicable Air Force major commands, Combatant Commands, Air Force
Security Forces Center, Department of Energy, and Defense Threat Reduction Agency and is
chaired by an appointee from HQ AFSC/SEW. It conducts all nuclear weapon system safety
studies and operational safety reviews to evaluate Air Force nuclear weapon systems and ensure
the DoD Nuclear Weapon Safety Standards are met in weapon system design and operations.
(USAF definition).
Operational Certification—This occurs when the Lead Command/Using Command qualifies
its personnel to perform the mission, certifies them in the Personnel Reliability Program (PRP),
trains them in nuclear surety and assigns a “Ready” rating on an Initial Nuclear Surety Inspection
(INSI).
OPCERT—(ICBM only term) The process of verifying a system or critical component is
functioning as design certified and all credible threats and scenarios are mitigated. An item
identified as a nuclear critical component must successfully complete OPCERT procedures prior
to installation in the operational weapon system or whenever two-person control has been lost,
the component has been decertified, or when directed by higher authority.
SEEK EAGLE—The Air Force certification program for determining safe carriage,
employment and jettison limits, safe escape, and ballistics accuracy, when applicable, for all
stores in specified loading configurations on USAF aircraft.
Single Manager (SM)—The primary single interface to the customer for a system or product
group. The SM directs one or more programs and is accountable to the PEO or the DAC. The
SM is vested with full authority, responsibility, and resources to execute a program on behalf of
the Air Force. The SM is also responsible for life cycle management of the weapon system.
Specialized Equipment—Equipment designed specifically for use with nuclear weapons.
(USAF)
Support Equipment—Includes all equipment required to perform the support function, except
that which is an integral part of the mission equipment. It does not include any of the equipment
required to perform mission operation functions. Support equipment should be interpreted as
AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012                                                         41


tools; test equipment; automatic test equipment (when used in a support function);
organizational, field, and depot support equipment; and related computer program software.
(USAF)
User—The unit (squadron, wing, etc.) actually operating a system on a daily basis.
Using Command—The MAJCOM operating a system, subsystem or item of equipment.
Generally applies to those operational commands or organizations designated by Headquarters,
US Air Force to conduct or participate in operations or operational testing (e.g., Air Combat
Command [ACC], AFSPC, USAFE).
42                                                                                                                         AFI63-125_AFSOCSUP_I 1 MARCH 2012


                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                                       NUCLEAR CERTIFICATION PROCESS: MACRO VIEW




 Air Force Nuclear Certification Process: Macro View
                          Identification Phase                                                      Administration Phase                                Fielding Phase                  Sustainment Phase




                                                                         1.4 AAC/NW or ICBM                                                                                             1.13 AAC/NW or ICBM
                                                                                NCM                                                                                                             NCM
                                                                              Compatibility                                                                                                  Compatibility
                                                                              Certification                                                                                                  Certification



                                                                                                                                                                                        1.14 HQ AFSC/SEW
                                                                            1.5 HQ AFSC/SEW
                                                                                                                                                                                            Nuclear Safety
                                                                              Nuclear Safety                                                                                              Design Certification
                                                                            Design Certification


                                                                          1.6 HQ AFSC/SEW                                                                                                1.15 HQ AFSC/SEW
                                                                               NWSSG                      1.9 AAC/NWC                                                                          NWSSG
       1.1 SM                         1.2                   1.3                                                                     1.10         1.11 SM                 1.12
                             What is required to       Certification      Rules Development                Notify SM that       Certification                       New or Modified
 Design Requirements       obtain/maintain nuclear   Requirement Plan                                   Nuclear Certification                   Fielding Phase           llem             Rules Development
                                                                                                                                 Summary
 Identification Process         certification?            (CRP)                                         actions are complete
                                [ACC/NWC]
                                                                        1.7 TOMA or ICBM NCM

                                                                           T.O. Certification                                                                                           1.16 TOMA or ICBM
                                                                                                                                                                                               NCM

                                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. Certification

                                                                                                         1.9.1 AAC/NWC             1.9.2
                                                                        1.8 Lead/Using Command                                    MNCL
                                                                                                         Update MNCL
                                                                             Operational                                                                                              1.17 Lead/Using Command
                                                                             Certification
                                                                                                                                                                                           Operational
                                                                                                                                                                                           Certification
