BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-402
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                19 JULY 1994
                                                                  AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                        28 DECEMBER 2010

                                                                       Financial Management

                                               RELATIONS WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF
                                                 DEFENSE, OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT
                                                INSPECTOR GENERALS FOR AUDITING,
                                                      AND ANALYSIS AND FOLLOW UP

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/FMPF                                                         Certified by: SAF/FMPF
Supersedes: AFR 11-38, 10 July 1992.                                  (Mr Vaughn E. Schlunz)
                                                                                     Pages: 23
                                            (ACC)
OPR: HQ ACC/FMFPM                                                      Certified by: ACC/FMF
Supersedes: AFR 11-38/ACCS 1, 8                                          (Col John R. Shields)
            January 1993                                                               Pages:7


This instruction implements AFPD 65-4, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports and
Liaison with External Audit Organizations; and Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction
7050.3, Access to Records and Information by the Inspector General, Department of Defense,
November 9, 1984; DoD Directive 7600.2, Audit Policies, February 2, 1991, DoD Directive
7600.10, Audits of State and Local Governments, Institutions of Higher Education, and Other
Nonprofit Institutions, May 20 1991; and DoD Directive 7650.3, Followup on General
Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and Internal Audit Reports, September 5, 1989, with
Changes 1 through 3. This instruction explains Air Force relation with DoD, Office of the
Inspector General (DoDIG), Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Auditing and, Analysis
and Followup as related to audits and reviews of the Air Force. Relationship between the Air
Force and the General Accounting Office (GAO) is prescribed in AFI 65-401. Attachment 1 is
a glossary of references, abbreviations, and acronyms.
 2                                                                      AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the initial publication of AFI 65-402, revising AFR 11-38.

(ACC) This document incorporates requirements, information, and procedures formerly in AFR
11-38/ACCS 1. It also updates the office symbol for the HQ ACC audit focal point and clarifies
the requirement to report significant contacts with DoDIG audit and audit followup officials.

        1.        Responsibilities and Authorities. ...........................................................................                 2
        1.        (ACC) The Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Auditing (OAIG-AUD) and the
                  Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Analysis and Followup (OAIG-AFU) are
                  under the direction, control, and authority of the Office of the Inspector General,
                  Department of Defense (DoDIG) and for the purposes of this instruction both are referred
                  to simply as DoDIG. .............................................................................................. 2
        1.4.      (ACC) ....................................................................................................................    8
        2.        Performing the Audit: ............................................................................................           10
        3.        Reporting the Audit. ..............................................................................................          16
        4.        Audits of State and Local Governments, Institutions of Higher Education, and Other
                  Nonprofit Institutions. ............................................................................................         20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMS                                                                               22


1. Responsibilities and Authorities. The Office of the Assistant Inspector General for
Auditing (OAIG-AUD), under the direction of the DoDIG, conducts audits of DoD programs
and activities. The Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Analysis and Followup (OAIG-
AFU), also under the direction of the DoDIG, establishes audit followup policy and manages an
audit followup program for DoDIG audit reports.
1. (ACC)The Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Auditing (OAIG-AUD) and the
Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Analysis and Followup (OAIG-AFU) are
under the direction, control, and authority of the Office of the Inspector General,
Department of Defense (DoDIG) and for the purposes of this instruction both are referred
to simply as DoDIG.
     1.1. The OAIG-AUD plans and conducts:
              Internal audits of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Organization of the Joint
               Chiefs of Staff, the unified commands and defense agencies.
              Interservice audits involving two or more DoD components and single service audits
               when the cognizant service audit activity can't provide needed audit coverage.
              Quick reaction audits.
              Other audits that the DoDIG considers appropriate.
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                             3


     1.1.1. Relationships Between the Air Force and OAIG-AUD. Air Force personnel
     must cooperate fully with OAIG-AUD auditors. Normally, when an auditor needs to
     discuss or conduct an audit in the Air Force, the auditor initially contacts the Director for
     Audit Liaison and Followup (SAF/FMPF). If an auditor contacts an Air Force office that
     did not receive notification of the audit, the people contacted should call their
     organization's point of contact who contacts SAF/FMPF to obtain a copy of the audit
     announcement. Air Force activities must give auditors working on an audit:
           Adequate temporary working space and facilities.
           Prompt, unrestricted access to all Air Force facilities, personnel, and documents.
            See paragraph 2.4 for access procedures.
           Interviews with Air Force personnel with specific knowledge about areas under
            audit.
           Prompt and constructive comments to findings, recommendations, and estimated
            potential monetary benefits.
           Assistance in determining appropriate security clearance requirements and
            obtaining full, prompt access to contractor facilities, personnel, and records.
           Briefings on access to special access programs.
  1.2. The OAIG-AFU:
       Develops, disseminates and provides oversight of military services compliance with
        audit followup policy.
       Keeps followup records of management actions and time schedules for responding to
        and acting on DoDIG findings and recommendations until final disposition.
       Evaluates management actions, taken or planned, to implement DoDIG
        recommendations and decides if these actions are adequate, alerts managers or the
        Secretary of Defense to any discrepancies.
       Mediates disagreements between Air Force managers and the OAIG-AUD on audit
        findings, recommendations, and estimated potential monetary benefits.
       Prepares memorandums on disagreements between Air Force and DoDIG that cannot
        be resolved at a lower management level for the Inspector General submission to the
        Deputy Secretary of Defense for decision.
       Monitors, evaluates, and reports to the Secretary of Defense on the DoD audit
        followup program.
     1.2.1. Relationships Between the Air Force and OAIG-AFU. Air Force personnel
     must cooperate with OAIG-AFU representatives. They must promptly grant access to
     Air Force facilities, personnel, documents, or information relating to followup items.
     Report objections to releasing information per paragraph 2.4. Normally, followup
     personnel auditors who need to discuss an audit followup inquiry with Air Force
     personnel will initially contact SAF/FMPF. If an OAIG-AFU person contacts an Air
     Force office that was not notified of the audit followup, the Air Force official contacted
4                                              AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


       should call the organization's central point of contact who then contacts SAF/FMPF to
       get a copy of audit followup request.
    1.3. Air Force Responsibilities. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial
    Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) manages DoDIG audit liaison and followup, and
    resolves questions about access to facilities, personnel, and documents.
       1.3.1. Air Force Single Point of Contact. The Director for Audit Liaison and Followup
       (SAF/FMPF) who is assigned to the Deputy Assistant Secretary, Plans, Systems and
       Analysis (SAF/FMP) is the single point of contact for all audit matters with the DoDIG.
       The SAF/FMPF:
          1.3.1.1. Manages Air Force's day-to-day relations with DoDIG to achieve a
          cooperative, business like rapport.
          1.3.1.2. Receives DoDIG audit and audit followup announcements.
          1.3.1.3. Sends audit and followup announcements to Secretariat, Air Staff, major
          commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies, direct reporting units, Air Force
          Reserve, and Air National Guard points of contact. In processing announcements,
          SAF/FMPF:
                   Assigns the office of primary responsibility (OPR) and office of collateral
                    responsibility (OCR) to a Secretariat or Air Staff office.
                   Distributes copies of announcements to the Secretariat, Air Staff, and
                    MAJCOM offices.
                   Prepares and distributes assignment instructions to Air Force offices, OPR
                    and OCRs.
                   Requests the OPR and OCR to designate a central point of contact.
          1.3.1.4. Notifies applicable Air Force activities of changes in the scope of the audit
          or followup review, visit of DoDIG personnel to Air Force activities, termination of
          audit or followup reviews, and closure of audit reports.
          1.3.1.5. Processes requests from DoDIG personnel for information, briefings,
          conferences, and other assistance.
          1.3.1.6. Maintains liaison with DoDIG and Air Force personnel to provide any
          information or assistance in solving audit problems.
          1.3.1.7. Receives, reviews, and processes DoDIG audit reports. In processing reports,
          SAF/FMPF:
                   Determines OPR, OCR, and applicable MAJCOMs for each report.
                   Prepares and distributes assignment instructions and a checklist to the Air
                    Force central point of contact including required actions, suspense date, the
                    designated point of contact, and so on.
                   Summarizes reports of special interest to the Air Force and sends them to
                    SAF/FM.
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                            5


                  Calls the point of contact to determine status of required comments.
                  Coordinates Air Force status with auditors.
                  Prepares other guidance and provides assistance.
       1.3.1.8. Reviews all Air Force comments to DoDIG reports to ensure their
       completeness, responsiveness, and timeliness. Note: SAF/FMPF's review of
       comments does not relieve the point of contact of the responsibility to prepare a
       complete and accurate response to the audit report.
       1.3.1.9. Distributes Air Force comments to DoDIG.
       1.3.1.10. Reports status of audits, audit reports, and Air Force comments to SAF/FM.
       1.3.1.11. Maintains formal records of DoDIG reports including:
                  Copy of the DoDIG report.
                  Management's position on each finding and recommendation.
                  Name of the Air Force point of contact and personnel responsible for
                   taking corrective actions.
                  Planned actions and time schedule for completion.
                  Copy of audit followup requests and Air Force responses.
       1.3.1.12. Receives, reviews, and processes DoDIG audit followup requests.              In
       processing followup requests, SAF/FMPF:
                  Identifies the Secretariat and Air Staff points of contact.
                  Distributes a copy of the request to the point of contact and other interested
                   Air Force offices.
                  Prepares assignment instructions and a checklist for the point of contact
                   which identifies required actions, suspense date, and other pertinent
                   information.
                  Calls the point of contact to determine the status of responses.
                  Coordinates extension requests from the point of contact with OAIG-AFU.
                  Prepares other guidance and provides assistance.
                  Reviews proposed response to audit followup requests to ensure that they
                   completely cover the issues raised. Note: SAF/FMPF's review of comments
                   does not relieve the point of contact of the responsibility to prepare a
                   complete and accurate response to the audit followup request.
                  Makes sure that followup responses adequately define the potential
                   monetary benefits and reflect the Director of Budget's (SAF/FMB)
                   coordination.
6                                             AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


                 Makes sure that the appropriate Air Force official signs the report. The
                  point of contact decides the final signatory level.
                 Distributes the Air Force followup response by OAIG-AFU's suspense.
                 Distributes audit closure letters to the central points of contact.
       1.3.1.13. Reports access issues and other matters pertaining to DoDIG audit activities
       to the Secretariat, Air Staff, or command point of contact.
       1.3.1.14. Assesses and reports the timeliness of Air Force comments by comparing
       the audit suspense for each report to the actual date that comments were provided to
       the audit organization. Furnish reports per AFPD 65-4, figure A1.2.
    1.3.2. Secretariat, Air Staff, and Special Staff Offices. Each Secretariat, Air Staff, and
    Special Staff Office must designate a central point of contact in the staff to manage
    DoDIG assignments.
       1.3.2.1. The central point of contact:
                 Gives the designee's name, office symbol, room, fax, and telephone
                  numbers to SAF/FMPF.
                 Manages DoDIG audit announcements, reports, followup requests and
                  management comments. Meets all suspense dates set by DoDIG.
                 Identifies a point of contact, an action officer, to manage each audit project
                  and prepare Air Force comments within established suspense dates. If the
                  central point of contact believes that another office should be the OPR, they
                  must notify SAF/FMPF as soon as possible.
                 Gives SAF/FMPF and DoDIG the name of the point of contact, office
                  symbol, room, fax, and telephone numbers within 5 working days of
                  receiving the audit announcement, report, or followup request.
                 Ensures that the point of contact complies with paragraph 1.3.3.
                 Advises SAF/FMPF when the point of contact will miss the established
                  suspense date.
                 Informs the Director, Assistant Secretary, Deputy Secretary or other
                  management officials of DoDIG activities within their       areas of
                  responsibility.
                 Advises SAF/FMPF when the central point of contact or point of contact
                  change.
    1.3.3. The Point of Contact:
       1.3.3.1. Monitors DoDIG activity for the project and is the single point of contact for
       the audit or followup review.
       1.3.3.2. Attends any audit entrance and exit meetings.
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                         7


        1.3.3.3. Assesses the potential sensitivity and impact of the DoDIG audit or followup
        review on the Air Force. If necessary, the point of contact briefs the Deputy Chief of
        Staff and other officials.
        1.3.3.4. Prepares a statement of impact for the Office of the Secretary and the Chief
        of Staff, summarizing report highlights and potential effect on the Air Force.
        1.3.3.5. Reviews audit reports and followup requests. Prepares any necessary Air
        Force comments.
        1.3.3.6. Ensures completeness of Air Force comments to audit findings,
        recommendations, potential monetary benefits, and followup requests.
        1.3.3.7. Obtains all necessary coordination of Air Force comments (for example,
        with the Secretariat, Air Staff, MAJCOM).
        1.3.3.8. Obtains the appropriate signature. Final signatory level must be at a level
        sufficient to represent an official Air Force position.
        1.3.3.9. Delivers signed comments to SAF/FMPF by the suspense date and informs
        the central point of contact that the task is completed.
        1.3.3.10. Requests extension of a suspense date through the central point of contact
        from SAF/FMPF and gives reasons for the delay. Request an extension early enough
        to allow SAF/FMPF to discuss it with the DoDIG. The DoDIG does not usually
        approve extensions.
        1.3.3.11. Obtains all necessary comments from OCRs, MAJCOMs, and other offices.
        If the members of any Air Force office believe that the response should include their
        comments, they should call the point of contact for instructions.
        1.3.3.12. Implements action per Air Force comments.
        1.3.3.13. Maintains a record of all savings that result from implementing audit
        recommendations.
        1.3.3.14. Reviews visit reports from MAJCOMs and ensures that they provide
        complete and accurate information.
        1.3.3.15. Responds to audit followup requests. Comments must confirm that
        corrective action was taken and include supporting documentation.
     1.3.4. MAJCOM Commanders. Each commander designates a point of contact at
     headquarters to manage DoDIG audit assignments and requests.
     1.3.4. (ACC) DoDIG focal points for HQ ACC are established per paragraph 1.4
     (Added) below.
        1.3.4.1. The MAJCOM point of contact:
                 Informs SAF/FMPF of his or her name, office symbol, and telephone
                  number.
                 Informs the commander and other appropriate officials of DoDIG
                  activities.
 8                                            AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


                   Coordinates DoDIG activities in the command by arranging visits,
                    processing requests for information and technical assistance, expediting
                    Secretariat or Air Staff requests for report comments, and processing other
                    related audit activity.
                   Monitors DoDIG auditors during visits to MAJCOM organizations in their
                    command and provides assistance when needed.
                   Processes internal reports regarding DoDIG visits to their command
                    organizations and installations. (See paragraph 2.5 for visit report
                    instructions.)
                   Notifies SAF/FMPF when the MAJCOM point of contact changes.
      1.3.5. Installation and Activity Commanders. Each commander must designate a local
      point of contact to manage DoDIG activity, including visit notices and reports and
      monitoring DoDIG activities during visits. Commanders must provide logistical
      assistance to the DoDIG personnel during their visits.
      1.3.5. (ACC) DoDIG focal points for ACC Intermediate Air Commands (IACs),
      installations, and units are established per paragraph 1.4 (Added) below.
1.4. (ACC)   (Added) ACC Focal Point Appointments and Responsibilities:
      1.4.1. (Added-ACC) HQ ACC Focal Point. The HQ ACC Comptroller (HQ
      ACC/FM) is the central focal point within ACC for all matters relating to DoDIG audit
      activity. HQ ACC/FMFP acts for HQ ACC/FM in this regard and will:
         1.4.1.1. (Added-ACC) Develop and implement a command program for monitoring
         DoDIG audit activity.
         1.4.1.2. (Added-ACC) Receive, review, process, and forward all DoDIG notices of
         surveys and reviews, visits, reports, and related correspondence to appropriate HQ
         ACC staff focal points.
         1.4.1.3. (Added-ACC) Monitor all audit activity at HQ ACC and subordinate units.
         1.4.1.4. (Added-ACC) Designate HQ ACC staff office of primary responsibility
         (OPR) and office of collateral responsibility (OCR) as appropriate.
         1.4.1.5. (Added-ACC) Advise and assist staff and unit focal points and functional
         action offices in regard to all matters concerning DoDIG.
         1.4.1.6. (Added-ACC) Advise and assist staff and unit focal points and functional
         action offices in regard to DoDIG access to Air Force information and records and
         ensure prompt processing of DoDIG requests for release of information.
         1.4.1.7. (Added-ACC) Promote cooperation between ACC and DoDIG personnel.
         1.4.1.8. (Added-ACC) Act as staff focal point for HQ ACC/FM.
      1.4.2. (Added-ACC) HQ ACC Staff Focal Points. Each directorate and staff agency
      (SA) will designate a focal point and an alternate within the directorate or SA and advise
      HQ ACC/FM in writing of each designee's name, rank, office symbol, and extension.
      The appointment memorandum will be updated as changes occur. Because of the
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                           9


     similarity with GAO audit activity (AFI 65-401), it is suggested that DoDIG audit
     activity focal point responsibility be assigned to the current GAO focal point. Staff focal
     points will:
        1.4.2.1. (Added-ACC) Develop and implement a program for coordinating and
        monitoring DoDIG activity and keeping the director or SA chief and staff informed of
        DoDIG matters.
        1.4.2.2. (Added-ACC) Receive, review, process, and forward                 all   DoDIG
        correspondence and reports to appropriate functional offices.
        1.4.2.3. (Added-ACC) Designate functional OPR and OCRs as appropriate.
        1.4.2.4. (Added-ACC) Act as the command project officer for DoDIG audits,
        significant contacts, and visits that his/her directorate or SA has been identified as
        OPR or OCR. If staff focal point will not act as the project officer for a specific
        DoDIG audit or visit, the staff focal point will ensure that HQ ACC/FMFP is notified
        in writing of the name, grade, office, and telephone number of the individual
        assuming project officer duties. The staff focal point will ensure that the project
        officer is familiar with the requirements in AFI 65-402 and this supplement.
        1.4.2.5. (Added-ACC) Monitor all DoDIG visits IAW AFI 65-402, paragraphs 2.2
        through 2.5, and this supplement.
        1.4.2.6. (Added-ACC) Advise and assist functional offices in preparing responses
        and resolving problems concerning visits, requests for information, DoDIG or Air
        Staff requests for comments to reports of audit, and other related issues.
        1.4.2.7. (Added-ACC) Maintain files on all DoDIG projects involving activities
        within their organization.
     1.4.3. (Added-ACC) Intermediate Air Command (IAC) Focal Point. The
     comptroller at IACs is designated focal point for DoDIG activity. Commanders of IACs
     without a comptroller function must appoint an individual to serve in this capacity. The
     IAC focal point will designate an alternate. All IAC focal points will provide HQ
     ACC/FMFP the name, grade, official mailing address, and telephone (DSN and
     commercial) and telefax numbers for the primary and alternate focal points.
     Appointment memorandum will be updated as changes occur. IAC focal point duties are
     the same as base focal points (paragraph 1.4.4 [Added] below).
     1.4.4. (Added-ACC) ACC Base and Unit Focal Points. The comptroller at ACC
     bases is designated the focal point for DoDIG audit activity at the host unit and all ACC
     tenants. The comptroller of ACC tenant units on non-ACC bases is designated focal
     point. Commanders of tenant units without a comptroller function and located on a non-
     ACC base must appoint an individual to serve in this capacity. Focal point will designate
     an alternate. Focal point will advise HQ ACC/FM in writing of each designee's name,
     rank, official mailing address, and telephone (DSN and commercial) and telefax numbers
     for primary and alternate focal points. Appointment memorandum will be updated as
     changes occur. Base/unit focal point responsibilities include:
        1.4.4.1. (Added-ACC) Develop and implement a program for monitoring DoDIG
        activity and keeping the commander and his staff informed of DoDIG matters.
 10                                             AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


           1.4.4.2. (Added-ACC) Designate functional OPR and OCRs as appropriate.
           1.4.4.3. (Added-ACC) Monitor all DoDIG visits and significant contacts IAW AFI
           65-402, paragraph 2.2 through 2.5, and this supplement.
           1.4.4.4. (Added-ACC) Advise and assist functional offices in regards to DoDIG
           access to AF information and records and ensure prompt processing of DoDIG
           requests for release of information IAW AFI 65-402, paragraph 2.4, and this
           supplement.
           1.4.4.5. (Added-ACC) Assist in resolving problems that may arise concerning
           visits; requests for information; DoDIG, Air Staff, or HQ ACC requests for comments
           to DoDIG draft and final reports of audit; and other such related issues.
           1.4.4.6. (Added-ACC) Promote cooperation between DoDIG and ACC personnel.
           1.4.4.7. (Added-ACC) Maintain files on all DoDIG audit projects involving
           activities within their organization.
2. Performing the Audit:
   2.1. Announcing the Audit. The DoDIG notifies SAF/FMPF by memoranda as far in
   advance as possible of an upcoming audit or followup review. Each memoranda includes:
       General audit objectives.
       Project start date.
       A project control number.
       The name of DoDIG personnel (program director and project manager).
       2.1.1. When SAF/FMPF receives the memoranda, they update their automated audit
       tracking system and distribute the memoranda to Secretariat, Air Staff, and MAJCOMs
       points of contact.
       2.1.2. The SAF/FMPF letter specifies what action is required and the name and
       telephone number of SAF/FMPF's point of contact. If Secretariat, Air Staff, or
       MAJCOM officials require greater detail about the audit (such as specific audit
       objectives, organizations and activities to be visited, and so on), the point of contact may
       call the DoDIG project manager. The point of contact advises SAF/FMPF of their calls
       to the DoDIG.
   2.2. Auditor Visits to Air Force Installations. DoDIG gives installation commanders at
   least a 7-calendar-days advance notice of any visit in connection with audits.
   2.2. (ACC) Visit instructions are contained in paragraphs 2.6 (Added) and 2.7 (Added)
   below.
       2.2.1. The installation point of contact, through the MAJCOM point of contact, notifies
       SAF/FMPF on receiving a visit notice or when DoDIG auditors arrive without prior
       notice.
       2.2.2. The DoDIG notice must include the security clearance of each person listed and
       should go directly to the place of visit.
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                          11


     2.2.3. The DoDIG personnel may telephone the point of contact to make arrangements
     for limited audit work, audit work of very short duration, or audit work of unusual
     urgency. The DoDIG personnel should confirm the details in writing as soon as possible.
     2.2.4. The point of contact advises SAF/FMPF when DoDIG personnel informs him or
     her of a planned or "no-notice" visit if the point of contact did not receive a copy of the
     audit announcement memoranda.
     2.2.5. On arrival at the installation, DoDIG personnel visit the commander, identify
     themselves, and hold an entrance conference to explain the nature of the visit. All
     DoDIG personnel carry special identification cards which contain their photograph,
     signature, and a serial number.
     2.2.6. During the visit, DoDIG personnel should inform managers of audit or followup
     progress, changes in objectives, and potential findings.
     2.2.7. On completing the visit, DoDIG personnel holds an exit conference with the
     commander to discuss the results of the audit or followup.
  2.3. Visits to Air National Guard Activities (ANG). The DoDIG personnel notifies the
  National Guard Bureau (NGB) in advance of visits to ANG activities (10 U.S.C. 3015).
     2.3.1. The NGB promptly notifies affected State Adjutants Generals, US property and
     fiscal officers, and unit commanders of the audit objectives and approximate dates of
     visit.
     2.3.2. The ANG activities contacts ANGRC/FMP immediately if a DoDIG personnel
     arrives before official NGB notification. ANGRC/FMP then contacts SAF/FMPF.
  2.4. Granting DoDIG Personnel Access to Information. Air Force personnel must ensure
  that DoDIG personnel receive factual, accurate, and complete information. Air Force
  instructions make no provision for denying Air Force information to DoDIG personnel.
  2.4. (ACC) Within the HQ ACC staff, the staff focal point or designated project officer is
  responsible for reviewing DoDIG requests for documentation. Collect, consolidate, and
  coordinate for release information requested by DoDIG. Coordination should include HQ
  ACC/FMFP and any OCRs providing input. The level of coordination will be determined by
  the sensitivity of the subject or issues involved.. Provide HQ ACC/FMFP an information
  copy of correspondence sent to the DoDIG, to include transmittal memorandum listing
  documents released.
     2.4.1. Individuals who have necessary material or information usually give access when
     asked without reference to higher authority.
     2.4.2. Only the Secretary of Defense can deny information or material that a properly
     cleared DoDIG person needs to complete an audit or followup review.
     2.4.3. When questions regarding DoDIG personnel access arise, follow these procedures:
     2.4.3. (ACC) DoDIG requests for information must be worked expeditiously.
     Functional OPR should immediately notify their counterpart at next higher level of
     command and attempt to resolve the matter informally. If discussions do not result in
     release of requested information, OPR will request DoDIG submit a specific written
     request detailing and clarifying information required and showing its relationship to their
12                                            AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


     audit objectives. Functional OPR, in coordination with focal point, will prepare a priority
     e-mail or telefax request for HQ ACC review. The commander should submit the request
     to appropriate HQ ACC directorate (courtesy copies to HQ ACC/FM and FMFP, and
     appropriate HQ ACC functional OPR) within 3 workdays of receipt of
        2.4.3.1. The point of contact will consult by telephone with higher headquarters and
        attempt to resolve the matter without taking formal action.
        2.4.3.2. If telephone discussions with higher headquarters do not resolve the dispute,
        the point of contact will send written objections to the Secretary of the Air Force
        through SAF/FMPF within 15 days of the initial DoDIG request.
            2.4.3.2.1. The point of contact asks the DoDIG personnel to submit the specific
            access request in writing.
            2.4.3.2.2. The office that receives an access request sends the request and their
            recommendations and supporting rationale to their MAJCOM point of contact for
            evaluation.
            2.4.3.2.3. No individual, commander, or unit head may deny an access request.
            2.4.3.2.4. While authorities review the request, the receiving Air Force point of
            contact, advises the DoDIG personnel that they referred the request for
            appropriate action.
     2.4.4. On receiving the request, the MAJCOM point of contact advises SAF/FMPF that a
     question involving DoDIG personnel access is under review.
     2.4.4. (ACC) HQ ACC designated project officer or functional OPR, in coordination
     with HQ ACC/FMFP, will immediately review base request and prepare a formal
     response within 7 workdays.
        2.4.4.1. (Added-ACC) If HQ ACC officials do not recommend release, the
        functional OPR action officer, in coordination with HQ ACC/FMFP, will prepare a
        coordinated HQ ACC memorandum elevating DoDIG's request to SAF/FMPF (1000
        Air Force Pentagon, Room 4C228, Wash DC 20330-1000). Memorandum must state
        HQ ACC’s recommendations and rationale for elevating the issue to Air Staff.
        Courtesy copies should be provided to HQ ACC/FM and the requesting commander.
        2.4.4.2. (Added-ACC) If HQ ACC officials recommend release, functional OPR
        will prepare a coordinated HQ ACC response to the requesting commander, courtesy
        copy to HQ ACC/FM, stating HQ ACC's position and directing release.
     2.4.5. When the MAJCOM's review does not release the information to the DoDIG
     personnel, the MAJCOM point of contact:
        2.4.5.1. Sends the request and the command's recommendations to SAF/FMPF.
        2.4.5.2. SAF/FMPF then refers the matter to the Secretariat or Air Staff central point
        of contact for review.
     2.4.6. When the Secretariat or Air Staff point of contact review does not release the
     information, the central point of contact refers the request and recommendations to
     SAF/FM, through SAF/FMPF, for resolution.
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                              13


         2.4.6.1. The SAF/FM is the senior Air Force official designated to resolve Air Force
         personnel questions about DoDIG personnel access to Air Force information.
         2.4.6.2. Air Staff personnel must send access questions to SAF/FMPF, through their
         Secretariat, Air Staff, or command points of contact, for processing to SAF/FM.
     2.4.7. Release non-Air Force reports and documents only with the written consent of the
     originating agency. Normally, DoDIG auditors obtain these documents from the
     originator.
     2.4.8. Air Force Federal Acquisition Supplement (AFFARS), Appendix AA, Formal
     Source Selection for Major Acquisitions, provides specific guidelines on releasing data
     that may be source selection sensitive.
     2.4.9. These Air Force instructions provide specific guidelines about releasing Air Force
     Inspector General reports, Air Force Audit Agency reports, and other documents:
            AFI 91-2, Inspector General--Complaints.
            AFI 91-201, Use, Disclosure, and Safeguard of Inspector General Records.
            AFI 91-202, The Inspector General Complaint Program.
            AFI 91-102, US Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) Inspections and
             Management Reviews.
            AFI 91-404, Investigating and Reporting Mishaps.
            AFPD 65-3, Internal Auditing.
            AFI 65-301, Audit Reporting Procedures. These documents contain specific
             procedures about releasing Air Force Audit Agency reports. The Air Force Audit
             Agency, Directorate of Operations (AFAA/DO), manages release requests for Air
             Force audit reports.
  2.5. Reporting Visits. Following an exit conference, the point of contact prepares a
  complete visit report (RCS: SAF-FMP[AR]9439) and sends it to the MAJCOM central point
  of contact when:
       DoDIG personnel uncover problems that installation officials believe higher
        headquarters personnel need to know.
       DoDIG personnel indicate that audit findings might be used in a report to the Secretary
        of the Air Force or the Secretary of Defense.
       The report will help personnel at higher headquarters better understand all aspects of
        the audit.
  2.5. (ACC) Focal points will ensure that a complete visit report is submitted to HQ
  ACC/FMFP or HQ ACC/FM, when appropriate, within 10 working days after conclusion of
  all DoDIG visits. The signature authority for the report will be determined by the visit OPR
  (in coordination with the focal point) and should be based on the sensitivity of the subject
  and issues or findings disclosed.
     2.5.1. Visit reports include:
14                                           AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


         A project number.
         Names of the principal DoDIG and Air Force personnel involved.
         Inclusive date of the visit.
         Place and purpose of the visit.
         A summary of any discussions held, deficiencies disclosed, and information
          provided including copies of pertinent documents.
         Any corrective actions taken or recommended.
         Other significant information provided or unusual requests by DoDIG personnel.
         The name of the installation point of contact for the report.
     2.5.1. (ACC) Report should also include an indication of how findings will be reported.
     2.5.2. The MAJCOM central point of contact must send a copy of the visit report to
     SAF/FMPF for forwarding to the Secretariat or Air Staff point of contact.
     2.5.2. (ACC) HQ ACC/FMFP will provide a copy of each IAC, base, and unit visit
     report to appropriate HQ ACC staff focal points for review. After report has been
     reviewed by appropriate functional action offices, the staff focal point will notify HQ
     ACC/FMFP if, in their opinion, the report should be forwarded to Air Staff officials.
     When appropriate, indorsement should assess the adequacy of actions taken or planned to
     correct reported deficiencies.
     2.5.3. The visit report is designated emergency code C-3, continue reporting during
     emergency conditions, precedence delayed. Submit data requirements as prescribed, but
     they may be delayed to allow the submission of higher precedence reports. Submit by
     non-electronic means, if possible (see AFI 37-124, The Information Collections and
     Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force
     Information Collections).
  2.6. (Added-ACC) Visits to IACs, ACC Bases, and ACC Units:
     2.6.1. (Added-ACC) Focal point will:
        2.6.1.1. (Added-ACC) Instruct personnel that if notification of DoDIG visit or
        significant contact (questionnaire, request for information, etc.) is received through
        other than focal point channels, the focal point will be notified immediately.
        2.6.1.2. (Added-ACC) Immediately notify IAC or base/unit commander and HQ
        ACC/FMFP of DoDIG visits or significant contacts. Provide the following
        information, by e-mail or telefax, to HQ ACC/FMFP within 3 days of notification:
            2.6.1.2.1. (Added-ACC) DoDIG audit title and project number.
            2.6.1.2.2. (Added-ACC) Inclusive dates of visit.
            2.6.1.2.3. (Added-ACC) DoDIG evaluator's name(s), office address, and
            telephone number.
            2.6.1.2.4. (Added-ACC) The name, rank, office symbol, and DSN of the
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                       15


            functional point of contact.
            2.6.1.2.5. (Added-ACC) Visit (or significant contact) objectives.
        2.6.1.3. (Added-ACC) Notify appropriate area audit office of pending visits.
        2.6.1.4. (Added-ACC) Arrange an in-brief with DoDIG and appropriate installation
        personnel prior to DoDIG discussions with management officials (AFI 65-402, para
        2.2.5).
        2.6.1.5. (Added-ACC) Verify that HQ DoDIG has issued an official announcement
        memorandum and that DoDIG personnel possess proper identification and security
        clearances.
        2.6.1.6. (Added-ACC) Ensure that adequate working space and facilities are
        provided for DoDIG personnel during their visit.
        2.6.1.7. (Added-ACC) Immediately notify HQ ACC/FMFP and IAC focal point by
        e-mail or telefax of any problems, major discrepancies, or significant items noted
        during the visit.
        2.6.1.8. (Added-ACC) Arrange an out-brief at the conclusion of the visit (AFI 65-
        402, para 2.2.7). Items discussed during out-brief should be well documented and
        maintained until the DoDIG project is completed (i.e., final report issued or project
        terminated).
        2.6.1.9. (Added-ACC) Ensure a visit report is submitted IAW AFI 65-402, para
        2.5, and this supplement.
     2.6.2. (Added-ACC) HQ ACC/FMFP will:
        2.6.2.1. (Added-ACC) Notify appropriate base/unit and HQ ACC staff focal points
        of pending DoDIG visits that are announced directly to HQ ACC.
        2.6.2.2. (Added-ACC) Maintain command surveillance over DoDIG visits to IACs
        and ACC bases and units.
        2.6.2.3. (Added-ACC) Review, process, and forward IAC, base, and unit notices of
        visit and significant findings and visit reports to HQ ACC staff and SAF/FMPF.
     2.6.3. (Added-ACC) HQ ACC staff focal points and project officers will:
        2.6.3.1. (Added-ACC) Immediately notify HQ ACC/FMFP of DoDIG visits
        announced directly to directorate or SA personnel.
        2.6.3.2. (Added-ACC) Maintain command surveillance over DoDIG visits.
        2.6.3.3. (Added-ACC) Review notices of significant findings and visit reports and
        notify commander or appropriate members of commander's staff of items or
        conditions warranting their attention. Provide an information copy to HQ
        ACC/FMFP.
  2.7. (Added-ACC) Visits to HQ ACC:
     2.7.1. (Added-ACC) HQ ACC/FMFP will:
        2.7.1.1. (Added-ACC) Designate HQ ACC staff OPR/OCRs when appropriate.
 16                                             AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


          2.7.1.2. (Added-ACC) Assist DoDIG personnel in making initial contact with
          appropriate staff focal points, command project officers, and/or action offices..
          2.7.1.3. (Added-ACC) Notify office of the AFAA Representative to ACC and the
          local area audit office of DoDIG visits.
       2.7.2. (Added-ACC) HQ ACC staff focal point or project officer responsibilities
       include:
          2.7.2.1. (Added-ACC) Immediately notify HQ ACC/FMFP of DoDIG visits
          announced directly to directorate or SA personnel.
          2.7.2.2. (Added-ACC) Arrange an in-brief with DoDIG personnel and appropriate
          HQ ACC staff members (AFI 65-402, para 2.2.5). Determining appropriate level for
          in-brief (directorate, division, etc.) will be based on the sensitivity of the subject and
          OPR discretion.
          2.7.2.3. (Added-ACC) Notify HQ ACC/FMFP of scheduled in- and out-briefs.
          2.7.2.4. (Added-ACC) Provide adequate working space and facilities for DoDIG
          personnel during visit.
          2.7.2.5. (Added-ACC) Provide relevant information and records IAW AFI 65-402,
          paragraph 2.4, and this supplement.
          2.7.2.6. (Added-ACC) Immediately notify the commander or appropriate members
          of the commander's staff of any major discrepancies or items noted during visit.
          Provide information copy to HQ ACC/FMFP.
          2.7.2.7. (Added-ACC) Arrange an out-brief at the conclusion of the DoDIG visit
          (AFI 65-402, para 2.2.7). Level of attendance will be determined by OPR and
          DoDIG preference and the sensitivity of subject and findings. Items discussed during
          out-brief should be well documented and maintained until DoDIG project is
          completed (i.e., final report issued or project terminated).
          2.7.2.8. (Added-ACC) Submit a visit report IAW AFI 65-402, para 2.5, and this
          supplement.
          2.7.2.9. (Added-ACC) Determine if the contents of the visit report should be
          summarized for review by the command section. If so, prepare a staff summary sheet
          and forward to command section with an information copy to HQ ACC/FMFP.
3. Reporting the Audit. The reporting process involves audit verification, audit reports, Air
Force comments, audit nonconcurrences, and audit followup. Note: The reporting requirement in
this section is exempt from licensing in accordance with paragraph 2.10.8 of AFI 37-124.
   3.1. Verifying the Audit:
       3.1.1. On finishing the audit, DoDIG auditors may give managers an outline of tentative
       findings and recommendations.
       3.1.2. Air Force managers should use the information to make preliminary comments
       and provide additional information before auditors issue a draft report.
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                        17


     3.1.3. The auditor may revise or delete findings depending on Air Force comments and
     additional information.
     3.1.4. Air Force personnel must cooperate with the auditors attempts to verify audit
     findings. Audit verification is crucial because it allows Air Force managers and auditors
     to work out potential conflicts and to correct errors before releasing a draft report.
     3.1.5. Auditors may verify the audit through face-to-face meetings, telephone calls, or
     formal or informal correspondence.
     3.1.6. Air Force personnel do whatever it takes to meet the suspense dates set by the
     auditor and give auditors all relevant information before they issue a draft report.
     3.1.7. When auditors verify the audit at commands or installations, the command point of
     contact must send copies of all formal and informal correspondence to SAF/FMPF for
     forwarding to the Secretariat or Air Staff point of contact.
     3.1.8. When auditors verify the audit at the Secretariat or Air Staff level, the point of
     contact coordinates official responses with appropriate command officials.
  3.2. Audit Reports. The DoDIG uses a two stage reporting process: draft and final.
     3.2.1. Draft Report. The draft audit report, which is a preliminary version of the report
     that DoDIG intends to issue and is available to the Air Force for review and comment.
         3.2.1.1. A draft report may contain findings, recommendations, and potential
         monetary benefit estimates.
         3.2.1.2. Air Force personnel may discuss draft reports with DoDIG auditors if they
         believe that discussions would clarify points of accuracy or reconcile substantive
         issues.
         3.2.1.3. Should the auditors decline to discuss a report, the point of contact should
         notify SAF/FMPF. In turn, SAF/FMPF will take all action necessary to arrange a
         report discussion.
         3.2.1.4. Air Force personnel may not release draft reports or their contents outside
         the DoD without the approval of the DoDIG.
     3.2.2. Final Reports. DoDIG auditors present their results in a final report that may
     include:
           Findings.
           Recommendations.
           Air Force comments.
           Audit responses.
         3.2.2.1. Air Force personnel must provide DoDIG comments to final audit reports
         only if:
                The Air Force did not comment on the draft report.
                No draft report was issued.
18                                            AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


                The Air Force disagrees with a finding, recommendation, or an estimated
                 monetary benefit in the final report.
                The final report contains new or changed recommendations.
  3.3. Air Force Comments. Audit reports can significantly affect the DoD and Air Force.
  Accordingly, the Secretary of Defense; the Secretary of the Air Force; and the Chief of Staff,
  USAF, require prompt, responsive and constructive comments from managers to all audit
  reports.
  3.3. (ACC) All reports should be reviewed to determine applicability to ACC programs.
  The Air Force OPR is responsible for preparing the formal Air Force response to DoDIG
  reports. If HQ ACC comments are required, the Air Force OPR will issue a tasking through
  either audit focal point or functional channels. If, after reviewing a report, the HQ ACC OPR
  or OCR determines that HQ ACC comments are warranted, comments can be submitted to
  the Air Force OPR following the procedures outlined in paragraph 3.3.5 (Added) below.
     3.3.1. The DoDIG addresses audit reports and recommendations to SAF/FM and
     sometimes to a MAJCOM commander. In either case, the Secretariat or Air Staff point
     of contact must provide Air Force comments to the DoDIG.
         3.3.1.1. The point of contact:
                Responds to findings, recommendations, and estimates of potential
                 monetary benefit in DoDIG reports.
                Formulates the Air Force response by obtaining comments from MAJCOMs
                 and other OCRs. Makes sure to include coordinated comments from
                 officials at the Secretariat, Air Staff, commands, and SAF/FMPF.
                Routes input requests through MAJCOM points of contact (SAF/FMPF
                 maintains a complete listing of points of contact). Note: Coordinating
                 responses with commands and other OCRs takes considerable time.The
                 point of contact must therefore give top priority to preparing, processing,
                 and coordinating comments.
                Obtains appropriate signature by the suspense date.
                Provides written comments on DoDIG audit reports in time to meet the
                 suspense -- usually not more than 60 days from the report date.
                Requests any extension to a suspense date, orally or in writing, through
                 SAF/FMPF as soon possible. Note: The DoDIG does not usually authorize
                 extensions.If Air Force does not provide comments within the suspense, the
                 DoDIG issues the final report without Air Force input.
                Provides SAF/FMPF a copy of all management comments.
     3.3.2. When the Air Force does not provide comments within the suspense, personnel
     should provide comments as soon as possible.
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                          19


     3.3.3. If the Air Force disagrees with any part of the audit report or fails to comment, a
     nonconcurrence exists. Resolve all nonconcurrences per DoD Directive 7650.3 and
     paragraph 3.4.
     3.3.4. Comments must:
            Agree or disagree with each finding, recommendation, and estimated potential
             monetary benefit statement.
            Propose suitable alternative methods of improvement.
            Describe any taken or planned corrective actions.
            Indicate when actions were completed and estimate when planned actions will be
             done. If corrective action will continue for an extended time period, the point of
             contact must set a suspense for each major planned segment.
            Be coordinated with the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget (SAF/FMB) if
             carrying out the audit recommendations will decrease requirements for
             programmed and budgeted resources.
     3.3.5. (Added-ACC) When HQ ACC comments to DoDIG reports are required, HQ
     ACC/FMFP will immediately notify HQ ACC staff focal point by telecon of Air Staff
     requests for comments. Telecon will be followed by a written request and instructions
     from either HQ ACC/FMFP or Air Staff action office. HQ ACC staff focal point or
     appointed project officer will:
         3.3.5.1. (Added-ACC) Notify HQ ACC/FMFP if tasked directly by Air Staff to
         provide comments.
         3.3.5.2. (Added-ACC) Contact Air Staff OPR action officer to discuss response
         requirements and suspense.
         3.3.5.3. (Added-ACC) Obtain IAC, base, and unit input as needed to prepare a
         complete HQ ACC response.
         3.3.5.4. (Added-ACC) Ensure that HQ ACC/FMFP coordination is obtained on all
         responses to reports concerning ACC. Reports claiming potential monetary benefit
         should also be coordinated with HQ ACC/FMA.
         3.3.5.5. (Added-ACC) Provide a copy of final response to HQ ACC/FMFP.
  3.4. Nonconcurring With the Audit. When Air Force managers disagree with any part of a
  DoDIG audit report (finding, recommendation, or potential monetary benefit estimate), they
  must be prepared to support that disagreement to the level of the Deputy Secretary of
  Defense, the deciding official for DoDIG reports, if necessary.
     3.4.1. The DoDIG may decide to accept the Air Force position, or may transmit the
     disputed issues to the OAIG-AFU for mediation.
     3.4.2. The OAIG-AFU mediation officer reviews the Air Force and audit positions and
     attempts to facilitate an agreed-upon position. If this is not possible, the DoDIG may
     request adjudication by the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
     3.4.3. When parties reach an agreement:
 20                                            AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


            The OAIG-AFU mediation officer prepares a decision document containing the
             terms of the agreement.
            The Air Force official that signs the decision document must ensure that the Air
             Force meets the agreement terms.
       3.4.4. Issues that remain undecided 6 months after the date of the final audit report must
       be reported in the DoDIG semiannual report to the Congress if still undecided at the end
       of the reporting period.
       3.4.5. The OAIG-AFU tracks action resulting from the adjudication process. Actions
       agreed-upon as a result of the mediation process are subject to followup audit.
   3.5. Followup Audit. Air Force and Audit share audit followup responsibility.
       3.5.1. After DoDIG issues a final report, the Air Force must implement findings and
       recommendations.
       3.5.2. The Air Force point of contact must document actions to correct conditions cited
       in audit reports and periodically provide DoDIG with updated status.
       3.5.3. The DoDIG monitors the status of followup actions using the Automated Report
       Tracking System (ARTS) and periodically updates the system. The ARTS contains the
       following basic information.
            Summary of each audit finding, recommendations, and estimated potential
             monetary benefits.
            Air Force position on each finding, recommendation, and estimated potential
             monetary benefit.
            Air Force planned actions with time schedules for completion.
            Status of planned corrective actions.
            Status of potential monetary benefits, including both the audit estimate and the
             amount to which the Air Force agreed.
       3.5.4. On DoDIG's request, the Air Force point of contact provides the documentation
       necessary to help DoDIG to determine the status of Air Force corrective action on
       agreed-upon findings, recommendations, and potential monetary benefits.
       3.5.5. The DoDIG conducts followup audits either as a separate review or as part of a
       current audit. Audit objectives define whether their effort includes prior audit findings
       and recommendation for evaluation.
4. Audits of State and Local Governments, Institutions of Higher Education, and Other
Nonprofit Institutions. The Federal government (including DoD components) usually requires
audits of state and local governments, institutions of higher education, and other nonprofit
institutions to which it provides financial assistance. The Air Force must use the financial and
performance audits from nonfederal and independent auditors to oversee such federal assistance.
   4.1. The Air Force may request additional audits when regulation requires it or to ensure
   effective use of such assistance.
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                             21


  4.2. The Air Force must plan, carryout, and separately fund any additional audit efforts to
  avoid duplication.
  4.3. The DoDIG:
     4.3.1. Guides, directs, and coordinates audits where DoD gives money to:
          State and local governments.
          Institutions of higher education.
          Other nonprofit institutions.
     4.3.2. Ensures that public or DoD auditors:
            Conduct audits.
            Issue reports.
            Resolve disagreements.
     4.3.3. Sends reports to appropriate DoD components.
  4.4. The Director for Accounting and Banking (SAF/FMPB):
     4.4.1. Coordinates with DoDIG on audits of financial assistance to any state and local
     governments, institutions of higher education, and other nonprofit institutions.
     4.4.2. Advises the DoDIG when Air Force assistance to any state or local government,
     institution of higher education, or nonprofit institution exceeds $100,000 in a year.
     4.4.3. Verifies appropriate actions are taken to correct audit deficiencies.
     4.4.4. Coordinate with DoDIG on requests for additional audits of these governments
     and institutions.




                                           ROBERT F. HALE
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial
                                           Management and Comptroller

                                           (ACC)

                                           JOHN R. SHIELDS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Chief, Financial Services Division
 22                                           AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMS

References
DoD Instruction 7050.3, Access to Records and Information by the Inspector General,
Department of Defense, November 9, 1984
DoD Directive 7600.2, Audit Policies, February 2, 1991
DoD Directive 7600.10, Audits of State and Local Governments, Institutions of Higher
Education, and Other Nonprofit Institutions, May 20, 1991
DoD Directive 7650.3, Followup on General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and
Internal Audit Reports, September 5, 1989, with Changes 1 through 3
AFI 37-124, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections
AFPD 65-3, Internal Auditing
AFI 65-301, Audit Reporting Procedures
AFPD 65-4, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports and Liaison With External Audit
Organizations
AFI 65-401, Air Force Relations With the General Accounting Office (GAO), March 1994
AFI 91-102, US Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) Inspections and Management Reviews
AFI 91-2, Inspector General--Complaints
AFI 91-201, Use, Disclosure, and Safeguard of Inspector General Records
AFI 91-202, The Inspector General Complaint Program
AFI 91-404, Investigating and Reporting Mishaps

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAA/DO—Air Force Audit Agency, Director of Operations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGRC/FMP—Air National Guard Readiness Center, Financial Management, Plans and
Programs Division
ARTS—Automated Report Tracking System
DoDIG—Department of Defense Inspector General
MAJCOM—Major Command
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OAIG-AFU—Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Analysis and Followup
AFI65-402_ACCSUP_I 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                     23


OAIG-AUD—Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Auditing
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAF/FM—The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/FMB—Director of Budget
SAF/FMP—Deputy Assistant Secretary for Plans, Systems, and Analysis
SAF/FMPB—Director for Accounting and Banking
SAF/FMPF—Director for Audit Liaison and Followup
