BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 61-204
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               30 AUGUST 2002

                                                                    Scientific/Research and Development

                                                                  DISSEMINATING SCIENTIFIC AND
                                                                       TECHNICAL INFORMATION



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/AQRT (Dr. Robert Cohn)                            Certified by: SAF/AQR (Mr. James B. Engle)
Supersedes AFI 61-204, 27 July 1994                                                         Pages: 26
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technical Information, 7 April
1993; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Docu-
ments, 18 March 1987; and DoD Directive 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from
Public Disclosure, 6 November 1984. The Instruction explains how to mark scientific, technical, engi-
neering, production, and logistics data to show the extent to which Air Force personnel or those acting on
the Air Force’s behalf may disseminate data without additional and prior approval from the controlling
DoD office indicated in the distribution statement. It describes the certification process for access to pub-
lic release data, release of data under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), and export-controlled tech-
nical data by non-Government U.S. and Canadian nationals. It provides guidance for disposing of
scientific and technical documents. It applies to all scientific and technical publications and documents
generated either by the Air Force or from Air Force-funded research, development, test, and evaluation
(RDT&E) programs, including working papers, memoranda, and preliminary reports, if those documents
are not in the public domain. It also applies to engineering drawings, standards, specifications, technical
manuals, blueprints, drawings, plans, instructions, computer software and documentation, photographs,
technical orders, databases, and any information that can be used or adapted for use to design, engineer,
produce, manufacture, operate, repair, overhaul, or reproduce any military or space equipment or technol-
ogy concerning that equipment. It applies to any medium that transfers information, including paper,
microform, electronic storage, and video recordings. It does not apply to cryptographic and communica-
tions security documents, communications and electronic intelligence, and other categories that the Direc-
tor, National Security Agency, or the Chief, Central Intelligence Agency, designates. It does not apply to
classified technical documents containing “restricted data” and “formerly restricted data” as defined in
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (see joint Department of Energy and DoD directives for dis-
tribution, control, and marking requirements). Not withstanding the “F” distribution above, this instruc-
tion is approved for public release (see paragraph 2.17). Maintain and dispose of all records created as a
result of prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.
2                                                                                                   AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002



SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction updates the procedures for identifying export-controlled technical data and releasing
export-controlled technical data to certified recipients and clarifies the use of the Militarily Critical Tech-
nologies List. It establishes procedures for the disposal of technical documents. It clarifies the relationship
between data marking and handling requirements under the Scientific and Technical Information
(STINFO), FOIA, and export-controlled technical information activities, making additional clarifications
and corrections to previous version of AFI 61-204, as needed. A "|" indicates revisions from the previous
edition.
      1.      Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................    3
      2.      Marking Scientific and Technical Documents. ..........................................................                         4
      3.      Dissemination of Scientific and Technical Information. ...........................................                             7
      4.      Disseminating Export-Controlled Technical Data. ....................................................                           8
      5.      Dealing with Violations of U.S. Export Control Law. ..............................................                             9
      6.      Document Disposal. ...................................................................................................        10
      7.      Forms Adopted. .........................................................................................................      10
      8.      References and Supporting Information. ...................................................................                    10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              12

Attachment 2—DISTRIBUTION STATEMENTS AND THEIR CORRESPONDING
             REASONS FOR USE                                                                                                                17

Attachment 3—DETERMINING WHETHER TECHNICAL DATA ARE SUBJECT
             TO EXPORT CONTROL                                                                                                              19

Attachment 4—CONTRACTOR CERTIFICATION PROCESS FOR ACCESS TO
             EXPORT-CONTROLLED TECHNICAL DATA                                                                                               22

Attachment 5—SAMPLE DENIAL LETTER TO CERTIFIED U.S. CONTRACTORS
             WHO ARE NOT BIDDING OR PERFORMING ON A GOVERNMENT
             CONTRACT                                                                                                                       24

Attachment 6—SAMPLE DENIAL LETTER TO PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT CERTIFIED
             U.S. CONTRACTORS                                                                                                               25

Attachment 7—NOTICE TO ACCOMPANY THE DISSEMINATION OF
             EXPORT-CONTROLLED TECHNICAL DATA                                                                                               26
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                               3


1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. Air Force components that originate or are responsible for technical documents must determine
   their documents’ distribution availability and mark them appropriately before disseminating them.
   Components are responsible for the proper handling, securing, disseminating, and disposing of scien-
   tific and technical information.
   1.2. Air Force personnel who originate or are responsible for technical documents must:
       1.2.1. Mark documents with proper distribution statements before disseminating them. In addition
       to formal distributions (e.g., conferences and symposia), this requirement also applies to docu-
       ments, briefings, etc., handed out to co-workers when there is any possibility that the recipients
       might pass the documents on to others. Documents should be marked even when they are in draft
       form.
       1.2.2. Instruct document requesters to obtain documents from established document repositories
       such as the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC), the Information Analysis Centers,
       appropriate DoD technical data repositories, appropriate DoD technical libraries, and Federal
       records centers through the appropriate records manager.
       1.2.3. Release documents only to requestors who fall within the bounds of the distribution state-
       ment, have the appropriate need-to-know (for classified documents), and (for export-controlled
       data) are certified with the Joint Certification Office (JCO) at the Defense Logistics Information
       Service (DLIS). NOTE: For requestors outside the bounds of the distribution statement, get
       approval from the controlling DoD office (also known as the originating DoD office).
       1.2.4. Advise all known repositories holding documents of changes in document markings.
       1.2.5. Ensure that documents made available electronically (via computer networks or via the
       internet, intranet, or extranet) are marked with the appropriate distribution statement and that
       access is limited accordingly. Additional guidance is contained in AFI 33-129, Transmission of
       Information via the Internet.
   1.3. The public affairs office reviews documents that originators recommend for public release in
   accordance with AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management.
   1.4. The history office reviews documents for appropriate distribution and finds new points of contact
   when the original point of contact no longer exists or cannot otherwise be found.
   1.5. STINFO officers assist committees, panels, and boards to identify the most appropriate distribu-
   tion of scientific and technical information, regardless of the associated complications. Example:
   Accident Review Boards.
   1.6. FOIA Managers process all FOIA requests for scientific and technical information in accordance
   with DoDR 5400.7/Air Force Supplement.
   1.7. Export-Controlled Technical Information coordinators assist in coordinating the appropriate
   release of export-controlled technical data to certified recipients.
       1.7.1. Commanders and directors of Air Force activities appoint local coordinators of export-con-
       trolled technical data (usually the local STINFO officer).
4                                                                         AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


       1.7.2. Local export-controlled technical information coordinators assist scientists and engineers
       in identifying export-controlled technical data. These focal points will be skilled in the use of the
       Munitions List, the Commerce Control List, and other applicable tools.

2. Marking Scientific and Technical Documents.
NOTE: This instruction may not be used as a basis for obstructing the release of scientific and technical
information when dissemination is appropriate. It is the intent of the Air Force to disseminate scientific
and technical information to the widest audience possible consistent with appropriate limitations.
    2.1. Mark all scientific and technical documents, whether produced in hard-copy or in digital format,
    that may be disseminated.
       2.1.1. Apply the single most appropriate distribution statements in Attachment 2. Fill in the rea-
       son, the date of determination, and the controlling DoD office. Other changes to these distribution
       statements are prohibited. NOTE: Distribution statements apply to secondary distribution only;
       they do not apply to primary distribution from the controlling DoD office. Distribution control
       markings must be clearly discernable as documents and/or data are opened. Record media casings
       must also be clearly marked.
       2.1.2. When a classified technical document is declassified, retain the original distribution state-
       ment until the controlling office either removes or changes the statement. When a classified docu-
       ment is declassified and has no distribution statement, handle the document as “Distribution F”
       until the controlling office assigns a distribution statement (reference, Attachment 2).
           2.1.2.1. Until the controlling office assigns or validates the distribution statement, review the
           document before dissemination to determine whether the data are export-controlled. If so,
           mark the document accordingly (reference, paragraph 2.2.).
       2.1.3. Mark and control scientific and technical documents that include contractor-imposed lim-
       ited-rights legends and computer software that includes contractor-imposed restricted-rights leg-
       ends according to subpart 27.4 of the Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
       Supplement or subpart 34.25 of the Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations.
       2.1.4. When creating a technical document containing company proprietary data, in addition to
       distribution statement (B or E) (reference, Attachment 2), mark each page that contains propri-
       etary information with the word “proprietary” and the name of the company (e.g., “Boeing Propri-
       etary”).
           2.1.4.1. Whereas contractor technical proposals or documents submitted in anticipation of
           award of contracts are not intended for further dissemination, no distribution statement is
           required. Follow the guidelines in this paragraph, however, when working with contractor
           technical proposals that contain contractor limited rights or proprietary data.
           2.1.4.2. Do not make proprietary information available to anyone outside the government
           (including government contractors) without the written permission of the owner of the propri-
           etary data, even when such access is in direct support of the government under a government
           contract. This applies to contractor Independent Research and Development documents and/or
           databases as well.
       2.1.5. Distribution statements remain in effect until the controlling DoD office changes or
       removes them.
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                                   5


          2.1.5.1. Air Force components must establish a procedure for reviewing its scientific and
          technical documents periodically (or when they receive a request for the document) for possi-
          ble changes or removal of distribution statements.
          2.1.5.2. For unclassified documents, the Air Force component must obtain public release
          determination from the public affairs office according to AFPD 35-1 before assigning distribu-
          tion statement A.
       2.1.6. Air Force components notify DTIC and other concerned document-dissemination activities
       when:
          2.1.6.1. Program management responsibility is transferred or addresses of designated control-
          ling Air Force offices are changed or redesignated.
          2.1.6.2. Classification markings, distribution statements, or export control statements are
          changed or removed.
       2.1.7. For technical publications, place the distribution statement on the front cover, title page,
       and Standard Form (SF) 298, Report Documentation Page. If the technical document is not
       intended for publication and does not have a cover or title page, stamp, print, or write the distribu-
       tion statement on the front page of the document.
          2.1.7.1. When possible, put the portions of the document containing information requiring
          distribution limitation in an appendix or separate volume to permit broader distribution of the
          basic document. Prepare the abstract on the SF 298 so that the information in the abstract will
          not have a limited distribution (i.e., that it can be approved for public release).
       2.1.8. Do not apply markings to scientific or technical documents that were created before the
       implementation of this instruction until someone asks for them. Mark and control them properly
       before disseminating them. This also applies to all unmarked or superseded distribution statement
       marked documents in your files.
          2.1.8.1. When older documents contain superseded distribution statements, convert the state-
          ments as follows:
              2.1.8.1.1. Assign distribution statements C, B, E, and F to technical documents bearing the
              respective distribution statements 2, 3, 4, and 5 of superseded DoD Directive 5200.20, Dis-
              tribution Statements (Other than Security) on Technical Documents, 29 March 1965.
              2.1.8.1.2. Do not reevaluate technical documents with distribution statements A and B of
              canceled DoD Directive 5200.20, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents, 24
              September 1970 or documents with distribution statements A-F contained in Secretary of
              Defense Memorandum “Control of Unclassified Technology with Military Applications,”
              18 October 1983.
NOTE: Do not confuse the distribution statement in this instruction with those described in AFI
33-360V1, Publications Management Program, paragraph 3.43. In particular, “Functional (F) Distribu-
tion” as used in AFI 33-360V1 does not mean that distribution of the document is restricted.
   2.2. Add the following export-control notice if the document contains export-controlled technical
   data.
6                                                                          AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002



           WARNING--This document contains             Abbreviated version: (Use
           technical data whose export is restricted   abbreviated version only where the
           by the Arms Export Control Act (Title 22,   complete notice will not fit, such as
           U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) or the Export          the eye view line on a microfiche.)
           Administration Act of 1979, as amended,
           Title 50, U.S.C., App. 2401, et seq.
           Violation of these export-control laws is   WARNING--Export-Controlled
           subject to severe criminal penalties.
           Dissemination of this document is
           controlled under DoD Directive 5230.25.

NOTE: Use the process at Attachment 3 to determine if technical data are subject to export-control.
    2.3. Mark documents with the appropriate destruction notice.
       2.3.1. Unclassified limited documents (i.e., documents not approved for public release):


           DESTRUCTION NOTICE--Destroy
           by any method that will prevent
           disclosure of contents or
           reconstruction of the document.

       2.3.2. Classified documents:


           DESTRUCTION NOTICE--Follow
           the procedures in DoD 5220.22-M,
           National Industrial Security
           Program Operating Manual
           (NISPOM), section 5-705, or DoD
           5200.1-R, Information Security
           Program, Chapter VI.

    2.4. When scientific or technical data is exempt by law from automatic release under the FOIA and is
    intended for Government use only, mark the document For Official Use Only (FOUO). NOTE: sim-
    ply marking information FOUO does not make it so. Information marked FOUO must meet at least
    one of the legislative exemptions from FOIA (reference, Air Force Supplement to DoD 5400.7R,
    DOD Freedom Of Information Act Program).
       2.4.1. In the case of scientific and technical documents FOUO is optional and is used to call atten-
       tion to FOUO content. A distribution statement is mandatory.
NOTE: It does not need to be a scientific or technical report or document to receive a distribution state-
ment. Consider this statement a useful tool to assist in the distribution process regardless of the nature of
the document, regardless of whether it is a scientific or technical document or not.
    2.5. There are instances when local activities need to indicate that a document is for internal use only.
    Examples include planning, budget, draft, or notional information—information that is not required to
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                                   7


   be, nor intended to be, disseminated. In such cases, the document should be marked with a local dis-
   tribution statement similar to the following:


           Distribution authorized to the Air
           Force Office of Scientific
           Research only (planning
           information). Refer other
           requests for this document to
           AFOSR/PII.

NOTE: Do not use this marking on documents sent to DTIC nor as an excuse not to send required docu-
ments to DTIC. This marking is not sufficient to exempt a document from release under FOIA.

3. Dissemination of Scientific and Technical Information.
   3.1. Do not disseminate any scientific or technical document, including one in draft or preliminary
   form, that does not have a clearly marked distribution statement.
   3.2. Primary dissemination of scientific or technical information must be in accordance with all regu-
   lations and instructions applicable to the scope of primary dissemination or the document’s distribu-
   tion statement, whichever covers the broader audience.
   3.3. Secondary dissemination of scientific or technical information may not exceed that authorized by
   each document’s distribution statement without prior consent of the controlling DoD office.
       3.3.1. Do not release documents marked with distribution statement F without getting the origina-
       tor’s approval first. Do not disseminate data beyond the bounds of the distribution statement with-
       out the approval of the controlling DoD office. Tell the requestor that you are asking for authority
       to release the data. Assist the controlling office in making the determination to release the data by
       providing information such as the requestor’s status as an Air Force contractor, whether the
       requestor is registered to receive export-controlled technical information, applicable security
       clearances, and relevant international exchange agreements.
NOTE: Distribution A has no dissemination restrictions; however, an unmarked document should never
be interpreted as being approved for public release; it simply means that the author has forgotten or
neglected to mark the document. Do not forget that Public Affairs review is required to mark a document
“Approved for public release.”
   3.4. When presenting scientific or technical information at conferences, symposia, etc., confirm that
   all those in attendance meet the limitations of the distribution statement. This is particularly important
   when presenting classified, export-controlled, or proprietary information. (In the latter case, no con-
   tractor may be in attendance.)
   3.5. The Air Force component’s FOIA manager in accordance with governing regulations and
   instructions will process the release of scientific and technical information requested under the FOIA
   3.6. Guidance on release of software is in AFI 33-114, Software Management.
NOTE: Only the software developer or office of primary responsibility may release source code; second-
ary distribution is limited to application software (the object code).
8                                                                           AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


4. Disseminating Export-Controlled Technical Data.
    4.1. Send documents containing export-controlled data only to the document custodian listed in
    Block 3 of DD Form 2345, Militarily Critical Technical Data Agreement. NOTE: There is no
    requirement that the company official who certifies the form in Block 6 must sign document requests.
    (Comment: This form is mis-titled. It addresses, as it should, export-controlled technical data not mil-
    itarily critical technical data. Do not interpret from this incorrect title that there is a connection
    between export-controlled technical data and the Militarily Critical Technology List—MCTL. The
    MCTL is not a control list.)
    4.2. Include the notice at Attachment 7 with any release of export-controlled technical data outside
    of the Department of Defense. Use one copy of the notice regardless of the number of documents
    included in the release.
    4.3. When data packages contain export-controlled data, include instructions with announcements for
    the data (for example, requests for proposal) that requestors must be certified with the JCO and
    include information on the certification process.
    4.4. Confirm the Certification of Requestors of Export-Controlled Technical Data. In order to receive
    export-controlled technical data requestors must be certified by the JCO. [Address: Joint Certification
    Office, Defense Logistics Information Service, Battle Creek, MI 49016-3412]. Under a bilateral
    agreement with Canada, U.S. and Canadian citizens and permanent residents may receive export-con-
    trolled technical data if the requestors are registered with the JCO. Air Force activities may confirm a
    requestor’s status by reviewing the requestor’s certified DD Form 2345 or the Certified Contractor
    Access List (CCAL), which the JCO maintains on a web site at http://www.dlis.dla.mil/jcp/. (Certi-
    fication process is described in Attachment 4.)
    4.5. A controlling Air Force activity, or a repository responsible for secondary distribution of techni-
    cal data, may release export-controlled technical data to a currently certified U.S. contractor to bid or
    perform on a Government contract, unless there is reason to believe that the contractor is debarred, has
    violated its certification or U.S. export control law, has certified in bad faith, or has made an omission
    or misstatement of material fact.
       4.5.1. Do not release the data if it is not in the best interest of the Government to do so. NOTE:
       When the validity of the contractor’s qualifications is in doubt, coordinate with the legal office
       (JA) or with the JCO.
    4.6. When the contractor is not requesting the export-controlled technical data to bid or perform on a
    Government contract, do not release data that are so significant that release for purposes other than
    direct support of DoD activities would jeopardize an important U.S. technical or operational military
    advantage.
       4.6.1. Use the sample letter of denial at Attachment 5 (tailored for local needs) to tell the
       requestor why his or her request is denied. Coordinate the letter with the FOIA and legal offices
       and provide the requester FOIA appeal rights as outlined in DoD Regulation 5400.7/AF Supple-
       ment. NOTE: Cite FOIA Exemption (b)(3) and 10 U.S.C. 130.
       4.6.2. When the data are not so significant (i.e., that they would not jeopardize technical or oper-
       ational military advantages), release the data IAW paragraph 4.4.
    4.7. Upon receipt of a request for export-controlled technical data from someone who is not certified,
    take one of the following actions:
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                                9


      4.7.1. If the requestor is someone with whom you want to establish or maintain a legitimate busi-
      ness interest, send them a DD Form 2345 and request they complete the form and send it to the
      JCO. After the JCO certifies the form, follow the procedures in paragraph 4.4. If you are not sure
      about establishing a business relationship, you may request additional justification as to why they
      want the data and the nature of their business interests that would be of interest to the Air Force.
      4.7.2. If you do not wish to establish a legitimate business interest with the requestor, deny the
      request. Provide the requester FOIA appeal rights as outlined in DoD Regulation 5400.7/AF Sup-
      plement. Use the letter of denial in Attachment 6 (tailored for local needs). Coordinate with your
      local FOIA and JA offices.
   4.8. Air Force components send requests from foreign contractors to its foreign disclosure office
   (FDO). If the foreign contractor is not bidding or performing on a Government contract, tell the con-
   tractor to submit the request through its embassy. The embassy may submit the request to the Deputy
   Undersecretary of the Air Force for International Affairs (SAF/IA), Country Director. (See AFPD
   16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations.)
   4.9. Qualified contractors do not need Air Force permission to further disseminate export-controlled
   technical data for purposes consistent with their certification unless the Air Force has otherwise pro-
   hibited this dissemination. The contractor must include a copy of the export-control notice
   (attachment 7). The contractor may disseminate the data:
      4.9.1. To any foreign recipient approved, authorized, or licensed under Executive Order 12470 or
      the Arms Export Control Act,
      4.9.2. To another currently certified U.S. contractor when that contractor is using the information
      under the guidelines in this AFI,
      4.9.3. To the Departments of State and Commerce so that the company can apply for approvals,
      authorizations, or licenses for export under the Arms Export Control Act or Executive Order
      12470, and
      4.9.4. To Congress or any Federal, state, or local governmental agency so the company can meet
      regulatory, legal, or court-order requirements.
   4.10. Presenting export-controlled technical data at conferences. It is not sufficient to simply
   confirm that attendees’ companies are certified. Attendees themselves must be eligible to receive
   export-controlled technical information; individuals must be U.S. or Canadian citizens or permanent
   residents and the registration process must confirm this fact.

5. Dealing with Violations of U.S. Export Control Law.
   5.1. Air Force activities must report to their major command (MAJCOM) STINFO officer when a
   certified U.S. contractor:
      5.1.1. Violates U.S. export control law.
      5.1.2. Makes certifications in bad faith.
      5.1.3. Omits or misstates material facts.
10                                                                          AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


     5.2. Report violations involving a foreign contractor or other representative of a foreign nation to the
     MAJCOM STINFO officer, the FDO (in accordance with AFI 16-201), and to the Air Force Office of
     Special Investigations.
     5.3. After coordinating with the MAJCOM JA, the MAJCOM STINFO officer temporarily revokes
     the contractor’s qualification. NOTE: If further legal coordination is required, the MAJCOM JA coor-
     dinates with the Air Force Office of the Judge Advocate General and the Office of the General Coun-
     sel of the Air Force.
        5.3.1. The STINFO officer immediately notifies the contractor and the JCO that the contractor’s
        certification has been revoked and gives the contractor an opportunity to respond in writing to the
        information on which the temporary revocation is based.
        5.3.2. Based on the contractor response, the STINFO officer either: 1) reinstates the contractor
        when he or she presents sufficient information to show that the basis for the revocation was in
        error or has been remedied or 2) recommends the JCO disqualify the contractor when he or she
        does not provide sufficient information within 60 days to remove the temporary revocation.

6. Document Disposal.
     6.1. You may place documents approved for public release in recycle or regular trash receptacles as a
     whole document.
     6.2. The preferred method of disposal of unclassified, limited distribution documents is by shredding,
     although the shredder need not be approved for classified documents. Alternatively:
        6.2.1. Place different parts in different recycling or waste bins, or
        6.2.2. Tear them into three or more pieces placing them in a single bin, or
        6.2.3. Burn them.
     6.3. Shred proprietary data.
     6.4. Destroy classified documents in accordance with DOD 5200.1-R and AFI 31-401.
     6.5. Destruction of Digital Media. Media containing unlimited distribution data may be recycled as is.
     Media containing unclassified, limited distribution data must be “cleared” before recycling: floppy
     disks and hard drives must be reformatted and magnetic tapes must be erased. For guidance on
     destruction of compact disks, refer to MIL-HDBK-9660, DOD Produced CD-ROM Products. Media
     containing classified data must be handled according to DOD 5200.1-R and AFI 31-401.
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                     11


7. Forms Adopted. DoD Form 2345, Militarily Critical Technical Data Agreement and SF 298,
Report Documentation Page.

8. References and Supporting Information. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and sup-
porting information.



                                          MARVIN R. SAMBUR
                                          The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                               for Acquisition
12                                                                       AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program Regulation
DoD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual
DoDD 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments and International
Organizations
DoDD 5230.20, Visits, Assignments and Exchanges of Foreign Representatives
DoDD 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents
DoDD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure
DoD 5400.7R Air Force Supplement, DOD Freedom Of Information Act Program
AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations
AFPD 31-4, Information Security
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Software Management
AFI 33-114, Software Management
AFI 33-129, Transmission of Information via the Internet
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.
MIL-HDBK-9660, DoD Produced CD-ROM Products
Title 5, United States Code 552, Freedom of Information Act
Title 10, United States Code 130, Authority to Withhold from Public Disclosure Certain Technical Data
Title 22, United States Code 2571 et seq., Arms Export Control Act
NOTE: In general, but particularly in the case of the United States Code, use the latest version. The legal
offices of most Air Force activities have the latest versions, which should be used when they differ from
the guidance given in this instruction.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCAL—Certified Contractor Access List
CCL—Commerce Control List
DDR&E —Director of Defense Research and Engineering
DLIS—Defense Logistics Information Service (formerly the Defense Logistics Services Center)
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                               13


EAR—Export Administration Regulations
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
FOUO—For Official Use Only
ITAR—International Traffic in Arms Regulations
JCO—Joint Certification Office
MCTL—Militarily Critical Technology List
MAJCOM—Major Command
SF—Standard Form
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
STINFO—Scientific and Technical Information

Terms
Arms Export Control—The law set out in 22 U.S.C. 2751-2794. This requires obtaining a license from
the Department of State for exporting defense articles and services, including technical data related to
weapons. It is implemented by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) set out in 22 CFR
121-130.
Certified Contractor—Private individual or enterprise located in the United States or Canada who is
certified and registered with the Defense Logistics Services Center for access to export-controlled
technical data.
Certified Contractor Access List (CCAL)—Listing of U.S. and Canadian contractors who are
registered and certified to receive export-controlled technical information. The Joint Coordination Office
(JCO) at the Defense Logistics Services Center (DLSC) maintains the CCAL
http://www.dlis.dla.mil/jcp/.
Commerce Control List (CCL)—The list of items in the Export Administration Regulations at 15 CFR
399. Licenses from the Department of Commerce are required to export such items and the technical data
relating to them.
Controlling DoD Office—DoD activity that sponsored the work that generated the technical data or the
office that receives the data on behalf of a Government agency and has the responsibility for distributing
the data to eligible recipients.
Data Custodian—Person designated at a certified contractor facility to receive and disseminate
controlled technical data.
Distribution Statement—A statement used in marking a technical document, regardless of publication
media or form, to denote the extent of its availability for distribution, release, and disclosure without
additional approvals and authorizations from the controlling DoD office.
Export Administration Act—Any of the laws codified at 50 U.S.C. Appendix 2401-2420. These laws
were the original basis for the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR 368-399) which
require obtaining a license from the Department of Commerce for exporting certain items-and related
14                                                                         AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


technical data.
Export-Controlled Technical Data—Data that cannot be lawfully exported without the approval,
authorization, or license under U.S. export control laws. The controlling regulations and documents are
the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR), and
the U.S. munitions list.
Export Administration Regulations (EAR)—Controls export of dual-use items (materials with both
civilian and military uses) specified on the commodity control list. The EAR is administered by the
Bureau of Export Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, and implements the Export
Administration Act of 1979 as amended, and Executive Order 12730.
General License—An unrestricted license or exemption authorized in export-control regulations to
export particular technical data, or other items without obtaining a specific license from the Government.
Initial Distribution—Distribution of STINFO by the document originator/controlling DoD office at the
time of publication.
International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR)—Controls the export of defense articles specified in
the U.S. Munitions List and technical data directly related to them. ITAR is administered by the Office of
Defense Trade Controls, U.S. Department of State, and implements the U.S. Arms Export Control Act. It
has jurisdiction over:

     A. Information (including classified) relating to defense articles and defense services.
     B. Information covered by an invention secrecy order.
     C. Information directly related to designing, engineering, developing, producing, processing, manu-
         facturing, using, operating, overhauling, repairing, maintaining, modifying, or reconstructing
         defense articles. It also includes information that advances the state-of-the-art of articles in the
         U.S. Munitions List, including the technology used to procure or maintain these components. It
         does not include information concerning general scientific, mathematical, or engineering princi-
         ples or theory.
Limited Document—Any document that is not approved for public release.
Militarily Critical Technology—Technologies that would make a significant contribution to the military
potential of any country or combination of countries and that may prove detrimental to the security of the
United States. Also referred to as critical technology, they are defined in the Export Administration Act
(50 U.S.C. Appendix 2404(d)) as:

     A. Arrays of design and manufacturing know-how (including technical data).
     B. Keystone manufacturing, inspection, and test equipment.
     C. Goods accompanied by sophisticated operation, application, or maintenance know-how
     D. Keystone equipment that would reveal or give insight into the design and manufacture of United
        States military systems.
Militarily Critical Technology List (MCTL)—I ssue d by DoD und er a u thor ity o f th e E xpor t
Administration Act of 1979 as amended and Executive Order 12730. It provides descriptions of
technologies that DoD assesses to be critical to the development, production, and use of military
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                                 15


capabilities of significant value to potential adversaries. Corresponding to the Export Administration Act
categories, it comprises:

    A.   Technology
    B.   Test, Inspection, and Production equipment
    C.   Materials
    D.   Software
    E.   Systems, Equipment, Subassemblies, and Components
It also includes technologies significant to the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons
and missile delivery systems—weapons of mass destruction. NOTE: The MCTL is not a control list, nor
is it a substitute for—nor an addition to—the current export-control lists. Rather, MCTL is a detailed and
structured technical statement of development, production, and use technologies that the DOD determines
to be crucial to given military capabilities, and of significant value to potential adversaries. The MCTL
may be found at http://www.dtic.mil/mctl/ and should always be used in lieu of any printed version.
NOTE: Much confusion can arise from the title of DoD Form 2345, Militarily Critical Technical Data
Agreement. In actuality, this form should be titled “Export-Controlled Technical Data Agreement” and
all references in it to the MCTL should be ignored. As it stands, the form would lead one to believe, incor-
rectly, that the MCTL can be substituted for the Munitions List and the Commerce Control List.
Primary Distribution—Distribution of STINFO by the controlling DoD office. Includes initial
distribution as well as any distribution during the life of the information made by the controlling or
originating DoD office.
Qualified U.S. Contractor—A private individual or enterprise that, in accordance with procedures
established by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E), certifies, as a condition of
obtaining export-controlled technical data, that:

    A. The individual who will act as recipient of the export-controlled technical data on behalf of the
       individual or enterprise is a U.S. citizen or a person admitted lawfully into the United States for
       permanent residence and is located in the United States.
    B. The export-controlled data are needed to bid or perform on a contract with the Department of
       Defense or other U.S. Government agency, or for other legitimate business purposes in which the
       individual or enterprise is engaged, or plans to engage. NOTE: This does not require a contract
       with or a grant from the U.S. Government.
    C. The individual or enterprise acknowledges its responsibilities under U.S. export control laws and
        regulations (including the obligation, under certain conditions, to obtain an export license prior
        to the release of technical data within the United States) and agrees that it will not disseminate
        any export-controlled technical data in a manner that would violate applicable export control
        laws and regulations.
    D. The individual or enterprise also agrees that it will not provide access to export controlled techni-
        cal data subject to this instruction to persons other than its employees or persons acting on its
        behalf, without the permission of the DoD component that provided the data.
    E. To the best of its knowledge and belief, the individual or enterprise knows of no person employed
        by it or acting on its behalf, who will have access to such data, who is debarred, suspended, or
16                                                                        AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


         otherwise ineligible from performing on U.S. Government contracts; or has violated U.S.
         export-control laws or a certification previously made to the Department of Defense.
     F. The individual or enterprise itself is not debarred, suspended, or otherwise determined ineligible
         by any agency of the U.S. Government to perform on U.S. Government contracts, has not been
         convicted of export control law violations. NOTE: When the certifications cannot be made truth-
         fully, the individual or enterprise may request the certification be accepted on its description of
         extenuating circumstances
Scientific and Technical Information—Information relating to research, development, engineering,
testing, evaluation, production, operation, use, and maintenance for military products, services, and
equipment for military systems. This includes production, engineering, and logistics information.
Secondary Distribution—Distribution by anyone other than the controlling or originating DoD office.
Technical Data—Recorded information, regardless of form or method of recording, of a scientific or
technical nature. Information that can be used, or adapted for use, to design, develop, assemble, engineer,
produce, manufacture, modify, operate, repair, test, overhaul, maintain, or reproduce equipment and
related technology
US Munitions List—This list designates defense articles and defense services that are subject to the
ITAR, where:
     A. Defense articles are those items designated in the U.S. Munitions List that must be export con-
        trolled, and include models, mock-ups, and any other devices that reveal technical data related
        directly to those articles.

     B. Defense services means:
         1. Furnishing assistance, including training to foreign persons, in the design, engineering devel-
            opment, production, processing, manufacture, use, operation, overhaul, repair, maintenance,
            modification, or reconstruction of defense articles, whether in the United States or abroad.
         2. Furnishing any technical data to foreign persons, whether in the United States or abroad.
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                                                         17


                                                         Attachment 2

    DISTRIBUTION STATEMENTS AND THEIR CORRESPONDING REASONS FOR USE

DISTRIBUTION A. Approved for public release; distribution unlimited. (Approval given by local Public Affairs Office)
DISTRIBUTION B. Distribution authorized to U.S. Government agencies only (reason) (date of determination). Refer other requests
for this document to (controlling or originating DoD office).
DISTRIBUTION C. Distribution authorized to U.S. Government agencies and their contractors (reason) (date of determination).
Refer other requests for this document to (controlling or originating DoD office).
DISTRIBUTION D. Distribution authorized to Department of Defense and U.S. DoD contractors only (reason) (date of
determination). Refer other requests for this document to (controlling or originating DoD office).
DISTRIBUTION E. Distribution authorized to DoD components only (reason) (date of determination). Refer other requests for this
document to (controlling or originating DoD office).
DISTRIBUTION F. Further dissemination only as directed by (controlling or originating DoD office) (date of determination) or DoD
higher authority (list the specific authority--unless a classified document).
DISTRIBUTION X. Distribution authorized to U.S. Government Agencies and private individuals or enterprises eligible to obtain
export-controlled technical data in accordance w/ DoDD 5230.25 (date of determination). Controlling DoD office is (insert).
                                               “REASON”                                                                 STATEMENT
                                                                                                                A B C D E F           X
PUBLIC RELEASE (Approval required by Public Affairs Office)                                                     X
ADMINISTRATIVE OR OPERATIONAL USE. To protect technical or operational data or information
from automatic dissemination under the international exchange program or by other means. This
protection covers publications required solely for official use or strictly for administrative or operational
purposes. This statement may be applied to manuals, pamphlets, technical orders, technical reports, and
other publications containing valuable technical or operational data.                                               X X X X
CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION. To protect information in management reviews,
records of contractor performance evaluation, or other advisory documents evaluating programs of
contractors.                                                                                                        X        X
CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY. To protect information and technical data that advance current technology
or describe new technology in an area of significant or potentially significant military application or that
relate to a specific military deficiency of a potential adversary. Information of this type may be
classified.                                                                                                         X X X X
DIRECT MILITARY SUPPORT. To protect export-controlled technical data of such military
significance that release for purposes other than direct support to DoD (to bid or perform on a
Government contract) may jeopardize an important technological or operational U.S. military
advantage. Designation of such data is made by competent authority in accordance with DoD Directive
5230.25.                                                                                                                     X
FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION. To protect and limit distribution in accordance with the
desires of the foreign government that furnished the technical information. Information of this type
normally is classified at the CONFIDENTIAL level or higher in accordance with DoD 5200.1-R                          X X X X
PREMATURE DISSEMINATION. To protect patentable information on systems or processes in the
developmental or concept stage from premature disclosure that might jeopardize the inventor’s right to
obtain a patent.                                                                                                    X        X
PROPRIETARY INFORMATION. To protect information not owned by the U.S. Government and
protected by a contractor’s “limited rights” statement, or received with the understanding that it not be
transmitted outside DoD or the U.S. Government without the permission of the proprietary rights owner.              X        X
18                                                                                  AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


SOFTWARE DOCUMENTATION. Releasable only in accordance with DoD Instruction 7930.2 and
AFI 33-114.                                                                                            X X X X
TEST & EVALUATION. To protect results of test and evaluation of commercial products or military
hardware when such disclosure may cause unfair advantage or disadvantage to the manufacturer of the
product.                                                                                               X     X
SPECIFIC AUTHORITY. To protect information not specifically included in the above reasons and
discussions but which requires protection in accordance with valid documented authority such as
Executive Orders, classification guidelines, or DoD or DoD-Component regulatory documents. When
filling in the reason cite “Specific Authority (identification of valid documented authority).”        X X X X
Statement F is normally used only on classified technical documents(cite DoD 5200.1-R, para 5.208),
but may be used on unclassified technical documents when specific authority can be cited.                        X
EXPORT-CONTROLLED TECHNICAL DATA. To protect export-controlled technical data (listed in
the Commerce Control List or the Munitions List). Use when statements B, C, D, E, or F do not apply.                 X
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                                 19


                                              Attachment 3

        DETERMINING WHETHER TECHNICAL DATA ARE SUBJECT TO EXPORT
                               CONTROL

A3.1. You may withhold from public release technical data that cannot be exported without license or
approval under the Arms Export Control Act or the Export Administration Act and are not subject to a
general license permitting export under the International Traffic in Arms Regulation and other
export-control regulations. To determine if technical data may be withheld from release answer the fol-
lowing questions:
   A3.1.1. Data Type.


           Are the technical data of the type that can be used--or be adapted for use--to
           design, engineer, produce, manufacture, operate, repair, or reproduce some
           article?
              Yes: Proceed to paragraph A3.1.2. (General License Exemption)
              No: Data are not subject to withholding under export-control laws.

   Considerations:
       A3.1.1.1. The following types of technical data fall into this category: technical reports, engineer-
       ing drawings, operation and maintenance manuals (sometimes simply technical manuals or tech-
       nical orders), military specifications and standards related to particular types of equipment, and
       training manuals related to particular types of equipment.
       A3.1.1.2. Most test reports meet this standard. They meet the standards if they show what individ-
       ual components can be used within a larger weapons system; what weapons can be used for partic-
       ular purposes; or show how to use, maintain, or train people to use particular weapons. They do
       not meet this standard if they simply show the operating characteristics of a weapon, and this
       information would not affect the decision to use the weapon. In the latter case, the information
       might qualify for security classification, but would not meet export-control standards.
NOTE: “Individual components” fall into two categories:
           1. Components that provide valuable insight into the weapon system as a whole in terms of
              design, use, and the like.
           2. Relatively innocuous components such as mounting brackets, access doors, and subas-
              semblies that give no specific insight into the overall weapon system or its unique charac-
              teristics.
              The latter category requires no export control.
   A3.1.2. General License Exemption.
20                                                                         AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002



            Have the exact same technical data been publicly released, and are
            they generally available to the public
              Yes: Data are not subject to withholding under export-control
                   laws.
              No: Proceed to paragraph A3.1.3. (USML)

     Considerations:
        A3.1.2.1. The data released publicly must be identical for the general license to be applicable.
        Frequently the information publicly released omits key features, such as the manufacturing toler-
        ances for the dimensions of particular parts. This type of information is the key to the workability
        of much equipment.
        A3.1.2.2. If closely similar data have been publicly released, the portion of the document contain-
        ing that information is not subject to export-control laws. The other portions should be blanked
        out, and a copy made by some technique that does not permit the blanked out portions to be deter-
        mined.
        A3.1.2.3. Release to perform a particular task with a constraint on further dissemination is not a
        public release.
        A3.1.2.4. Scientific and educational information not directly and significantly related to design,
        production, or use in industrial processes, or instruction in academic institutions and academic
        laboratories, excluding information that involves research under contract related directly and sig-
        nificantly to design, production, or use in industrial processes, is not subject to export control.
        A3.1.2.5. Controlled release under DOD Directive 5230.25, as implemented by AFI 61-204, is
        not a public release.
     A3.1.3. United States Munitions List (USML):


            Do the technical data directly relate to a weapon listed in categories
            I through XVI of the USML, ITAR section 22 CFR 121.01?
              Yes: Data are subject to withholding under export-control laws.
              No: Proceed to paragraph A3.1.4. (CCL).

     Considerations:
        A3.1.3.1. The ITAR prohibits the export of technical data relating to arms, ammunition, and
        implements of war without approval of the Department of State. The USML is a listing in the
        ITAR, which enumerates articles designated as arms, ammunition, and implements of war that are
        subject to export control.
        A3.1.3.2. The term “article” is defined as any of the arms, ammunition, implements of war, and
        related technical data enumerated in the USML.
        A3.1.3.3. Generally, the articles listed are end items or components, and do not describe specific
        materials (except chemical agents or propellants).
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                                   21


       A3.1.3.4. Technical data constitute any unclassified information that can be used--or adapted for
       use--to design, produce, manufacture, repair, overhaul, process, engineer, develop, operate, main-
       tain, or reconstruct arms, ammunition, and implements of war on the ML, or any technology that
       advances the state of the art or establishes a new art in an area of significant military applicability
       in the US.
       A3.1.3.5. Check the Munitions List before checking the CCL. Less technical information and
       knowledge is needed to determine Munitions List applicability.
   A3.1.4. Commerce Control List (CCL):


           Do the technical data directly pertain to an item listed in the CCL?
              Yes: Data are subject to withholding under export-control laws.
              No: Data are not subject to withholding under export-control laws.

   Considerations:
       A3.1.4.1. The CCL is a listing prepared by the Department of Commerce to control the export of
       goods or technologies that may significantly contribute to the military potential of foreign coun-
       tries, thereby adversely affecting the national security of the US.
       A3.1.4.2. Only technical data relating to commodities on the CCL are prohibited from export
       without a license.
       A3.1.4.3. Technical data constitute any information that can be used--or adapted for use--to
       design, produce, manufacture, use, or reconstruct articles or materials. The data may take a tangi-
       ble form, such as a model, prototype, blueprint, or an operating manual, or may take an intangible
       form such as technical service.
NOTE: If you still cannot make a determination, request guidance from your Judge Advocate General or
foreign disclosure office.
NOTE: In applying this guidance, use the latest laws, regulations, and lists. The legal offices of most Air
Force activities have the latest versions, and these newer versions should be used when they differ from
the guidance given in this instruction.
22                                                                          AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


                                               Attachment 4

                    CONTRACTOR CERTIFICATION PROCESS FOR ACCESS
                       TO EXPORT-CONTROLLED TECHNICAL DATA
To get certified, U.S. and Canadian contractors submit a completed DD Form 2345, Militarily Critical
Technical Data Agreement1, to the U.S. and Canadian Joint Certification Office (JCO) at the Defense
Logistics Information Service (DLIS). The JCO reviews the information, signs the form, and returns it to
the contractor.

A4.1. Because DoD activities mail export-controlled technical data to the location shown on the form,
each corporate subsidiary or division requesting technical data must submit its own form.

A4.2. Contractors designate a data custodian for the facility, either by name or by position. This person
receives and disseminates export-controlled technical data internally. NOTE: The data custodian at a U.S.
contractor facility must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. The data custodian at a Canadian contrac-
tor facility must be a Canadian or U.S. citizen or a person admitted lawfully for permanent residence into
Canada.

A4.3. The contractor must agree to use the data to bid or perform on a contract with a U.S. or Canadian
agency or for other legitimate business purposes such as:
     A4.3.1. Providing or seeking to provide equipment or technology to a foreign government with the
     approval of the U.S. Government. NOTE: U.S. or Canadian Government must approve sale or trans-
     fer before the contractor receives the information.
     A4.3.2. Bidding or preparing to bid on surplus Government property.
     A4.3.3. Selling or producing products for the U.S. or Canadian commercial domestic marketplace.
     A4.3.4. Selling or producing products for the commercial foreign marketplace. NOTE: The contrac-
     tor must have an export license from the appropriate U.S. or Canadian licensing authority.
     A4.3.5. Engaging in scientific research in a professional capacity for either the DoD or the Canadian
     Department of National Defense.
     A4.3.6. Acting as a subcontractor for any of the above.

A4.4. Contractors agree not to publicly disclose any export-controlled data, unless the controlling office
authorizes it, and to limit access to their employees who meet the following citizenship requirements:
     A4.4.1. US citizens or permanent resident if the facility is located in the United States.
     A4.4.2. Canadian or U.S. Citizens or persons admitted lawfully for permanent residence in Canada if
     the facility is located in Canada.


1.There is some confusion regarding the terms “Militarily Critical” and “Export-Controlled.” The use of
“Militarily Critical Technical Information” on this form is an example of this confusion. The control lists
for export control are the Munitions List and the Commerce Control List, regardless of any implied guid-
ance to the contrary in this form. Never use the MCTL for this export control purposes.
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                                 23


A4.5. Certified contractors may:
   A4.5.1. Ask for export-controlled technical data.
   A4.5.2. Respond to defense-related solicitations and enter into defense-related contracts that include
   a requirement for controlled technical data.
   A4.5.3. Attend restricted gatherings where controlled technical data are presented (for example: sym-
   posia, conferences, meetings that publicize advance requirements, pre-bid, pre-solicitation, and
   pre-award conferences).
   A4.5.4. Visit and exchange controlled technical data with other certified U.S. and Canadian contrac-
   tors or U.S. and Canadian military facilities.
NOTE: When requested, the contractor must send a copy of the JCO-approved DD Form 2345 along
with the requests for any of the above. Alternatively, the controlling DoD activity may confirm the com-
pany’s certification by reviewing the Certified Contractor Access List, which can be found at
http://www.dlis.dla.mil/jcp/.

A4.6. Form 2345 Review Process. The JCO reviews a DD Form 2345 within 5 working days and based
on its interpretation and confirmation of the information that the contractor provides takes one of the fol-
lowing actions:
   A4.6.1. Certifies the contractor. The JCO:
       A4.6.1.1. Enters a 7-digit certification number in section 7.
       A4.6.1.2. Signs the form in sections 8 and 9.
       A4.6.1.3. Mails the original to the contractor’s data custodian.
       A4.6.1.4. Sends the certified contractor a renewal notice 120 days before the certification expires.
       A4.6.1.5. Returns the form for more information.
   A4.6.2. Does not certify the contractor. The JCO:
       A4.6.2.1. Sends a registered letter to the contractor, explaining why the certification was rejected.
       A4.6.2.2. Tells the contractor how to appeal the decision.
NOTE: Certified contractors must submit a revised DD Form 2345 when previous information becomes
outdated (e.g., changes in company ownership or name, or data custodian). When the JCO approves the
revised agreement, it initiates a new 5-year eligibility period.
24                                                                        AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


                                              Attachment 5

           SAMPLE DENIAL LETTER TO CERTIFIED U.S. CONTRACTORS
      WHO ARE NOT BIDDING OR PERFORMING ON A GOVERNMENT CONTRACT

A5.1. When releasing the data for other than direct support of the Air Force and the release might jeopar-
dize U.S. technical or operational military advantages:




              Dear Mr. Certified:


                 Your request of (date) for export-controlled technical data is denied
              pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3) and 10 U.S.C. 130 as implemented by
              Department of Defense Directive 5230.25 and Air Force Instruction 61-204.
              We have reviewed your request carefully and have determined that releasing
              the data for other than direct support of the Air Force might jeopardize U.S.
              technical or operational military advantages.


                 If you decide to appeal this decision, write within 60 calendar days from
              the date of this letter. Include in the appeal your reasons for reconsideration,
              and attach a copy of this letter. Address your letter as follows:
                     Secretary of the Air Force
                     THRU:
                 (address of installation’s FOIA office where your request was denied )


              Please call (name, organization, phone ) if you have any questions.


                                                            Sincerely,

                                                            (signature of authorized
                                                            FOIA denial authority)


NOTE: Prepare an original letter rather than a form letter or a form. Send by first class mail.
AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002                                                                           25


                                               Attachment 6

                             SAMPLE DENIAL LETTER
                TO PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT CERTIFIED U.S. CONTRACTORS




              Dear Mr. Jones:


                     The information that you requested on (date) is subject to control
              under Executive Order and export-control laws. We must deny your request
              under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3) and 10 U.S.C. 130 as implemented by Department
              of Defense Directive 5230.25 and Air Force Instruction 61-204.


                     If you decide to appeal this decision, write within 60 calendar days
              from the date of this letter. Include in the appeal your reasons for
              reconsideration, and attach a copy of this letter. Address your letter as follows:
                        Secretary of the Air Force
                        THRU:
                     (address of installation’s FOIA office where your request was denied)


                      Private individuals or enterprises must be Department of Defense
              certified U.S. contractors before they can receive export-controlled technical
              data. I have attached an information sheet describing the process you must
              follow to become a certified U.S. contractor.

                     Please call (name, organization, phone number) if you have questions.



                                                               Sincerely,


                                                               (Signature of authorized
                                                               FOIA denial authority)


NOTE: Prepare an original letter rather than a form letter or a form. Send by first class mail.
26                                                                        AFI61-204 30 AUGUST 2002


                                              Attachment 7

                        NOTICE TO ACCOMPANY THE DISSEMINATION
                         OF EXPORT-CONTROLLED TECHNICAL DATA


Export of the attached information (which includes, in some circumstances, release to foreign nationals
within the United States) without first obtaining approval or license from the Department of State for
items controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR), or the Department of Commerce
for items controlled by the Export Administration Regulation (EAR), may constitute a violation of law.


Under 22 U.S.C. 2778, the penalty for unlawful export of items or information controlled under the ITAR
is up to 2 years imprisonment, or a fine of $100,000, or both. Under 50 U.S.C., appendix 2410, the penalty
for unlawful export of items or information controlled under the EAR is a fine of up to $1,000,000, or five
times the value of the exports, whichever is greater; or for an individual, imprisonment of up to 10 years,
or a fine of up to $250,000, or both.


In accordance with your certification that establishes you as a “qualified U.S. contractor,” unauthorized
dissemination of this information is prohibited and may result in your disqualification as a qualified U.S.
contractor, and may be considered in determining your eligibility for future contracts with the Department
of Defense.


The U.S. Government assumes no liability for direct patent infringement, or contributory patent infringe-
ment, or misuse of technical data.


The U.S. Government does not warrant the adequacy, accuracy, currency, or completeness of the technical
data.


The U.S. Government assumes no liability for loss, damage, or injury resulting from manufacture or use
for any purpose of any product, article, system, or material involving reliance upon any or all technical
data furnished in response to the request for technical data.


If the technical data furnished by the Government will be used for commercial manufacturing or other
profit potential, a license for such use may be necessary. Any payments made in support of the request for
data do not include or involve any license rights.


Include a copy of this notice with any partial or complete reproduction of these data that are provided to
qualified U.S. contractors.
