BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 64-102
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               9 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                      Contracting

                                                 OPERATIONAL CONTRACTING PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: SAF/AQCA                                                             Certified by: SAF/AQC
                                                                          (Brig Gen Casey Blake)
Supersedes: AFI 64-102, 25 Jul 2005                                                      Pages: 16


This instruction implements AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, by providing general
authorities and responsibilities for operational contracting support. Operational contracting units
provide timely, effective and efficient cradle-to-grave contract support to meet the needs of
installation commanders, deployed commanders, and resident, tenant, and supported units. They
also train and equip contingency contracting officers (CCOs) for worldwide deployment. Air
Force operational contracting units may be contracting squadrons, operational contracting
offices, contracting divisions, or another organizational entity designed to meet local needs.
They may be headed by contracting squadron commanders, office chiefs, or directors.
Subordinate elements of an operational contracting unit may be a contracting flight, contracting
branch, or another organizational component determined locally. Users of this AFI should also
consult the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
Supplement (DFARS), the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS),
and Air Force 63- and 64-series publications cited. This instruction does not apply to the Air
Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) or to the Air National Guard (ANG).

This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this
publication must be routed to SAF/AQCA for coordination prior to certification and approval.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier
number (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated
with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered
 2                                                                AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014


compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised and must be completely reviewed. This rewrite of AFI 64-102
includes the modified flow of general contracting authority that no longer includes commanders
of major commands (MAJCOMs). It updates referenced regulations and publications and aligns
guidance with external sources. The instruction does not explicitly delineate new relationships
created by stand-up of the Air Force Installation Contracting Agency (AFICA) due to ongoing
organizational changes, but it modifies prior language to accurately reflect changes to date. This
rewrite also includes compliance statement tiering IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management.
1. Overview.
     1.1. Source of Contracting Authority. Air Force contracting authority for operational
     contracting comes from the National Security Act of 1947; the Armed Services Procurement
     Act of 1947; and other statutes, regulations, and directives. This authority flows through the
     Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), to the Assistant Secretary (Acquisition), to the Deputy
     Assistant Secretary (Contracting) and Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting), to
     MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Senior Contracting Officials (SCO) (and to the Senior Center
     Contracting Officials (SCCO) at Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC)) and
     SMC) IAW AFFARS 5301.601. Contracting Officers are the “procurement agents” of the
     U.S. Government and receive their authority via a signed Contracting Officer’s warrant
     issued by an authorized source. Guidance for appointing and terminating Contracting
     Officers is in Subpart 1.6 of the FAR, DFARS, and AFFARS. Contingency Contracting
     Officer (CCO) warrants are normally issued at the CCO’s permanent duty station and convey
     authority to obligate the U.S. Government for any proper and authorized requirement while
     the CCO is deployed until and unless specifically rescinded by an in-theater Head of
     Contracting Activity (HCA) Authority.
     1.2. Basis of Contracting Actions. Commanders/Directors/Chiefs of organizations requiring
     operational contracting support (i.e., “customers”) should contact the operational contracting
     unit, Small Business Specialist, and comptroller as soon as the requirement (or possibility of
     a requirement) is identified. The contracting unit will team with the customer to develop an
     acquisition strategy and assist the customer in developing an acquisition package (Note: An
     acquisition package is often referred to as a purchase request (PR)) (See 2.3.1. below).
     MAJCOMs and operational contracting units may provide informational guides that detail
     procedures for processing PRs.
2. Roles and Responsibilities:
     2.1. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Chiefs/Directors of Contracting.                 Provide guidance and
     functional oversight sufficient to create a contracting environment where contracting actions
     are properly planned; based on sound business judgment; and comply with all applicable
AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                      3


  laws, executive orders and regulations (T-0). Specific duties include, but are not limited to,
  mandatory procedures and oversight of responsibilities delineated in the following:
     2.1.1. Ensure annual reviews of all service contracts to determine which services will be
     mission essential during crisis situations. Ensure services identified as mission essential
     also have current and feasible back-up plans in place (ref DoDI 1100.22, Policies and
     Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix) (T-0).
     2.1.2. Ensure an acquisition to compete a function or multiple functions follows all
     applicable laws and appropriate workforce mix criteria (T-0).
     2.1.3. Implement the Small Business Administration (SBA) program for awarding
     contracts to small business and the associated categories of the small business program
     according to FAR Part 19, FAR Part 26, FAR Part 44, and their supplements (ref AFI 64-
     201, Small Business Programs) (T-0).
     2.1.4. Ensure competition and commercial goals are considered when planning an
     acquisition strategy (ref AFPD 63-3, Competition and Commercial Advocacy) (T-1).
     2.1.5. Implement a GPC program that contains adequate policies, processes, and
     procedures to meet customer needs while adequately deterring fraud and abuse (ref AFI
     64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program) (T-1).
     2.1.6. Oversee contractor personnel labor relations issues (ref AFI 64-106, Air Force
     Industrial Labor Relations Activities) (T-1).
     2.1.7. Ensure compliance with AFPD 64-3, The Non-Appropriated Fund Contracting
     System; and AFMAN 64-302, Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures
     (T-1).
     2.1.8. Plan and manage contingency contracting support IAW AFPD 10-4, Operations
     Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy (AEFPP), AFI 10-401 Air
     Force Operations Planning and Execution, and AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and
     Execution (T-1).
     2.1.9. Manage the Self Assessment Program (T-1).
  2.2. Installation/Group Commanders.
     2.2.1. Ensure contracting personnel possess the appropriate skills, tools, and training to
     accomplish their mission (T-1).
     2.2.2. Ensure the mix of civilian, officer, and enlisted contracting personnel is
     appropriate to support local installation and deployment responsibilities (T-1).
     2.2.3. Unless exempted, ensure the operational contracting unit follows the standard
     structure specified in AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization (T-1).
     2.2.4. Ensure the contracting unit possesses adequate information technology resources
     to conduct electronic commerce (EC) with the public and private sectors and to conduct
     electronic business (EB) with cross-functional business partners such as customers,
     Comptroller, Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS), Defense Logistics
     Agency (DLA), Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA), Department of Labor,
     and Government Services Administration (GSA), et al (T-1).
4                                                                 AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014


       2.2.5. Ensure requirements are properly planned in advance in order to allow the
       operational contracting unit to process the acquisition (i.e., contracting lead time) and
       allow for delivery of the supply or service. Proper planning avoids wasteful spending
       and ensures timely execution of expiring funds (T-1).
       2.2.6. Emphasize the critical importance of “early involvement” with the operational
       contracting unit and Small Business Specialist to ensure customers make, and benefit
       from, sound business decisions, robust market planning, proper source selection
       techniques, and the timely acquisition of requirements (T-1).
       2.2.7. Appoint, in writing, multi-functional teams (i.e., a group of key stakeholders with
       the required skill sets) to manage services acquisition (i.e., from acquisition planning to
       contract closeout) IAW AFI 63-138, Acquisition of Services. Furthermore, foster a robust
       environment that successfully supports the multi-functional teams and corrects/elevates
       delays or problems not resolvable by the multi-functional team (T-1).
       2.2.8. Ensure non-contracting personnel are trained to know and fully comprehend the
       following (T-1):
           2.2.8.1. That only warranted Contracting Officers have the authority to award,
           modify, administer, and terminate contracts.
           2.2.8.2. Personal liability and administrative measures are possible recourse actions
           against personnel that request, direct, or cause a contractor to perform when the
           government has no existing contractual coverage or to perform outside of the scope of
           existing contractual coverage.
       2.2.9. Ensure that the contracting unit facilities have a professional, businesslike
       appearance, are easy to find, and have adequate parking for authorized vendors (T-1).
    2.3. Commanders/Directors/Chiefs of Organizations Requiring Contracting Support. Plan
    and coordinate requirements with the contracting unit and comptroller to ensure acquisition
    lead-time requirements and fiscal funding profiles are adequately addressed. Plan and
    implement post-award contract management activities in conjunction with the supporting
    operational contracting unit (T-1).
       2.3.1. Ensure acquisition packages (i.e., PRs) contain (T-0):
           2.3.1.1. A complete and fully accurate description of the requirement—the
           requirement shall be described using an item description for supplies, a performance-
           based description for services to the maximum extent practical (ref. AFI 63-138,
           Acquisition of Services), and specifications and drawings for construction. Whenever
           possible, customers shall provide descriptions in an electronic format suitable for
           posting on the Internet. If an electronic format is unavailable or inappropriate for a
           specific solicitation (i.e., prohibited by statute, executive orders, or regulation), the
           customer shall explain the circumstances to the contracting unit prior to or at the time
           of PR submission.
           2.3.1.2. The required delivery date(s) or period of performance.
           2.3.1.3. Market research documentation IAW FAR Part 10, to include providing a list
           of potential sources.
AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       5


         2.3.1.4. Support documentation for unique, brand name, or noncompetitive
         acquisitions (See FAR 6.2 and FAR 13.106).
         2.3.1.5. Estimated cost and, as needed, the rationale for the estimated cost.
         Independent government estimates should include enough details to support the
         complexity and/or dollar threshold of the requirement.
         2.3.1.6. Funding documentation. Organizations (or customers) requiring local
         purchase support submit PRs to the contracting squadron to initiate the contracting
         process. Example funding documents, that may also include some of the above listed
         data, include:
             2.3.1.6.1. AF Form 9, Request for Purchase (completed IAW local procedures).
             2.3.1.6.2. AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA).
             2.3.1.6.3. AF Form 1218, Request for Communications Service.
             2.3.1.6.4. DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document.
             2.3.1.6.5. DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR).
             2.3.1.6.6. AO(X) Demand.
             2.3.1.6.7. Other appropriate funding documents.
         2.3.1.7. For services acquisitions, services shall be based on clear, performance-
         based requirements to the maximum extent practical IAW AFI 63-138, Acquisition of
         Services.
         2.3.1.8. A Requirement Approval Document (RAD) shall be accomplished for all
         services acquisitions with a total anticipated value greater than or equal to SAT. (ref.
         AFI 63-138, Acquisition of Services) The RAD should be part of your initial
         acquisition package.
         2.3.1.9. Ensure requirement is coordinated with the local manpower office IAW AFI
         38-201, Management of Manpower Requirements and Authorizations.
     2.3.2. Assign qualified personnel to develop a quality assurance program that focuses on
     obtaining insight into contractor processes and assess the contractor’s performance.
     2.3.3. Assign qualified personnel to use GPCs and to perform the duties of primary and
     alternate GPC approving official(s) (ref. AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide
     Purchase Card (GPC) Program) (T-1).
  2.4. Contracting Unit Commanders/Directors/Chiefs. Provide leadership, training, direction,
  discipline, and the proper environment to foster the morale, welfare, and health of assigned
  personnel. Manage assigned resources to meet mission requirements. Interpret directives,
  orders, and regulations. Formulate plans and policies. Coordinate and interface with other
  agencies, as required. Maintain and enforce standards. Serve as senior operational
  contracting official and contracting advisor (i.e., “business advisor” on contracting issues).
  Manage the local contracting program to ensure it effectively meets customer needs while
  complying with all applicable statutes, executive orders, regulations, and the 63-, 64-, and
  65- series AFIs. As the lead contracting advisor, provide senior leadership and customers
6                                                                 AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014


    with sound business solutions/strategies to optimize resources and to enhance the quality and
    timeliness of acquisitions for commodities, services, and construction (T-1). Duties include:
       2.4.1. Plan and execute acquisition strategies, including solicitation, award,
       administration, and closeout of Air Force contracts. Ensure contract files are established
       containing the records of all contractual actions IAW FAR 4.8 (T-0).
       2.4.2. Establish and maintain a customer education program to explain contracting
       procedures, help with developing requisitions for requirements, develop and maintain
       “open” lines of communication, and stress the importance of meaningful partnerships
       with customers and contractors to ensure the goals and objectives of the Air Force
       mission are met to the maximum extent practical (T-1).
       2.4.3. Provide metrics and reports according to DOD, Air Force, and MAJCOM
       guidance (T-0).
       2.4.4. Maintain a training and mentoring program to ensure (T-1):
           2.4.4.1. Personnel are given maximum opportunities to attend required training in
           order to meet Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) requirements.
           2.4.4.2. Enlisted and officers participate in a formal rotational training program.
           2.4.4.3. Civilians in centrally managed accession programs (e.g., Copper Caps,
           Interns) and locally managed accession programs participate in a formal rotational
           training program.
           2.4.4.4. Enlisted personnel are trained and qualified to perform their duties IAW the
           6C0X1 Career Field Education and Training Plan.
       2.4.5. Manage contingency contracting plans IAW AFFARS 5318.201 and applicable
       policy directives (T-1).
       2.4.6. Ensure assigned personnel meet mission training requirements and plan for
       deployment IAW AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, AFI 10-
       403, Deployment Planning and Execution, and other official directives. Associate
       members with a specific AEF Period or Enabler (as identified in the Unit Type Code
       availability for their unit). Report unit status IAW AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and
       Training System, AFI 10-244, Reporting Status of Aerospace Expeditionary Forces, and
       AFI 10-252, Defense Readiness Reporting System (T-1).
       2.4.7. Publish in advance the submission dates for end of the fiscal year PRs based on the
       type of action and dollar value of the acquisition (T-1).
       2.4.8. Maintain a comprehensive self-inspection/self-assessment program IAW AFI 90-
       201, The Air Force Inspection System (T-1).
       2.4.9. Manage the GPC program (T-1).
       2.4.10. Provide training as needed, to non-contracting personnel authorized to use the
       GPC, blanket purchase agreements (BPAs), and other contracting vehicles using
       simplified acquisition procedures (T-1).
       2.4.11. As necessary, support Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFI) (T-1).
AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       7


     2.4.12. Ensure competitive sourcing activities are processed using the latest guidance
     and directives (T-0).
     2.4.13. Rapidly process Congressional and Government Accountability Office (GAO)
     inquiries on contractual issues (T-1).
     2.4.14. Manage for the Installation/Center Commander the contract Quality Assurance
     Program (QAP) and appoint a Quality Assurance Program Coordinator IAW AFFARS
     MP 5346.103 (T-1).
     2.4.15. As necessary, manage or participate in multi-functional teams that support other
     activities requiring contracting advice (T-1).
     2.4.16. Ensure all required legal reviews are conducted IAW AFFARS 5301.602-2(c)(i)
     (T-0).
     2.4.17. Ensure all required small business reviews are conducted (ref. AFI 64-201 Small
     Business Programs).
  2.5. Directors of Business Operations. Provide necessary oversight and direction to the
  contracting unit to ensure successful market research, small business participation,
  acquisition planning, contract award, contract performance management, and interpretation
  of contract law. This position is normally the second in charge of an operational contracting
  unit. Duties may include:
     2.5.1. Assist the unit commander in the planning, organization, and day-to-day
     operations of the unit; and manage the unit in the absence of the commander.
     2.5.2. When serving as the unit’s senior civilian employee, advise the commander on
     civilian personnel issues.
     2.5.3. Ensure contracting actions comply with regulations and satisfy customer needs.
     2.5.4. As assigned, exercise supervisory personnel management responsibilities.
     2.5.5. As assigned, represent the wing commander with other organizations (federal,
     state, local, and non-profit events).
     2.5.6. Perform special assignments and participate in special projects and initiatives.
     2.5.7. Direct the small business and other socio-economic programs IAW AFI 64-201,
     Small Business Programs, when a full-time small business professional has not been
     appointed.
     2.5.8. Serve as the chairperson or alternate chairperson of the contract review committee.
  2.6. Contracting Superintendents. Normally, the senior, qualified, enlisted person is the
  superintendent. The superintendent may fulfill first sergeant duties as an additional duty. As
  directed, the superintendent shall be responsible for, but not limited to, overseeing the
  following:
     2.6.1. Self-inspection program.
     2.6.2. On-the-job training (OJT) programs.
     2.6.3. Overall unit training programs.
8                                                                    AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014


       2.6.4. Formal school quota management and APDP certifications.
       2.6.5. Enlisted personnel career advisor.
       2.6.6. Advisor to the commander and flight chiefs on enlisted matters.
       2.6.7. Contingency contracting and applicable operational plans (OPLANS) monitor.
       2.6.8. Unit deployment manager (UDM).
       2.6.9. Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) reporting, Defense Readiness
       Reporting System (DRRS) reporting, and AEF Reporting Tool (ART) reporting.
       2.6.10. Recognition and awards monitor.
       2.6.11. Supervises the Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) Contingency
       Support Cell and the Support Section (if enlisted are assigned).
       2.6.12. May chair or co-chair the contract review committee, if appointed by
       commander.
    2.7. Officer In Charge (OIC)/NCOIC of the Contingency Support Cell. As directed, the
    OIC/NCOIC of the Contingency Support Cell shall be responsible for, but not limited to, the
    following:
       2.7.1. Provides planning, programming, and execution of all deployment readiness and
       training for deployable personnel and equipment within their unit to ensure they are
       deployment ready (T-3).
       2.7.2. Provides or schedules all required ancillary training for military personnel subject
       to deployment (T-3).
       2.7.3. Tracks statistical information to assist the commander in oversight of mobility
       reporting (T-3).
       2.7.4. Monitor and report the status of all available Unit Type Codes (UTCs) within the
       functional area. Configure and maintain functional UTCs as tasked by the MAJCOM
       using available assets. Execute deployment portion of any Time-Phased Force and
       Deployment Data (TPFDD) or Deployment Requirements Manning Document (DRMD)
       tasking IAW applicable instructions and procedures (T-3).
       2.7.5. May serve as UDM (T-3).
    2.8. Support Section. Provides administrative support and manages personnel programs
    (e.g., orderly room, unit mailroom) (T-3).
    2.9. Acquisition Flight Commanders/Chiefs. Serve as the supervisor for an acquisition
    flight/division/branch (operational or specialized). If a military officer, the duty title is Flight
    Commander. If civilian employee or enlisted, the duty title is Flight Chief. As directed,
    oversees areas including, but not limited to, the following:
       2.9.1. Plan and organize the activities of the Acquisition Flight (T-3).
       2.9.2. Ensure acquisitions comply with federal statutes, regulations and policy (T-3).
       2.9.3. Supervise, lead, train and mentor the members of the flight (T-3).
AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       9


     2.9.4. Manage acquisition activities to include: acquisition planning, small business
     participation, execution of award, and performance of contract administration (T-3).
     2.9.5. Ensure all flight members in acquisition-coded positions are receiving appropriate
     and timely formal training to meet requirements for APDP certification (T-3).
     2.9.6. Ensure all flight members are provided training opportunities to meet DOD goal of
     40 continuous learning (CL) points each year, or the mandatory 80 CL points every two
     years, and ensure CL progress is properly documented to meet Air Force/DOD CL
     reporting requirements (T-3).
     2.9.7. Ensure enlisted flight members holding Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 6C0X1
     receive appropriate upgrade, task, and qualification training IAW the Career Field
     Education and Training Plan and AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, and ensure
     the training is properly documented (T-2).
     2.9.8. Ensure flight members receive flight specific training (T-3).
     2.9.9. Act as a contracting advisor to customers/contractors which include but is not
     limited to preparing execution milestones, and when necessary, communicating schedule
     changes and reasons for those changes to customers/contractors, enabling them to adjust
     and/or plan accordingly (T-3).
     2.9.10. Set up customer/contractor education programs and hold regular meetings with
     customers/contractors to resolve problems and foster a team environment (T-3).
     2.9.11. Represent the unit with a variety of installation and business organizations (T-3).
     2.9.12. Perform special assignments and participate in special projects and initiatives (T-
     3).
  2.10. Plans and Programs Flight Commanders/Chiefs. As directed, oversees areas including,
  but not limited to, the following:
     2.10.1. Supervise, lead, train and mentor the members of the flight (T-3).
     2.10.2. Maintain all information technology resources. Responsible for the operation
     and management of automated contracting systems and E-commerce initiatives (T-3).
     2.10.3. Prepare monthly, quarterly, or annual reports and metrics, as required (T-3).
     2.10.4. Manage incoming PRs, accurately distribute contractual documents, and provide
     general administrative support (T-3).
     2.10.5. Monitor and report on the acquisition workload (T-3).
     2.10.6. As directed, may manage the quality assurance and GPC programs and the
     contract review committee (T-3).
     2.10.7. Act as a contracting advisor to customers (T-3).
     2.10.8. Perform consolidated contract quality assurance (QA) and contract specialist
     functions that provide performance management support to the acquisition flight(s) (T-3).
     2.10.9. Perform special assignments and participate in special projects and initiatives (T-
     3).
 10                                                             AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014


      2.10.10. Ensure contract reporting and e-commerce participation comply with AF and
      DOD procurement data improvement & compliance plan. Submit annual certifications
      and complete quarterly verification and validation as directed by MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
      (T-3).
      2.10.11. Act as Warrant Proctor and manage the Contracting Officer Warrant Program
      (T-3).
   2.11. Performance Management Flight (Optional). This flight may perform consolidated
   contract quality/specialist functions needed to provide complete performance management
   support to the acquisition flight(s). In addition to quality assurance, this office may include
   the quality assurance program coordinator, contract specialists, and additional multi-
   functional expertise (additional acquisition personnel, program management, engineers,
   quality assurance personnel, etc.) as determined by wing senior leadership. Under this
   option, the flight will perform pre-award planning, solicitation, source selection, and post
   award functions as a multi-functional unit under the squadron commander or equivalent for a
   single multi-functional service contract or group of service contracts. Performance
   management offices are normally established at the direction of the wing commander or Air
   Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Center-level commander.
   2.12. Teams. Unit commanders/directors/chiefs may establish multi-functional teams to
   assist customers or specific acquisitions; may establish teams on a permanent or temporary
   basis; and may assign a contracting officer as a team member or team leader.
   2.13. Contracting Officers. May serve in any of the above listed job positions. Contracting
   officers are responsible, as an agent of the federal government, to award and manage “all”
   contracts up to the limit indicated on their contracting officer warrants (T-0).
3. Surveillance of Operational Contracting Programs:
   3.1. SAF/AQC. SAF/AQC oversees and administers the Air Force Contracting System.
   3.2. MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU staffs monitor contracting programs.
   MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs review reports and information from SAF/AQC and review
   Inspector General and Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) reports, congressional inquiries; and
   unit corrective actions to cited weaknesses.
   3.3. Reviews of Operations. Activities performing formal reviews/assessments shall
   document the results in a written report to include the date and purpose of the visit, names of
   key personnel contacted, findings and recommendations. Copies of reports are normally
   provided to the contracting unit and the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU contracting staff.




                                            WILLIAM A. LAPLANTE
                                            Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                            (Acquisition)
AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                               11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
National Security Act of 1947
Armed Services Procurement Act of 1947
Anti-Deficiency Act
United States Code (USC)
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS)
Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS)
OMB Circular A-76, Performance of Commercial Activities dated May 29 2003, as updated by
Changes 1 and 2.
DoDI 1100.22, Policies and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix, April 12, 2012
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy (AEFPP),
30 Apr 2009
AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 7 Dec 2006
AFPD 64-3, The Nonappropriated Fund Contracting System, 1 Dec 2005
AFI 10-244, Reporting Status of Air and Space Expeditionary Forces, 15 Jun 2012
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 Dec 2006
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 Sep 2012
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and
Construction Projects, 15 October 2003
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 Sep 2010
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 Mar 2011
AFI 38-201, Manpower and Organization, 30 January 2014
AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program, 20 Jun 2008
AFI 63-138, Acquisition of Services, 21 May 2013
AFI 64-106, Air Force Industrial Labor Relations Activities, 25 March 1994
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, 20 Sep 2011
AFI 64-201, Small Business Programs, 1 January 1997
AFMAN 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, 16 Nov 2011
MP 5346.103, Contracting Office Responsibilities
 12                                                          AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014


AFMS 12A0, Manpower Standard, 7 Dec 2001
6C0X1 Career Field Education and Training Plan, 1 Jan 2012
Contracting Officer Representative Tracking (CORT) Tool
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
Adopted Forms
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document
AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA)
AF Form 1218, Request for Communications Service

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AEFPP—Air & Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy
AEG—air expeditionary group
AES—air expeditionary squadron
AETF—air and space expeditionary task force
AEW—air expeditionary wing
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AFFARS—Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
AFICA—Air Force Installation Contracting Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC)
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPDC—Air Force Publishing Distribution Center
AFPDL—Air Force Publishing Distribution Library
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program
ART—AEF Reporting Tool
BPA—blanket purchase agreement
AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014                                  13


BRAG—Business Requirements and Advisory Group
CCO—contingency contracting officer
CL—continuous learning
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense instruction
DRMD—Deployment Requirements Manning Document
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EB—Electronic Business
EC—Electronic Commerce
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FCA—Fund Cite Authorization
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GAO—General Accounting Office
GPC—Government-wide Purchase Card
GSA—Government Services Administration
HCA—Head of Contracting Activity
IAW—in accordance with
IPT—Integrated Product Teams
MAJCOM—major command
MAMT—Mission Area Multi-functional Team
MIPR—Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
MFT—Multi-Functional Team
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
OJT—On-the-Job Training
OPLANS—Operational Plans
 14                                                                 AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PBSA—Performance-Based Services Acquisitions
PERSCO—Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
PR—Purchase Request
QA—Quality Assurance
QAP—Quality Assurance Program
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF/AQC—Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting)
SAF/AQCP—Implementation and Policy Division, Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting)
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force, Inspector General
SBA—Small Business Administration
SCO—Senior Contracting Official
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SPS/PD2—Standard Procurement System/Procurement Desktop-Defense
TPFDD—Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
OIC—Officer in Charge
UTC—Unit Type Code

Terms
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF)—AEFs are a composite organization of air and
space capabilities from which a tailored AETF, composed of AEWs, air expeditionary groups
(AEGs), and air expeditionary squadrons (AESs), are created to provide forces to meet theater
combatant commander requirements. An AEF is not a discrete warfighting unit.
Anti—Deficiency Act— provisions of law prescribed in sections 1341, 1342, and 1517 of title
31, U.S.C., prohibiting obligations and expenditures in excess of or before an appropriation.
Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA)—a simplified method of filling anticipated repetitive
needs for supplies or services by establishing “charge accounts’’ with qualified sources of
supply.
Bona—fide Need Rule—a fiscal year appropriation may be obligated only to meet a legitimate,
or bona fide, need arising in, or in some cases arising prior to but continuing to exist in, the fiscal
year for which the appropriation was made.
Contingency Contracting Officer (CCO)—is a person with delegated contracting authority to
enter into, administer, and terminate contracts on behalf of the government in support of a local
AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        15


contingency, steady-state deployments, or other contingency operations. The CCO also acts as
the primary business advisor to the deployed or on-scene commander.
Contracting Officer— responsible, as an agent of the federal government, to award and manage
“all” contracts up to the limit indicated on their contracting officer warrants.
Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA)—means the official who has overall responsibility for
managing the contracting activity.
Multi—Functional Team—a team of stakeholders responsible for a services acquisition.
Includes not only representatives of the technical and procurement communities, but also
stakeholders of the service acquisition and the contractors who provide the services. This team
may consist of sub-group(s) responsible for routine contract actions. This team could be a
BRAG, MAMT, IPT, working group, etc.
Operational Plan (OPLAN)—an operation plan for the conduct of joint operations that can be
used as a basis for development of an operation order. An OPLAN identifies the forces and
supplies required to execute the combatant commander’s Strategic Concept and a movement
schedule of these resources to the theater of operations. The forces and supplies are identified in
time-phased force and deployment data (TPFDD) files. OPLANs will include all phases of the
tasked operation. The plan is prepared with the appropriate annexes, appendixes, and TPFDD
files as described in the Joint Operation Planning and Execution System (JOPES) manuals
containing planning policies, procedures, and formats.
Performance—Based Services Acquisition (PBSA)—involves acquisition strategies, methods,
and techniques that describe and communicate measurable outcomes rather than direct
performance processes. PBSA is structured around defining a service requirement in terms of
performance objectives and performance measurement and providing contractors the latitude to
determine how to meet those objectives. PBSA applies throughout the life of the entire
acquisition cycle.
Quality Assurance—is a planned and systematic pattern of all actions necessary to provide
adequate confidence that adequate technical requirements are established; products and services
conform to established technical requirements; and satisfactory performance is achieved.
Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)—is a Joint Chief of Staff (JCS) controlled
automated data system primarily created to provide the National Command Authority (NCA) and
JCS with authoritative identification, location, and resource information. It is used throughout
the chain of command to measure the daily resource status of operating forces.
Time—Phased Force and Deployment Data (TPFDD) (DOD)—the JOPES database portion
of an operation plan, it contains time-phased force and deployment data, non-unit-related cargo
and personnel data, and movement data for the operational plan, including: (a) in-place units, (b)
units to be deployed to support the operation plan with a priority indicating the desired sequence
for their arrival at the port of debarkation, (c) routing of forces to be deployed, (d) movement
data associated with deploying forces, (e) estimates of non-unit-related cargo and personnel
movements to be conducted concurrently with the deployment of forces, and (f) estimate of
transportation requirements that must be fulfilled by common-user lift resources as well as those
requirements that can be fulfilled by assigned or attached transportation resources. (JP 1-02)
 16                                                          AFI64-102 9 OCTOBER 2014


Unit Deployment Manager (UDM)—the unit office of primary responsibility (OPR) for
deployment training. The UDM determines unit deployment training needs, requests training,
and ensures a sufficient number of unit personnel are properly trained in the areas of cargo
preparation, pallet build-up, and hazardous/sensitive cargo identification and certification.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—a five-character alphanumeric designator uniquely identifying each
Armed Forces unit. Note that COMPES uses a sixth digit that denotes the UTC status.
