BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 61-301
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                    30 MAY 2001

                                                                    Scientific/Research and Development

                                                       THE DOMESTIC TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
                                                      PROCESS AND THE OFFICES OF RESEARCH
                                                             AND TECHNOLOGY APPLICATIONS


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/AQR                                                                       Certified by: SAF/AQR
       (Dr. Van Blackwood)                                                          (Dr. Donald C. Daniel)
Supersedes AFI 61-301 25 July 1994                                                               Pages: 14
                                                                                            Distribution: F

Air Force Instruction (AFI) 61-301 establishes policies and procedures for the domestic technology trans-
fer (DTT) process and the Offices of Research and Technology Applications (ORTAs). The instruction
implements several publications: Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 61-3, Domestic Technology Trans-
fer;United States Code Title 15 Commerce and Trade Chapter 63 Technology Innovation Section 3701
(15 USC 3701 et seq.); Executive Order 12591, Facilitating Access to Science and Technology, 10 April
1987; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5535.3, DoD Domestic Technology Transfer Program,
May 21, 1999; and DoD Instruction 5535.8, DoD Technology Transfer (T2) Program, May 14, 1999.
Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN
37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction updates, clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance in accordance with DoD Directive
5535.3 and DoD Instruction 5535.8. Moreover, this instruction reflects the realignment of duties and
office symbol changes as well as correctly delineates the responsibilities of the various legal offices.
These changes are reflected in sections 1 and 4. The changes to section 2 now accurately reflect what
types of agreements the laboratory commanders or directors have the authority to sign and more accu-
rately describes their responsibilities for the technology transfer mission. Section 3 clearly delineates the
ORTAs roles and responsibilities. Section 5 reflects the changes to the Stevenson-Wydler Technology
Innovation Act and the responsibilities of various offices to handle royalty payments. Section 8 reflects
the current Air Force instruction for awards. A new section 9 was added to accurately reflect that dona-
tions and loans of various laboratory equipment can be made directly to educational institutions and
non-profit organizations.
2                                                                             AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001


1. SAF/AQR Responsibilities.
    1.1. SAF/AQR is the Department of Air Force Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the Air
    Force DTT program. The Technology Executive Officer (TEO), Commander, Air Force Research
    Laboratory, is assigned program management responsibility.
    1.2. The authority to review and approve all Cooperative Research and Development Agreements
    (CRADAs) entered into by all laboratories and/or technical activities is delegated to the TEO. This
    authority may be redelegated to the commanders and directors of laboratories and/or technical activi-
    ties.
    1.3. The TEO appoints an Air Force Technology Transfer Program Manager, who:
       1.3.1. Is the single focal point for the Air Force Technology Transfer program.
       1.3.2. Is the Agency representative to the Director, Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E)
       Technology Transfer Working Group.
       1.3.3. Provides information to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the General Accounting
       Office, and the Department of Commerce as required.
       1.3.4. Establishes the Air Force Technology Transfer Program Management Team.
       1.3.5. Manages the Air Force Technology Transfer Integrated Planning Team.
       1.3.6. Is the Air Force representative to the Federal Laboratory Consortium.
       1.3.7. Maintains the Air Force Technology Transfer Handbook.
       1.3.8. Maintains the Air Force Technology Transfer web site.

2. Commander or Director Responsibilities. Commanders or Directors of all laboratories and/or tech-
nical activities shall:
    2.1. Have the signatory authority to enter into CRADAs. The signatory authority also has the author-
    ity to negotiate and enter into licenses and assignments of intellectual property made under CRADAs.
    Their signatory authority may only be redelegated to the next lower level management when the TEO
    has redelegated the reviewing official authority to the commander or director. The reviewing official’s
    authority may not be further redelegated.
    2.2. Have the authority to enter into Education Partnership Agreements (EPAs) pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
    § 2194.
    2.3. Have the authority to enter into Cooperative Work-Education Agreements pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
    § 2195.
    2.4. Pursuant to Interim Draft DoD Guidance Implementing 10 U.S.C. § 2539b, “Authority to Sell,”
    dated April 17, 1997 and pursuant to DoD Directive 5535.3, May 21, 1999, have the authority to enter
    into Commercial Test Agreements (CTAs).
    2.5. Appoint the Technology Transfer Focal Point, and establish an Office of Research and Technol-
    ogy Applications (ORTA) in accordance with 15 U.S.C. § 3710(b), including adequately funding the
    cost and expenses associated with operating ORTAs using program element funds, overhead accounts,
    royalties, or other payments or sources of either appropriated or nonappropriated funding.
AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001                                                                                   3


  2.6. Support and encourage the active participation of their ORTA staffs in various networking oppor-
  tunities to include: the Air Force Technology Transfer Integrated Planning Team, the DoD Technol-
  ogy Transfer Integrated Planning Team, and the Federal Laboratory Consortium for Technology
  Transfer (FLC).
  2.7. Support and encourage the technology transfer program and provide opportunity for scientists
  and engineers to transfer Air Force technology, expertise, processes, and services to the public and
  private sector.
  2.8. As authorized, enter into Cooperative Research and Development Agreements (CRADAs),
  patent licenses, Commercial Test Agreements (CTAs), Education Partnership Agreements (EPAs),
  and other types of technology transfer agreements with public and private sector organizations.
  2.9. Whenever possible, support the commercialization of Air Force technology by licensing, assign-
  ing, or waiving rights to intellectual property.
  2.10. Have the authority to direct contracting officers to enter into appropriate Partnership Intermedi-
  ary Agreements (PIAs) pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 3715.
  2.11. Support participation in technology transfer activities, including participation in economic
  development organizations, and participation with other technology transfer networks, including state
  and local governments.
  2.12. Provide technical assistance, including help by technical volunteers, to state and local govern-
  ments and local educational institutions.
  2.13. Support and encourage, where feasible, the exchange of scientific and technical personnel
  among academic, industrial, and federal activities and state and local governments.
  2.14. Allow conduct of technology transfer with foreign (non-domestic) persons, industrial organiza-
  tions, or government activities in accordance with export control policies. However consideration
  should be given to whether or not such persons or industrial organization’s government allows similar
  relationships and whether such activities benefit the U.S. industrial base (E.O. 12591). All
  non-domestic partners must receive prior approval (in accordance with the approval process contained
  in the current Air Force Technology Transfer Handbook) before formal CRADA negotiations of the
  transfer can commence.
  2.15. Ensure that technology transfer is not used to circumvent acquisition laws and regulations.
  Ensure that transfers are accomplished without actual or apparent personal or organizational conflicts
  of interest or violations of ethics standards and are in accordance with applicable legislation. Ensure
  that technology transfer activities will not constitute undue competition with the private sector.
  2.16. Execute a technology transfer education and training program for personnel of all levels who
  are involved in any phase of technology transfer either directly or indirectly.
  2.17. Establish a local technology transfer awards program, that may include cash awards, to recog-
  nize transfer accomplishments by any present or past, civilian or military Air Force employee respon-
  sible for a significant achievement in technology transfer to industry, state or local government, or
  academia.
  2.18. Include the ORTA staff in the activity's management development program in order to ensure
  that highly competent technical managers fully participate in the technology transfer process. (15
  U.S.C. § 3710b).
4                                                                               AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001


    2.19. Make DTT a high-priority element of their S&T programs by including it in their investment
    strategy process.
    2.20. Prepare a DTT business plan in accordance with the requirements in the Air Force Technology
    Transfer Handbook.
    2.21. Have the authority to loan, lease or give research equipment that is excess to the needs of their
    activity to an educational institution or nonprofit organization for the conduct of technical and scien-
    tific, education and research activities. Guidance contained in AFI 33-112 must be followed.

3. ORTA Responsibilities. The Technology Transfer Focal Point in each ORTA shall:
    3.1. Manage the activity’s technology transfer program.
    3.2. Establish their local technology transfer process in accordance with the guidance in the current
    Air Force Technology Transfer Handbook. Help program managers and technical department heads
    identify technologies suitable for transfer.
    3.3. Actively participate in the Air Force and DoD Technology Transfer Integrated Planning Teams
    and the FLC for Technology Transfer.
    3.4. Coordinate technology transfer activities with the servicing legal office to determine rights to
    inventions, patent and licensing implications, and the commercial potential of patentable technology.
    3.5. Negotiate and provide for appropriate coordination of all patent license agreements or assign-
    ments in accordance with AFI 51-303 and AFI 61-302.
    3.6. Collect, maintain, and report all data elements required for the management of technology trans-
    fer. This includes, but is not limited to, Defense Technology Transfer Information System, and other
    data elements as called out in the current Air Force Technology Transfer Handbook. Maintain work-
    ing files, documents, and records of all transfer agreements.
    3.7. Actively maintain an Internet web site that contains items such as transfer success stories, techni-
    cal capabilities and points of contact. The web site must meet the requirements of the Air Force and
    the Department of Defense for content and accessibility restrictions, if any.
    3.8. Maintain and report annual technology transfer business plans in accordance with the current Air
    Force Technology Transfer Handbook.
    3.9. Prepare technology application assessments, in accordance with the Air Force Technology
    Transfer Handbook, of selected scientific and engineering projects that may have commercial poten-
    tial.
    3.10. Provide and disseminate information on federally owned or originated products, processes, ser-
    vices, and facilities that may be useful to state and local government and to private industry, including
    providing a list of the most commercially viable inventions, patent applications, and/or patents avail-
    able for licensing to SAF/GCQ for publication in the Federal Register. Activities may pay for technol-
    ogy transfer related promotions in technical, professional, or trade journals.
    3.11. Cooperate with and help the Defense Technical Information Center, the National Technical
    Information Service, the FLC, the National Technology Transfer Center, and other organizations that
    can link the activity to potential users in state and local governments and private industry.
AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001                                                                                     5


   3.12. Take part, when possible, in regional, state, and local programs that facilitate or stimulate tech-
   nology transfer that benefits the region, state, or locality.
   3.13. Take part in public and private sector activities that provide opportunities for technology trans-
   fer. This includes local government meetings, small business conferences, and local economic devel-
   opment organizations.
   3.14. Not knowingly perform technology transfer functions that substantially compete with private
   sector services.
   3.15. Comply with export control regulations, policies governing militarily critical technology, and
   other procedures and controls in Air Force directives and instructions.
   3.16. Promote technical volunteer programs and participation by technical experts as a resource com-
   plementing and supporting technology transfer in regions, states, and local communities by working
   with primary and secondary schools, and by providing technical consulting to state and local govern-
   ments.
   3.17. Provide coordination with small and disadvantaged business utilization specialists to transfer
   technologies with commercial potential to these businesses.
   3.18. Provide transfer expertise to scientific, engineering and technical personnel on all technology
   transfer mechanisms referenced in this instruction.
   3.19. Provide a process for managing technology transfer spin-on and dual-use program opportuni-
   ties.

4. Legal Offices’ Responsibilities.
   4.1. The Office of the General Counsel (SAF/GC) is generally responsible for the direction, control
   and coordination of inventions, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. Further, SAF/GC is
   responsible for managing the legal aspects of the Air Force patent licensing program and is responsi-
   ble for the legal aspects of implementing the Technology Transfer program.
   4.2. The Office of the Deputy General Counsel (Acquisition), SAF/GCQ, advises and assists all Sec-
   retariat Offices, including program executive offices, and establishes Air Force policy on all legal
   issues concerning technology transfer; interfaces with other Governmental agencies and/or branches
   of the Government on legal issues concerning technology transfer; provides guidance and advice to
   the Major Command legal offices and the servicing legal offices concerning the DTT program, includ-
   ing CRADAs, CTAs, EPAs, Cooperative Work-Education Agreements, PIAs, and intellectual prop-
   erty rights; and administers all patent license and assignment agreements including receiving and
   dispersing royalties or other payments.
   4.3. SAF/GCQ and/or the local servicing patent counsel, as appropriate, shall provide SAF/AQR, the
   Air Force TEO, the Technology Transfer Program Manager, and ORTAs any requested legal analysis
   of and status reports concerning invention disclosures, patent applications, patents pending, patents
   issued (and their maintenance fee status), and patent licensing agreements under negotiation.
   4.4. The Major Command and servicing legal offices advise and assist commanders or directors of
   Air Force activities and other Air Force personnel on all legal issues regarding technology transfer.
   Such advice and assistance may include, but is not limited to:
       4.4.1. Practical recommendations for structuring business relationships.
6                                                                               AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001


       4.4.2. Drafting clauses to protect the Government’s interest in matters such as Government fur-
       nished property, tort liability, or intellectual property including inventions, patents, copyrights and
       data rights.
       4.4.3. Participating in negotiations to finalize complete agreements.
       4.4.4. Reviewing all CRADAs and other transfer agreements, as well as supporting documenta-
       tion for legal sufficiency.
       4.4.5. Reviewing all potential conflicts of interest involving Air Force employees associated with
       CRADAs and other transfer agreements.
       4.4.6. Helping personnel identify and report patentable inventions.
       4.4.7. Rendering patentability and other opinions on intellectual property.
       4.4.8. Preparing and filing patent applications and securing issuance of patents.
       4.4.9. Preparing and negotiating patent licenses, assignments, and software release agreements.
       4.4.10. Recording assignments and other property interests in inventions.
    4.5. HQ USAF/JAG shall help assist the servicing legal office resolve potential conflicts of interest.
    This assistance includes, but is not limited to cases where present or former Federal employees or
    their partners negotiate CRADAs, licenses, or assignments of titles to inventions.

5. Royalties. The Air Force retains royalties or other income it receives from the licensing or assignment
of inventions under CRADAs or from inventions licensed under 35 U.S.C. § 207 or other legal provisions.
Such income is then disbursed to individual inventor(s) and to the Air Force activity sponsoring the inven-
tions.
    5.1. Any royalties or other payments received by the Air Force from licensing or assigning an inven-
    tion under agreements entered into by Air Force laboratories and/or technical activities under 15
    U.S.C. § 3710a or from licensing an invention under 35 U.S.C. § 207, or under any other provision of
    law, shall be forwarded to SAF/GCQ as a central point of contact. SAF/GCQ will forward the royalty
    or other payment to the appropriate Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) office with
    instructions as to how to disburse the royalties or other payments.
    5.2. The inventor or each co-inventor shall be paid each year the first $2,000 plus equal shares of at
    least 20 percent of the remainder of the royalties or other payments pursuant to 15 U.S.C. §3710c, as
    implemented by DoDI 5535.8, paragraph 6.9. In the absence of extrinsic evidence that co-inventors
    made unequal contributions to the invention, subject to review and approval by SAF/GCQ, it shall be
    presumed that the co-inventors made equal contributions to the invention and are entitled to equal
    shares of the 20 percent of the royalties or other payments. If the royalties or other payments received
    in any given year are less than or equal to $2,000, or in the case of co-inventors, less than or equal to
    $2,000 times the number of inventors, the entire amount is paid to the inventor, or in the case of
    co-inventors, the entire amount is divided equally among the co-inventors.
    5.3. The inventor or co-inventors shall receive their prescribed share of any royalties or other pay-
    ments as received by the Air Force on an annualized basis. Royalties or other payments from inven-
    tions to any one person shall not exceed $150,000 per year without Presidential approval as provided
    in 5 U.S.C. § 4504. Any inventor whose whereabouts cannot be established within one year from
    mailing of the first correspondence concerning a royalty payment for any given year to his or her last
AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001                                                                                    7


  known address shall be presumed to be unknown. Any payments as set forth above and any excess
  royalties not disbursed will be disbursed to and retained by the laboratory and/or technical activity
  responsible for the licensed (or assigned) invention, until the inventor can be found or until the period
  referenced in 5.5.2. At which time, such royalties will be paid to the Treasury.
  5.4. Any Air Force laboratory and/or technical activity may provide appropriate incentives from roy-
  alties or other payments to Air Force employees who are not inventors or co-inventors of inventions
  but who substantially increase the technical value of such inventions. When the incentive is in the
  form of a monetary payment, such payments may be at any level subject to the approval of the Air
  Force component or laboratory providing the incentive, but such payments shall not exceed the limits
  established above. Payments may be on a one-time or annual basis, and they shall cease when the
  employee is no longer employed by the Air Force.
  5.5. The balance of the royalties or other payments will go to the activity where the invention
  occurred, and the funds so transferred to any such activity must be used or obligated by the end of the
  second fiscal year succeeding the fiscal year in which the royalties and other payments were received.
  The balance of the royalties or other payments may be used for:
     -- Payment of expenses for administration and licensing inventions and other intellectual property;
      -- Other activities of the Air Force that increase the licensing potential for transfer of Department
  of Defense technology;
      -- Scientific research and development within the research and development mission and objec-
  tives of the activity;
     -- Rewarding scientific, engineering, and technical employees;
     -- Promotion of scientific exchange among other Air Force and Department of Defense activities;
  and/or
      -- Education and training of employees consistent with the research and development mission and
  objectives of the Department of Defense.
     5.5.1. The commander or director of the laboratory and/or technical activity may use a portion of
     the royalties to reward Federal employees who develop valuable inventions that cannot be com-
     mercialized for national security reasons or because they are useful only within DoD’s mission.
     The commander or director may present these awards annually or more often. Written justification
     must support the award, such as:
         5.5.1.1. A patent, a notice of allowability under the Patent Secrecy Act, or a Statutory Inven-
         tion Registration.
         5.5.1.2. A description of the invention's economic benefits to the Air Force or DOD or an
         assessment of its market potential.
     5.5.2. Any royalties not obligated and expended by the end of the second fiscal year succeeding
     the fiscal year in which they are received go to the Treasury of the United States. If, after paying
     inventors, royalties received in a fiscal year exceed 5 percent of the Air Force activity’s combined
     budgets for that year, 75 percent of the excess goes to the Treasury of the United States. The Air
     Force may spend the other 25 percent for, or obligate it for, the purposes described in paragraph
     5.5. during that or the next fiscal year.
8                                                                               AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001


       5.5.3. Any payment a Federal employee receives under this instruction is in addition to the
       employee’s regular pay or any other awards the employee receives.
       5.5.4. The payment does not affect the employee’s entitlement to regular pay, annuity, or awards
       to which he or she is otherwise entitled or eligible, or limit any such amount of pay, annuity, or
       award.
       5.5.5. Any payments an inventor periodically receives (royalties, for example) shall continue
       after the inventor leaves the activity or agency or after the inventor is deceased. Any such pay-
       ments after the inventor is deceased shall be made to the inventor’s estate.

6. Certain Assignments. If a contractor, grantee, or participant in an agreement or other arrangement
with an Air Force activity assigns to the United States rights to an invention that generates royalty or other
income, then the Air Force activity may distribute the royalties per paragraph 5. If an Air Force employee
not working for a laboratory and/or technical activity assigns to the United States rights to an invention,
the Air Force activity where the invention occurred and the inventor shall receive any royalties in accor-
dance with paragraph 5.

7. Reports. Air Force activities provide data in accordance with the Air Force Technology Transfer
Handbook to the Technology Transfer Program Management Team on the progress of technology transfer.
The Air Force uses this information to report to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Department of
Commerce, and the Government Accounting Office and others as necessary.

8. Other Awards. Air Force activities use existing authority, including AFI 38-401 and 15 U.S.C. §
3710b, to award cash to Federal employees for:
    8.1. Inventions, innovations, or other outstanding scientific or technological contributions of value to
    the United States. ("Value" depends on the likelihood of commercial application or contribution to the
    Air Force's or Federal Government's mission.)
    8.2. Exemplary activities promoting the transfer of science and technology developed within the Fed-
    eral Government and used by American industry or business, universities, state or local governments,
    or other non-Federal parties including those activities recognized by FLC awards and the Ronald W.
    Yates Award for Technology Transfer and other similar awards.

9. Donations and Loans of Research/Defense Laboratory Equipment. Air Force Laboratories and/or
technical activities may directly donate or loan laboratory equipment to public and private schools and
nonprofit institutions pursuant to 15 U.S.C. §3710(i) or 10 U.S.C. §2194 or provide personal property to
collaborating parties under a CRADA pursuant to 15 U.S.C. §3710a.
    9.1. Under an educational partnership (or other) agreement, and consistent with the applicable stat-
    utes, 10 U.S.C. §2194 and 15 U.S.C. §3710(i), the director of an Air Force laboratory may directly
    transfer (donate) laboratory equipment that is surplus/excess to the needs of that laboratory, to public
    and private schools and nonprofit institutions located, and using such equipment, within the territorial
    limits of the United States. Determinations of property suitable for donation shall be made by the head
    of the laboratory. Title of ownership shall transfer as with gift under this section. Laboratory equip-
    ment donated to a recipient under 15 U.S.C. §3710(i) or 10 U.S.C. §2194 is not subject to existing
    Federal Property disposal regulations implementing separate authorities.
AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001                                                                                    9


     9.1.1. For purposes of this instruction, “laboratory equipment" means equipment that is or could
     be used for scientific or scholarly investigation. This includes, but is not limited to, federal prop-
     erty that is useful in either an applied or theoretical fashion for the demonstration, performance, or
     instruction of science, mathematics, engineering, or technology principles or practice at all levels.
     Laboratory equipment may be rather specialized, but also includes desktop computers and other
     equipment designed for more general applications.
     9.1.2. To ensure an Air Force laboratory is not donating equipment at one DoD location and pur-
     chasing the same equipment at another DoD location, property should be screened in accordance
     with DoD policy. The Technology Transfer Handbook maintained by AFRL/XPTT shall contain
     the latest policy.
     9.1.3. This donation authority shall not be used as a method of "dumping" excess property or as
     an alternative to authorized reduction to scrap. Property targeted for donation should be in work-
     ing condition. However, at the request of the donee, inoperable property may be donated.
     9.1.4. Donated laboratory equipment should generally be free of charge. However, the donee may
     be required to pay all costs associated with packing and transportation.
     9.1.5. Laboratories and technical activities should be acutely aware that some property, if
     exported, may be environmentally regulated and/or, if exported, may require a U.S. Department of
     State or Commerce export license. Moreover, some property may require demilitarization or alter-
     ation for security purposes; standard eligibility criteria must be ensured and a screening process
     for determining trade security control risks is mandatory. Accordingly, all laboratory equipment to
     be donated must be screened to ensure compliance with DoD demilitarization requirements, secu-
     rity requirements and all environmental laws and regulations.
     9.1.6. All donations pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2194 and 15 U.S.C. 3710(i) shall be reported in accor-
     dance with DoD reporting requirements. The current reporting requirements shall be identified in
     the Technology Transfer Handbook maintained by AFRL/XPTT.
     9.1.7. For those donations of “Educationally Useful Federal Equipment,” to “schools” pursuant to
     Executive Order 12999, laboratories should use existing local procedures or if none are in place,
     use the procedures listed above.
  9.2. Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. §3710(i), the Director of a laboratory or the head of any federal agency or
  department may loan or lease research equipment that is excess to the needs of the laboratory, agency,
  or department to an educational institution or nonprofit organization for the conduct of technical and
  scientific education and research activities. Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. §3710a, a laboratory director may
  provide property (equipment), including access to supplies and services to maintain such property, to
  collaborating party under a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement. Pursuant to 10
  U.S.C. §2194, a laboratory director may loan defense laboratory equipment to an Education Institu-
  tion pursuant to an Education Partnership Agreement.
     9.2.1. For purposes of this guidance, the terms loan, lease or provide shall be used synonymously
     and shall refer to providing either research or laboratory equipment on an exclusive, but time lim-
     ited, basis to an authorized recipient.
     9.2.2. Laboratory and/or technical activity directors must only loan equipment to authorized
     recipients for the purposes authorized under the subject authorities. These are loans of:
         9.2.2.1. Excess research equipment to educational institutions or nonprofit organizations for
10                                                                          AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001


        the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities;
        9.2.2.2. Property (equipment) to collaborating parties under a Cooperative Research and
        Development Agreement for the conduct of specified research and development efforts which
        are consistent with the missions of the laboratory; and
        9.2.2.3. Defense laboratory equipment to local educational agency, colleges, universities, and
        any other nonprofit institutions that are dedicated to improving science, mathematics, and
        engineering education under an Education Partnership Agreement for the purpose of encour-
        aging and enhancing study in scientific disciplines at all levels of education.
     9.2.3. All loans must be in writing and sufficiently identify the property loaned.
     9.2.4. The terms of the loan can be set forth either in the terms of the authorized agreement
     (Cooperative Research and Development Agreement or Education Partnership Agreement), an
     attachment thereto, or in a separate agreement. The written agreements should include terms to
     sufficiently protect the DoD’s interest in the property. For example, the agreements should include
     terms such as termination provisions, a duration provision, and/or a liability disclaimer. Labora-
     tory directors should also consider including the requirement that the recipient obtain appropriate
     insurance coverage and/or other provisions that will insulate the DoD from liabilities stemming
     from the recipient’s use of the loaned property.
     9.2.5. Loans pursuant to a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement may be for a fee or
     free of charge. Loans pursuant to 15 U.S.C. §3710(i) and 10 U.S.C. §2194 should be free of
     charge. However, the recipient may be required to pay all costs associated with packing and trans-
     portation.
     9.2.6. All equipment to be loaned must be screened to ensure compliance with DoD demilitariza-
     tion requirements.
     9.2.7. All equipment to be loaned must be screened to ensure compliance with all environmental
     laws and regulations.
     9.2.8. For any equipment which will be loaned and otherwise requires sustainment support, labo-
     ratory personnel and local logistics personnel shall establish procedures to provide such support
     for the loaned equipment, if necessary.



                                                   DARLEEN A. DRUYUN
                                                   Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
                                                     (Acquisition & Management)
AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001                                                                                11


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
United States Code Title 15 Commerce and Trade Chapter 63 Technology Innovation Section 3701
(15 USC 3701 et seq.)
Executive Order 12591, Facilitating Access to Science and Technology, 10 April 1987
DoDD 5535.3, Technology Transfer Program, 21 May 1999
DoDI 5535.8, DoD Technology Transfer (T2) Program, 14 May 1999
AFPD 61-3, Domestic Technology Transfer
AFI 33-112 Computer Systems Management, 1 Dec 1997
AFI 38-401, The Air Force Suggestion Innovative Development Through Employee Awareness (IDEA)
Program, 10 Oct 1994
AFI 51-303, Intellectual Property - Patents, Patent Related Matters, Trademarks, Copyrights, 1 Sep 1998
AFI 61-302, Cooperative Research and Development Agreements
AFMAN 37-139 Records Disposition Schedule, 1 Mar 1996
Air Force Technology Transfer Handbook

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CRADA—Cooperative Research and Development Agreement
CTA—Commercial Test Agreement
DDR&E—Director Defense Research and Engineering
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DTT—Domestic Technology Transfer
EPA—Education Partnership Agreement
FLC—Federal Laboratory Consortium for Technology Transfer
HQ USAF/JAG—Office of The Judge Advocate General, General Law Division
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORTA—Office of Research and Technology Applications
PIA—Partnership Intermediary Agreement
SAF/AQR—Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Acquisition (Science, Technology and
Engineering)
12                                                                              AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001


SAF/GCQ—Office of the Deputy General Counsel (Acquisition)
TEO—Technology Executive Officer

Terms
Air Force Program Management Team—The Air Force office (the Air Force Technology Transfer
Program Manager and staff) responsible for implementing this policy directive and its instructions.
Air Force Technology Transfer Integrated Planning Team—This is a working level group whose
membership includes all Air Force Technology Transfer Focal Points, each participating command’s
Technology Transfer Manager, the Air Force Program Management Team, and various support personnel
(including, but not limited to legal, public affairs, financial management, contracting, etc.) The group
meets regularly and works together to resolve common problems, share best practices and lessons learned,
and initiate program and process improvements.
Application Assessment—A summary emphasizing potential application of technological developments
having potential use by state and local government or private industry.
Commercial Test Agreement (CTA)—An agreement under 10 U.S.C. § 2539b between any person or
entity and an Air Force laboratory, center, or other testing facility for the purpose of providing to the
person or entity, at a prescribed fee, Air Force services to test materials, equipment, models, computer
software, and other items. NOTE: The use of Major Range Test Facility Bases is governed exclusively by
DoD Directive 3200.11, “The Major Range and Test Facility Base,” as amended to implement 10 U.S.C.
§ 2681.
Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA)—An agreement between one or more
federal laboratories and/or technical activities and one or more nonfederal parties. Under a CRADA, the
government laboratories and/or technical activities shall provide personnel, services, facilities,
equipment, or other resources with or without reimbursement (but not funds to the nonfederal parties).
CRADAs are instruments that may be used in all aspects of a product and/or system life cycle where
RDT&E activities occur. The nonfederal parties shall provide funds, personnel, services, facilities,
equipment, or other resources toward the conduct of specified research and development efforts that are
consistent with the missions of the laboratory and/or technical activity. The CRADA partners shall share
in the intellectual property developed under the effort. This term does not include a procurement contract
or cooperative agreement as used in 31 U.S.C. §§ 6303, 6304, and 6305.
Education Partnership Agreement (EPA)—An agr eeme nt under 10 U. S.C. § 2194 between
educational institutions and an Air Force scientific and engineering activity (ies) for the purpose of
encouraging and enhancing study in scientific disciplines at all levels of education. The educational
institutions referred to in the preceding sentence are local educational agency [agencies], colleges,
universities, and any other nonprofit institutions that are dedicated to improving science, mathematics,
and engineering education. Under such a partnership agreement, the director of an Air Force scientific and
engineering activity may provide assistance to the educational institution by-- (1) loaning defense
laboratory equipment to the institution for any purpose and duration in support of such agreement that the
director considers appropriate; (2) notwithstanding the provisions of the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.) or any provision of law or regulation relating
to transfers of surplus property, transferring to the institution any computer equipment, or other scientific
equipment, that is--
(A) commonly used by educational institutions;
AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001                                                                                     13


(B) surplus to the needs of the defense laboratory; and
(C) determined by the director to be appropriate for support of such agreement; (3) making laboratory
personnel available to teach science courses or to assist in the development of science courses and
materials for the institution; (4) involving faculty and students of the institution in defense laboratory
research projects; (5) cooperating with the institution in developing a program under which students may
be given academic credit for work on defense laboratory research projects; and (6) providing academic
and career advice and assistance to students of the institution.
Laboratory and/or Technical Activity—For this instruction, that phrase is, as broadly defined, in 15
U.S.C. 3710a(d)(2)(A), and shall include the following:
       A facility or group of facilities owned, leased, or otherwise used by the Air Force, a substantial
purpose of which is the performance of research, development, or engineering by employees of the Air
Force.
        Use of this broad definition is deliberate. That definition is not confined to those Air Force com-
ponents that are formally titled “laboratories.” The intent of that definition is to encompass the wide range
of organizations and arrangements that function as laboratories and/or technical activities in Air Force
research, development, and engineering programs. It shall include laboratories and/or technical activities
and reference more diverse arrangements that shall provide a virtual laboratory capability. For example,
an Air Force component may have a virtual lab involving a management function accomplished in an Air
Force activity, plus a dispersed set of research activities to be accomplished by a variety of organizations
outside of the sponsoring and/or managing activity. Those capabilities are included in test, logistics, and
product centers; depots; arsenals; program offices; and all Air Force offices providing for RDT&E. This
is consistent with 15 U.S.C. 3710a(d)(2)(A) which uses such encompassing terms as “facility.” This broad
definition is in accordance with new DoD practices.
        While the definition cited in 15 U.S.C. 3710a(d)(2)(A) occurs in a section of the United States
Code dealing with CRADAs, the use of that broad definition in the DoD Directive 5535.3 and DoD
Instruction 5535.8 shall not be limited to matters involving CRADAs. The broad definition applies to all
citations of laboratories and/or technical activities in this instruction.
Office of Research and Technology Applications (ORTA)—Office required by 15 U.S.C. § 3710(b) to
oversee the Domestic Technology Transfer Program at a laboratory and/or technical activity. Normally, an
ORTA comprises individuals with expertise in marketing, public relations, intellectual property, patent
law, and scientific and technical information.
Partnership Intermediary Agreement (PIA)—A Memorandum of Understanding or contract pursuant
to 15 U.S.C. § 3715 with a partnership intermediary, as defined by 15 U.S.C. § 3715(c), that provides for
the partnership intermediary to perform services for the Air Force that increase the likelihood of success
in the conduct of cooperative or joint activities of the Air Force with small businesses.
Technology Transfer—The communication (sharing) of knowledge, expertise, facilities, equipment, and
other resources, for application to military and non-military systems. Domestic technology transfer shall
include the following:
     Spin-off activities that shall demonstrate DoD technology; e.g., commercial viability of technologies
already developed or presently being developed for U.S. security purposes. The primary purpose of those
activities, which encompass much technology transfer, shall be to promote and make available existing
DoD-owned or -developed technologies and technical infrastructure to a broad spectrum of non-DoD
applications.
14                                                                            AFI61-301 30 MAY 2001


       Dual-use science and technology and other activities that develop technologies that shall have
both DoD and non-DoD applications.
       Spin-on promotion activities that shall demonstrate the U.S. security utility of technologies devel-
oped outside of the DoD. That goal shall be to incorporate the innovative technology into military systems
to meet mission needs at a lower acquisition cost by taking advantage of the economies of scale by pur-
chasing from a larger industrial base.
