BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63 -1001
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 18 APRIL 2002
                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-1001 AIR
                                               FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND
                                                                         Supplement
                                                                                 5 MARCH 2013

                                                                                      Acquisition

                                                      AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY
                                                                           PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AQRE (Mr. John Heliotis)                                        Certified by: SAF/AQR
                                                                         (Dr. Donald C. Daniel)
                                                                                        Pages: 9
Supersedes:    AFI63-1001,
               1 November 1997
                                           (AFSOC)
OPR: HQ AFSOC/A4MS                                              Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A4M1
                                                                           (Mr. Ira D. Williams)
                                                                                        Pages: 3
Supersedes:    AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP 1,
               1 October 2007


This instruction defines the responsibilities and procedures followed by appropriate
organizations in implementing and sustaining the Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP). It
implements AFPD 63-10, Aircraft Structural Integrity, and is consistent with DoD Directive
5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System, and DoD Instruction 5000.2, Operation of the Defense
Acquisition System. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

(AFSOC) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 63-1001, Aircraft Structural Integrity Program, 18
April 2002, is supplemented as follows: All Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC)
maintenance units with responsibility for Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
management/reporting shall maintain a current copy of this instruction. This instruction applies
 2                                                  AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP_I 5 MARCH 2013


to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) classic associate units and members. It does not apply
to Air National Guard (ANG) units and members. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document requires: the use of statistical sampling procedures to ensure valid sample sizes
are selected when collecting usage data used to make inferences about the entire fleet; annual
review and documentation of the need to continue collecting usage data; Lead/Operating
Commands’ notification to the single manager about all aircraft operational usage changes; and
single manager action to ensure the data collection requirements, tracking requirements and
safety critical structural inspections identified in the policy are accomplished.

(AFSOC) This supplement has been updated to reflect current AFSOC guidance and

(AFSOC) policy regarding HQ AFSOC/A3/A4/A5 and field unit ASIP POC responsibilities.
1. Objectives of ASIP:
     1.1. Establish, evaluate, and substantiate the structural integrity (airframe strength, rigidity,
     damage tolerance, and durability, including economic life) of aircraft structures.
     1.2. Acquire, evaluate, and apply operational usage data to provide a continual update of the
     structural integrity of operational aircraft.
     1.3. Provide quantitative information for decisions on force structure planning, inspection
     and modification priorities, and related operational and support decisions.
     1.4. Provide a basis for improving structural criteria and methods of design, evaluation, and
     substantiation for future aircraft systems and modifications.
2. ASIP Requirements. The technical details for ASIP are in MIL-HDBK-1530, General
Guidelines for Aircraft Structural Integrity Program.
     2.1. ASIP, as described in MIL-HDBK-1530, is tailored as appropriate for application to all
     piloted aircraft developed or used by the Air Force. It also applies to aircraft intended for
     operation as unmanned air vehicles, but capable of carrying safety pilots. For unpiloted
     vehicles, apply those elements needed to ensure sufficient structural safety and durability to
     meet the intended use of the air- frame.
     2.2. Apply ASIP as necessary to ensure structural safety and determine the economic life for
     the following:
        2.2.1. Current operational aircraft.
        2.2.2. Aircraft used, but not originally developed by the Air Force.
AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP_I 5 MARCH 2013                                                                 3


      2.2.3. Air Force aircraft modified for (or directed to) new missions.
   2.3. Apply ASIP as needed to provide flight safety during prototype evaluation. Apply the
   program to any follow-on aircraft developed by the Air Force and account for it in the
   prototype evaluation.
   2.4. Use statistical sampling when it is not feasible to instrument all aircraft of a series.
3. ASIP Planning. ASIP will be incorporated into the Integrated Management Plan and
Integrated Management Schedule of new or updated weapon system programs and will:
   3.1. Incorporate the requirements of this instruction, using the guidance in MIL-HDBK-
   1530, and other applicable documents into a meaningful aircraft structural integrity program.
   3.2. Cover the entire life cycle of the aircraft to the time it fails to meet the criteria
   established in paragraph 2.2.
   3.3. Include aircraft historical data, required service life, and economic life of all major
   structural components.
   3.4. Incorporate appropriate ASIP events and milestones and make sure they are documented
   for the program. ASIP will be approved by each weapon system Single Manager (SM). The
   aircraft ASIP manager will keep SAF/AQR, HQ USAF/ILM and the Office of Primary
   Responsibility (OPR) for ASIP in each participating command informed on ASIP, as well as
   any changes to the program.
   3.5. The aircraft ASIP manager will document changes to the program annually or more
   frequently, if necessary.
4. ASIP Management. Carry out the program based on the following guidelines:
   4.1. For systems under development, carry out the program as an integral part of the total
   system engineering effort in the acquisition of the aircraft weapon system.
      4.1.1. The ASIP manager will translate the requirements of this instruction and the
      guidance in MIL-HDBK-1530 into a program for each aircraft and ensure the program is
      documented.
      4.1.2. Document the program no later than 30 days after the start of the Engineering and
      Manufacturing Development phase.
      4.1.3. Draft an initial plan for the program before exiting the Program Definition and
      Risk Reduction acquisition phase to ensure ASIP is considered early in the program.
   4.2. For systems not developed by the Air Force, but which the Air Force intends to use, an
   assessment of the aircraft’s structural integrity program shall be an integral part of the
   evaluation and selection process. SM approval of the program must occur before the Air
   Force makes the production or buy decision.
   4.3. For systems already in use, but which have not had full ASIP requirements
   accomplished and documented, the ASIP manager will determine what part of the total
   program is essential to establish the structural safety and remaining economic life of all
   major structural components.
 4                                                 AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP_I 5 MARCH 2013


     4.4. For systems that are to be modified for a new mission, a revised program must be
     approved before fleet modification or regular operations begin under the new mission.
5. ASIP Assigned Responsibilities:
     5.1. SAF/AQ will:
        5.1.1. Ensure that an effective aircraft structural integrity program is established for each
        aircraft operated by the Air Force and provide guidance.
        5.1.2. Ensure that ASIP requirements are included in the procurement documentation for
        each aircraft weapon system acquisition, including aircraft weapon system structural
        modification programs.
        5.1.3. Evaluate requests for deviation from the provisions of this instruction and grant
        approval, if appropriate.
        5.1.4. Use and consider ASIP information in force structure planning and in modification
        ranking and implementation.
     5.2. All Air Force commands and agencies will:
        5.2.1. Carry out the requirements of this instruction by issuing detailed documentation
        that specifies the command ASIP responsibilities and tasks.
        5.2.2. Keep implementing documents current.
     5.3. AFMC will:
        5.3.1. Establish an OPR for command-wide policy and procedures for execution of the
        aircraft structural integrity program.
        5.3.2. Ensure each aircraft weapon system has an up-to-date ASIP.
        5.3.3. Implement ASIP requirements in a timely manner as an integral part life cycle
        aircraft weapon system acquisition engineering process.
        5.3.4. Develop and sustain data acquisition systems technology to monitor individual
        aircraft to ensure the operational effectiveness of ASIP.
        5.3.5. Maintain and revise MIL-HDBK- 1530 as needed, to reflect technological
        advances or improvements in ASIP.
        5.3.6. Advise appropriate program offices, operating commands, arid other management.
        organizations of ASIP requirements.
        5.3.7. Develop advanced data reduction and analysis techniques for evaluating
        operational usage and fleet experience data.
        5.3.8. If the SM’s operational usage data processing concept requires new weapon
        system structural data collection programs or new computer application software
        programs, ensure they are supportable and compatible with each other.
        5.3.9. Sustain and enhance Aircraft Structural Integrity Management Information System
        (ASI- MIS) capability as required by participating SMs.
        5.3.10. Establish procedures for periodic review of the program of each Mission Design
        Series (MDS) aircraft to verify that:
AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP_I 5 MARCH 2013                                                             5


         5.3.10.1. Required data collection and analysis efforts are effective and operating
         efficiently.
         5.3.10.2. Fleet ASIP inspection and corrective actions are valid and adequate to
         protect safety and durability of the airframe.
         5.3.10.3. Fleet ASIP inspection and corrective actions are on schedule.
         5.3.10.4. All significant changes in the economic life of any major structural
         component are reported to SAF/AQR, HQ USAF/ILM, and each participating
         command.
         5.3.10.5. Develop structural design criteria and methods for evaluating and
         substantiating airframe safety and durability for future aircraft systems.
  5.4. The Single Manager will:
     5.4.1. Ensure the minimum baseline ASIP data collection requirements, tracking
     requirements, and safety critical structural inspections prescribed in current policy are
     followed. Develop POM inputs, for the lead command, necessary to provide sufficient
     data to ensure the Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E) baseline is
     being maintained. Highlight any breech of requirements to operating/lead Command.
     5.4.2. Appoint an ASIP manager for each aircraft weapon system being acquired or used
     by the Air Force.
     5.4.3. Ensure data acquisition systems are installed in a sufficient number of aircraft to
     define the force usage spectra considering fleet size and appropriate statistical sampling
     procedures.
     5.4.4. Provide individual usage tracking capability on all aircraft. Install recorders when,
     reliability and maintainability requirements are satisfied, and an adequate scope of data
     parameters for the particular system has been identified.
  5.5. The ASIP Manager will:
     5.5.1. Establish the program as outlined in this instruction and coordinate with each
     participating command as required.
     5.5.2. Document and update the program, coordinate it with participating commands,
     obtain SM approval, and keep SAF/AQR, HQ USAF/ILM, and the OPR for ASIP in each
     participating command informed on the initial plans for ASIP, as well as any changes to
     the program.
     5.5.3. Carry out the ASIP program.
     5.5.4. Advise SAF/AQR, HQ USAF/ILM, AFSC/SEF, and each participating command
     of the impact on structural integrity of the aircraft system when its mission changes.
     5.5.5. Establish a usage data processing capability and assess the reports. Begin
     corrective action where needed.
     5.5.6. Annually, with SM and lead/operating Command participation and coordination,
     establish and document minimum baseline ASIP data collection requirements to define
     force usage spectra.
6                                               AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP_I 5 MARCH 2013


       5.5.7. Ensure personnel develop and sustain weapon system structural data collection
       programs and the required computer applications software programs. If the SM’s
       operational usage data processing concept is to use the ASIMIS capability, ensure the
       computer programs are compatible and supportable with ASIMIS.
       5.5.8. Document the justification and rationale if the SM’s operational usage data
       processing concept is not to use the ASIMIS capability.
       5.5.9. Establish and document the life cycle inspection and modification actions and
       schedules required to maintain the structural integrity of each aircraft system.
       5.5.10. Establish and document cost data elements required to determine the economic
       life of the aircraft system throughout its life cycle.
    5.6. Operating/Lead Commands will:
       5.6.1. Establish an OPR for managing this program command-wide.
       5.6.1. (AFSOC) HQ AFSOC/A4 will manage the aircraft structural integrity program
       (ASIP) for the command. HQ AFSOC/A4 will appoint a command ASIP Point of
       Contact (POC). The command ASIP POC will be an engineer or have equivalent aircraft
       technical expertise. HQ AFSOC/A3 and HQ AFSOC/A5 will also appoint ASIP POCs
       for the weapon systems for which AFSOC is designated as lead command. HQ
       AFSOC/A3 and HQ AFSOC/A5 will provide their ASIP POC name to the command
       ASIP POC.
          5.6.1.1. (Added-AFSOC) HQ AFSOC/A4 ASIP POC Responsibilities:
              5.6.1.1.1. (Added-AFSOC) Represent AFSOC at ASIP working group meetings
              and conferences.
              5.6.1.1.2. (Added-AFSOC) Advocate for sustaining engineering funds in
              support of ASIP requirements.
              5.6.1.1.3. (Added-AFSOC) Provide data on system utilization, operational
              usage, and fleet experience to the ASIP manager through the aircraft single
              manager.
              5.6.1.1.4. (Added-AFSOC) Establish procedures to notify the aircraft single
              manager and ASIP manager of contemplated changes in the operational usage that
              deviate from the original design.
              5.6.1.1.5. (Added-AFSOC) Ensure that field logistics personnel support the
              ASIP program as required. Monitor performance at unit levels to ensure that an
              effective data collection system is functioning.
              5.6.1.1.6. (Added-AFSOC) In coordination with the weapons system integrated
              product team and the system program office, ensure that funds are planned,
              programmed, and budgeted to obtain the ASIP data required to ensure the
              Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness baseline for the weapon system.
          5.6.1.2. (Added-AFSOC) HQ AFSOC/A3 ASIP POC Responsibilities:
              5.6.1.2.1. (Added-AFSOC) Notify the command ASIP POC of contemplated
              changes in operational usage that deviate from the original weapon system design.
AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP_I 5 MARCH 2013                                                             7


            5.6.1.2.2. (Added-AFSOC) Ensure that field operations personnel support the
            ASIP program as required. Ensure that units prepare and process operational
            usage data according to governing directives. Monitor performance at unit levels
            to ensure that an effective data collection system is functioning.
        5.6.1.3. (Added-AFSOC) HQ AFSOC/A5 ASIP POC Responsibilities:
            5.6.1.3.1. (Added-AFSOC) Work with HQ AFSOC/A3 and HQ AFSOC/A4 to
            establish the timeframe the weapon system is expected to support the AFSOC
            mission and program funds to support that requirement.
        5.6.1.4. (Added-AFSOC) AFSOC Field Unit Responsibilities:
            5.6.1.4.1. (Added-AFSOC) Install, operate, and maintain ASIP hardware and
            software as required.
            5.6.1.4.2. (Added-AFSOC) Prepare and process operational and logistics ASIP
            data as required.
     5.6.2. Provide data on system utilization, operational usage, and fleet experience to the
     ASIP manager through the aircraft single manager.
     5.6.3. Establish procedures to notify the aircraft single manager and ASIP manager of
     contemplated changes in the operational usage that deviate from the original design.
     5.6.4. Install, operate, and maintain ASIP hardware as required.
     5.6.5. Lead Commands will plan, program and budget for funds, per AFPD 10-9, Lead
     Operating Command Weapon Systems Management, necessary to obtain the data
     required to ensure the OSS&E baseline for the weapon system is being maintained.
     5.6.6. Prepare and process operational usage data according to governing directives.
     5.6.7. Provide requirements for and monitor performance at unit levels to ensure that an
     effective data collection system is functioning in support of each program.
     5.6.8. Establish the required service life for all aircraft systems.




                                            MARVIN R. SAMBUR
                                            Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Acquisition

                                            (AFSOC)

                                            JOHN J. HALLER, JR., GS-15, DAF
                                            Executive Director of Logistics
 8                                              AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP_I 5 MARCH 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-AFSOC) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
(Added-AFSOC) AFI 63-1001, Aircraft Structural Integrity Program, 3 April 2009
DoD Directive 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System
DoD Instruction 5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System
AFPD 63-12, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
MIL-HDBK-1530, Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
MIL-HDBK-1783A, Engine Structural Integrity Program
MIL-HDBK-1798, Mechanical Systems Integrity Program
MIL-HDBK-1803, Software Development Integrity Program
MIL-HDBK-87244, Avionics Integrity Program
(Added-AFSOC) Prescribed Forms
(Added-AFSOC) No forms are prescribed in this publication.
(Added-AFSOC) Adopted Forms
(Added-AFSOC) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September
2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-AFSOC) AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
(Added-AFSOC) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(AFSOC) AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPDO—Air Force Publishing Distribution Office
(Added-AFSOC) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(Added-AFSOC) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
(Added-AFSOC) AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
(Added-AFSOC) ANG—Air National Guard
ASIMIS—Aircraft Structural Integrity Management Information System
ASIP—Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
AFI63-1001_AFSOCSUP_I 5 MARCH 2013                        9


(AFSOC) ASIP—Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
DoD—Department of Defense
MIL-HDBK—Military Handbook
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(AFSOC) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
(Added-AFSOC) POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
(Added-AFSOC) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SM—Single Manager
