                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-118
AIR FORCE                                                                               29 APRIL 1994

                                                                                             Acquisition

                                                                  CIVIL ENGINEER RESEARCH,
                                                              DEVELOPMENT, AND ACQUISITION


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/CEVV                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/CEV (Col Peter Walsh)
     (Maj Ralph W. Williams II)                                                          Pages: 10
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 10-6, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements; AFPD 32-70,
Environmental Quality; AFPD 61-1, Management of Science and Technology; and AFPD 63-1, Acquisi-
tion System, by providing guidance on identifying, validating, approving, prioritizing, and executing Air
Force Civil Engineer research, development, and acquisition programs. Attachment 1 is a glossary of
abbreviations, acronyms, and terms used in this instruction.

Section A—Introduction

1. Background. This instruction:
   1.1. Assigns responsibilities and shows users how to identify and coordinate civil engineer (Environ-
   mental Quality and Air Base Systems) research, development, and acquisition needs and projects to
   meet Air Force goals.
   1.2. Delineates the process by which civil engineer research, development, and acquisition user needs
   are gathered, validated, organized, prioritized, and entered into the Air Force Technology Master Pro-
   cess.
       1.2.1. The Technology Master Process integrates the various technology planning, development,
       transition, application, and insertion efforts within Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) into a
       single, integrated process.

2. Concept:
   2.1. This instruction does not duplicate Federal, state, and local standards but provides major com-
   mands (MAJCOM) and other organizations with a framework for complying with these requirements
   according to Air Force policies.
   2.2. MAJCOM two-letter offices document implementing guidance in their supplements to this
   instruction. MAJCOM supplements must identify the specific "actors" who have implementing
   responsibilities and document any "how to" guidance needed to comply with this instruction.
   2.3. Objective. The overall objective of the process outlined in this instruction is to insert civil engi-
   neer user needs and projects into the research, development, and acquisition pipeline to support the
   Air Force mission.

3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) and Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF):
       3.1.1. Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ): M a n -
       ages Air Force research, development, and acquisition programs.
       3.1.2. Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Director for Science and Technol-
       ogy (SAF/AQT). Directs and manages the science and technology portion of the Air Force
       research, development, and acquisition program. Develops broad policy, guidance, and direction
       for Exploratory Development (6.2) and Advanced Technology Development (6.3A) requirements
       and projects. Serves as program element monitor for Air Force Basic Research (6.1), Exploratory
       Development (6.2), and Advanced Technology Development (6.3A) program elements. Tracks
       funding obligations and expenditures and advocates for science and technology resources.
       3.1.3. Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Director for Fighter, C2, and Weap-
       ons Programs (SAF/AQP). Directs and manages the Demonstration/Validation, Engineering and
       Manufacturing Development, and acquisition portions of the Air Force research, development,
       and acquisition program. Develops broad policy, guidance, and direction for Demonstration/Val-
       idation (6.3B) and Engineering and Manufacturing Development (6.4) requirements and projects.
       Serves as program element monitor for Air Force for Demonstration/Validation (6.3B) and Engi-
       neering and Manufacturing Development (6.4) program elements. Generates program manage-
       ment directives, tracks funding obligations and expenditures, and advocates for 6.3B and 6.4
       resources.
       3.1.4. The Civil Engineer, HQ USAF (HQ USAF/CE). Oversees, develops policy for, and
       advocates for civil engineer related research, development, and acquisition programs throughout
       the Air Force. Approves civil engineer research, development, and acquisition strategic plans.
       3.1.5. Directorate of Environmental Quality (HQ USAF/CEV). Establishes Air Force goals
       and objectives for Environmental Quality research, development, and acquisition investment.
       Chairs the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Working Group. In
       conjunction with MAJCOMs, validates and establishes priority order for Environmental Quality
       research, development, and acquisition needs. Passes prioritized needs to the Environmental
       Quality Technology Planning Integrated Product Team. Receives proposed projects from the
       Technology Planning Integrated Product Team and, in conjunction with the MAJCOMs, priori-
       tizes the projects and passes them back to the Technology Planning Integrated Product Team for
       input to the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Strategic Plan.
       Ensures environmental operational requirements identified by the MAJCOMs are consistent with
       Air Force corporate goals. Provides management oversight for execution of the Environmental
       Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Strategic Plan. Submits Air Force environmen-
       tal requirements for incorporation into the Tri-Service Environmental Quality Research and
       Development Strategic Plan and other non-Air Force Environmental Quality research and devel-
       opment efforts (e.g., the Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program). Advo-



                                                 2
   cates Environmental Quality research, development, and acquisition programs through the Air
   Force Resource Allocation Process.
   3.1.6. Directorate of Operations and Maintenance (HQ USAF/CEO). Establishes Air Force
   goals and objectives for Air Base Systems research, development, and acquisition investment.
   Chairs the Air Base Systems Working Group. In conjunction with MAJCOMs, validates and
   establishes priority order for Air Base Systems research, development, and acquisition needs.
   Passes prioritized needs to the Air Base Systems Technology Planning Integrated Product Team.
   Receives proposed projects from the Technology Planning Integrated Product Team and, in con-
   junction with the MAJCOMs, prioritizes the projects and passes them back to the Technology
   Planning Integrated Product Team for input to the Air Base Systems Strategic Plan. Submits Air
   Force Air Base Systems requirements for incorporation into other tri-service research and devel-
   opment planning efforts. Ensures Air Base Systems operational requirements identified by the
   MAJCOMs are consistent with Air Force corporate goals. Provides management oversight for
   execution of the Air Base Systems Strategic Plan. Advocates Air Base Systems research, devel-
   opment, and acquisition programs through the Air Force Resource Allocation Process.
   3.1.7. Air Force Directorate of Operational Requirements (HQ USAF/XOR). Serves as the
   executive agency for the Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Operations (HQ USAF/XO) for manag-
   ing Air Force-wide mission needs and operational requirements that may result in research, devel-
   opment, test and evaluation and procurement appropriations. Articulates mission deficiencies and
   needs for operating commands. Manages the HQ USAF mission needs statement and operational
   requirements document processes which are governed by the Department of Defense (DoD)
   5000-series publications and implemented by AFI 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational
   Requirements Guidance and Procedures.
3.2. Field Operating Agencies (FOA):
   3.2.1. Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE). Solicits user environmental
   needs. Reviews user needs and determines whether a solution exists. Provides users with infor-
   mation on existing solutions. Compiles and maintains a master listing of user needs to be consid-
   ered by the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Working Group.
   Provides staff support to the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition
   Working Group.
   3.2.2. Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA). Solicits user Air Base Systems
   needs. Reviews user needs and determines whether a solution exists. Provides users with infor-
   mation on existing solutions. Compiles and maintains a master listing of user needs to be consid-
   ered by the Air Base Systems Working Group. Provides staff support to the Air Base Systems
   Working Group.
3.3. MAJCOM Responsibilities. Broad responsibilities are assigned only to MAJCOM two-letter
office functional areas to increase flexibility at each MAJCOM for implementing this instruction. All
references to MAJCOMs in this instruction include the Air National Guard Readiness Center
(ANGRC) and other agencies designated as "MAJCOM equivalent" by HQ USAF.
   3.3.1. MAJCOM Civil Engineers. Serve as command focal points for civil engineer operational
   requirements and research, development, and acquisition needs. Develop supporting directives to
   implement this instruction. Solicit base-level input. Ensure command civil engineer operational
   requirements are identified, documented, prioritized, and advocated for insertion into the Technol-

                                            3
   ogy Master Process. In accordance with the procedures outlined in AFI 10-601 write the required
   mission needs statement and operational requirements document as projects progress through the
   process. Ensure needs are included in appropriate Mission Area Plans. Sit as voting members of
   the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Working Group and Air Base
   Systems Working Group.
   3.3.2. Air Combat Command. Budgets for Air Base Operability and Chemical and Biological
   Defense programs in Demonstration/Validation (6.3B), Engineering and Manufacturing Develop-
   ment (6.4), and fielding (appropriation 3080).
   3.3.3. Air Force Materiel Command. Budgets for civil engineer science and technology (6.1,
   6.2 and 6.3A) effort and non-Air Base Operability and non-Chemical and Biological Defense pro-
   grams through Demonstration/Validation (6.3B), Engineering and Manufacturing Development
   (6.4), and fielding (appropriation 3080).
3.4. Other Organizations:
   3.4.1. Human Systems Center Directorate of Plans, Requirements, and Engineering (HSC/
   XR). Chairs the Environmental Quality Technology Planning Integrated Product Team. Receives
   prioritized user-generated Environmental Quality research and development needs from the Envi-
   ronmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Working Group. Oversees the con-
   version of needs to projects through the Technology Master Process. Provides proposed project
   listing to AFCEE for consideration by the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and
   Acquisition Working Group. Receives prioritized projects from the Working Group for input to
   the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Strategic Plan. Produces the
   Strategic Plan. Manages research, development, and acquisition programs through Demonstra-
   tion/Validation (6.3B), Engineering and Manufacturing Development (6.4), and fielding. Identi-
   fies budget disconnects for 6.2 through 6.4 and 3080 programs to HQ AFMC for inclusion in the
   AFMC Program Objective Memorandum.
   3.4.2. Aeronautical Systems Center, Range and Air Base Systems Program Office (ASC/
   YO). Chairs the Air Base Systems Technology Planning Integrated Product Team. Receives pri-
   oritized user-generated Air Base Systems research and development needs from the Air Base Sys-
   tems Working Group. Oversees the conversion of needs to projects through the Technology
   Master Process. Provides proposed project listing to AFCESA for consideration by the Air Base
   Systems Working Group. Receives prioritized projects from the Working Group for input to the
   Air Base Systems Strategic Plan. Produces the Strategic Plan. Manages research, development,
   and acquisition programs through Demonstration/Validation (6.3B), Engineering and Manufac-
   turing Development (6.4), and fielding. Identifies budget disconnects for 6.2 through 6.4 and
   3080 programs to HQ AFMC or HQ ACC, as applicable, for inclusion in their Program Objective
   Memorandum.
   3.4.3. Armstrong Lab (AL). Executes Environmental Quality science and technology (6.2 and
   6.3A) effort. Produces the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Tech-
   nology Transition Plans which formally define transition criteria for completed Advanced Tech-
   nology Development (6.3A) projects to HSC/XR for Demonstration/Validation (6.3B),
   Engineering and Manufacturing Development (6.4) and fielding. Identifies science and technol-
   ogy budget disconnects for HSC/XR to include in the AFMC Program Objective Memorandum.



                                          4
       3.4.4. Wright Lab (WL). Executes the Air Base Systems science and technology (6.2 and 6.3A)
       effort. Produces the Air Base Systems Technology Transition Plans which formally define transi-
       tion criteria for completed Advanced Technology Development (6.3A) projects to ASC/YO for
       Demonstration/Validation (6.3B), Engineering and Manufacturing Development (6.4) and field-
       ing. Identifies science and technology budget disconnects for ASC/YO to include in the AFMC
       Program Objective Memorandum.

Section B—Air Force Civil Engineer Research, Development, and Acquisition Process

4. Overview. Identification of civil engineer research, development, and acquisition requirements fol-
lows two separate but similar paths--the Environmental Quality Process and the Air Base Systems Pro-
cess (see Figure 1. for more information). The Environmental Quality Process considers Pollution
Prevention, Compliance, Conservation, and Restoration requirements. The Air Base Systems process
considers all non-environmental civil engineer requirements (i.e., Air Base Operability, Chemical and
Biological Defense, Fire Protection, Operability and Repair, and Survivability).

5. Environmental Quality Needs Process:
   5.1. Needs Identification. By 1 May of each year, AFCEE will solicit needs from the MAJCOM
   Civil Engineers. AFCEE will review the MAJCOM submissions to determine whether solutions
   already exist. If a solution exists for the stated need, AFCEE will provide that information to the
   MAJCOM. Once reviewed and approved by the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and
   Acquisition Working Group and HQ USAF/CE (as outlined in paragraph 5.2.), AFCEE will submit
   needs which require research and development to HSC/XR. HSC/XR and AL will review the needs
   to determine if a mission needs statement is required and notify AFCEE. If a mission needs statement
   is required, AFCEE will request the identifying command generate one and advise the MAJCOM to
   ensure the need is identified in the appropriate Mission Area Plan.




                                              5
Figure 1. Civil Engineer Research, Development, and Acquisition Process.




   5.2. Needs Prioritization. By 15 August of each year, HQ USAF/CEV will chair the Environmental
   Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Working Group, with representation from all MAJ-
   COM Civil Engineers, to prioritize existing and new environmental research and development needs.
   The MAJCOM Civil Engineer representatives (i.e., the users) are the sole voting members of this
   forum. The prioritized needs will then be reviewed and approved by HQ USAF/CE. The Working
   Group then passes user prioritized and CE approved needs to the Technology Planning Integrated
   Product Team, chaired by HSC/XR. The Technology Planning Integrated Product Team inserts the
   needs into the AFMC Technology Master Process which converts high ranked needs to projects.
   5.3. Project Prioritization. The Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition
   Working Group will meet again by 1 December to prioritize Environmental Quality research and
   development projects. The MAJCOM Civil Engineer representatives (i.e., the users) are the sole vot-
   ing members of this forum. Among the topics this meeting will address is the status of technology
   ready to transition from Advanced Technology Development (6.3A) to Demonstration/Validation
   (6.3B), with particular emphasis on funding status and disconnects that might exist as the projects
   transition. HSC/XR and AL will review transitioning projects to determine if an operational require-
   ments document is required and notify AFCEE. If an operational requirements document is required,
   AFCEE will notify the requesting MAJCOM to staff one before 6.3B funds are spent. When the pri-
   oritized project list is final, HSC/XR (Technology Planning Integrated Product Team chair) will
   incorporate it into the Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Strategic Plan

                                              6
   and submit the plan to HQ USAF/CE for final approval. In concert with publication of the Strategic
   Plan, HSC/XR will ensure necessary documentation is accomplished to identify funding disconnects
   to AFMC for inclusion in their Program Objective Memorandum. Program element monitors will
   revise program management directives as required to task the appropriate lab or system program
   office to accomplish the projects specified in the Strategic Plan.
   5.4. Budgeting Process. After projects are prioritized, Armstrong Lab will identify Exploratory
   Development (6.2) and Engineering and Manufacturing Development (6.3A) budget disconnects to
   HSC/XR. HSC/XR will consolidate this input with their Demonstration/Validation (6.3B), Engineer-
   ing and Manufacturing Development (6.4), and fielding (e.g., appropriation 3080) disconnects and
   submit funding disconnects for the entire Environmental Quality research, development, and acquisi-
   tion effort to HQ AFMC for inclusion in their Program Objective Memorandum.

6. Air Base Systems Needs Process:
   6.1. Needs Identification. By 1 May of each year, AFCESA will solicit needs from the MAJCOM
   Civil Engineers. AFCESA will review the MAJCOM submissions to determine whether solutions
   already exist. If a solution exists for the stated need, AFCESA will provide that information to the
   MAJCOM. Once reviewed and approved by the Air Base Systems Working Group and HQ USAF/
   CE (as outlined in paragraph 6.2.), AFCESA will submit needs which require research and develop-
   ment to ASC/YO. ASC/YO and WL will review the needs to determine if a mission needs statement
   is required and notify AFCESA. If a mission needs statement is required, AFCESA will request the
   identifying command generate one and advise the MAJCOM to ensure the need is identified in the
   appropriate Mission Area Plan.
   6.2. Needs Prioritization. By 15 August of each year, HQ USAF/CEO will chair the Air Base Sys-
   tems Working Group, with representation from all MAJCOM Civil Engineers, to prioritize existing
   and new Air Base Systems research and development needs. The MAJCOM Civil Engineer represen-
   tatives (i.e., the users) are the sole voting members of this forum. The prioritized needs will then be
   reviewed and approved by HQ USAF/CE. The Air Base Systems Working Group then passes user
   prioritized and CE approved needs to the Technology Planning Integrated Product Team, chaired by
   ASC/YO. The Technology Planning Integrated Product Team inserts the needs into the AFMC Tech-
   nology Master Process which converts the high ranked needs to projects.
   6.3. Project Prioritization. The Air Base Systems Working Group will meet again by 1 December
   of each year to prioritize Air Base Systems projects. The MAJCOM Civil Engineer representatives
   (i.e. the users) are the sole voting members of this forum. Among the topics this meeting will address
   is the status of technology ready to transition from Advanced Technology Development (6.3A) to
   Demonstration/Validation (6.3B), with particular emphasis on funding status and disconnects that
   might exist as the projects transition. ASC/YO and WL will review transitioning projects to deter-
   mine if an operational requirements document is required and notify AFCESA. If an operational
   requirements document is required, AFCESA will notify the requesting MAJCOM to staff one before
   6.3B funds are spent. When the prioritized project list is final, ASC/YO (Technology Planning Inte-
   grated Product Team chair) will incorporate it into the Air Base Systems Strategic Plan and submit the
   plan to HQ USAF/CE for final approval. In concert with publication of the Strategic Plan, ASC/YO
   will ensure necessary documentation is accomplished to identify funding disconnects to HQ AFMC or
   HQ ACC, as applicable, for inclusion in their Program Objective Memorandum. Program element


                                                7
monitors will revise program management directives as required to task the appropriate lab or system
program office to accomplish the projects specified in the Strategic Plan.
6.4. Budgeting Process. After projects are prioritized, Wright Lab will identify Exploratory Devel-
opment (6.2) and Engineering and Manufacturing Development (6.3A) budget disconnects to ASC/
YO. ASC/YO will consolidate this input with their Demonstration/Validation (6.3B), Engineering
and Manufacturing Development (6.4), and fielding (e.g., appropriation 3080) disconnects and submit
funding disconnects for the entire Air Base Systems research, development, and acquisition effort to
HQ AFMC or HQ ACC, as applicable, for inclusion in their Program Objective Memorandum.




                                     JAMES E. McCARTHY,, Maj General, USAF
                                     The Civil Engineer




                                           8
                                             Attachment 1

        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
Program Action Directive 92-14, September 1992.
DoD Directive 5000.1, Defense Acquisition, February 23, 1991.
DoD Instruction 5000.2, Defense Acquisition Management Policies and Procedures, February 23,1991,
with Change 1.
Air Force Environmental Quality Research, Development, and Acquisition Strategic Plan, February
1993.
Air Force Instruction 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements Guidance and Procedures,
February 16, 1993.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFCEE—Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AL—Armstrong Laboratory
C2—Command & Control
FOA—Field Operating Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
SERDP—Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program
TPIPT—Technology Planning Integrated Product Team
WL—Wright Laboratory

Terms
Mission Area Plan (MAP)—A MAJCOM plan outlining an investment strategy that influences the
programming, requirements, laboratory, and independent research and development process to support a
specific mission area. The Mission Area Plan describes all aspects of the mission area leading to required
future combat capability. It shows how, by following the plan, required Air Force combat capability can
be achieved in support of national military objectives.

                                                9
Mission Needs Statement (MNS)—-A brief statement (no more than five typed pages) prepared by
CINCs, HQ USAF, or operating MAJCOMs which identify and document mission deficiencies requiring
materiel and/or software solutions.
Operational Requirements Document (ORD)—A document prepared by a using command describing
pertinent quantitative and qualitative performance, operation, and support parameters, characteristics, and
requirements for a specific weapon system. The ORD documents how a system will be operated,
deployed, employed, and supported. The ORD also provides initial guidance for the implementing,
supported, and participating commands and agencies.
Program Element (PE)—A portion of the Air Force budget identifying the organizational entities and
resources (force, manpower, and cost, as applicable) needed to perform a particular Air Force mission or
activity.
Program Element Monitor (PEM)—An individual appointed within Headquarters US Air Force to
advocate the Air Force mission or activity covered by a program element through the Air Force Resource
Allocation Process.
Program Management Directive (PMD)—The official Air Force document used to direct acquisition
or modification responsibilities to MAJCOMs for the development, acquisition, or modification of a
specific weapon system, subsystem, or piece of equipment. It is used throughout the acquisition cycle to
terminate, initiate, or direct research for development of, production of, or modifications to a weapon
system.
Technology Master Process (TMP)—A process integrating the various research, development, and
acquisition, technology planning, development, transition, application, and insertion subprocesses within
AFMC into a single end-to-end master process. The goal is to formulate, with full participation by all the
stakeholders, an integrated list of technology development projects that is responsive to internal and
external AFMC technology customers.
Technology Planning Integrated Product Team (TPIPT)—A team of users, laboratory technologists,
development planners, logisticians, and system program office representatives that examines users’
mission needs and identifies technologies to meet them.




                                                10
