BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 60-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                      30 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                              Standardization

                                                         MATERIEL STANDARDIZATION




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releaseability restrictions on this publication


OPR: SAF/AQRE                                                         Certified by: SAF/AQR
                                                                       (Dr. David E. Walker)
                                                                                     Pages: 22
Supersedes:   AFI60-101, 23 October 2006


This publication implements AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 60-1, Air Force Standardization
Program. This instruction establishes the management structure and responsibilities for
conducting the Air Force portion of the Defense Standardization Program defined by DoDM
4120.24, Defense Standardization Program (DSP) Procedures. It also establishes guidance and
responsibilities for the materiel portion of the International Military Standardization (IMS)
Program defined by DoD Instruction (DoDI) 2010.06, Materiel Interoperability and
Standardization with Allies and Coalition Partners. It applies to all Air Force organizations
including the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Field activities must send implementing
publications to the higher headquarters functional OPR for review and coordination before
publishing. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                                      AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates revised DoDM 4120.24; removed Chapters 1 and 4 in their entirety;
reemphasized DoD guidance on use of non-Government and DoD standards in materiel life cycle
management; organizational/fact-of-life changes; allocates Lead Agent OPR responsibilities for
materiel International Standardization Agreements; recognizes new Departmental
Standardization Activity function; identifies Tiered waiver approval authorities for unit level
compliance items; responsibility changes for Standardization Management Executives/Center
Standardization Executives to approve vice certify certain document actions; clarifies
Attachment 2 procedural guidance on waivers and reinstating canceled documents; and expands
Attachment 2 guidance to include approval of need for a new Defense standard.


Chapter 1—AIR FORCE STANDARDIZATION MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
            OVERVIEW                                                                                                                      4
       1.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................   4
Figure 1.1.   Air Force Implementation of DSP Standardization Management Structure. .........                                             4
       1.2.   Defense Standardization Council (DSC). ..............................................................                       4
       1.3.   Defense Standardization Program Office (DSPO). ................................................                             5
       1.4.   Departmental Standardization Office (DepSO). ....................................................                           5
       1.5.   Departmental Standardization Activity (DSA). .....................................................                          5
       1.6.   Command Standardization Office (ComSO). ........................................................                            5
       1.7.   Standardization Management Activity (SMA). .....................................................                            5

Chapter 2—RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES                                                                                                6
       2.1.   The Deputy Assistant Secretary Science, Technology and Engineering),
              SAF/AQR. ..............................................................................................................     6
       2.2.   The Engineering Management Division, Deputy Assistant Secretary (Science,
              Technology and Engineering), SAF/AQRE. ..........................................................                           6
       2.3.   The Regional Plans and Issues Division, Directorate of Operational Plans and
              Joint Matters, Deputy Chief of Staff for Air and Space Operations, AF/A5XX. ..                                              6
       2.4.   The Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer, Office of
              the Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/CIO A6. ........................................................                        7
       2.5.   The Armaments Cooperation Division, Director of Policy, Deputy Under
              Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs, SAF/IAPQ. ..............................                                 7
       2.6.   Program Executive Officers (PEO) and Program Managers (PM). .......................                                         7
       2.7.   MAJCOMs and Field Operating Agencies (FOA). ...............................................                                 7
       2.8.   MAJCOM ComSOs. ..............................................................................................               8
       2.9.   SMEs/CSEs. ...........................................................................................................      8
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                                                               3


     2.10.   SMAs. ....................................................................................................................    8
     2.11.   SMAs. ....................................................................................................................    9
     2.12.   International Military Standardization (IMS) Participants. ...................................                               11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            12

Attachment 2—PROCEDURES FOR WAIVER/REINSTATEMENT OF A CANCELED
             DSP DOCUMENT AND APPROVAL OF NEED FOR A NEW DEFENSE
             STANDARD                                                                                                                     19
 4                                                         AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                          Chapter 1

     AIR FORCE STANDARDIZATION MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE OVERVIEW

1.1. Overview. The Air Force structure for implementing Defense Standardization Program
(DSP) standardization management is shown in Figure 1.1. The structure consists of all
functions defined in DoDM 4120.24, adds Air Force management responsibilities at appropriate
levels, and combines the responsibilities for certain document management activities to support
Air Force materiel standardization execution.

Figure 1.1. Air Force Implementation of DSP Standardization Management Structure.




1.2. Defense Standardization Council (DSC). The DSC consists of the Military Department
and Defense Agency Standardization Executives and is chaired by the Defense Standardization
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   5


Executive (DSE) who is usually a member of the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition,
Technology and Logistics) staff.
1.3. Defense Standardization Program Office (DSPO). The DSPO resides in the Defense
Logistics Agency (DLA), supports the DSE, and provides day-to-day guidance in executing the
DSP.
1.4. Departmental Standardization Office (DepSO). The DepSO supports the
Standardization Executive and provides day-to-day management of the Military Department and
Agency DSP standardization activities.
1.5. Departmental Standardization Activity (DSA). The DSA is an optional management
activity, when designated by the DepSO, for each federal supply group (FSG), federal supply
class (FSC), and Standardization Area. It may be delegated the DepSO’s assignment
responsibility for custodians for new full coordination documents and may assist LSAs with
technical and standardization issues.
1.6. Command Standardization Office (ComSO). ComSO is an Air Force Major Command
(MAJCOM) point of contact with the DepSO to plan, direct, advocate, and monitor DSP
standardization activities within their organization.
1.7. Standardization Management Activity (SMA). The Air Force DepSO establishes SMAs
within the Air Force. Air Force SMAs and related assignments are identified in the DoD
Standardization Directory (SD-1) available in the Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization
Information System (ASSIST) at http://assistdocs.com
   1.7.1. SMA Composition. Air Force implementation of SMA functions in DoDM 4120.24
   will include a Standardization Management Executive (SME), an executive-level person
   charged with the responsibility of providing high-level advocacy, support, and direction on
   standardization issues as they relate to the organization under which the SMA is assigned.
   The SME at an Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Center and at Air Force Space
   Command’s (AFSPC) Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) is titled a Center
   Standardization Executive (CSE). A SME normally has standardization management staff
   subordinate to the SME that is responsible for the day-to-day operations involving document
   management, lead/departmental standardization, and item reduction activities for that
   organization. This staff may be resident in a single office or may be spread across different
   offices under the same organizational entity (e.g. a center or agency).
 6                                                            AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                          RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES

2.1. The Deputy Assistant Secretary Science, Technology and Engineering),
SAF/AQR. The Deputy Assistant Secretary Science, Technology and Engineering),
SAF/AQR shall serve as the Air Force Standardization Executive (SE), is a member of the
Defense Standardization Council (DSC), and is responsible for implementing the materiel
portion of the Air Force program in accordance with the AFPD 60-1 and DoDM 4120.24.
2.2. The Engineering Management Division, Deputy Assistant Secretary (Science,
Technology and Engineering), SAF/AQRE. The Engineering Management Division,
Deputy Assistant Secretary (Science, Technology and Engineering), SAF/AQRE performs
the Air Force DepSO responsibilities. DepSO shall:
     2.2.1. Plan and direct the resources needed to accomplish standardization within the Air
     Force and to ensure DoD components provide participatory resources for those defense
     standardization programs assigned to the Air Force.
     2.2.2. Participate in the development of defense standardization policies.
     2.2.3. Develop and implement Air Force policies and procedures required for those portions
     of the DSP assigned to the Air Force.
     2.2.4. Assign standardization responsibilities within the Air Force including establishment of
     Air Force SMAs and allocate available resources.
     2.2.5. Review and process actions for the Air Force SE that require approval to reinstate a
     cancelled DSP document (see Attachment 2, Table A2.1) or that request approval of need
     for a new defense standard.
     2.2.6. Facilitate and coordinate participation of Air Force representatives on national and
     international standardization bodies.
     2.2.7. Approve/disapprove requests to include qualification requirements in new defense
     specifications and to add qualification in existing defense specifications.
     2.2.8. Coordinate with the Air Force International Standardization Office (ISO) on
     international military standardization (IMS) activities involving materiel international
     standardization agreements (ISA) intended for use in Defense acquisitions. Perform Lead
     Agent Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) responsibilities 2.e.(2) through (4) assigned
     by Enclosure 8, DoDM 4120.24 relating to US implementing documents for materiel ISAs.
     (See AFI 60-106, International Military Standardization (IMS) Program).
     2.2.9. Represent the Air Force as required on Service, Defense, interagency, national, or
     international committees regarding standardization matters.
2.3. The Regional Plans and Issues Division, Directorate of Operational Plans and Joint
Matters, Deputy Chief of Staff for Air and Space Operations, AF/A5XX. The Regional
Plans and Issues Division, Directorate of Operational Plans and Joint Matters, Deputy
Chief of Staff for Air and Space Operations, AF/A5XX is the Air Force International
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     7


Standardization Office (ISO) and shall manage the IMS program as the Air Force Lead Agent
OPR. (See AFI 60-106.)
2.4. The Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer, Office of the
Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/CIO A6. The Chief of Information Dominance and Chief
Information Officer, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/CIO A6 in coordination
with SAF/AQ, shall establish and maintain the technical standards, protocols, technical
guidelines, reference architecture, and implementation constraints for the desired future state of
the Air Force Global Information Grid (AF-GIG) infrastructure and services, in accordance with
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support and AFPD 33-4, Information Technology Governance.
2.5. The Armaments Cooperation Division, Director of Policy, Deputy Under Secretary of
the Air Force, International Affairs, SAF/IAPQ. The Armaments Cooperation Division,
Director of Policy, Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs,
SAF/IAPQ shall administer the Foreign Comparative Test (FCT) program IAW AFI 16-110,
U.S. Air Force Participation in International Armaments Cooperation Programs, to reduce
duplication in R&D, enhance standardization and interoperability, improve cooperative support,
and promote competition and international technology exchange.
2.6. Program Executive Officers (PEO) and Program Managers (PM). Program Executive
Officers (PEO) and Program Managers (PM) shall ensure that materiel standardization is
addressed in the acquisition process as prescribed herein, in DoDM 4120.24, and in AFI 63-
101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management.
2.7. MAJCOMs and Field Operating Agencies (FOA). MAJCOMs and Field Operating
Agencies (FOA) shall:
   2.7.1. Participate in and support the Air Force and Defense Standardization Programs as
   required. (T-0).
   2.7.2. Staff a ComSO (MAJCOMs only), as requested, to plan, direct, advocate, and monitor
   standardization management responsibilities. (T-1).
   2.7.3. Assign the CSE or SME as applicable and resource the assigned SMAs. (T-2).
   2.7.4. Recommend standardization needs and improvements. (T-3).
   2.7.5. Recommend needed policies or procedures or the establishment of new or
   discontinuance of existing Standardization Areas. (T-3).
   2.7.6. Work with Air Force standardization document Custodians under command or agency
   auspices in resolving essential comments. (T-3)
   2.7.7. Recommend or endorse establishment of SMAs for organizations under the auspices
   of their command or agency. (T-3)
   2.7.8. Identify the applicable SMEs for those SMAs under the auspices of that command or
   agency, and provide those names to the Air Force DepSO. (T-2)
   2.7.9. Ensure necessary command or agency planning, programming and budgeting
   activities are accomplished in support of DoD and Air Force standardization policy
   implementation. (T-2)
 8                                                            AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


     2.7.10. Ensure appropriate standards and agreements (Air Force, defense, government,
     national and international) are implemented. (T-1)
2.8. MAJCOM ComSOs. MAJCOM ComSOs, where designated, will:
     2.8.1. Accomplish the responsibilities assigned to their MAJCOM in paragraphs 2.7.3. –
     2.7.10.
     2.8.2. Provide Command positions on DSP and Air Force standardization policies,
     procedures, and guidance to AF DepSO.
     2.8.3. Submit standardization issues that require higher DoD-wide consideration to Air
     Force DepSO.
     2.8.4. Implement decisions of the DSC, as promulgated by the Air Force DepSO.
     2.8.5. Provide day-to-day support to customers inside and outside the MAJCOM regarding
     standardization questions, issues and concerns.
2.9. SMEs/CSEs. SMEs/CSEs shall:
     2.9.1. Provide management-level advocacy and support for the SMA, and ensure the SMA
     pursues actions toward effective implementation of DSP and general standardization policies
     and procedures.
     2.9.2. Represent standardization issues as part of overall functional management
     responsibilities.
     2.9.3. Maintain visibility over their organization’s standardization process to ensure the
     appropriate infrastructure exists to perform the associated functions effectively.
     2.9.4. Approve those decisions that reflect an Air Force or DoD-wide position to include:
        2.9.4.1. Approval of need for defense performance and detail specifications prepared by
        that organization.
        2.9.4.2. Validation of need to prepare a new defense standard.
        2.9.4.3. Endorsement of any standardization decision reached by the organization SMA
        that represents a formal position.
        2.9.4.4. Approval of organization representatives proposed for serving on national and
        international standardization bodies.
2.10. SMAs. SMAs shall work to meet the objectives of the DSP as defined in DoDM 4120.24,
through the following actions:
     2.10.1. Identifying the needs and opportunities for developing or using the hardware,
     software, processes, practices, and procedures to provide the most efficient use of resources.
     2.10.2. Enhancing the compatibility, interoperability, interchangeability, and commonality
     of practices, systems, equipment, and supplies, as applicable, within the Air Force and
     between the Military Departments, Defense Agencies, US allies and other friendly nations.
     2.10.3. Ensure standardization requirements are documented in performance-related terms to
     the maximum extent practicable, so as to permit optimal use of available commercial
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                      9


   products, practices and processes, aid rapid technology insertion, and integrate defense and
   commercial industrial bases.
   2.10.4. Provide support for both policy and work-related issues when requested by the
   DepSO and the respective ComSO, where applicable.
   2.10.5. Represent, as appropriate, the Air Force in IMS activities. Provide technical and
   administrative support, when requested by the Air Force International Standardization Office
   (ISO) or DepSO.
2.11. SMAs. SMAs shall perform the following functions, in addition to responsibilities
identified in paragraph 2.10:
   2.11.1. Document Management Activities (DMA) shall manage and coordinate
   standardization efforts to ensure the optimal degree of standardization in their activity and to
   prepare, adopt, coordinate, and review standardization documents.
      2.11.1.1. Preparing Activities (PA) are the DoD office of primary responsibility (OPR)
      for developing and maintaining assigned standardization documents. The specific duties
      for a PA are defined in DoDM 4120.24. In addition, PAs shall accomplish the actions
      defined in Attachment 2 for waivers/reinstatements of cancelled documents and for
      requesting approval of need for new defense standards.
      2.11.1.2. Custodians are the Air Force OPR for a standardization document or study for a
      specific standardization document. Custodians work with Preparing Activities, Adopting
      Activities, Military Coordinating Activities and IMS members to integrate and harmonize
      defense standardization needs. In addition to the procedures outlined in DoDM 4120.24
      and AFI 60-106, The United States Air Force International Military Standardization
      Program, Air Force Custodians shall:
          2.11.1.2.1. Maintain awareness of the current state of products, processes, or
          procedures of interest to ensure that associated standardization actions are consistent
          with that state.
          2.11.1.2.2. Work with command and field operating agencies to identify those
          Review Activities that are needed to help determine and define standardization needs
          and opportunities.
      2.11.1.3. Review Activities have a technical or procurement interest in a standardization
      document, thus requiring a review of all proposed actions affecting it.
      2.11.1.4. Adopting Activities are the DoD technical OPR and supervise service and
      agency participation in non-government standardization efforts. The specific duties for an
      Adopting Activity are defined in DoDM 4120.24.
      2.11.1.5. Military Coordinating Activities (MCA) are the DoD technical OPRs and
      supervise service and agency participation in US government (non-defense)
      standardization efforts, including the preparation of commercial item descriptions (CIDs).
      This responsibility becomes an additional duty of Air Force Custodians. The specific
      duties for an MCA are defined in DoDM 4120.24.
   2.11.2. Lead Standardization Activities (LSA) manage DSP activity for assigned Federal
   Supply Classes (FSCs), Federal Supply Groups (FSGs), and Standardization Areas by acting
10                                                        AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


  in a DoD-led capacity to plan, organize, and coordinate service and agency efforts for DoD.
  Specific duties are identified in DoDM 4120.24. In addition, Air Force LSAs shall perform
  the following duties:
     2.11.2.1. Manage standardization efforts within the Air Force to ensure an optimal
     degree of standardization across the assigned area in support of the objectives in AFPD
     60-1.
     2.11.2.2. Establish working groups, integrated product teams (IPTs), or process action
     teams (PATs), as appropriate, to conduct standardization business.
     2.11.2.3. Identify and establish interfaces and work with PEOs, PMs, MAJCOMs, and
     FOAs to determine and provide for Air Force standardization needs.
     2.11.2.4. Perform the necessary planning activities to ensure effective execution of SMA
     activities within the area, including defining standardization opportunities and needs and
     providing assessments and strategies for achieving the most efficient use of resources for
     a specified FSC, FSG, or Standardization Area.
     2.11.2.5. Work with public and private sector entities and organizations to harmonize
     global standardization requirements.
     2.11.2.6. Work with other service Departmental Standardization Activities (DSA) to
     determine and harmonize DoD-wide requirements as part of the DSP planning effort for
     the associated FSC, FSG, or Standardization Area.
     2.11.2.7. Ensure the inclusion of Air Force requirements and positions in government,
     national and international standardization efforts, as appropriate.
     2.11.2.8. Work with industry and non-government standardization organizations to
     promote military and commercial sector industrial and technology base integration
     through the definition and development of standardization opportunities, products, and
     processes that can be used nationally.
     2.11.2.9. Support, as appropriate, non-government standards activities, industry-
     government partnerships and U.S. consortium efforts to develop national and
     international standards.
     2.11.2.10. Serve as the Air Force-wide focal point for general questions pertaining to the
     assigned area and provide related assistance as required.
     2.11.2.11. Maintain awareness of standardization needs and activities in the Air Force.
     2.11.2.12. Assist Air Force SMAs in identifying various standardization options
     consistent with the overall business strategy for their assigned FSC, FSG, or Area.
     2.11.2.13. Help Preparing Activities identify standardization document Custodians for
     the Air Force.
     2.11.2.14. Help identify Air Force personnel to serve on non-government standards body
     (NGSB) technical committees or non-government standards (NGS) Adopting Activities.
     2.11.2.15. Work with the Air Force DepSO through the applicable Command channels to
     participate in international military standardization programs to define, develop, and use
     common doctrine, materiel, products, processes, and procedures.
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     11


   2.11.3. Departmental Standardization Activities (DSA), when designated by the DepSO for
   an FSG, FSC, or Standardization Area, assist LSAs with technical and standardization issues
   and PAs by designating Custodians and identifying Review Activities.
   2.11.4. Item Reduction Activities (IRA) are responsible for reviewing FSCs or item name
   codes for reducing, to the highest degree practicable, the number of sizes and kinds of items
   that are generally similar. Their specific duties are defined in DoDM 4120.24 and SD-23.
2.12. International Military Standardization (IMS) Participants. The primary participants
in IMS activities for which Air Force is the Lead Agent are identified below. (See AFI 60-106
for responsibilities.)
   2.12.1. Head of Delegation (HoD) shall serve as the US OPR and supervise US participation
   in a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Military Committee Standardization Board
   (MCSB), NATO Petroleum Committee (NPC), and NATO Air Traffic Management
   Committee (NATMC) Working Group (WG) or panel, and an Air and Space Interoperability
   Council (ASIC) WG.
   2.12.2. Member of the Delegation shall serve as the technical assistant or advisor to a NATO
   or ASIC HoD, or as an Air Force representative to an IMS body for which another Military
   Department or Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD)/Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) office is
   the Lead Agent.




                                           WILLIAM A. LAPLANTE
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition)
 12                                                       AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDI 2010.06, Materiel Interoperability and Standardization with Allies and Coalition
Partners, 29 July 2009
DoDM 4120.24, Defense Standardization Program (DSP) Procedures, 24 September 2014
JP 1-02, The Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 November
2010 (as amended through 14 July 2014)
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 August 2012
AFPD 33-4, Information Technology Governance, 17 January 2013
AFPD 60-1, Air Force Standardization Program, 29 September 29, 2014
AFI 16-110, U.S. Air Force Participation in International Armaments Cooperation Programs,
13 May 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 60-106, International Military Standardization (IMS) Program, 30 September 2014
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
SD-1, Standardization Directory, 1 July 2014
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACG—Aerospace Capability Group
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
ASIC—Air and Space Interoperability Council
ASSIST—Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System
BCA—Business Case Analysis
CID—Commercial Item Description
CM—Coordinating Member
ComSO—Command Standardization Office
CSE—Center Standardization Executive
DepSO—Departmental Standardization Office
DISR—DoD Information Technology Standards Registry
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                     13


DMA—Document Management Activity
DoD—Department of Defense
DSA—Departmental Standardization Activity
DSE—Defense Standardization Executive
DSP—Defense Standardization Program
DSPO—Defense Standardization Program Office
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FCT—Foreign Comparative Test
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FSC—Federal Supply Class
FSG—Federal Supply Group
HOD—Head of Delegation
HQ USAF—Headquarters US Air Force
IMS—International Military Standardization
IPT—Integrated Product Team
IRA—Item Reduction Activity
ISA—International Standardization Agreement
ISO—International Standardization Office
IT—information technology
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
LSA—Lead Standardization Activity
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCA—Military Coordinating Activity
MCSB—Military Committee Standardization Board
NAFAG—NATO Air Force Armaments Group
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NGS—non-government standard
NGSB—non-government standards body
NIA—Need-Impact Analysis
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PA—Preparing Activity
 14                                                            AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


PAT—Process Action Team
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSE—Responsible Standardization Executive
SE—Standardization Executive
SMA—Standardization Management Activity
SME—Standardization Management Executive

Terms
Sources—sources (where applicable) appear parenthetically at end of term
Activity—1. A unit, organization, or installation performing a function or mission, e.g.,
reception center, redistribution center, naval station, naval shipyard. 2. A function, mission,
action, or collection of actions. (JP 1-02)
Adopting Activity—The Department of Defense primary technical office of primary
responsibility participating in a non-government standardization effort.
Air and Space Interoperability Council (ASIC)—an international organization formed in 1948
as the Air Standardization Coordinating Committee (ASCC) that works for the air forces of
Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Its
mission is to enhance current and future coalition warfighting capabilities through air and space
power interoperability.
Architecture—A framework or structure that portrays relationships among all the elements of
the subject force, system, or activity. (JP 1-02)
Command Standardization Office (ComSO)—An organization within an Air Force Major
Command (MAJCOM) headquarters that provides the functional staff interface for the Air Force
Standardization Program within the Command.
Commercial Item Description (CID)—An indexed, simplified product description managed by
the General Services Administration that describes, by functional or performance characteristics,
the available, acceptable commercial products that will satisfy the government's needs.
Commercial        Product—Any item              defined as       commercial     by FAR           2.101
(http://farsite.hill.af.mil/), to include an item that is of a type customarily used by the general
public or by non-governmental entities for other than governmental purposes, and (i) has been
sold, leased, or licensed to the general public; or, (ii) has been offered for sale, lease, or license
to the general public.
Commonality—A state achieved when groups of individuals, organizations or nations use
common doctrine, procedures or equipment. (JP 1-02)
Compatibility—The suitability of products, processes or services for use together under specific
conditions to fulfill relevant requirements without causing unacceptable interactions. (NATO
AAP-06)
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    15


Custodian—The activity responsible for resolving and consolidating coordination comments for
standardization documents or studies in its department or agency, and submitting those
comments to the Preparing Activity. (DoDM 4120.24) Also, the nation, service, command, or
other agency responsible for maintaining an existing international military standardization
agreement or publication, or for conducting studies, organizing projects, and developing
proposals for standardization. (AFI 60-106)
Defense Specification—A specification developed under the consensus procedures of the
Defense Standardization Program that is used on multiple programs or applications and is
included in the ASSIST database. (MIL-STD-961)
Departmental Standardization Activity (DSA)—A SMA that may be designated by its DepSO
to address technical and standardization issues under an assigned FSG, FSC, or Standardization
Area for its Military Department or Defense Agency. When requested, the DSA may assist the
LSA in addressing standardization issues and assist Preparing Activities by designating
Custodians for a document and identifying Review Activities.
Departmental Standardization Office (DepSO)—A top level office in each Military
Department or Defense Agency responsible for managing the Defense Standardization Program
(DSP) and ensuring that its Standardization Management Activities properly implement the
policies, procedures, and goals of the DSP.
Document Management Activity—The generic name for the group of standardization activities
involved with management of documents to include Preparing Activity, Custodian, Review
Activity, Adopting Activity, and Military Coordinating Activity.
Federal Supply Class (FSC)—A four-digit coding structure used to group products into logical
families for supply management purposes. As used in the standardization program, the four-digit
code is used to group standardization documents associated with products into logical families
for standardization management purposes.
Federal Supply Group (FSG)—A two-digit coding structure used to group related FSCs under
logical families for supply management purposes. The first two digits of each FSC represent the
related FSG. As used in the standardization program, the two-digit code is used to group
standardization documents associated with the FSCs into logical families for standardization
management purposes.
Head of Delegation (HoD)—The head of a national delegation to a NATO or ASIC working
group d who supervises and coordinates nationally all phases of the working group effort. The
HoD is the national spokesperson to the working group who presents coordinated national views.
The HoD ensures all interested agencies are given the opportunity to participate in the NATO or
ASIC effort. (AFI 60-106)
Interchangeability—A condition which exists when two or more items possess such functional
and physical characteristics as to be equivalent in performance and durability, and are capable of
being exchanged one for the other without alteration of the items themselves, or of adjoining
items, except for adjustment, and without selection for fit and performance. (JP 1-02)
International Standardization Agreement (ISA)—The record of an agreement among several
or all of the member nations of a multi-national organization to standardize on material and non-
material areas.
 16                                                           AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


Interoperability—The ability of systems, units or forces to provide services to and accept
services from other systems, units or forces and to use the services so exchanged to enable them
to operate effectively together. (JP 1-02)
Item Reduction Activity (IRA)—An activity in a Military Department, a Defense Agency, or a
civilian agency responsible for reviewing FSCs or item name codes for reducing, to the highest
degree practicable, the number of sizes and kinds of items that are generally similar.
Lead Agent (LA)—The U.S. government agency designated to coordinate the interagency
oversight of the day-to-day conduct of an ongoing operation. (JP 1-02)
Lead Standardization Activity—A management activity in a Military Department or a Defense
Agency that guides Department of Defense standardization efforts for a FSC, FSG, or a
Standardization Area through planning of necessary activities, authorization of standardization
projects, and identification and resolution of standardization issues. (DoDM 4120.24)
Materiel—All items (including ships, tanks, self-propelled weapons, aircraft, etc. and related
spares, repair parts, and support equipment, but excluding real property, installations, and
utilities) necessary to equip, operate, maintain, and support military activities without distinction
as to its application for administrative or combat purposes. (JP 1-02). In a military context,
materiel relates to the specific needs of a force to complete a specific mission. The term is also
used in a general sense ("men and materiel") to describe the needs of a functioning military.
Materiel embraces complete systems, C3 systems, weapon-systems sub-systems, interfaces,
assemblies, components, spare parts and consumables (including ammunition, fuel, supplies,
stores and spares). (NATO AAP-3)
Member of the Delegation—Any Department of Defense representative (or consultant) who
accompanies an Air and Space Interoperability Council Head of Delegation, North Atlantic
Treaty Organization Head of Delegation, or principal US representative to a meeting in the
capacity of technical assistant or advisor. (AFI 60-106)
Military Committee Standardization Board (MCSB)—The generic name for any of the five
specific standardization boards under the NATO Military Committee: Joint, Air, Land, Maritime,
and Medical.
Military Coordinating Activity (MCA)—The Department of Defense technical office of
primary responsibility participating in US government (nonmilitary) standardization efforts. (AFI
60-101). Also, The military activity responsible for coordinating, reconciling, and consolidating
military comments for the Department of Defense on a Federal standardization document
prepared by a civilian agency. (DoDM 4120.24)
Non-Government Standard (NGS)—A standardization document developed by a private sector
association, organization, or technical society that plans, develops, establishes or coordinates
standards. Includes standards, specifications, handbooks, and other forms of product, process, or
practice descriptions promulgated by non-government bodies. This term does not include
professional standards of personal conduct, institutional codes of ethics, private standards of
individual firms, or standards mandated by law.
Non-Government Standards Bodies—Private sector domestic or multinational organizations
such as not-for-profit organizations; industry or trade associations; and professional or technical
societies or institutes that plan, develop, establish, or coordinate non-government standards.
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    17


Preparing Activity (PA)—The Department of Defense technical office of responsibility for a
specific product, technology, process, practice, or procedure. Integrates service and agency needs
and harmonizes with government, industry, national and international standardization activities.
This responsibility is almost always accomplished by a service or agency Custodian.
Program Manager (PM)—The designated individual with responsibility for and authority to
accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s
operational needs. The PM shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance
reporting to the Milestone Decision Authority. (DoDD 5000.01)
Product—Includes materials, parts, components, subassemblies, assemblies, and equipment.
The term "product" also encompasses a family of products. A family of products is defined as
"all products of the same classification, design, construction, material, type, and other design
characteristics produced with the same production facilities, processes, and quality of material,
under the same management and quality controls, but having the acceptable variety of physical
and functional characteristics defined and specified in the applicable specification."
Qualification—A process in advance of, and independent of, an acquisition by which
manufacturer's or distributor's products are examined, tested, and approved as being compliant
with the requirements of its specification.
Responsible Authority/Responsible Standardization Executive (RSE)—The Standardization
Executive of a DoD Component in which the Preparing Activity of a standardization document
resides. If an Air Force organization is the PA, the Air Force SE is the responsible authority or
RSE. If another military department or defense agency is the PA, their SE is the RSE. (para
A2.3.2)
Review Activity—A Standardization Management Activity having a technical or procurement
interest in a standardization document, thus requiring a review of all proposed actions affecting
it.
Specification—A document prepared to support acquisition that describes the essential technical
requirements for purchased materiel and the criteria for determining whether those requirements
are met. (DoDM 4120.24)
Standard—A document that establishes uniform engineering or technical criteria, methods,
processes and practices. (DoDM 4120.24)
Standardization—The process of developing and agreeing on (by consensus or decision)
uniform engineering criteria for products, processes, practices, and methods for achieving
compatibility, interoperability, interchangeability, or commonality of materiel. (DoDM 4120.24)
Also, the process by which the Department of Defense achieves the closest practicable
cooperation among the Services and Department of Defense agencies for the most efficient use
of research, development, and production resources, and agrees to adopt on the broadest possible
basis the use of: a. common or compatible operational, administrative, and logistic procedures; b.
common or compatible technical procedures and criteria; c. common, compatible, or
interchangeable supplies, components, weapons, or equipment; and d. common or compatible
tactical doctrine with corresponding organizational compatibility. (JP 1-02)
 18                                                         AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


Standardization Areas—Standardization categories for engineering technologies, disciplines,
and practices that do not fall under a Federal Supply Class or a Federal Supply Group. The
Standardization Directory, SD-1 identifies the Standardization Areas. (DoDM 4120.24)
Standardization Directory (SD-1—A publication that identifies standardization responsibility
assignments by Federal Supply Classes, Federal Supply Groups, and standardization technology
and engineering areas. It also includes addresses, telephone numbers, and points-of-contact for
the military offices, civilian agencies, and non-government standards bodies participating in the
Defense Standardization Program.
Standardization Document—A generic term for a document used to standardize on an item of
supply, process, procedure, method, data, practice, or engineering approach. Standardization
documents include defense specifications, standards, handbooks, and bulletins; Federal
specifications and standards; guide specifications; international standardization agreements,
commercial item descriptions; and non-government standards. (DoDM 4120.24)
Standardization Management Activity (SMA)—A generic term to describe any Department of
Defense activity listed in the Standardization Directory, SD-1, that functions as a Lead
Standardization Activity, Preparing Activity, Participating Activity, Military Coordinating
Activity, Custodian, Review Activity, Adopting Activity, or Item Reduction Activity. (DoDM
4120.24)
Standardization Management Executive (SME)—A senior person in an Air Force
organization with an assigned SMA(s) who is responsible for management of the Air Force
Standardization Program in that organization.
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  19


                                        Attachment 2
     PROCEDURES FOR WAIVER/REINSTATEMENT OF A CANCELED DSP
    DOCUMENT AND APPROVAL OF NEED FOR A NEW DEFENSE STANDARD

A2.1. Policy on use of standards; notably, emphasis on use of non-government standards in the
materiel life-cycle. Non-government standards shall be used in preference to developing and
maintaining Government specifications and standards as required by section 12(d) of Public Law
104-113, unless they fall under one of the exceptions specified in section 12(d). The exceptions
are: if compliance with the preference to use non-government standards is inconsistent with
applicable law or otherwise impractical, a Federal agency or department may elect to use
technical standards that are not developed or adopted by voluntary consensus standards bodies.
Reinstatement of a cancelled defense document requires approval by an established authority.
A2.2. Waiver for one-time use of a canceled document.
   A2.2.1. The procuring organization shall submit a request for waiver to use a canceled DSP
   document in either a solicitation or a contract, even if proposed by the contractor. The
   request for waiver shall be submitted to the responsible Center Standardization Executive
   (CSE) or Standardization Management Executive (SME) for decision, with a copy to the
   Preparing Activity (PA) and the Air Force Departmental Standardization Office (DepSO).
   A2.2.2. Cover-sheeting a canceled DSP document is not an approved practice. Such
   documents may only be used with a waiver until they are converted or reinstated to an active
   or inactive for new design DSP document.
A2.3. Reinstatement of a canceled document.
   A2.3.1. DSP Standards. Air Force organizations wishing to reinstate a canceled defense
   standard shall submit a request through their respective CSE or SME to the Air Force DepSO
   for approval by the Air Force Standardization Executive (SE) and final approval by the
   Responsible Standardization Executive (RSE). If an Air Force organization is the PA, the
   Air Force SE is the RSE. If another Military Department or Defense Agency is the PA, their
   SE is the RSE.
   A2.3.2. Other DSP Documents. Air Force organizations wishing to reinstate other types of
   canceled DSP documents shall submit a request to their respective CSE or SME for approval
   and forwarding to the PA for final approval with a copy to the Air Force DepSO.
A2.4. Required Information for Waivers and Reinstatements. Requests for waivers or
reinstatements of DSP documents must be justified by either a Business Case Analysis (BCA) or
a Need-Impact Analysis (NIA). Table A2.1 identifies whether a BCA or NIA is needed, based
on the category of the document involved. Document categories are defined in paragraph A2.6.
Since many military specifications and standards canceled during acquisition reform were not
categorized, organizations initiating requests for waivers or reinstatements must assign a
document category based on the definitions in paragraph A2.6.
   A2.4.1. Business Case Analysis (BCA). A BCA will include:
       A2.4.1.1. Description. A complete description of:
 20                                                        AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


          A2.4.1.1.1. The program, system/equipment/item, procurement, or life cycle process
          for which the DSP document is intended.
          A2.4.1.1.2. The product or process covered by the document to be used or reinstated.
          A2.4.1.1.3. Where applicable, at least one commercial product or process defined by
          a NGS as the nearest equivalent/alternative to the product or process defined by the
          DSP document.
          A2.4.1.1.4. The differences, if any, between the product or process defined by the
          DSP document and the commercial equivalent/alternative product or process defined
          by the NGS.
       A2.4.1.2. Military Unique. Describe how the differences between the defense product or
       process and the commercial equivalent/alternatives are substantial enough to consider the
       former as military–unique and that a clear requirement for a military-unique document
       exists.
       A2.4.1.3. Impact. An identification of the impact to the program,
       system/equipment/item, procurement, or life cycle process to use the commercial
       equivalent/alternative product or process versus the military product or process.
       A2.4.1.4. Assessment. An assessment of whether the impacts through use of the
       commercial product or process are substantial enough to make the commercial product or
       process unacceptable for use.
       A2.4.1.5. Economic Analysis. If there are no substantial mission impacts through use of
       a commercial equivalent/alternative product or process, provide an economic analysis of
       the tradeoffs between using the defense product or process and the applicable commercial
       equivalent(s), and demonstrate that use or reinstatement of the DSP document is cost
       effective.
   A2.4.2. Need Impact Analysis (NIA). A NIA shall include the information required in
   paragraphs A2.4.1.1 – A2.4.1.4 above. An Economic Analysis is not required for a NIA
   unless the Air Force SE considers the NIA insufficiently justified.
   A2.4.3. Applicability Table. Table A2.1 defines by category of document the information
   required and approval authorities for requesting a waiver to use or for reinstatement of a
   canceled document.
A2.5. Approval of Need for a New Defense Standard. AF organizations wishing to develop
or have developed a new military standard shall comply with the policy of A2.1 and provide a
BCA (A2.4.1) or NIA (A2.4.2) to the Air Force DepSO with endorsement by their SME or CSE,
if one is assigned. If one is not assigned, the endorsement shall be by a management level GS-
15/O-6. The Air Force SE may request a BCA if a NIA is insufficiently justified.

Table A2.1. Applicability Table.

       DSP                                      Canceled Document Action
       Document
       Categories                Waiver for One-Time       Request for Reinstatement
                                         Use
AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                                   21


          (see paragraph A2.6. for
                                        Req’d     AF/Final        Req’d      AF              Final
          descriptions)
                                        Infor-    Approval        Infor-     Approval        Approval
                                        mation    Authority(1)    mation     Authority(1)    Authority(1)
          Defense Standard (2)
                  Standard Practice     BCA       CSE-SME         BCA        AF SE           RSE
                                                                             AF SE           RSE
                     Design Criteria    NIA       CSE-SME         NIA
                                                                             AF SE           RSE
                            Interface   NIA       CSE-SME         NIA
                                                                             AF SE           RSE
                        Test Method     NIA       CSE-SME         NIA
                                                                                             RSE
             Manufacturing Process      BCA       CSE-SME         BCA        AF SE

          Defense Specification (3)
          Performance                   NIA       CSE-SME         NIA        CSE-SME         PA
                                                                                             PA
                               Detail   NIA       CSE-SME         NIA        CSE-SME
                                                                                             PA
          Defense Handbook (4)          NIA       CSE-SME         NIA        CSE-SME

          Federal Standard              NIA       CSE-SME         NIA        AF SE           RSE
          Federal Specification         NIA       CSE-SME         NIA        CSE-SME         PA
          Commercial Item               NIA       CSE-SME         NIA        CSE-SME         PA
          Description
                                                     Key and Notes ( )
             AF SE – Air Force Standardization Executive
             BCA – Business Case Analysis
             CSE - Center Standardization Executive (AFMC & AFSPC)
             NIA – Need-Impact Analysis
             PA – Preparing Activity
             RSE – Responsible Standardization Executive
             SME - Standardization Management Executive (Others)
             Note (1): Refer to responsibilities in para. 2.9.4.1. (CSE-SME), 2.2.5. (AFSE), A2.3.1. (RSE),
             and 2.11.1.1. (PA)
             Note (2): Synonymous with Military Standard (MIL-STD)
             Note (3): Synonymous with Military Specification (MIL-PRF or MIL-DTL)
             Note (4): Synonymous with Military Handbook (MIL-HDBK)

A2.6. DSP Document Category Definitions1
      A2.6.1. Standard Practice Standard. A standard that specifies procedures on how to conduct
      certain non-manufacturing functions. Standard practices are developed for functions that, at
      least some of the time, are obtained via contractor from private sector firms.
      A2.6.2. Design Criteria Standard. A standard that establishes military-unique design or
      functional criteria for the development of systems, subsystems, equipment, assemblies,
      components, items, or parts.



1
    Ref MIL-STD-961 and MIL-STD-962
22                                                          AFI60-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2014


  A2.6.3. Interface Standard. A standard that specifies the physical, functional, or military
  operational environment interface characteristics of systems, subsystems, equipment,
  assemblies, components, items, or parts to permit interchangeability, interconnection,
  interoperability, compatibility, or communications.
  A2.6.4. Test Method Standard. A standard that specifies procedures or criteria for
  measuring, identifying, or evaluating qualities, characteristics, performance, and properties of
  a product or process.
  A2.6.5. Manufacturing Process Standard. A standard that states the desired outcome of
  manufacturing processes or specifies procedures or criteria on how to perform manufacturing
  processes.
  A2.6.6. Performance Specification. A specification that states requirements in terms of the
  required results with criteria for verifying compliance, but without stating the methods for
  achieving the required results. A performance specification defines the functional
  requirements for the item, the environment in which it must operate, and interface and
  interchangeability characteristics.      Both defense specifications and program-unique
  specifications may be designated as a performance specification.
  A2.6.7. Detail Specification. A specification that specifies design requirements, such as
  materials to be used, how a requirement is to be achieved, or how an item is to be fabricated
  or constructed. A specification that contains both performance and detail requirements is still
  considered a detail specification. Both defense specifications and program-unique
  specifications may be designated as a detail specification.
  A2.6.8. Handbook. A guidance document that provides engineering information; lessons
  learned; possible options to address technical issues; classification of similar item, materials,
  or processes; interpretative direction and techniques; and any other type of guidance
  information that may help the Government or its contractors in the design, construction,
  selection, management, support, or operation of systems, products, processes, or services.
  A2.6.9. Federal Standard. A standard issued or controlled by the General Services
  Administration (GSA) that is mandatory for use by all Federal agencies.
  A2.6.10. Federal Specification. A specification issued or controlled by the GSA for
  commercial or modified commercial products, which contains requirements or tests too
  extensive to be suitable for a CID.
  A2.6.11. Commercial Item Description (CID). An indexed, simplified product description
  managed by the GSA that describes, by functional or performance characteristics, the
  available, acceptable commercial products that will satisfy the Government's needs.
