                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-501
AIR FORCE                                                                                 31 MAY 1994
                                                                     Certified Current 4 November 2009
                                                                                            Acquisition

                                                               AIR FORCE ACQUISITION QUALITY
                                                                                    PROGRAM


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/AQXM (Mr Calvin H. Garner)                                             Certified by: SAF/AQX
                                                                           (Brig Gen Kenneth G. Miller)
Supersedes AFR 74-1, 1 June 1979.                                                              Pages: 12
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 63-5, Quality Assurance. Personnel engaged in acquisition must fol-
low this instruction to ensure that products delivered to the Air Force meet or exceed quality require-
ments. It applies to service contracts when Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) higher-level contract
quality requirements are applicable.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the initial publication of AFI 63-501. It implements AFPD 63-5, substantially revising AFR 74-1;
incorporates new concepts for performing acquisition quality functions and updates organizational func-
tions and responsibilities for quality due to major reorganizations in the Air Force, including the forma-
tion of Air Force Materiel Command, and the Air Force acquisition system defined in AFPD 63-1,
Acquisition System.



1. Process Overview:
   1.1. The Air Force Acquisition Executive (AFAE), Program Executive officers (PEO), Designated
   Acquisition commanders (DAC), System Program Directors (SPD), Product Group managers (PGM),
   Materiel Group managers (MGM), Program managers (PM), and other Air Force acquisition officials
   are responsible for assuring superior quality of their assigned products during all acquisition phases.
   1.2. The Air Force Acquisition System relies on an integrated approach to ensure products meet or
   exceed user quality requirements. All personnel involved in the acquisition process are responsible
   for performing quality functions inherent in their assigned duties. These functions include identifying
   quality requirements; translating them to contractual documentation; monitoring quality of contractor
   performance; and performing product verification and acceptance activities.
   1.3. Using commands identify essential quality requirements for their products.
   1.4. Using and acquisition activities use the product quality deficiency reporting and correction sys-
   tem (TO 00-35D-54) to provide visibility of overall product quality.
   1.5. Users of this instruction should refer to Attachment 1, section A for additional information on
   acquisition quality functions.

2. Quality in Acquisition Program Management:
   2.1. The AFAE, PEOs, and DACs provide quality management oversight of their assigned products.
   2.2. SPDs, PGMs, MGMs, PMs and other Air Force acquisition officials develop and manage effec-
   tive and efficient quality programs for their assigned products that:
       • Provide for open and clear lines of communication between the acquisition activity, the using
           command, the Contract Administration Office (CAO), and the contractor.
       • Incorporate user product quality requirements into contractual requirements (e.g., product
           specifications and drawings).
      •   Define and quantify essential quality requirements; emphasize quality improvement of both
          products and processes; and verify products meet or exceed essential quality requirements for
          each acquisition phase.
      •   Give suppliers the flexibility to efficiently achieve quality requirements commensurate with
          user requirements.
      •   Focus on designing robust products and capable manufacturing processes that minimize vari-
          ability around target values traceable to significant quality characteristics.
      •   Integrate quality requirements and strategies into all acquisition strategies and plans through-
          out all phases of a product's life cycle.
      •   Link quality assessments to contractual commitments.
      •   Assess quality of design, quality of conformance, suitability of manufacturing quality sys-
          tems, and fitness for use in program and contract reviews during each acquisition phase.
      •   Tailor quality requirements for use in the specific solicitation or contract.
      •   Use quality audits and product-oriented surveys and evaluations, as necessary, to assure the
          adequacy of technical requirements relating to quality and product conformance with design
          intent.
   2.3. Acquisition officials and supervisors of acquisition personnel ensure personnel performing
   acquisition quality functions meet applicable requirements for acquisition professional development
   and certification (reference DoD Directive 5000.52, Defense Acquisition Education, Training and
   Career Development Program, October 25, 1991).

3. Quality Requirements Management Process:
   3.1. The using activity teams with the acquisition activity to identify objective quality criteria for
   products.
   3.2. The acquisition activity responsible for design, development, production or logistical support
   during deployment translates user requirements into plans and procedures to provide quality products
   to the user. It specifies, measures, and assesses product quality, based on user requirements, for each
   phase of the system acquisition and sustainment process.
                                                2
      3.2.1. For products acquired through contracting, the acquisition activity, in coordination with
      using command and commands and CAO and CAOs, translates user requirements into effective
      and efficient contract quality requirements and specifications.
      3.2.2. For products provided from Government sources, the acquisition activity develops proce-
      dures and quality assurance plans to ensure the user receives quality products.

4. Quality in Design, Development, Production, and Deployment:
   4.1. Quality in the Systems Engineering Process. Personnel responsible for systems engineering:
       • Identify product characteristics and critical manufacturing processes that have a significant
         influence on performance, producibility, supportability, and service life to focus quality
         efforts.
       • Identify quality requirements (e.g., process controls, specifications, tests, standards, training
         and certification, and evaluations) for products and validate them as part of the design review
         process.
       • Ensure that product designs are robust so they will withstand variations in the manufacturing,
         operating, and environmental conditions.
       • Use technical analysis techniques and quality engineering tools (e.g., Quality Function
         Deployment (QFD), Design of Experiments (DOE)) to optimize each product's design, pro-
         ducibility, and "first pass" yield for production processes.
       • Use quality engineering test evaluations to establish manufacturing process capability and
         provide feed-back to improve both the product design and manufacture.
       • Emphasize use of manufacturing processes that minimize variability around target values for
         critical product characteristics.
       • Monitor development of manufacturing and assembly processes and test and evaluation
         (developmental and operational) results for early identification of design, manufacturing, or
         quality assurance deficiencies.
       • Monitor design and manufacture of critical subsystems, especially those crucial to personnel
         and flight safety, environmental protection, and prevention of system loss or damage.
       • Analyze available quality information on parts, materials or components before approving
         their use in proposed systems or equipment. ( Note: Exploit available sources of this infor-
         mation, including the Defective Parts and Components Control Program and the Govern-
         ment-Industry Data Exchange Program. )
   4.2. Quality in the Production Process:
      4.2.1. Before start of production, personnel responsible for manufacturing and quality assurance:
          • Ensure completion of all specifications, standards, inspections, tests, training and certifi-
             cation require-ments and evaluations required to control quality.
          • Identify quality control requirements for critical manufacturing processes (e.g., statistical
             process control).
          • Emphasize defect prevention activities over defect detection and correction activities.
          • Evaluate manufacturing and assembly operations for ability to perform appropriate exam-
             ination and testing.
                                                3
       •   Ensure availability of any special acceptance inspection equipment and that test equip-
           ment calibration procedures and metrology and calibration plans are ready.
   4.2.2. For initial production, personnel responsible for manufacturing and quality assurance
   assess the capability to achieve product quality requirements through:
       • First article testing of preproduction samples.
       • Initial production evaluations.
       • Product-oriented surveys and evaluations.
   4.2.3. During production, personnel responsible for manufacturing and quality assurance verify
   whether product quality requirements are being met through:
       • Contractor objective evidence of product quality.
       • Quality audits.
       • Product-oriented surveys and evaluations.
4.3. Quality in Logistics. Personnel responsible for logistics requirements and initial product sup-
port:
    • Identify quality requirements for logistical support early in the acquisition life cycle.
    • Identify, throughout the development and production phases, processes and materials that
      require special verification procedures and quality controls.
    • Tailor logistic quality requirements according to product and process complexity, criticality,
      and maturity.
    • Document quality information that affects the re-acquisition of materiel (including inspection
      and testing requirements, and quality requirements) for the designated support management
      organization.
    • Ensure that Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) and Non-Developmental Items (NDI) meet
      the operational quality and supportability requirements.
4.4. Quality in Contracting and Purchasing. Personnel responsible for contracting and purchasing:
    • Apply quality assurance requirements on contracts per FAR, Part 46 and DFARS, Part 246.
    • Define contract quality requirements and provisions that are practical, enforceable, necessary,
      and verifiable. Do not use requirements that amount to or imply that a fixed level of defects is
      acceptable, such as "acceptable quality levels" (AQL), as acceptance criteria in specifications,
      standards, or other contractual documents for products.
    • Tailor contract quality requirements to the specific product or products being acquired. This
      includes tailoring of quality and related specifications and standards to their application based
      on design complexity, design maturity, manufacturing process complexity and maturity,
      required performance, safety, and economics.
    • Develop product verification requirements for each phase of the acquisition.
    • Maximize flexibility for contractors to tailor quality plans and programs to meet product qual-
      ity requirements.
    • As appropriate, use contractual incentives linked to actual performance of the product in the
      field to encourage the highest level of contract performance.

                                             4
   •   Provide enough information to ensure offerors understand quality requirements during con-
       tract negotiations.
   •   Award contracts only to contractors that have the capability to comply with quality require-
       ments.
   •   Coordinate any unique contractual quality provisions or delegations with the contract admin-
       istration activity as soon as possible.
   •   Maintain data about unsatisfactory supplies or services provided by contractors and review
       this information prior to contract award. Use contractor product quality data, when available,
       in all contract award decisions.
4.5. Quality in Contract Administration. Ensuring contractor compliance with contractual quality
assurance requirements is a normal contract administration function per FAR, Subpart 42.302, Con-
tract Administration Functions. The acquisition activity normally delegates this function to the cog-
nizant CAO when it delegates contract administration responsibility per FAR, Subpart 42.202,
Assignment of Contract Administration.
   4.5.1. When the acquisition activity retains responsibility for ensuring that the contractor com-
   plies with contractual quality assurance requirements by either retaining responsibility for contract
   administration or specifically withholding responsibility for quality assurance from the cognizant
   CAO per FAR, Subpart 42.202, the acquisition activity is responsible for conducting Government
   Quality Assurance (GQA) per FAR, Part 46 and DFARS 246.
   4.5.2. When the acquisition activity delegates responsibility for ensuring that the contractor com-
   plies with contractual quality assurance requirements, the cognizant CAO conducts GQA per
   FAR, Subpart 46.104, Contract Administration Office Responsibilities, and DFARS, Subpart
   246.104, unless otherwise specified in the assignment of the contract or supplemental written
   instructions from the acquisition activity. The SPD, PGM, MGM, PM or other acquisition offi-
   cial, in coordination with the contracting officer, develops a written memorandum of agreement
   with the cognizant CAO or provides a quality assurance letter of instruction (QALI) to the CAO,
   as required, to identify specific or unusual quality requirements or make modifications to the nor-
   mal GQA provided by the cognizant CAO. In the memorandum of agreement or QALI, request
   that the CAO develop an appropriate GQA surveillance plan tailored to the specific acquisition.
   4.5.3. For administration of contract quality assurance requirements by the cognizant CAO, the
   SPD, PGM, MGM, PM or other Air Force acquisition official:
       • Provides the contract GQA activity with the product information needed to perform con-
          tract quality assurance. This includes identification of critical parts and processes and
          unique product quality requirements.
       • Requests that the contract GQA activity provide the buying office with quality assurance
          information needed for evaluating contractor performance.
       • Specifies inspection and acceptance at source or destination in accordance with the risks
          involved in verifying compliance with quality requirements.
       • Ensures that the GQA surveillance plan is appropriate to the acquisition and that the plan
          includes the product quality objectives for the acquisition.
       • Takes action on product quality deficiencies identified by the contract GQA activity.


                                             5
      4.5.4. Air Force activities performing contract quality assurance functions for an acquisition
      activity:
          • Provide contractors maximum flexibility in setting up efficient and effective quality sys-
              tems to meet user product quality requirements specified under the terms and conditions
              of the contract.
          • Evaluate contractor compliance with contract quality requirements, including the mainte-
              nance of con-tractor quality systems, using objective evidence of product quality and qual-
              ity audits of contractor processes and data.
          • Monitor performance of prime contractor control over purchased materials and subcon-
              tractors.
          • Focus GQA surveillance on significant product characteristics and processes.
          • Analyze contractor and government data to assure that contractor systems provide neces-
              sary visibility to identify process improvements and potential to reduce product variabil-
              ity.
          • Establish a system to assure that the contractor takes corrective and preventive action to
              minimize or eliminate the recurrence of defective products.
          • Maintain quality assurance surveillance and corrective and preventive action records to
              support contract administration requirements.
          • Use contractor data to the maximum extent practicable for quality audits and objective
              evidence of product quality.
          • Reduce and eliminate GQA surveillance, including quality audits, when the contractor
              demonstrates effective and efficient quality control.

5. Quality Assurance for International Acquisitions:
   5.1. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Acquisitions. Acquisition activities and quality
   assurance activities involved in NATO acquisitions:
       • Upon request, perform GQA actions on NATO contracts for military materiel and services in
          accordance with NATO Standardization Agreement (STANAG) 4107, Mutual Acceptance of
          Government Quality Assurance.
       • For contracts awarded to other NATO countries, specify the NATO quality requirements out-
          lined in STANAG 4108, Allied Quality Assurance Publications (AQAP) and AQAP 100,
          General Guidance on NATO Quality Assurance.
       • Delegate GQA services to the host Government whenever satisfactory services are available
          as specified in STANAG 4107.
       • Keep Government personnel and contractors involved in the acquisition informed on the use
          of NATO quality assurance publications.
   5.2. Military Assistance Program (MAP) Acquisitions. Acquisition activities and quality assur-
   ance activities handle GQA requirements on MAP acquisitions the same as for US Air Force acquisi-
   tions.
   5.3. Foreign Military Sales (FMS). On FMS acquisitions, acquisition activities and quality assur-
   ance activities perform GQA under the conditions of the FMS Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA).

                                               6
   Unless otherwise agreed to in the LOA, the Air Force uses the same procedures as would be used in
   contracting for itself.
   5.4. Direct Acquisition by Foreign Governments and International Organizations. O n t h e s e
   acquisitions, quality assurance activities provide GQA as an FMS service under an FMS LOA. When
   a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) exists with a foreign country, quality assurance activities
   check the MOU for applicable quality guidance and reciprocal performance of quality assurance for
   reference or incorporation in the FMS LOA. Refer to DFARS, Subpart 225.801, International
   Agree-ments, for specific information on current international agreements.

6. MAJCOM Responsibilities:
   6.1. MAJCOMs develop and publish additional guidance, as needed, to define and allocate specific
   internal responsibility for ensuring compliance with this instruction. Within 30 calendar days after
   issuing any additional guidance, provide a copy to SAF/AQX.
   6.2. Each MAJCOM establishes a central management focal point to:
      •   Serve as the command office of primary responsibility for monitoring compliance with the
          provisions of this instruction.
      •   Evaluate the quality of products at regular intervals. In this evaluation, review the degree of
          compliance with quality requirements in the various functional areas. MAJCOMs may
          accomplish this review as part of other scheduled reviews.
      •   Perform analyses of quality information (i.e., deficiency data, audit reports, studies), as neces-
          sary, to institute appropriate corrective and preventive actions and improve procedures.
      •   Ensure cross-feed of quality assurance information among all management levels and to other
          com-mands, agencies, the Air Staff, and SAF/AQXM.
      •   Assess the training requirements and the training of assigned quality assurance personnel to
          ensure that they meet applicable requirements for assigned tasks and for acquisition profes-
          sional development certification.
      •   Advise SAF/AQX of actual or potentially significant quality assurance problems involving
          other Air Force commands or other DoD components that may require SAF/AQX attention or
          coordination to resolve.
   6.3. Headquarters, Air Force Materiel Command (HQ AFMC) establishes and maintains a product
   deficiency reporting and correction system (TO 00-35D-54) to provide feedback to the system devel-
   oper to track and record the status of the operational quality condition of the system. Use existing data
   systems to report metrics prescribed in AFPD 63-5.




                                         RICHARD E. HAWLEY, Lt General, USAF
                                         Principal Deputy, Assistant Secretary of the
                                         Air Force for Acquisition




                                                7
                                            Attachment 1

GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS EXPLAINED

References
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), current edition, Part 46, Quality Assurance.
Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS), current edition, Part 246, Quality Assurance.
DoD Directive 5000.1, Defense Acquisition, February 23, 1991. Policies and Procedures, February 23,
1991, with change 1, Part 6, Section O, Design for Manufacturing and Production and Section P, Quality.
Air Force Supplement 1 to DoD Instruction 5000.2, Acquisition Management Policies and Procedures,
August 31, 1993, Part 6, Sections O and P as supplemented.
AFPD 63-5, Quality Assurance, 7 September 1993.
TO 00-35D-54, The USAF Material Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System.
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), current edition, Part 46, Quality Assurance.
Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS), current edition, Part 246, Quality Assurance.
DoD Directive 5000.1, Defense Acquisition, February 23, 1991.
DoD Instruction 5000.2, Defense Acquisition Management Policies and Procedures, February 23, 1991,
with change 1, Part 6, Section O, Design for Manufacturing and Production and Section P, Quality.
Air Force Supplement 1 to DoD Instruction 5000.2, Acquisition Management Policies and Procedures,
August 31, 1993, Part 6, Sections O and P as supplemented.
AFPD 63-5, Quality Assurance, 7 September 1993.
TO 00-35D-54, The USAF Material Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAE—Air Force Acquisition Executive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Instruction
AQAP—Allied Quality Assurance Publication
AQL—Acceptable Quality Level
CAO—Contract Administration Office
COTS—Commercial Off-The-Shelf
DAC—Designated Acquisition Commander
DFARS—Defense FAR Supplement


                                               8
DOE—Design of Experiments
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
GQA—Government Quality Assurance
LOA—Letter of Offer and Acceptance
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAP—Military Assistance Program
MGM—Materiel Group Manager
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NDI—Non-Developmental Item
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PGM—Product Group Manager
PM—Program Manager
QA—Quality Assurance
QALI—Quality Assurance Letter of Instruction
QFD—Quality Function Deployment
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SPD—System Program Director
STANAG—Standardization Agreement
TO—Technical Order

Terms
Characteristic—A physical, chemical, visual, functional, or any other identifiable property of a product
or material.
Commercial Item—An item regularly used in the course of normal business operations for other than
Government purposes which:
   1. Has been sold or licensed to the general public.
   2. Has not been sold or licensed, but has been offered for sale or license to the general public.
   3. Is not yet available in the commercial marketplace, but will be available for commercial delivery
      in a reasonable period of time.
   4. Is described in paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) above and would require only minor modification in
      order to meet the requirements of the procuring agency.
Commercial Off-The-Shelf Item—A commercial item that has been produced and placed in stock by a
                                               9
contractor, or stocked by a distributor, before receiving orders or contracts for its sale.
Contract Quality Requirements—The technical requirements in the contract relating to the quality of
the product or products and those contract clauses prescribing inspection, and other quality controls
incumbent upon the contractor, to assure that the product or products conforms to contractual
requirements.
Fitness for Use—The effectiveness of the design, manufacturing, and support processes in delivering a
system that meets operational requirements under all anticipated operational conditions.
Government Quality Assurance (GQA) Plan—This plan describes the Government surveillance of a
contractor’s performance on a program, contract, or in a facility to determine whether a contractor fulfills
contract obligations pertaining to quality and quantity.
Metrology—The science of weights and measures used to determine conformance to technical
requirements including the development of standards and systems for absolute and relative
measurements.
Nondevelopmental Item—An item not requiring development. Nondevelopmental items include:
   1. Any item available in the commercial marketplace;
   2. Any previously developed item in use by a Federal, State, or local agency of the United States or
      a foreign government with which the United States has a mutual defense cooperation agreement;
   3. Any item described in subparagraph (1) or (2) above that requires only minor modification to
      meet the requirements of the procuring agency; or
   4. Any item being produced that does not meet the requirements of subparagraph (1), (2), or (3)
      above, solely because the item is not yet in use or is not yet available in the commercial market-
      place.
Process Capability—The measure of the output variability of a stable process, typically a manufacturing
process. A process is considered "stable" when it is capable of producing conforming product and all
special causes of variation (those not a normal part of the process) have been eliminated. Measures of
process capability include the Process Capability Index (C p) and the Process Performance Index (C pk).
A "capable" process is usually defined as one that is both stable and operating at a C pk of 1.33 or higher.
Product—Supplies, services, systems or materiel. When appropriate, raw materials, components, and
intermediate assemblies may also be classified as products.
Quality—The composite of material attributes, performance features, and characteristics of a product to
satisfy a given need.
Quality Assurance (QA)—A planned and systematic pattern of actions necessary to provide confidence
that adequate technical requirements are established; products conform to established technical
requirements; and satisfactory performance is achieved.
Quality Audits and Product-Oriented Surveys and Evaluations—Systematic examinations of acts
and decisions with respect to quality to independently verify or evaluate the operational requirements of
the quality program or the specifications and contract requirements for the product or products. It is an
objective evaluation of program adequacy from a quality viewpoint independent of other program goals.
It examines anything that can impact quality such as improperly specified requirements, poor design,
inadequate planning, etc. It investigates process capability and identifies problem areas to make

                                                  10
recommendations for corrective and preventive action. Product-oriented surveys and evaluations, in
particular, verify that:
    • Quality characteristics are specified and designed into the product or products.
    • Quality characteristics are quantified whenever possible.
    • Items with critical functions are identified and controlled.
    • Quality and technical requirements are achieved or adequate planning has been accomplished to
        assure their achievement.
Quality Characteristics—Those characteristics that exert a significant influence on performance,
producibility, supportability and service life. They are defined as part of the systems engineering process.
Process controls, specifications, standards, tests, training and certifications, requirements, and evaluations
will be defined, developed, and demonstrated as part of the design review process.
Quality Control—Those actions that control the production of output to fulfill requirements for quality
in raw or produced material and services. Quality control includes a feedback process that measures
actual performance, compares it to quality requirements, and acts on the difference to minimize variation.
Quality control is the measurement of a process or product by an automated process, operator or other
person, with comparison to requirements and action to resolve variation from a standard.
Quality Engineering—That aspect of engineering that deals with processes, products, test adequacy,
quality assurance, and quality control. It focuses on Design of Experiments; clarity of requirements;
measurement to demonstrate process capability and compliance; and activities to ensure that
characteristics required to achieve performance requirements are producible, robust, and verifiable. It
includes:
    • Actions to minimize opportunities for error in manufacturing, operation, and maintenance.
    • Evaluation of process capability and requirements to minimize variability, optimize technical
       risks and costs in testing and inspection programs commensurate with program objectives.
    • Certification of testing and related software to accomplish program objectives.
    • Validation of advanced metrology to ensure accuracy and consistency of results for Government
       acceptance.
Quality Improvement—Activities focused on increased productivity, manufacturing or operational
efficiency, and product utility, including:
    • Improvements in producibility and process capability.
    • Reduced process variability and improved uniformity.
    • Defect reduction during program activities such as design, manufacturing, test, and inspection;
        reductions in costs of waste, scrap, rework, and repair; and reductions in engineering changes,
        waivers and deviations.
Quality Management—The function of management at all levels concerned with planning, organizing
activities, allocating resources, and monitoring operations to establish and conduct an effective and
efficient quality program.
Quality of Design—The effectiveness of the design process in capturing the operational requirements
and translating them into detailed design requirements that can be manufactured (or coded) in a consistent
manner.

                                                 11
Quality of Conformance—The effectiveness of design and manufacturing functions in executing
product manufacturing requirements and process specifications while meeting tolerances, process control
limits, and target yields for a given product group.
Quality Plan—The description of a supplier’s program of action for managing quality of products. It
describes specific quality policies, procedures, and practices. It includes organizational structure,
assignment of management responsibilities and authorities, staffing, planning, technical aspects, and a
description of the integration of quality system with other administration and technical programs. It also
identifies and describes quality responsibilities for all operational interfaces, including those with subtier
suppliers. The quality plan ensures that suitable data are available to determine compliance to product
acceptance criteria established for the contract.
Quality Program—A program of action to effectively and efficiently manage the quality of processes
and products from concept through validation, engineering and manufacturing development, production,
deployment, and disposal.
Quality Requirements—The technical requirements relating to the quality of the product or products
and the quality controls, standards, and inspections necessary to assure that the product or products satisfy
those requirements.
Verification—Reviewing, inspecting, testing, checking, measuring, auditing or otherwise establishing
and documenting that products, processes, or documents conform to specified requirements.




                                                 12
