BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-504
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   6 November 2008
                                                         Certified Current, 4 JANUARY 2011


                                                                       Financial Management

                                         COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY COST COMPARISONS

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/FMCEE                                   Certified by: SAF/FMC (Mr. Richard Hartley)
                                                                                   Pages: 9

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

                                          Chapter 1

                                     INTRODUCTION


1. In the past, comptroller personnel performed independent reviews of commercial
activity cost comparisons prior to turning this responsibility over to the Air Force Audit
Agency in 2001. OMB circular A-76 (29 May 2003) eliminated the independent review
requirement. An Air Force Audit Agency report (Project number F2006-0002-FC1000)
found that in the absence of the independent review, comptroller cost analysis support
is needed on the agency cost estimate team. This instruction outlines the
responsibilities of the comptroller community for the commercial activity program.
                                         Chapter 2

        OBJECTIVES OF COMPTROLLER COST ANALYSIS SUPPORT

2. Financial management (FM) personnel will provide support in several aspects of the
commercial activity costing process.

2.1. Comptroller Support: The Comptroller office shall assist with the development of all
cost data input for the Agency Cost Estimate (ACE). To do so comptroller analysts will use
AFI65-504 6 November 2008                                                                    2


guidance found in the DoD A-76 Costing Manual and OMB Circular A-76. In some cases
OMB Circular A-76 covers areas of costing not covered by the Costing Manual. Also,
AFMAN 65-507 must be followed in completing comptroller responsibilities. Additional
guidance on baseline costing is found in the DoD Competitive Sourcing Program guidance as
described in the OSD memo dated 4 Aug 2005 on Baseline Costing for Public-Private
Competitions. Consult the Share A-76 web site at http://sharea76.fedworx.org for updates to
guidance. This site contains OMB, OSD, and Air Force guidance that is not updated in printed
versions of this instruction and AFMAN 65-507. The files on this site are official guidance
updates.

2.1.1. Commands will not deviate from the DoD A-76 Costing Manual or OMB Circular A-76
costing guidance without prior approval from OSD. Commands must submit deviation
requests to AF/A1MS; if AF/A1MS concurs with the request they submit them to OSD for
approval. AF/A1MS coordinates with SAF/FMCE before forwarding deviation requests on
costing issues to OSD.

2.1.2. The OSD Competitive Sourcing and Privatization Office has established an A-76
Costing Help Desk to assist with the complexities of A-76 costing and software issues. The
Help Desk is at http://www.compareA76.com.

2.2. Cost Comparison Characteristics: A comptroller cost analyst must ensure that the cost
comparison displays the following characteristics:

2.2.1. Currency. All cost factors and data used are the most recent ones available for
the activity undergoing cost comparison. Analysts must take special care to ensure
that all data, including the salary factors, are the most current available. The analyst
must further ensure that salary factors are applied in accordance with all governing
guidance in the DoD A-76 Costing Manual, AFI 38-203, and other interim or
supplemental guidance on the Share A-76 web site.

2.2.2. Reasonableness. Where necessary to apply principles or make interpretations of
policies contained in relevant guidance, the analyst shall ensure that such application
or interpretation is logical and appropriate to the circumstances of the function
undergoing cost comparison. Sound practical judgment must be used throughout each
analysis and in interpreting guidance.

2.2.3. Accuracy. Ensure that quantified data, calculations, and all references to
official guidance are correct.

2.2.4. Completeness. The entire package must contain all elements required by AFI
38-203 and any supplemental OMB, OSD, or Air Force guidance found on the Share
A-76 web site. Each element of the package meets all necessary requirements of
format and content contained in the same guidance. The complete package must
include documentation, which means the package stands on its own and can be
replicated by reviewers.
AFI65-504 6 November 2008                                                                      3


2.2.5. Traceability. There must be an audit trail that runs from the earliest documents
through the final estimate for all costs entered on either the Standard Competition
Form (SCF) or Streamlined Competition Form (SLCF). All costs must be documented
down to their most basic inputs and factors, and the source of inputs cited with a
reference and date. Electronic files may serve as documentation provided formulas
can be tracked and sources and dates are cited in the electronic file.

                                       Chapter 3

            COMPTROLLER PERSONNEL RULES OF ENGAGEMENT

3. Comptroller offices must provide cost analysis support on all A-76 cost comparisons as
required by AFI 38-203, including both standard and streamlined cost comparisons.

3.1. Preliminary Planning Process (P3): Comptroller personnel involved in the preliminary
planning process developing the baseline cost should not also be involved in developing the
Agency Cost Estimate (ACE) for any follow-on competition that may result due to the outcome
of the preliminary planning process. Comptroller personnel involved in the preliminary
planning process (baseline cost) can be involved in computing the Adjusted Baseline Cost,
which is developed by the Performance Work Statement (PWS) Team after announcement.
However, the same comptroller personnel cannot be involved in developing the ACE.

3.2. Streamlined Competition: In a streamlined competition, the same comptroller person
who is consulted for costing questions on the ACE must not also be consulted on costing
questions for the private sector/public reimbursable cost estimate. These personnel must be
different and must not share information concerning the respective cost estimates.

3.3. Standard Competition: In a standard competition, any comptroller personnel who act as
consultants for costing issues to the management team developing the most efficient organization
(MEO) must not also be consultants for the PWS team. Additionally, members of the MEO team
should be firewalled from working with the contracting officer on the acquisition.

3.4. Cost/Benefit Analysis: Comptroller personnel who assist the PWS team in performing
cost/benefit analysis to determine whether to provide government furnished property (GFP) must
not be involved with the MEO team and development of the ACE.

                                            Chapter 4

                             GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES

4. This section outlines general responsibilities for the participation of comptroller personnel
on the agency costing team.

4.1. Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Cost and Economics
(SAF/FMC). SAF/FMC provides Air Force-wide guidance for comptroller personnel
participation on the agency costing team, in accordance with AFI 38-203. SAF/FMC
AFI65-504 6 November 2008                                                                   4


coordinates with AF/A1MS and the Air Force Management Agency (AFMA) to ensure that all
commercial activity costing procedures are consistent with Commercial Activities Program
guidance issued by the Department of Defense and the Air Force. SAF/FMC provides interim
and clarifying guidance on comptroller participation in the commercial activity costing process.

4.2. Air Force Directorate of Manpower, Organization and Resources
(AF/A1MS). AF/A1MS is the OPR for the Air Force commercial activities program
and can provide MAJCOMs with information on available training. The Air Force
Manpower Agency (AFMA) assists AF/A1MS by serving as the program
administrator for the Air Force commercial activities program.

4.3. MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency (FOA), and Direct Reporting Unit
(DRU).

4.3.1. Designate, in writing, an FM analyst as the primary OPR for costing issues on
the agency cost estimating team for cost comparisons performed at the MAJCOM
level. This must be done at the same time the MAJCOM announces the cost
comparison, to ensure different FM personnel support different parts of the overall
process, creating a “firewall” to preclude any actual or perceived organizational
conflict of interest.

4.3.2. Ensure necessary comptroller personnel receive training in A-76 costing
procedures.

4.3.3. Provide command-unique guidance for conducting A-76 Costing.

4.3.4. Establish costing teams, when requested by commercial activity program
offices and judged appropriate, for large, complex cost comparisons.

4.3.5. Establish command policy for base-level A-76 cost analyst training.

4.3.6. Provide personnel to assist in baseline costing for preliminary planning efforts.
These same individuals shall not also serve on the agency costing team.

4.4. Base-Level. Base-level FM offices provide guidance and support as follows for cost
comparisons performed at base level.

4.4.1. Designate in writing an FM analyst as the primary cost analyst for the agency
cost estimating team. This must be done at the same time the MAJCOM announces
the cost comparison, to ensure different FM personnel support different parts of the
overall process, creating a “firewall” to preclude any actual or perceived organizational
conflict of interest.

4.4.2. Ensure necessary base-level comptroller personnel receive A-76 training.
AFI65-504 6 November 2008                                                                 5


4.4.3. Provide personnel to assist in baseline costing during the preliminary planning
process as outlined in AFI 38-203. These same people shall not also serve on the
agency costing team.

4.4.4. Consult with the FM Center of Expertise (CoE) when installation resources
need assistance to meet the comptroller role in commercial activity (CA) cost
comparisons.
                                            Chapter 5

              RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMPTROLLER PERSONNEL

5. Comptroller personnel who are involved in the agency cost team must have the following
qualities:

5.1. Technical Competence. The comptroller personnel must have a competent
technical knowledge of all relevant guidance necessary to develop the cost estimate.
Important sources include AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program, and the DoD
A-76 Costing Manual.

5.2. Professional and Ethical Standards. Personnel must protect cost comparison
data according to AFI 38-203. Comptroller personnel must draw on professional
training and education to conduct the analysis according to the highest professional
and ethical standards. Report any perceived issues with professional or ethical
standards to your supervisor. Also, FM offices believing there may be problems
maintaining the firewalls required by various CA responsibilities should discuss these
issues with the program office at their level and, with proper coordination, their FM
counterparts at the next higher level of the organization.

                                          Chapter 6

                          DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENT

6. Comptroller offices must maintain adequate documentation for the cost analyses and
estimates they provide. Documentation for commercial activity cost estimates follows the rules
in AFI 38-203.

                                             JOHN H. GIBSON II,
                                             Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                             Financial Management and Comptroller
AFI65-504 6 November 2008                                                    6


                                      Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References

OMB Circular A-76 – Performance of Commercial Activities

DoD Instruction 4100.33 - Commercial Activities Program Procedures.

DoD A-76 Costing Manual

AFI 38-203 – Commercial Activities Program

AFPD 65-5 - Cost and Economics

AFMAN 65-507 - Comptroller Support of Commercial Activity Cost Comparisons


Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACE – Agency Cost Estimate

AFMA – Air Force Manpower Agency

AT – Agency Tender

CA – Commercial Activity

DRU – Direct Reporting Unit

FOA – Field Operation Agency

GFP – Government Furnished Property

MAJCOM – Major Command

MEO – Most Efficient Organization

P3 – Preliminary Planning Process

PWS – Performance Work Statement

SCF – Standard Competition Form
AFI65-504 6 November 2008                                                                   7


SLCF – Streamlined Competition Form


Terms

Agency Cost Estimate (ACE) – The part of the agency tender in a standard competition that
includes the agency’s cost proposal and represents the full cost of in-house performance of the
AF CA, based on the requirements in the solicitation and the costing policy from the DoD
Costing Manual and more current OMB, DoD and AF guidance. The ACE for a streamlined
competition is developed IAW the DoD Costing Manual and more current OMB, DoD and AF
guidance.

Agency Tender (AT) – The agency management plan submitted in response to a solicitation for
a standard competition. The AT includes an MEO, agency cost estimate, MEO quality control
plan, MEO phase-in plan, and copies of any MEO subcontracts (with the private sector
providers’ proprietary information redacted). The AT is prepared IAW the solicitation
requirements and this instruction.

Commercial Activity (CA) – A recurring service that could be performed by the private sector.
It may be an entire organization or part of an organization. It must be a type of work that is
separable from other functions or activities so it is suitable for performance by contract.
Commercial activities fall into two categories: (1) in house CA operated by Air Force military
and/or civilian personnel and (2) contracted CA operated by private sector contractor or another
non-DoD Federal Agency (i.e., public reimbursable source).

COMPARE – The Windows-based A-76 costing software that incorporates OMB Circular A-76
costing procedures. COMPARE must be used to calculate and document the costs on the SLCF
for a streamlined competition or the SCF for a standard competition. The software is available
through the OSD COMPARE web site at http://www.comparea76.com/

Government Furnished Property (GFP) – Facilities, equipment, material, supplies or other
services provided by the government for use by all prospective providers in the solicitation.
Costs for GFP included in a solicitation are considered common costs. Replacement costs,
insurance, maintenance and repair costs for GFP may or may not be government-furnished,
depending on the provisions in the solicitation.

Most Efficient Organization (MEO) – The government’s in-house organization deemed to be
the most efficient and cost-effective for competition IAW this instruction, OMB Circular A-76
and Title 10, U.S.C. 2461. An MEO is required for standard competition and may include a mix
of civilian employees and MEO subcontracts. NOTE: An MEO must be developed for a
competition with more than nine civilians, IAW Section 8014 of the annual DoD Appropriations
Act.

Performance Work Statement (PWS) – A statement in the solicitation that identifies the
technical, functional, and performance characteristics of the agency’s requirements. The PWS is
performance –based and describes the agency’s needs (the “what”), not specific methods for
AFI65-504 6 November 2008                                                                    8


meeting those needs (the “how”). The PWS identifies essential services (outcomes) to be
achieved and specifies the agency’s required performance standards, and the location, units,
quality and timeliness of the work. The PWS serves as the scope of the work, and is the basis for
all costs entered in COMPARE resulting in the SCF/SLCF.

Preliminary Planning Process (P3) – The process of determining whether competitive
sourcing is the optimal methodology for sourcing an organization(s) by ensuring factors that
impact competitive sourcing (i.e., wartime requirements, workforce availability, commercial
viability, career-field sustainability, workload documentations, etc.) are reviewed prior to a
sourcing decision.

Standard Competition Form (SCF) – The agency form that documents and certifies all costs
calculated in the standard competition.

Streamlined Competition Form (SLCF) - The agency form that documents and certifies all
costs calculated in the streamlined competition.
.
AFI65-504 6 November 2008   9
