BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 63-133
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        6 FEBRUARY 2001
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 4 November 2010

                                                                                   Acquisition

                                                    AIRCRAFT INFORMATION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSC/SEF                                                          Certified by: SAF/AQX
                                                                         (Mr. Blaise Durante)
                                                                                       Pages: 5


This publication implements AFPD 63-1/20-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
Management. It applies to and defines responsibilities and procedures for all appropriate
organizations in implementing the Aircraft Information Program (AIP). The AIP ensures
information needs of the operational, maintenance, and safety communities are addressed on all
aircraft. This publication further defines the objectives, membership, and responsibilities of
Aircraft Information Working Groups (AIWG) established to implement the AIP. AIWGs
include acquisition/logistics personnel, operational aircrews, and safety professionals in
information management planning at the earliest stages of development and modification. This
policy applies to all US Air Force systems, including those of the Air National Guard (ANG) and
US Air Force Reserve. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be
routed to SAF/AQX for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to SAF/AQXA using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Interim Change (IC) #1 updates references to the directive being implemented as well as other
publications which have changed since the original publication date. The certifying official is
also changed to ensure guidance implemented does not conflict with defense acquisition policy.
 2                                                              AFI63-133 6 FEBRUARY 2001


1. Terms Explained:
     1.1. Aircraft Information Working Group (AIWG). The working group is comprised of
     operational, acquisition, test and evaluation, logistics and safety professionals that ensure
     aircraft information needs are considered in the aircraft and subsystem design.
     1.2. Aircraft Information Handbook. Document that guides acquisition personnel in the
     implementation of AFPD 63-14 and formation of an AIWG.
     1.3. Aircraft Information Management Plan (AIMP). Plan delineating what aircraft
     information is to be recorded and how it will be managed.
2. Establishing an AIWG. Establish an AIWG for every Air Force aircraft weapons system to
include both fixed wing and rotary wing; manned and unmanned. The AIWG is responsible to
the program manager via the AIWG chairperson.
3. AIP Objectives:
     3.1. Provide the program director with technical guidance and a current operational
     perspective to evaluate the proposed aircraft information collection and management
     concept.
        3.1.1. Provide the program director with specific recommendations to ensure information
        is crash survivable for mishap investigations.
     3.2. Provide formal lead command and safety community liaison with the system program
     office and prime contractor in the earliest stages of the design process.
     3.3. Provide an audit trail for decisions on information management issues.
4. Attendees. AIWGs include members and advisors:
     4.1. Members make recommendations to the AIWG chairperson. Members need a broad
     understanding of their organization and its concerns. Members should be appointed for at
     least 2 years to guarantee continuity of critical information.
        4.1.1. Members include:
            4.1.1.1. The AIWG chairperson (Program Director or representative).
            4.1.1.2. Program Office Chief Engineer, or representative.
            4.1.1.3. Experienced subject matter experts from the requirements, operations, and
            logistics offices of the lead command.
            4.1.1.4. Air Force Safety Center (AFSC) representative.
            4.1.1.5. Test and Evaluation representative.
        4.1.2. The AIWG chairperson may also select other members as deemed necessary. For
        joint acquisition programs, the AIWG includes members from the lead operating
        command of all involved services.
     4.2. Advisors identify issues and provide technical input that members can use as the basis
     for recommendations. The AIWG chairperson selects advisor participation based on
     recommendations by other AIWG members. However, aircraft information customers such
     as the Aircraft and Engine Structural Integrity Programs should be considered the minimum
AFI63-133 6 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                    3


   set of advisors. Representatives of the weapons system manufacturer and/or other applicable
   contractors also should be included as advisors. Representatives from the Air Force Materiel
   Command (AFMC), test centers, and other agencies (such as NASA) advise as needed.
5. Responsibilities. The AIWG offers a unified government position to the program manager.
The AIWG bases its position on members’ collective experience and technical knowledge.
   5.1. Program Management. The following responsibilities apply to all aircraft weapon
   systems involving development, sustainment, or substantial modification and are the
   responsibility of the Program Manager:
      5.1.1. Establishes an AIWG as early as possible.
      5.1.2. Chairs or appoints an AIWG chairperson from the system program office
      5.1.3. Writes a specific AIWG charter and Aircraft Information Management Plan
      (AIMP).
      5.1.4. Assures AIWG members receive appropriate training before they begin working
      on the project.
      5.1.5. Reviews and evaluates AIWG recommendations.
      5.1.6. Maintains a database of AIWG issues and design decisions to track the design
      changes.
      5.1.7. Keeps up-to-date, accurate AIWG meeting records.
      5.1.8. Appoints, if needed, additional AIWG advisors.
      5.1.9. Assures AIWG lessons learned and recommendations are documented for future
      revisions of AFH 63-1402 (will convert to AFMAN 63-134).
      5.1.10. Develops AIP funding requirements and establish implementation timelines.
   5.2. Lead Command:
      5.2.1. Appoints experienced subject matter expert(s) to represent operational,
      maintenance and logistical information requirements of the command at AIWG meetings.
      5.2.2. Evaluates mission scenarios for information requirements.
      5.2.3. For each aircrew position, determines the information recording requirement.
      5.2.4. Advocates funding requirements in the budgeting process.
   5.3. Air Force Material Command (AFMC):
      5.3.1. Appoints engineers and scientists who know aircraft information system designs to
      advise the AIWG.
      5.3.2. Evaluates proposed designs for information acquisition processes that capture
      system performance and operation.
      5.3.3. Provides AIWG training for the chairperson, members, and advisors. Trains them
      before they have to participate in AIWG meetings.
      5.3.4. Shares information with AIWG members and advisors concerning standardization
      requirements.
4                                                              AFI63-133 6 FEBRUARY 2001


       5.3.5. Maintains AIWG databases to store accumulated information and to allow various
       AIWGs to standardize data.
       5.3.6. Recommends changes to AFH 63-1402 (will convert to AFMAN 63-134) and acts
       as co-approval authority of changes with HQ AFSC/SEF.
       5.3.7. Maintains database interface requirements and standards to allow data transfer
       between Operational, Logistical, and Maintenance databases.
    5.4. Air Force Safety Center, Aviation Safety Division (AFSC/SEF):
       5.4.1. Appoints experienced aviation mishap investigator as a member of the AIWG.
       5.4.2. Provides lessons learned and statistical summaries of safety information systems.
       5.4.3. Educates the AIWG of applicable national and international standards.
       5.4.4. Acts with AFMC as a co-approval authority of AFH 63-1402 (will convert to
       AFMAN 63-134).
    5.5. Advisor Organizations’ Responsibilities:
       5.5.1. Appoints appropriate personnel as advisors to the AIWG.
       5.5.2. Evaluates proposed designs in terms of the particular concerns of the participating
       organization.
    5.6. Technical Authority (Program Chief Engineer)
       5.6.1. Acts as advisor to the Program Manager for configuration control and certification
       of aircraft systems in the AIWG according to AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems
       Engineering.
       5.6.2. Conducts periodic reviews of the AIWG products to ensure their currency.
       5.6.3. Reconciles AIWG initiatives with policies and objectives of other Air Force
       initiatives and programs.
       5.6.4. Assures adequate procedures are in place to periodically validate and report on the
       content and accuracy of recorded information.




                                            LAWRENCE J. DELANEY
                                            Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition)
AFI63-133 6 FEBRUARY 2001                                                      5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 63-14, Aircraft Information Programs
AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
AFI 63-1401, Aircraft Information Program
AFH 63-1402, Aircraft Information Program

Abbreviations and Acronymns
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AIMP—Aircraft Information Management Plan
AIP—Aircraft Information Program
AIWG—Aircraft Information Working Group
ANG—Air National Guard
NASA—National Aeronautics & Space Administration
