BY ORDER OF THE                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 71-101 VOLUME 2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  17 MAY 2011

                                                                          Special Investigations

                                                         PROTECTIVE SERVICE MATTERS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/IGX                                                              Certified by: SAF/IGX
                                                                            (Col James Hudson)
Supersedes:   AFI 71-101, Volume 2,                                                     Pages: 16
              18 November 2002


This Instruction implements AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence; DoD
Instruction O-2000.22, Designation and Physical Protection of DoD High Risk Personnel
(HRP); DoD Instruction 5030.34, Agreement Between the United States Secret Service and the
Department of Defense Concerning Protection of the President and Other Officials . This
publication applies to Air Force Reserve (AFR) Units, the Air National Guard (ANG), and the
Civil Air Patrol (CAP) performing an Air Force assigned mission. This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to SAF/IGX for
coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates instructions to report information to the United States Secret Service. The
term protectee has been changed to high risk personnel throughout; AFOSI 33 rd Field
Investigative Squadron (FIS) has been updated to 7 FIS. Attachments 2 and 3 have been
significantly revised.
 2                                                                     AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011



                                              Chapter 1

                     PROTECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND OTHERS

1.1. Reporting Requirements. The Department of the Air Force will report information
required by Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 5030.34, Agreement Between the United
States Secret Service and the Department of Defense Concerning Protection of the President and
Other Officials, to the United States Secret Service (USSS).
     1.1.1. All Air Force personnel will immediately report information affecting the security or
     safety of persons or facilities set forth in Attachment 2, or meeting the criteria detailed in
     Attachment 3, to the local Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) unit. When
     personnel possessing the information are not able to immediately establish contact with
     AFOSI, they must use one of the following methods to directly contact the USSS without
     delay:
        1.1.1.1. Commercial telephone: (202) 406-5000.
        1.1.1.2. Secure Telephone (STU III): (202) 406-6971.
        1.1.1.3. E-mail address: PIOC@USSS.DHS.GOV                    (courtesy   copy    AFOSI      at
        HQAFOSI.WATCH@OGN.AF.MIL)
        1.1.1.4. Follow up e-mail notification with telephonic notification within 24 hours.
     1.1.2. All Air Force personnel will notify their supervisors as soon as feasible (but after first
     notifying or attempting to notify AFOSI or USSS) when they have information affecting the
     security or safety of persons or facilities set forth in Attachment 2, or meeting the notification
     criteria of Attachment 3.
     1.1.3. Directors of Base Medical Services will immediately ensure persons are given a
     mental health evaluation prior to being administratively discharged if they have threatened
     one of the officials described in Attachment 3, if ordered by the member’s commander and
     the order complies with the requirements of AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and
     Military Law.
1.2. Briefing Requirements. Supervisors will brief all Air Force personnel (military, civilian,
and foreign national) on the reporting requirements, as detailed in this chapter and Attachment 3,
upon their initial entry onto active duty or employment.
     1.2.1. Commanders or supervisors will brief military personnel during basic training or pre-
     commissioning programs.
     1.2.2. Commanders will ensure that military personnel receive a briefing during the Intro
     Program after arriving at a permanent change of station (PCS) duty assignment.
     1.2.3. Supervisors will brief civilian and foreign national employees when they report to
     their initial assignments. Supervisors will ensure their civilian and foreign national
     employees receive a briefing every 3 years.
AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011                                                               3


  1.2.4. Supervisors and commanders must document briefings.
  1.2.5. AFOSI units will provide guidance on preparing the briefings for commanders and
  supervisors upon request.
 4                                                                   AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011


                                              Chapter 2

                           PROTECTIVE SERVICE PROCEDURES

2.1. Protective Services. AFOSI will provide protective services, including long-term
protective service operations (PSOs), when the requester and AFOSI jointly determine such
protection is needed. (See Attachment 4 for PSO considerations.)
     2.1.1. The Secretary of the Air Force, Inspector General (SAF/IG) will resolve all disputes
     that cannot be resolved between AFOSI and requesters.
2.2. Responsibilities:
     2.2.1. Air Force installation commanders will ensure the safety and security of all assigned
     and visiting personnel.
     2.2.2. AFOSI is the lead agency within the Air Force authorized to provide specialized
     protective services.
     2.2.3. AFOSI will:
        2.2.3.1. Investigate threats against Air Force or DoD officials made by Air Force
        members.
        2.2.3.2. Refer information about similar threats by civilians to the USSS and the Federal
        Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
        2.2.3.3. Monitor any resulting investigations affecting the Air Force.
        2.2.3.4. Train defense forces on protective support functions.
     2.2.4. The AFOSI detail leader, through the AFOSI field unit, will request the assistance of
     the Installation Defense Force Commander to obtain the following on-base support for PSOs:
        2.2.4.1. Traffic control.
        2.2.4.2. Installation perimeter security and entry and exit control.
        2.2.4.3. Checkpoints, crowd control, and surveillance security posts.
        2.2.4.4. Security for principal's aircraft.
        2.2.4.5. Perimeter security for principal's on-base residence.
        2.2.4.6. Other support which the AFOSI detail leader and the installation Defense Force
        Commander agree upon.
2.3. Protection of Senior Air Force Officials. AFOSI will, as a minimum, provide a security
advisor to coordinate protective services and other protective assistance for the Secretary and
Undersecretary of the Air Force, the Chief and Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Major
Command commanders. Additionally, AFOSI will identify individuals and billets designated as
high risk IAW AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism and DoDI 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism (AT)
Standards. These designations will be coordinated with the Air Staff Force Protection Working
Group.
AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011                                                                         5


   2.3.1. Installation commanders will not independently request protective services for these
   officials from their servicing AFOSI office.
   2.3.2. AFOSI will conduct a Protective Threat Assessment (PTA) for each stop on the
   itinerary to determine if these officials require protection.
   2.3.3. Local commanders will not initiate protective measures for these officials without the
   prior approval of the AFOSI Security Advisor.
2.4. Services Provided to Senior Air Force Officials: AFOSI will provide as a minimum, a
security advisor to coordinate protective services and other protective assistance as needed.
   2.4.1. The appropriate AFOSI Field Investigations Region (FIR) or the AFOSI 7th Field
   Investigative Squadron (FIS), Joint Base Andrews, MD will coordinate PTAs with the
   appropriate AFOSI units, DoD protective service organizations, federal, state, local, and
   foreign law enforcement and/or security agencies for all travel where the high risk personnel
   (HRP) will be off-base or overseas.
   2.4.2. The AFOSI Security Advisor will coordinate protective measures for the traveling
   official at his or her travel destinations, where such protection is deemed appropriate.
   2.4.3. The AFOSI Security Advisor will document (via memo for record) all instances where
   protection is offered and declined.
   2.4.4. The AFOSI Personal Security Advisor (PSA) or designated Region or FIS
   representative will provide monthly inputs to AFOSI/XR regarding location and security
   arrangements for each assigned HRP.
2.5. Local Support:
   2.5.1. In the local area, AFOSI will conduct a local PTA, and annual security assessments to
   include office and residence security assessments.
   2.5.2. AFOSI will provide annual antiterrorism briefings; specifically addressing personal
   and family security, travel security, driving security, and hostage survival.
2.6. Travel:
   2.6.1. Based upon results of the PTA, AFOSI and the HRP or his/her designated
   representative will jointly determine the level of security required.
   2.6.2. For CONUS travel, protective services provided will range from supplying the HRP’s
   staff with a point of contact list for the area to be visited, to assigning a PSO trained AFOSI
   Security Advisor to travel with the HRP. On rare occasions, a protective detail may be
   required depending upon the event, location and threat.
   2.6.3. For OCONUS travel, unless the HRP is to remain on a United States military base, a
   Security Advisor or protective detail will be used depending upon the event, location and
   threat.
2.7. Other Services:
   2.7.1. AFOSI will establish training standards and ensure training is accomplished for
   personnel assigned as drivers for USAF senior leaders.
 6                                                                   AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011


     2.7.2. AFOSI will coordinate driver participation in the Threat Response Driving Seminar
     (TRDS).
     2.7.3. Security Advisors will document all instances where drivers assigned to senior USAF
     leaders declined attendance in the TRDS.
2.8. Protective Services for Foreign Guests of HQ USAF and the DoD:
     2.8.1. Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Foreign Liaison will notify the appropriate
     AFOSI FIR or the AFOSI 7 FIS and AFOSI/XRC (Functional Services Branch) of pending
     visits by foreign guests of OSD which require PSO coverage. The appropriate AFOSI FIR or
     the AFOSI 7 FIS will then coordinate a PTA as required for all such visits.
     2.8.2. The Office of the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force, International Affairs
     Division (AF/CVAI), will notify AFOSI/XRC, and the appropriate AFOSI FIR or the AFOSI
     7 FIS, Joint Base Andrews, MD of pending visits by foreign guests of HQ USAF, which may
     require PSO coverage. The appropriate AFOSI FIR or 7 FIS will coordinate a PTA as
     required for all such visits.
     2.8.3. Based upon the results of the PTA, AFOSI and the tasking office (OSD or AF/CVAI)
     will jointly determine if a PSO is in the best interest of the Air Force and DoD. If so, AFOSI
     7 FIS, Joint Base Andrews, MD, will coordinate with AFOSI/XRC, and any other affected
     AFOSI offices, concerning the security requirements for the visiting dignitary.
2.9. Protective Assistance to Other DoD Agencies:
     2.9.1. The Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Personal Security) determines the level of
     protection afforded to the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) and Deputy SECDEF, and may
     task military departments for necessary assistance in providing this protection.
     2.9.2. The Executive Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS)
     determines which military department will provide protection for the CJCS.
     2.9.3. Air Force personnel who learn of a specific threat against the CJCS will immediately
     notify the local AFOSI unit.
     2.9.4. AFOSI will notify the Executive Assistant to the CJCS.
     2.9.5. AFOSI will maintain liaison with the other DoD protective service organizations and,
     when resources permit, provide assistance to them when their principals visit US Air Force
     bases or areas where AFOSI has primary jurisdiction.
2.10. Protection of Other Officials or Dignitaries. When necessary, and when resources
permit, AFOSI will work with other federal, state, and local agencies to protect officials or
dignitaries visiting a US Air Force installation or attending a US Air Force event.
2.11. Protection of Victims and Witnesses:
     2.11.1. AFOSI will refer to AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, concerning their
     responsibility for the protection of victims and witnesses.
     2.11.2. Commanders will request an AFOSI PSO for victims and witnesses only in
     extraordinary cases where specialized protective measures are required, and when there are
     specific threats against those individuals.
AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011                                                                       7


                                          Chapter 3

                            ARMORED VEHICLE PROGRAM

3.1. Responsibilities:
   3.1.1. SAF/IG will:
       3.1.1.1. Submit a nontactical armored vehicle (AV) report via the Directorate of Special
       Investigations (SAF/IGX) to OSD Policy (ASD(HD&ASA) and AF/A4LE not later than
       1 March each year.
       3.1.1.2. Exercise oversight responsibility for all special vehicle acquisitions needed to
       combat the terrorist threat via SAF/IGX.
       3.1.1.3. Review and approve command supplements to this Instruction via SAF/IGX.
   3.1.2. Major commands (MAJCOM) and field operating agencies (FOA) will:
       3.1.2.1. Establish a focal point for command-assigned AVs.
       3.1.2.2. Submit an annual report to SAF/IGX to arrive not later than 15 February each
       year detailing any procurement, costs, and deployments of command nontactical light
       armored vehicles (LAV) during the previous calendar year in accordance with DIA/OS-
       ID format.
       3.1.2.3. Submit special vehicle requests in response to terrorist threats to SAF/IGX for
       validation before being sent to the Materiel Support Division, Directorate of Logistics
       (AF/A4LE).
       3.1.2.4. Fund transportation costs incurred as a result of command initiated transfers,
       reallocations, or deployments of AVs.
       3.1.2.5. Fund maintenance and repair of AVs.
   3.1.3. AFOSI will:
       3.1.3.1. Manage the AFOSI heavy armored vehicle (HAV) fleet to obtain the greatest
       flexibility in protecting all high-risk personnel.
       3.1.3.2. Allocate AFOSI HAVs subject to the concurrence of the regional unified
       commanders or their designated security elements.
       3.1.3.3. Submit an annual report to SAF/IGX to arrive not later than 15 February each
       year detailing any procurement costs and deployments of AFOSI-managed HAVs during
       the previous calendar year according to DIA/OS-ID format.
       3.1.3.4. Coordinate tactical deployments of AVs with supported commands.
       3.1.3.5. Determine when to use an AV to protect high-risk personnel by considering the
       factors in Attachment 4, paragraph A4.3. and the possibility of using a light armored
       vehicle (LAV) instead of an HAV.
       3.1.3.6. Establish agreements with the supported commands to ensure continuity of
       support.
 8                                                                    AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011


        3.1.3.7. Evaluate AVs and protective systems.
        3.1.3.8. Provide or certify specialized antiterrorism defensive and evasive driver courses
        (e.g. the Senior Officer Security Seminar, TRDS, AFOSI PSO course, or other training
        provided by a certified driving instructor). NOTE: Driving of HAVs is restricted to
        authorized individuals trained in defensive and evasive driving techniques. Authorized
        individuals include, but are not limited to: military member or person occupying high-
        risk billets (does not include any dependents), Security Forces, AFOSI special agents,
        Transportation Squadron personnel and foreign nationals assigned as drivers for
        individuals in high-risk billets. Other individuals may be authorized (in writing) on a
        case-by-case basis depending on specific circumstances surrounding the use of the HAV
        in their respective area of responsibility. All drivers must have successfully completed
        specialized antiterrorism defensive and evasive driver training.
        3.1.3.9. Prepare current threat assessments to accompany installation commanders'
        requests for vehicle requirements resulting from terrorist threats.
        3.1.3.10. Provide hands-on orientation to drivers and maintenance personnel on the
        operation and special care required for AVs.
        3.1.3.11. Establish a focal point for command assigned AVs.
3.2. AV Logistics and Alternate Considerations:
     3.2.1. Procurement of HAVs will be handled according to DoD Directive C-4500.51, DoD
     Commercially Procured and Leased Armored Vehicle Policy and AFI 23-302, Vehicle
     Management.
     3.2.2. When warranted by the local threat, achieve transportation security objectives through
     selective use of LAVs, unarmored indigenous vehicles, vehicle painting and marking
     exemptions, and domicile-to-duty transportation. Refer to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
     3.2.3. HAV drivers will not exceed the armoring firm's recommended top speed, as armoring
     adds significantly to a vehicle's weight and required stopping distance.
     3.2.4. Due to the sensitivity of nontactical AV transparent armor to interior heat build-up,
     direct sunlight, and ultraviolet light, garage AVs whenever practical. As a minimum, place
     them under cover, such as a carport, to prevent long-term damage. Prolonged exposure
     causes delamination and loss of the rated ballistic defeat capabilities of the transparent armor.
     3.2.5. Upon determining an AV is unserviceable, Air Force elements will:
        3.2.5.1. Send a message to Warner Robins Air Logistics Center (WR-ALC ROBINS
        AFB GA// LVDV//) with information copies to SAF/IGX and AFOSI/Logistics and
        Engineering (AFOSI/LG) requesting vehicle disposition instructions.
AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011                                                                9


     3.2.5.2. Salvage subject vehicle according to AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual.
     3.2.5.3. Remove all transparent armor and opaque armoring materials from LAVs prior
     to turning them in for disposal.




                                       MARC E. ROGERS, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                       The Inspector General
 10                                                             AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law, 1 March 2000
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 30 March 2009.
AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 21 December 2007
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 January 2010
DoDD C-4500.51, DoD Commercially Procured and Leased Armored Vehicle Policy, July 25
2007
DoDI 5030.34, Agreement Between the United States Secret Service and the Department of
Defense Concerning Protection of the President and Other Officials, September 17 1986
DoDI O-2000.22, Designation and Physical Protection of DoD High Risk Personnel (HRP),
January 22 2008
DoDI 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Standards, October 2 2006
Title 18, United States Code, Section 3056
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Terms
Detail Leader—A special agent, Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), assigned
overall responsibility for the personal safety and security of a principal during a protective
service operation (PSO). The detail leader is authorized to make decisions on all matters
concerning the immediate personal safety and security of the principal.
Distinguished Visitor (DV)—A guest of the US Air Force or DoD who, by virtue of rank or
position, receives honors or protocol.
Fully Armored Vehicles—These vehicles are referred to as nontactical heavy armored vehicles
(HAV). HAVs are commercially designed and manufactured, fully armored configured, motor
vehicles procured especially to provide security protection to certain key DoD officials or
visiting dignitaries.
High—Risk DoD Personnel—US personnel and their family members whose grade,
assignment, travel itinerary, or symbolic value may make them an especially attractive or
accessible terrorist target.
Partially Armored Vehicles—These motor vehicles are referred to as nontactical light armored
vehicles (LAV). MAJCOMs obtain standard vehicles through normal procurement channels to
AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011                                                                            11


fulfill valid transportation requirements and later alter them by affixing armoring materials to the
windows and body areas.
Primary Agency—A law enforcement, security, or investigative agency with overall
responsibility (as established by law or directive) for providing protective services for a
principal.
Principal—Another name for the High Risk Personnel of a protective service operation. A
principal may or may not be a distinguished visitor (DV).
Protective Service—A specialized activity, which increases the personal safety and security of a
distinguished visitor or other principal. The activity may be limited to a protective threat
assessment or may extend to a major PSO involving considerable manpower and resources.
Protective Service Operation (PSO)—The use of specialized techniques and procedures by
trained personnel to ensure a principal’s personal safety and security during a specific event,
while traveling, or over an extended period of time. When required, a PSO can be tailored to
provide 24-hour protection. In such cases, the security detail establishes defensive overt or
clandestine perimeters around the principal for the term of the PSO at the residence, during
travel, and at all sites on the principal’s daily itinerary.
PSO—Long Term—Any PSO which lasts longer than 30 days and does not have a known
termination date. Usually, AFOSI conducts such operations to protect against a specific threat or
vulnerability when the principal cannot be relocated.
Protective Threat Assessment (PTA)—Collecting and analyzing information to identify direct
and potential threats to harm, seize, interfere with, or embarrass a specific principal, as well as to
determine the existing and anticipated security environment. A PTA is always the initial phase of
a PSO.
  - Terrorist Threat Levels – Terrorist threat levels are derived as a result of analyzing the
operational capability, intent, activity and operating environment of terrorist groups or
individuals.

-- High—Anti-U.S. terrorist group is operationally active and uses large casualty producing
attacks as their preferred method of operation. There is a substantial DoD presence and the
operating environment favors the terrorist.

-- Significant—Anti-U.S. terrorist is operationally active and attack personnel as their preferred
method of operation or a group uses large casualty producing attacks as their preferred method
and has limited operational activity. The operating environment is neutral.

-- Moderate—Terrorist groups are present but there is no indication of anti-U.S. activity. The
operating environment favors the Host Nation/U.S.

-- Low—No terrorist group is detected or the group activity is non-threatening.
 12                                                                 AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011


                                          Attachment 2
                   PERSONNEL AND PLACES THE USSS PROTECTS

A2.1. In accordance with Title 18, United States Code, Section 3056, under the direction of the
Secretary of Homeland Security, the United States Secret Service is authorized to protect the
following persons:
   A2.1.1. The President, the Vice President (or other officer next in the order of succession to
   the Office of President), the President-elect, and the Vice President-elect.
   A2.1.2. The immediate families of those individuals listed in paragraph (1).
   A2.1.3. Former Presidents and their spouses for their lifetimes, except that protection of a
   spouse shall terminate in the event of remarriage unless the former President did not serve as
   President prior to January 1, 1997, in which case, former Presidents and their spouses for a
   period of not more than ten years from the date a former President leaves office, except
   that—
       A2.1.3.1. Protection of a spouse shall terminate in the event of remarriage or the divorce
       from, or death of a former President; and
       A2.1.3.2. should the death of a President occur while in office or within one year after
       leaving office, the spouse shall receive protection for one year from the time of such
       death:
Provided, That the Secretary of Homeland Security shall have the authority to direct the Secret
Service to provide temporary protection for any of these individuals at any time if the Secretary
of Homeland Security or designee determines that information or conditions warrant such
protection.

   A2.1.4. Children of a former President who are under 16 years of age for a period not to
   exceed ten years or upon the child becoming 16 years of age, whichever comes first.
   A2.1.5. Visiting heads of foreign states or foreign governments.
   A2.1.6. Other distinguished foreign visitors to the United States and official representatives
   of the United States performing special missions abroad when the President directs that such
   protection be provided.
   A2.1.7. Major Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates and, within 120 days of the
   general Presidential election, the spouses of such candidates. As used in this paragraph, the
   term ―major Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates‖ means those individuals identified
   as such by the Secretary of Homeland Security after consultation with an advisory committee
   consisting of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the minority leader of the House
   of Representatives, the majority and minority leaders of the Senate, and one additional
   member selected by the other members of the committee. The Committee shall not be subject
   to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 App. U.S.C. 2).
AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011                                                                      13


  A2.1.8. Former Vice Presidents, their spouses, and their children who are under 16 years of
  age, for a period of not more than six months after the date the former Vice President leaves
  office. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall have the authority to direct the Secret
  Service to provide temporary protection for any of these individuals at any time thereafter if
  the Secretary of Homeland Security or designee determines that information or conditions
  warrant such protection.
 14                                                                AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011


                                         Attachment 3
                   INFORMATION TO BE REPORTED TO THE USSS

A3.1. Reportable Information. In accordance with DoDI Instruction 5030.34, information
which becomes available in the regular course of authorized activities and within established
DoD policies will be reported to the Secret Service. Information provided will include the
following:
   A3.1.1. Identification Data - To the extent available, the name or names of an individual or
   group, including former legal names, aliases, and pseudonyms, address, photograph, physical
   description, date and place of birth, employment, marital status, and identifying military
   service numbers, as applicable.
   A3.1.2. Record Data - Files, summaries or excerpts from DoD files of information
   concerning an individual or group reportable under provisions of this agreement.
A3.2. Types of record data to be reported:
   A3.2.1. Information pertaining to a threat, plan, or attempt to physically harm or kidnap the
   President of the United States, the Vice President of the United States, or other persons being
   protected by the Secret Service, the Secretary of the Treasury or other high Government
   officials such as Cabinet Members, Congressmen, Supreme Court Justices, foreign Heads of
   State, Ambassadors, Governors, Mayors, etc.
   A3.2.2. Information pertaining to threats, incidents, or demonstrations against foreign
   diplomatic missions (embassies, chanceries, consulates) in the United States or its territories.
   A3.2.3. Information concerning instances of the use or attempted use of bodily harm,
   assassination, or kidnapping as a political weapon both foreign and domestic (this should
   include coups or attempted coups).
   A3.2.4. Information concerning individuals with an unreasonable or irreconcilable insistence
   upon personally contacting the President of the United States, the Vice President of the
   United States, other persons protected by the Secret Service, the Secretary of the Treasury or
   other high Government officials such as Cabinet Members, Congressmen, Supreme Court
   Justices, foreign Heads of State, Ambassadors, Governors, Mayors, etc., for redress of
   grievances and whose actions demonstrate a tendency toward mental and emotional
   instability.
   A3.2.5. Information pertaining to terrorists and to their individual and group activities
   outside the United States, its territories and possessions, or on military bases in the United
   States, will be transmitted to the Secret Service by the DoD Agency originating the
   information.
   A3.2.6. Information pertaining to the unauthorized ownership or concealment of caches of
   firearms, explosives or other paramilitary or military equipment outside the United States, its
   territories and possessions, or on military bases in the United States, when the circumstances
   or such ownership or concealment implies a potential threat to a protectee of the Secret
   Service identified in "II General Responsibilities" of this agreement.
AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011                                                                       15


  A3.2.7. Information pertaining to threatened civil disturbances in the United States or its
  territories which may require the use of Federalized National Guard or United States military
  personnel for maintenance or restoration of public order.
  A3.2.8. Information pertaining to the United States citizens or residents who have renounced
  or indicated a desire to renounce the United States Government, who are characterized by:
     A3.2.8.1. Violent, irrational, or suicidal behavior or other emotional instability;
     A3.2.8.2. Violent anti-United States sentiment;
     A3.2.8.3. A propensity toward violence.
  A3.2.9. Persons within DoD or those who are being separated, discharged or retired from the
  Armed Forces or from civilian employment in the DoD and who are deemed by competent
  authority to constitute a threat to the safety of the President of the United States, the Vice
  President of the United States, other persons protected by the Secret Service, the Secretary of
  the Treasury or other high Government officials such as Cabinet Members, Congressmen,
  Supreme Court Justices, foreign Heads of State, Ambassadors, Governors, Mayors, etc.
  A3.2.10. Information pertaining to any individual or group who, because of their activity or
  behavior, may pose a danger to the person of the President, the Vice President, or any other
  person protected by the Secret Service.
 16                                                                  AFI71-101V2 17 MAY 2011


                                          Attachment 4
                                   PSO CONSIDERATIONS

A4.1. Responsibilities. The Air Force will protect its leaders and official guests from acts
which jeopardize their safety and security or impede their mission.
   A4.1.1. The US Government holds host foreign governments responsible for the safety of
   US citizens overseas. The US Air Force may provide protective services off base in overseas
   areas only under circumstances that conform to local Status of Forces Agreements (SOFA),
   treaties, agreements, or laws.
   A4.1.2. AFOSI is the focal point for all liaison activity with the USSS, the Department of
   State Office of Security (DOS/SY), and all other federal, state, and local agencies regarding
   protective service missions.
A4.2. Protecting Others:
   A4.2.1. AFOSI will provide protection to family members of a HRP when accompanied by
   the HRP. AFOSI will not be able to provide protection to family members without
   accompanied by the HRP unless directed by OSD or when there is an imminent threat.
   A4.2.2. AFOSI will not provide support or services for non-Air Force or non-DoD related
   principals in an off-base environment without specific approval from the Executive Secretary
   of the DoD or the Deputy Executive Secretary of the DoD.
A4.3. Requesting Protective Services. Request AFOSI protective services only in the
following situations:
   A4.3.1. There is a clear and direct threat to a specific individual.
   A4.3.2. An Air Force leader or official guest must perform a mission in an environment
   which places that person at significant and abnormal risk, in other than a wartime situation.
   A4.3.3. In war zones, AFOSI PSOs will be initiated only for noncombatant senior Air Force
   officials required to be there temporarily for fact-finding or other essential reasons. Other
   senior military officials will be protected only if specifically requested or directed by the
   Theater Commander.
A4.4. Advisors. AFOSI and installation Defense Force Commanders serve as key advisors to
commanders in determining reasonable protective measures.
A4.5. Authority. Final authority rests with the AFOSI PSO Detail Leader to make all decisions
affecting the safety and security of the principal and AFOSI protective service personnel.
