BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 71-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 1

                                                                              8 APRIL 2011
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 16 May 2013

                                                                        Special Investigations

                                                CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/IGX                                                           Certified by: SAF/IGX
                                                                         (Col James Hudson)
                                                                                     Pages: 32
Supersedes: AFI71-101V1, 1 December 1999


This Instruction implements AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence; DoD
Instruction 2000.26, Suspicious Activity Reporting, DoD Instruction 5210.91, Polygraph and
Credibility Assessment Procedures; DoD Instruction 5505.3, Initiation of Investigations by
Military Criminal Investigative Organizations; DoD Instruction 5505.7 Titling and Indexing of
Subjects of Criminal Investigations in the Department of Defense; DoD Instruction 5505.8,
Defense Criminal Investigative Organizations and Other DoD Law Enforcement Organizations
Investigations of Sexual Misconduct; DoD Instruction 5505.10, Investigation of Noncombat
Deaths of Active Duty Members of the Armed Forces; DoD Instruction 5505.11 Fingerprint Card
and Final Disposition Report Submission Requirements; DoD Instruction 5505.14,
Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Collection Requirements for Criminal Investigations; DoD
Instruction 5505.15, DoD Contractor Disclosure Program; DoD Instruction 5505.16, Criminal
Investigations by Personnel Who Are Not Assigned to a Defense Criminal Investigative
Organization; DoD Instruction 5505.18, Investigations of Adult Sexual Assault in the
Department of Defense; DoD Instruction 5400.15, Guidance on Obtaining Information from
Financial Institutions; and DoD Instruction 5525.07, Implementation of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) Between the Departments of Justice (DoJ) and Defense Relating to the
Investigation and Prosecution of Certain Crimes. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve
(AFR) Units, the Air National Guard (ANG), and the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) performing an Air
Force assigned mission. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct
supplements must be routed to SAF/IGX for coordination prior to certification and approval.
 2                                                                                               AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected
by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authority to collect and or maintain the records prescribed
in this publication is Title 10, United States Code, Sections 801-940. Forms affected by the PA
have an appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System Notices F071 AF OSI C,
Criminal Records, F071 AF OSI D Investigative Information Management System (I2MS), F071
AF OSI E, Air Force Badge and Credentials and F071 AF OSI F, Investigative Applicant
Processing Records are available online at: http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Interim Change 1 updates the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) and Security
Forces Investigative Matrix regarding allegations of adult sexual assault. Additionally, it
clarifies how to use the matrix to determine investigative responsibilities. This also updates
AFOSI and Security Forces responsibilities to trace firearms in connection with criminal
investigations. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.


Chapter 1—RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                4
       1.1.   The Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) Commander. ................                                          4
       1.2.   USAF Special Investigations Academy (USAFSIA). ............................................                                 4
       1.3.   AFOSI Investigations, Collections and Operations Nexus (ICON): .....................                                        4
       1.4.   AFOSI Field Investigative Units. ..........................................................................                 4
       1.5.   Commanders/Directors. .........................................................................................             5
       1.6.   Installation Defense Force Commander (DFC). ....................................................                            6

Chapter 2—INVESTIGATIONS PROGRAM                                                                                                          7
       2.1.   Determining AFOSI and Security Forces Spheres of Influence: ...........................                                     7
       2.2.   Masking Rank. .......................................................................................................       7
       2.3.   Using Emergency and Extraordinary Expense Funds (E-Funds). .........................                                        8
       2.4.   Defense Clearance and Investigations Index (DCII). ............................................                             8
       2.5.   Fingerprints. ...........................................................................................................   8
       2.6.   Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Samples. ..............................................................                         9
       2.7.   Department of Justice (DoJ) Referrals. ..................................................................                   9
       2.8.   Law Enforcement Collection of Information on Non-DoD US Persons. ..............                                             9
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                                                              3


     2.9.    AFOSI and JA Collaboration. ................................................................................              9
     2.10.   Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs). .....................................................................                10
     2.11.   Enemy Prisoner of War (EPW)/Detainee information: .........................................                              11
     2.12.   Obtaining Information from Financial Institutions. ...............................................                       11
     2.13.   Setting Up Joint Drug Enforcement Teams (JDETs). ............................................                            11
     2.14.   Investigation of Illegal Drug Use and Distribution. ...............................................                      11
     2.15.   Death Investigations of Active Duty Military Members. ......................................                             11
     2.16.   Adultery, Fraternization and Sexual Harassment. .................................................                        12
     2.17.   Sexual Assaults. .....................................................................................................   12
     2.18.   Investigating Fraud Offenses. ................................................................................           13
     2.19.   Contractor Disclosure Program. .............................................................................             13
     2.20.   Environmental Crime. ............................................................................................        13
     2.21.   Crimes that Involve Air Force Computer Systems. ...............................................                          13
     2.22.   Processing Requests to Intercept Wire, Oral, or Electronic Communications for
             Law Enforcement Purposes: ..................................................................................             13
     2.23.   Firearms Tracing in Connection with Criminal Investigations. .............................                               16

Chapter 3—SPECIALIZED INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES                                                                                          17
     3.1.    Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Techniques: ..................................                                17
     3.2.    DELETED .............................................................................................................    19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        20

Attachment 2—AFOSI AND SECURITY FORCES INVESTIGATIVE MATRIX                                                                           25
 4                                                                  AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


                                             Chapter 1

                                      RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. The Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) Commander. The AFOSI
Commander is directly responsible to the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) for criminal
investigative authority and is delegated the independent authority within the Air Force to initiate
criminal investigations. The commander assesses performance and provides guidance for all
AFOSI units, provides program oversight for DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3) and manages the
Air Force polygraph program.
1.2. USAF Special Investigations Academy (USAFSIA). USAFSIA provides training to all
special agents.
     1.2.1. The USAFSIA investigative curriculum will include training in the basic and
     advanced special investigator courses for conducting death investigations and for the
     execution of the Family Liaison Program described in paragraph 2.15.1.
     1.2.2. Special Agents will receive proper training in sexual assault matters and related
     training in accordance with AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program.
     1.2.3. DC3’s Cyber Investigations Training Academy (DCITA) provides cyber technical
     training for AFOSI personnel and should be the first cyber training option for AFOSI
     personnel.
1.3. AFOSI Investigations, Collections and Operations Nexus (ICON): AFOSI ICON is the
Air Force's sole investigative and counterintelligence/counterterrorism threat-reporting
integration mechanism. The AFOSI ICON provides timely investigative data and threat reporting
data to the AFOSI/CC and other senior AF and DoD leaders. The AFOSI ICON is organized by
regional and functional desks, which receive and synchronize information from AFOSI field
units and other US Government agencies. The AFOSI ICON manages AFOSI's Global Watch
(AFOSI ICON/ICW), which receives up-channel reporting from AFOSI field units; the Global
Watch also coordinates with other Air Force, DoD, and US Government watches. AFOSI ICON
will coordinate, as necessary, investigative and counterintelligence/counterterrorism (CI/CT)
activities with AF human intelligence (HUMINT) activities. Finally, the AFOSI ICON is a
central clearinghouse for data gleaned from its liaison officers assigned to AFOSI's partner
agencies in the US Government, such as the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), Central
Intelligence Agency, and National Security Agency.
1.4. AFOSI Field Investigative Units. AFOSI Field Units (Squadrons, Detachments and
Operating Locations) are responsible to:
     1.4.1. Conduct liaison with federal, state, local and foreign nation law enforcement,
     counterintelligence and security agencies. In accordance with AFPD 71-1, AFOSI is the sole
     AF agency responsible for conducting liaison for matters falling within the AFOSI mission.
     1.4.2. Promptly notify action authorities in writing each time an investigation is initiated,
     unless there is a need to maintain strict security controls over an investigative operation. In
     such cases, action authorities are briefed and provided written notification when there is no
     longer a need to maintain strict security.
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                           5


   1.4.3. Provide a timely report of each investigation (ROI) to an action authority having
   responsibility to take judicial, non-judicial, and administrative actions.
   1.4.4. Operate a Confidential Informant Program consisting of people who confidentially
   provide vital information for initiating or resolving criminal investigations.
       1.4.4.1. AFOSI field unit leaders brief installation commanders on this program each
       time a new installation commander is assigned.
1.5. Commanders/Directors. Commanders/Directors at all levels shall ensure that criminal
allegations or suspected criminal allegations involving persons affiliated with the Department of
Defense or any property or programs under their control or authority are referred to the
appropriate Military Criminal Investigative Organization (MCIO) or law enforcement
organization. Action authorities, or designees, will not order or permit any type of commander
directed investigation or inquiry when there is an ongoing AFOSI investigation without
coordinating with AFOSI and the servicing Staff Judge Advocate (SJA). Action authorities are
also responsible to:
   1.5.1. Reproduce sufficient copies of ROIs to fulfill their local notification requirements.
   1.5.2. Provide ROIs only to authorized persons whose official duties require access.
   1.5.3. Safeguard ROIs in security file containers/cabinets, safes, vaults and locked cabinets
   or rooms in accordance with DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act
   Program, AFI 33-332 Privacy Act Program and System of Records Notice F071 AF OSI C
   Criminal     Records.    The    Air      Force     system     notices     are    located   at
   http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/
       1.5.3.1. Do not release an ROI to non-Air Force officials. Refer all such requests to the
       servicing AFOSI detachment. See paragraph 1.5.10 regarding releases to defense
       attorneys.
       1.5.3.2. Send all Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act requests for AFOSI ROIs
       to the AFOSI Office of Information Release at AFOSI/XILI, 27130 Telegraph Rd,
       Quantico, VA 22134, Attn: FOIA Section. FOIA requests can also be e-mailed to:
       afosi.hq.foia@ogn.af.mil.
   1.5.4. Maintain classified ROIs according to AFI 31-401, Information Security Program
   Management, and destroy them IAW AF Records Disposition Schedule.
   1.5.5. Destroy "For Official Use Only" ROIs IAW AF Records Information Management
   Schedule.
   1.5.6. Notify the local accounting and finance office for recoupment actions, if appropriate.
   1.5.7. Promptly report to AFOSI all actions taken as a result of an investigation.
   1.5.8. Ensure that Public Affairs officials coordinate with AFOSI/PA prior to releasing any
   information to the public about an AFOSI investigation.
   1.5.9. Release ROIs to military and civilian defense attorneys through the servicing legal
   office. ROIs should only be released to the defense counsel or the respondent’s counsel
   through the servicing legal office. The servicing legal office should consider redacting an
 6                                                                AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


     ROI when Privacy Act or other concerns are warranted. Coordinate with the servicing legal
     office and consider using extracts and summaries of ROIs for administrative proceedings.
     1.5.10. DELETED
1.6. Installation Defense Force Commander (DFC). The DFC is responsible for establishing
a Security Forces (SF) investigations section and will work with the local AFOSI field unit
leader to ensure SF de-conflicts confidential informants by providing names, units and the nature
of the criminal investigation in which the informant is being used. Further information will be
provided upon request.
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                         7


                                            Chapter 2

                               INVESTIGATIONS PROGRAM

2.1. Determining AFOSI and Security Forces Spheres of Influence:
   2.1.1. AFOSI is a field operating agency under the direction and guidance of The Inspector
   General of the Air Force (SAF/IG). It is a federal law enforcement agency with responsibility
   for conducting criminal investigations, counterintelligence and specialized investigative
   activities, protective service operations and integrated force protection for the Air Force IAW
   AFMD 39, Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).
   2.1.2. Security Forces normally investigates the crimes specified in the far right column of
   Attachment 2 (AFOSI and Security Forces Investigative Matrix). However, the investigative
   matrix is merely a guide. Investigative resource considerations at the installation level will
   be considered when determining whether AFOSI or Security Forces is best able to
   investigate a particular matter, where law or higher-level policy doesn’t dictate a particular
   agency investigate. DFCs will ensure AFOSI is promptly notified upon the initiation of all
   criminal investigations in which a military service member or his/her immediate family
   members, an AF/DoD civilian, an AF/DoD contractor or the Government is identified as
   either the suspect or victim of criminal activity. IAW DoDI 5505.18, Investigation of Adult
   Sexual Assault in the Department of Defense, AFOSI field unit leaders are granted the
   authority and independent discretion to assume investigative responsibility, join a Security
   Forces investigation, or monitor the progress of a Security Forces investigation when it
   involves Air Force or DoD personnel, property, or resources. When AFOSI assumes control
   of an investigation, all material pertinent to the investigation shall be released to AFOSI.
2.2. Masking Rank. Masking rank and grade directly contributes to achieving an efficient,
effective and unbiased investigative process. AFOSI agents interact daily, often in an adversarial
role, with individuals who are junior and senior in grade to them; the issue of rank must not be an
impediment to the pursuit of information or evidence in criminal investigations. Additionally,
agents interact daily with high-ranking representatives of federal, state, local, and foreign
national law enforcement, counterintelligence, and security agencies; in many foreign countries,
representatives place importance on working with counterparts of equal or higher grade. Agents
are also often required to work in unfriendly and hostile environments and not disclosing the
rank and grade of agents helps to ensure their safety. AFOSI military special agents assigned to
AFOSI will mask their rank and grade when performing investigative duties.
   2.2.1. The wear of civilian clothes is a basic way to protect the grades of special agents.
   Civilian clothing allowances are authorized according to AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowances
   for Air Force Personnel.
   2.2.2. AFOSI military special agents are authorized a DoD Common Access Card which
   shows “Federal Affiliate” instead of true rank. CACs will be utilized for routine access to
   military installations.
   2.2.3. AFOSI special agents may use AFOSI badge and credentials for operational purposes
   to enter/leave AF installations. There are occasions when AFOSI special agents will have
   contraband or evidence (illegal drugs, weapons or stolen goods) or crime victims, witnesses
   or suspects in their vehicles. On these occasions, upon presentation of their AFOSI badge
 8                                                                   AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


     and credentials, AFOSI special agents will be allowed to circumvent search procedures and
     vouch for vehicle occupants and vehicle contents when entering or leaving Air Force
     installations.
     2.2.4. In accordance with AFPD 71-1, special agents are authorized to use their badge and
     credentials for identification and access to all off-limits areas and AF records for the purpose
     of conducting official business unless law or AF security publications state otherwise.
     2.2.5. To preserve the integrity of criminal investigations, ensure the effectiveness of AFOSI
     agents executing the counterintelligence mission and for agent safety, offices that use
     systems which display unmasked rank data will make efforts to safeguard against the
     disclosure of ranks and grades of AFOSI special agents.
2.3. Using Emergency and Extraordinary Expense Funds (E-Funds). Subject to the
limitation of appropriations, Title 10, United States Code, Part I, Chapter 3, section 127 provides
the SECAF authority for any emergency or extraordinary expenses which cannot be anticipated
or classified. AFOSI uses E-Funds for any authorized requirement that contributes to
counterintelligence and investigative missions or aids in acquiring counterintelligence or
criminal investigative information.
     2.3.1. Congress annually allocates E-Fund limitation authority to the SECAF. SECAF has
     delegated authority for E-Funds to the Administrative Assistant to SECAF (SAF/AA).
     SAF/AA sets the annual E-Fund expenditure limitation and reports E-Funds expenditures to
     the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
     2.3.2. SAF/AA annually allocates a specific portion of the E-Fund limitation authority from
     Congress to the Inspector General (SAF/IG). SAF/IG oversees the Air Force E-Funds for
     counterintelligence and criminal investigative programs and delegates to the Commander,
     AFOSI, the authority to approve counterintelligence and investigative expenditures.
     2.3.3. Commander, AFOSI, manages and implements the E-Funds for the
     counterintelligence and criminal investigative program and ensures that expenditures are
     proper. The Commander, AFOSI, or a designee, must approve the use of E-Funds for the
     extension of modest liaison event courtesies attended by representatives of foreign law
     enforcement and intelligence agencies and key representatives of US Federal, state, county,
     or local law enforcement and intelligence agencies.
     2.3.4. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) audits the E-Funds program annually to ensure
     compliance with this Instruction and internal AFOSI Instructions.
     2.3.5. The E-Funds Custodian at each field unit is responsible for the working fund. Cash on
     hand must be stored in a General Services Administration (GSA)-approved container with a
     three-position combination lock.
2.4. Defense Clearance and Investigations Index (DCII). AFOSI will index subjects of
criminal investigations in DCII as soon as it is determined that credible information exists that
the subject committed a criminal offense in accordance with AFPD 71-1. AFOSI will also index
subjects based on reports of crimes provided by Security Forces. The act of titling and indexing
are administrative procedures and do not connote any degree of guilt or innocence.
2.5. Fingerprints. AFOSI and Security Forces will submit the Federal Document (FD) 249
“Suspect Fingerprint Card” when probable cause exists to believe that a person has committed an
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                           9


offense which requires submission of offender criminal history data. When required, an FBI/DoJ
Form R-84 “Final Disposition Report” will be submitted to the FBI within 15 days after final
disposition for inclusion in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) criminal history
database in accordance with AFPD 71-1.
2.6. Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Samples. AFOSI and Security Forces will take DNA
samples of suspects, normally when fingerprints are taken, and send to the United States Army
Criminal Investigation Laboratory (USACIL) according to DoDI 5505.14, Deoxyribonucleic
Acid (DNA) Collection Requirements for Criminal Investigations.
2.7. Department of Justice (DoJ) Referrals. AFOSI refers cases to the DoJ in accordance
with AFPD 71-1 for crimes over which the Air Force does not have jurisdiction.
2.8. Law Enforcement Collection of Information on Non-DoD US Persons. AFOSI will not
collect law enforcement information on non-DoD persons and organizations within the United
States and non-DoD US citizens anywhere else in the world unless they pose a threat to Air
Force installations, resources or personnel in accordance with AFPD 71-1 and DoDD 5200.27,
Acquisition of Information Concerning Persons and Organizations not Affiliated with the
Department of Defense.
   2.8.1. These restrictions do not apply to the collection of information by Air Force
   organizations when performing intelligence and counterintelligence functions according to
   Executive Order 12333. Such organizations performing intelligence and counterintelligence
   functions are defined in and will comply with AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence
   Activities.
   2.8.2. The Secretary of Defense has designated the Secretary of the Army as the approval
   authority to collect essential information to aid civil authorities during civil disturbances. The
   Secretary of the Army may approve collecting information when a distinct threat of a civil
   disturbance exceeding the law enforcement capabilities of state and local jurisdictions exists.
   See DoDD 3025.12, Military Assistance for Civil Disturbances (MACDIS).
   2.8.3. Report all suspected violations of this section to the Inspector General, identifying the
   area in which the violation occurred.
2.9. AFOSI and JA Collaboration. AFOSI and the Judge Advocate (AF/JA) must develop a
collaborative relationship focused on integrating investigative efforts and the legal process. The
goal is thorough, case-ready reports of investigation (ROI), robust litigation preparation, and
timely resolution of military justice.
   2.9.1. AFOSI will work closely with the servicing SJA in matters involving violations of the
   Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) or where the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
   Act (MEJA) may apply. This collaboration will begin at the initiation of and continue
   throughout substantive criminal investigations. As appropriate, designated local SJA support
   team members or Chief of Military Justice will attend AFOSI case review meetings.
   Likewise, AFOSI personnel should attend relevant local SJA military justice meetings. When
   appropriate, AFOSI will share investigative data (written statements, evidence, etc.) as well
   as information on anticipated leads in the investigation. AFOSI will also coordinate with the
   assigned trial team on all subject interviews when appropriate. In accordance with AFPD 71-
   1, no other type of investigation, administrative, personnel, or other legal action will be taken
 10                                                                AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


   against someone under investigation by AFOSI before coordinating with AFOSI and the
   servicing SJA.
   2.9.2. Occasionally, there will be cases where providing investigative information may not
   be prudent. Examples of such matters include premature compromise of a confidential
   source, investigations involving local SJA personnel, grand jury information, cases not
   destined for the military justice system (e.g., central system fraud cases being handled by the
   DOJ). To avoid compromise of sensitive investigative information, including techniques,
   leads, statements and evidence, the local SJA will not up-channel sensitive investigative
   information (information that would reveal sources, law enforcement techniques, procedures
   or jeopardize an on-going operation or information provided by another law enforcement
   agency) without the concurrence of the AFOSI field unit leader. AFOSI field unit leaders
   will identify to the local SJA those details of an investigation that should not be up-channeled
   in JA reports. AFOSI will be responsible for providing such information to appropriate
   officials.
   2.9.3. Within 30 days of the conclusion of any significant case whether disposed of by trial
   or otherwise, the local SJA and available members of the trial team will conduct a “hot
   wash” with the AFOSI field unit leader and case agent to review case lessons learned. The
   lessons learned should address both the course of the investigation and trial testimony (if
   applicable) in both litigated and guilty pleas trials, and should include the opportunity for
   each organization to offer a constructive exchange of information. Other legal office
   personnel may attend at the SJA’s and AFOSI field unit leader’s discretion.
2.10. Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs). DoDI 200.26, Suspicious Activity Reporting
mandates the use of the FBI’s eGuardian system for reporting SARs.
   2.10.1. AFOSI is the sole AF law enforcement agency authorized to investigate and create
   SARs. Security Forces will notify AFOSI of any reports of suspicious activity. Should an
   incident occur on an Air National Guard installation and the responsible AFOSI field unit
   leader concurs, SF may conduct the preliminary inquiry, expeditiously providing the results
   to the AFOSI detachment. (This is the exception and not the normal SAR response).
   2.10.2. All AF requests for eGuardian accounts will be routed through the local AFOSI
   detachment which will validate the identity and need for information and forward the request
   to the AFOSI program manager. AFOSI is the sole AF interface to create eGuardian
   accounts.
   2.10.3. Local detachments will respond to, investigate and report incidents for evaluation
   and dissemination. AFOSI ICON makes the final determination for inclusion in the
   eGuardian system and is responsible for analyzing reports. Requests for access to
   information within eGuardian shall be directed to AFOSI. No action should be taken
   without consulting with the agency that submitted the information and/or referring the access
   request to the appropriate agency for disposition. In the event of a Freedom of Information
   Act request contact AFOSI/XILI. AFOSI is the AF interface between the JTTFs, FBI and
   local law enforcement. To avoid confusion between multiple agencies requesting
   information or seeking clarification, no other AF entity will contact agencies regarding
   eGuardian reports. Requests for information should go to the local servicing AFOSI
   detachment.
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                          11


2.11. Enemy Prisoner of War (EPW)/Detainee information: AFOSI will document ALL
EPW/detainee-related incidents and/or information received by AFOSI that do not warrant the
initiation of a Case file. For the purpose of this Instruction, the definition of “EPW” is as defined
in Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, Article 4; and “detainee” is
defined as any person captured or otherwise detained by an armed force (AFI 31-304 (IP),
Enemy Prisoners of War, Retained Personnel, Civilian Internees and other Detainees). In
addition, a detainee also includes anyone who is apprehended, arrested, or held against his or her
liberty in the course of a law enforcement investigation. EPW/detainee-related incidents and/or
information received by AFOSI can range from a witness alleging a US military member may
have assaulted a detainee to another witness overhearing other US military members converse
about photographs they took of detainees.
2.12. Obtaining Information from Financial Institutions. AFOSI and Security Forces may
issue written requests for financial account information in the course of law enforcement
inquiries in accordance with DoDI 5400.15, Guidance on Obtaining Information from Financial
Institutions.
2.13. Setting Up Joint Drug Enforcement Teams (JDETs). AFOSI and Security Forces form
JDETs when necessary to combat drug abuse.
   2.13.1. Without a JDET, AFOSI and Security Forces normally each tackle separate parts of
   drug investigations on a particular base. The JDET program allows efforts to be combined so
   a single team can jointly run informants targeted against illegal drug use and distribution.
   The decision to employ a JDET is based on recommendations from the AFOSI field unit
   leader and the DFC. The Wing Commander may not establish a JDET without the
   concurrence of the AFOSI field unit leader.
   2.13.2. AFOSI and Security Forces define operational and administrative tasks in internal
   Instructions. Memoranda of agreement may be developed to cover local operational matters.
2.14. Investigation of Illegal Drug Use and Distribution. Consistent with provisions defining
persons subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) contained in the Manual for
Courts-Martial (MCM), and the UCMJ, Title 10, United States Code, Chapter 47, AFOSI and
Security Forces investigate drug offenses committed by members of the Armed Forces as shown
in Attachment 2. AFOSI may also investigate drug offenses committed by specified persons not
subject to the UCMJ when there is a clear and direct Air Force connection and interest.
2.15. Death Investigations of Active Duty Military Members. AFOSI and Security Forces
conduct death investigations according to the matrix in Attachment 2 when the Air Force has
investigative jurisdiction. According to DoD Instruction 5505.10, Investigation of Noncombat
Deaths of Active Duty Members of the Armed Forces, all non-combat deaths of military members
on active duty, not medically determined to be from natural causes, are investigated by AFOSI to
determine the cause and manner of death. Normally, AFOSI does not investigate accidental
deaths when a preliminary inquiry discloses the death was an accident with no evidence of a
criminal act. Where an authority other than the Office of the Armed Forces Medical Examiner
(AFME), determines the manner of death, AFOSI submits the ROI to AFME, for a consultation
opinion on the comprehensiveness and medical sufficiency of the investigation as it pertains to
the cause and manner of death. Per AFJI 48-124, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and
Histopathology Centers, AFOSI will conduct psychological autopsies only in cases where the
manner of death has not been determined, by the responsible coroner or medical examiner, and
 12                                                               AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


suicide is considered a possible manner of death, or in certain unique circumstances.
Psychological autopsies must be approved in advance by the Armed Forces Medical Examiner.
   2.15.1. Family Liaison Program. This program enhances communication between AFOSI
   and the immediate family members of a deceased active duty member whose death was
   investigated by AFOSI. It is designed to promote an open dialogue between AFOSI and
   family members, ensure issues and questions raised by the family are thoroughly addressed
   in a timely manner, and prevent misunderstandings. The procedures for this program are
   published in internal AFOSI Instructions according to the requirements established in DoD
   Instruction 5505.10.
   2.15.2. AFOSI will attempt to accomplish the following in those instances when the Air
   Force does not have investigative jurisdiction:
       2.15.2.1. Maintain liaison with the law enforcement organization conducting the
       investigation.
       2.15.2.2. Assist the family of the deceased in obtaining cooperation from the responsible
       law enforcement organization.
       2.15.2.3. Obtain and provide to the appropriate military authorities a copy of the report
       of investigation, including any forensic or autopsy results.
2.16. Adultery, Fraternization and Sexual Harassment. The following guidance and
procedures apply to handling allegations of sexual misconduct as defined in DoDI 5505.8,
Defense Criminal Investigative Organizations and Other DoD Law Enforcement Organizations
Investigations of Sexual Misconduct.
   2.16.1. Allegations of adult private consensual sexual misconduct (including adultery and
   fraternization) received by AFOSI or Security Forces shall normally be referred to the
   subject’s commander, unless the subject is in a position of authority over the victim as
   defined in Attachment 2, Note 2. AFOSI will investigate authority figures accused of sexual
   contact with a person over whom they exercise authority. Security Forces will normally
   investigate non-physical, but prohibited, relations between an authority figure and
   subordinate. AFOSI field leaders must obtain approval from the AFOSI Commander or Vice
   Commander prior to initiating an investigation into adult private consensual sexual
   misconduct not involving an authority figure.
   2.16.2. AFOSI and Security Forces will usually refer allegations of sexual harassment to the
   subject’s commander. AFOSI does not normally investigate a service member for sexual
   harassment, unless the allegation is combined with another more serious criminal offense.
   Such matters usually fall under the investigative purview of the service member’s
   commander, Military Equal Opportunity, or the Installation Inspector General.
2.17. Sexual Assaults. IAW DoDI 5505.18, AFOSI will initiate investigations of all offenses of
adult sexual assault of which they become aware, that occur within their jurisdiction, regardless
of the severity of the offense.
   2.17.1. AFOSI will be notified and refer to Attachment 2 when unrestricted reports are
   received. AFOSI will safeguard Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) kits as
   evidence for restricted reports in accordance with AFI 36-6001.
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                       13


2.18. Investigating Fraud Offenses. AFOSI complies with the direction contained within
AFPD 71-1, to investigate major fraud offenses involving DoD programs and personnel and to
present them for prosecution. Investigating agents may submit reports of investigation for
review under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (PFCRA) in accordance with AFI 51-1101,
The Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program.
2.19. Contractor Disclosure Program. AFOSI is responsible for evaluating, thoroughly and in
a timely manner, fraud allegations received from DoD IG through the DoD Contractor
Disclosure Program. When indicated, AFOSI is responsible for investigating credible
allegations and providing quarterly updates, a copy of the final ROI and all actions taken as a
result of an investigation to the DoD IG in accordance with DoDI 5505.15, DoD Contractor
Disclosure Program.
2.20. Environmental Crime. Air Force officials report all suspected violations of
environmental laws to AFOSI. AFOSI conducts criminal investigations when warranted, and
complies with the training and medical requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration. AFOSI also coordinates with installation public health officials, installation and
major air command staff judge advocates, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and state
enforcement agencies in those states where the EPA has delegated enforcement authority.
2.21. Crimes that Involve Air Force Computer Systems. AFOSI provides computer crime
investigative expertise for all investigations in which computers are used as a tool in the
commission of a crime, may contain evidence of a crime, or are the target of a crime. AFOSI
agents who specialize as Computer Crime Investigators (CCI) assist other AFOSI agents by
providing computer forensics analysis of suspected computer evidence, assist in interviews of
people where technical computer terminology is used, and assist with developing various legal
documents (e.g., an affidavit used in applying for a search warrant). In addition, AFOSI CCIs are
the primary investigators for intrusions into USAF and selected DoD computer systems. Upon
discovery, Air Force officials report all suspected intrusions to AFOSI.
   2.21.1. AFOSI is the only agency in the Air Force with the authority to investigate computer
   intrusions. AFOSI’s CCIs produce intelligence reports that detail intrusion methods and
   techniques and attempt to identify known Foreign Intelligence Services (FIS), subversive, or
   terrorist groups attacking DoD computer systems. AFOSI computer intrusion investigative
   and operational activities may identify additional information system vulnerabilities,
   information system threat information, subject (criminal or counterintelligence) attribution,
   and exfiltrated data to aid in damage assessments during the course of the investigation or
   operation.
   2.21.2. DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3), in accordance with AFPD 71-1, conducts digital
   and multimedia forensics analysis for forensic support to investigations of computer
   intrusions. DC3 should be the first option for digital forensic support to AFOSI
   investigations and operations.
2.22. Processing Requests to Intercept Wire, Oral, or Electronic Communications for Law
Enforcement Purposes:
   2.22.1. Requesting Nonconsensual Interceptions of Wire, Oral, or Electronic
   Communications in the United States. To request a nonconsensual interception of wire, oral,
   or electronic communication in the United States, AFOSI prepares a Request for
14                                                                AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


  Authorization in accordance with DoD O-5505.9-M, Procedures for Wire, Electronic, and
  Oral Interceptions for Law Enforcement so as to seek a court order.
     2.22.1.1. The attorney from the Department of Justice, with a military lawyer from the
     servicing SJA's office, formally applies for a court order if the Attorney General or
     appropriate designee approves the request.
     2.22.1.2. If the interception will occur on a military installation in the United States, the
     installation commander may be required to decide whether or not to sign an AF Form
     1176, Authority To Search and Seize, after seeking the advice of the installation SJA to
     ensure that all legal requirements are met, including the obtaining of a court order.
     2.22.1.3. The Commander AFOSI will provide the General Counsel of the Air Force
     (SAF/GC) prior notice, with a reasonable opportunity to respond, before taking action in
     an application for nonconsensual intercepts reasonably identifiable as being of high
     sensitivity, of specific interest to SECAF, or having the potential for significant
     Congressional, media, or public interest.
  2.22.2. Processing Nonconsensual        Interceptions    of   Wire,    Oral,    or   Electronic
  Communications Abroad.
     2.22.2.1. If the target of the interception is subject to the UCMJ, AFOSI formally applies
     to a qualifying military judge for a court order using the rules in 18 U.S.C. 2518(1). The
     military judge processes the request in accordance with AFPD 71-1 and DoD O-5505.9-
     M. The Commander AFOSI will provide SAF/GC prior notice, with a reasonable
     opportunity to respond, before taking action in an application for nonconsensual
     intercepts reasonably identifiable as being of high sensitivity, of specific interest to
     SECAF, or having the potential for significant Congressional, media, or public interest.
     2.22.2.2. If the target of the interception is a person who is not subject to the UCMJ, or if
     emergency approval is required for a nonconsensual interception, SAF/GC decides
     whether to approve the request and what further approval the request needs IAW DoD O-
     5505.9-M and applicable law.
  2.22.3. Requesting Consensual Interceptions of Wire, Oral, or Electronic Communications.
  Written requests are submitted for the consensual interception of wire, oral, and electronic
  communications. The format and information required in the written request is contained in
  AFOSI internal Instructions.
     2.22.3.1. The Commander of AFOSI is authorized to approve or disapprove requests for
     consensual interceptions of wire, electronic and oral communications for all law
     enforcement purposes under DoD O-5505.9-M.
     2.22.3.2. In the Commander’s absence, the Vice Commander shall act on consensual
     intercept requests whether or not the request is an emergency. The Commander may
     delegate this approval authority to the AFOSI Executive Director to act when both the
     Commander and Vice Commander are absent.
     2.22.3.3. The Commander AFOSI will provide SAF/GC prior notice, with a reasonable
     opportunity to respond, before taking action in any consensual interception matter
     reasonably identifiable as being of high sensitivity, of specific interest to SECAF, or
     having the potential for significant Congressional, media, or public interest.
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                     15


     2.22.3.4. AFOSI makes a written record of all emergency requests, including
     justification for the emergency action, and forwards it to SAF/GC within 72 hours of the
     emergency approval.
  2.22.4. Requesting Nonconsensual Pen Registers and Trap-and-Trace Devices. To request
  approval for the use of nonconsensual pen registers and trap-and-trace devices, AFOSI
  prepares a request in accordance with DoD O-5505.9-M.
     2.22.4.1. The Commander AFOSI will provide SAF/GC prior notice, with a reasonable
     opportunity to respond, before taking action in an application for Pen Register and Trap-
     and-Trace Devices, reasonably identifiable as being of high sensitivity, of specific
     interest to SECAF, or having the potential for significant Congressional, media, or public
     interest. AFOSI will send a written record of any emergency requests of interest to
     SAF/GC to SAF/GC within 72 hours of the emergency approval.
     2.22.4.2. In emergency situations, AFOSI, makes a written record of the emergency
     request, including justification for the emergency action.
     2.22.4.3. Within the United States, and after the approval to seek the court order, AFOSI
     agents request the local Assistant US Attorney to apply to the appropriate court, in
     accordance with 18 U.S.C. 3122, Application for and Order for a Pen Register or a Trap
     and Trace Device, for an order authorizing the nonconsensual pen register or trap-and-
     trace operation.
     2.22.4.4. Abroad, in cases in which the target of the operation is a person subject to the
     UCMJ or the trace is to involve a military installation, a judge advocate may apply for a
     court order to an officer designated as a military judge by AF/JA.
         2.22.4.4.1. The judge advocate makes a written application under oath for the court
         order or extension of a court order in accordance with DoD O- 5505.9-M.
         2.22.4.4.2. If applicable legal requirements are met, the military judge enters an ex
         parte order authorizing the installation and use of a pen register, or a trap and trace
         device, according to AFPD 71-1.
  2.22.5. Requesting Consensual Pen Registers and Trap-and-Trace Devices.
     2.22.5.1. To conduct consensual trap-and-trace operations on a military installation of a
     US Government owned or leased line, the requesting AFOSI office submits a request to
     the installation commander, who decides whether or not to approve the operation, after
     coordinating with the servicing staff judge advocate.
     2.22.5.2. To conduct consensual trap-and-trace operations of a residential line on a
     military installation, the requesting AFOSI office obtains the written consent of the
     user(s). Upon receipt of the written consent, coordinate with the servicing staff judge
     advocate to determine if further approval is necessary. In the CONUS, written consent
     from the user to the servicing telephone company is normally all that is required.
     Overseas, the written consent may require concurrence of the installation commander.
     2.22.5.3. For consensual trap-and-trace operations on military installations abroad, the
     operation must respect applicable SOFA and foreign law.
 16                                                              AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


       2.22.5.4. Installation Security Forces units can submit consensual on-base trap and trace
       requests directly to the installation commander after coordination with the installation
       AFOSI detachment, and if the conditions in paragraphs 2.22.5.4.1 and 2.22.5.4.2 below
       apply.
          2.22.5.4.1. No equipment installation is necessary.
          2.22.5.4.2. All other requirements of paragraphs 2.22.5.1 and 2.22.5.2 are met.
   2.22.6. Waiving Interception Policies. The Secretary of Defense approves all waivers to
   policy regarding interception of oral, wire, or electronic communication. AF/JA or a designee
   coordinates all waiver requests and sends them through SAF/AA and SAF/GC to the
   Secretary of Defense.
   2.22.7. AFOSI/JA shall review each interception request (nonconsensual and consensual
   wire, oral, or electronic communications; nonconsensual pen registers; and nonconsensual
   trap-and-trace devices) for legal sufficiency prior to approval.
2.23. Firearms Tracing in Connection with Criminal Investigations. AFOSI and Security
Forces will conduct both a National Crime Information Center (NCIC) query and Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) eTrace database check on all firearms
seized/recovered in the course of criminal investigations and taken into Federal custody
consistent with the Presidential Memorandum, Tracing of Firearms in Connection with Criminal
Investigations, dated 16 January 2013.
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                     17


                                          Chapter 3

                      SPECIALIZED INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES

3.1. Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Techniques:
   3.1.1. SECAF authorizes use of the PCA techniques in the Air Force according to AFPD 71-
   1, DoDI 5210.91, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA).
      3.1.1.1. The Commander, AFOSI, or designee, manages the Air Force Polygraph
      Program.
      3.1.1.2. AFOSI is the only Air Force organization authorized to conduct Polygraph and
      Credibility Assessment (PCA) examinations, acquire or possess PCA equipment, or to
      have examiners trained in PCA techniques to support criminal investigations.
   3.1.2. Criteria for Conducting Criminal Scope PCA Examinations: The Air Force Polygraph
   Program Management Office (AFOSI/XRZP) may authorize the use of PCA techniques in a
   criminal investigation when the following apply:
      3.1.2.1. The crime involves an offense punishable under federal law, including the
      Uniform Code of Military Justice, by death or confinement for 1 year or more.
      3.1.2.2. Investigation by other means has been as thorough as circumstances permit.
      3.1.2.3. The development of information by means of a PCA technique is essential to the
      conduct of the investigation.
      3.1.2.4. The person being considered for the examination was interviewed and there is
      reasonable cause to believe the person has knowledge of or was involved in the matter
      under investigation.
          3.1.2.4.1. The person being considered is at least 15 years old and voluntarily agreed
          to undergo PCA testing. Testing of minors age 15 and below normally will not be
          done without the prior consent of his/her parent or legal guardian. Requests to test
          minors without such consent will be coordinated with the servicing SJA.
      3.1.2.5. The Air Force Polygraph Program Management Office (PPMO) may approve
      the use of a PCA technique in any matter deemed to be in the best interest of the Air
      Force, DoD, or national security.
   3.1.3. PCA Examinations Conducted by Non-Federal Agencies. The Air Force will only
   accept PCA examinations and/or the results of such examinations conducted by Federal
   examiners. This restriction exists because the DoD cannot attest to the conditions under
   which a non-federal examiner administered a PCA examination. This does not restrict the
   consideration of any evidence as required by the U.S. Constitution or law.
   3.1.4. PCA Examinations of Pregnant Examinees. Pregnant examinees must present a
   written opinion from their attending physician before being administered a PCA examination.
   The opinion must state the PCA examination will have no adverse effects on the examinee’s
   pregnancy.
      3.1.4.1. Administer PCA examinations in the third trimester of pregnancy only for
      incidents involving the most serious offenses.
18                                                                AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


  3.1.5. PCA Examinations of Sexual Assault Victims. The Air Force PPMO will only
  consider approving a request for a PCA examination of a sexual assault victim after the
  subject of the allegation, if known, declines the offer to take a PCA examination.
     3.1.5.1. To avoid causing undue hardship for sexual assault victims, PCA examination of
     such victims will not ordinarily be approved unless circumstances clearly warrant it.
  3.1.6. Requesting PCA Support. Air Force Commanders and Air Force organizations with
  responsibility for security, law enforcement, or the administration of criminal justice, and
  DoD Components that receive investigative support from the Department of the Air Force,
  may request an Air Force PCA examination.
     3.1.6.1. Submit routine requests for PCA support to the nearest AFOSI detachment,
     squadron, or region office by any means available including in person, letter, message,
     electronic mail, or facsimile.
         3.1.6.1.1. The local AFOSI office will, in turn, forward all requests through the
         servicing Regional Polygraph Office (RPO) to the Air Force PPMO for approval.
     3.1.6.2. Only the AFOSI Commander, Vice Commander, Polygraph Program Manager,
     and quality assurance personnel within the PPMO can approve a PCA examination.
  3.1.7. Preparing the PCA Request. A PCA request should, to the extent possible, contain the
  following information so that the PPMO has sufficient information to evaluate the request.
  Information in paragraphs 3.1.7.1 and 3.1.7.6 are usually reserved for law enforcement
  personnel but may, in isolated instances, apply to others. Contact the nearest AFOSI office if
  you require assistance in preparing the request.
     3.1.7.1. Reference or Investigation Number. Although this is usually reserved for
     investigative personnel, if an internal organizational investigative file number or other
     reference number has been assigned, identify it here.
     3.1.7.2. Title of Case. Identify, in a concise statement, the matter being investigated.
     3.1.7.3. Case Summary. Include a brief summary of pertinent facts. You should address
     the who, what, where, when, and why surrounding the review, inquiry, or investigation.
     3.1.7.4. Biographical Data for Each Examinee. Provide the full name, sex, date of birth,
     place of birth, grade, social security number (if applicable), organization, command, and
     place of duty assignment.
     3.1.7.5. Reason for the Examination. Explain why you believe a PCA examination is
     essential. Address investigative efforts already undertaken and how a PCA examination
     would help the investigation.
     3.1.7.6. Medical Records Check. This is usually reserved for investigative personnel
     because of restrictions placed on who may access another person’s medical records. This
     information should address a proposed examinee’s physical, mental, and emotional
     suitability for testing. Identify the name of the medical representative who conducted the
     records check. Investigators will provide documentation of an open investigation and
     written request to medical personnel who will review the medical record to address a
     proposed examinee’s physical, mental, and emotional suitability for testing. The
     investigator will not have direct access to the record.
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                   19


     3.1.7.7. Case Adjudication. Indicate whether or not the examinee has been tried by a
     court or has accepted punishment under Article 15, Uniform Code of Military Justice, for
     the offense concerned.
     3.1.7.8. Pending Charges. Indicate whether or not charges of any kind have been
     preferred against the examinee. If no charges have been preferred, include other action
     being considered.
     3.1.7.9. PCA Coordination. Coordinate all PCA requests with the servicing RPO.
     Identify the name of the Polygraph Examiner with whom you coordinated the request.
         3.1.7.9.1. For post-investigative requests, state whether the SJA concurs or
         nonconcurs with conducting the examination. Identify the name of the SJA with
         whom you coordinated the request.
     3.1.7.10. Other Factors. Include any additional information you believe is pertinent in
     adjudicating the PCA request such as command interest, pending separation of proposed
     examinee, or the possibility of media coverage.
  3.1.8. Post-Investigative Requests. Post-investigative requests for PCA support will only be
  considered for approval after coordination with, and the concurrence of, the servicing SJA.
     3.1.8.1. The Air Force PPMO will consider the merits of each post- investigative request
     for PCA support as well as the SJA’s opinion.
  3.1.9. Post-Judicial Requests. The Air Force PPMO will not routinely approve the conduct
  of post-judicial PCA examinations. The PPMO will coordinate all post-judicial PCA requests
  with AFOSI/JA.
  3.1.10. Waiver, Deviations, or Exceptions to Air Force and DoD PCA Program Policy. Any
  person or entity requesting a waiver to the Air Force PCA Program policy must submit a
  letter, message or other document through the Air Force Polygraph Program Manager to the
  Commander, AFOSI.
     3.1.10.1. AFOSI will process all waiver requests through SECAF to DoD PCA Program
     policy to the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (DUSD(P)) for resolution.
3.2. DELETED
  3.2.1. DELETED
  3.2.2. DELETED
     3.2.2.1. DELETED
     3.2.2.2. DELETED
     3.2.2.3. DELETED




                                          MARC E. ROGERS, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          The Inspector General
 20                                                               AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 14-104, Conduct of Intelligence Activities of DoD Intelligence Components that Affect
United States Persons, 16 April 2007
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, 24 January 2005
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowances for Air Force Personnel, 22 May 2007
AFI_IP 31-304, Enemy Prisoners of War, Retained Personnel, Civilian Internees and Other
Detainees, 1 October 1997
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, 29 September 2008
AFI 51-1101, The Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program, 21 October 2003
AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds-Guidance and Procedures, 17 February 2004
AFJI 48-124, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and Armed Forces Histopathology Centers, 4
June 1993
DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 October 21 2010
AFMD 39, Air Force Office of Special Investigations, 9 January 2006
AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 January 2010
DoDI 2000.26, Suspicious Activity Reporting, November 1, 2011
DoDI 5210.91, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Procedures, August 12, 2010
DoDI 5400.15, Guidance on Obtaining Information from Financial Institutions, December 2,
2004
DoDI 5505.3, Initiation of Investigations by Military Criminal Investigative Organizations, June
21, 2002
DoDI 5505.7, Titling and Indexing of Subjects of Criminal Investigations in the Department of
Defense, January 27, 2012
DoDI 5505.8, Defense Criminal Investigative Organizations and Other DoD Law Enforcement
Organizations Investigations of Sexual Misconduct, January 24, 2005
DoDI 5505.10, Investigation of Noncombat Deaths of Active Duty Members of the Armed
Forces, January 31, 1996
DoDI 5505.11, Fingerprint Card and Final Disposition Report Submission Requirements, July 9,
2010
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                      21


DoDI 5505.14, Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Collection Requirements for Criminal
Investigations, May 27, 2010
DoDI 5505.15, DoD Contractor Disclosure Program, June 16, 2010
DoDI 5505.16, Criminal Investigations by Personnel Who Are Not Assigned to a Defense
Criminal Investigative Organization, May 7, 2012
DoDI 5505.18, Investigation of Adult Sexual Assault in the Department of Defense, January 25,
2013
DoDD 3025.12, Military Assistance for Civil Disturbances, October 8, 2010
DoDD 5200.27, Acquisition of Information Concerning Persons and Organizations not Affiliated
with the Department of Defense, January 7, 1980
DoD O-5505.9-M, Procedures for Wire, Electronic, and Oral Interceptions for Law
Enforcement, May 1, 1995
DTM 10-018, Law Enforcement Reporting of Suspicious Activity, October 1, 2010
EO 12333, United States Intelligence Activities
18 U.S.C. 2510, 2518, 3122, 3127
Geneva Convention, Article 4
Manual for Courts-Martial
Adopted Forms
Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 3985, Interview Record.
AF Form 3986, Case File Documents Outer Envelope.
AF Form 3987, Case File Documents Inner Envelope.

Terms
Abroad—Outside of the United States, its territories, and possessions. An interception abroad
takes place when an individual locates and operates an interception device outside the United
States and insufficient evidence exists to conclude that the target of the interception is in the
United States.
Accidental Death—A death from inadvertent action or action where no harm was intended.
Action Authority—The authority primarily responsible for taking judicial or administrative
action in an AFOSI investigation, usually an installation commander or higher authority (most
often military, but can be a civilian official).
Active Duty—Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States. This includes
members of the Reserve Components serving on active duty or full-time training duty, but does
not include full-time National Guard not in Title 10 status.
 22                                                               AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


Counterintelligence—Information gathered and activities conducted to protect against
espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of
foreign governments or elements thereof, foreign organizations or foreign persons, or
international terrorist activities.
Credible Information—Information disclosed to or obtained by an investigator that,
considering the source and nature of the information and the surrounding circumstances, is
sufficiently believable to indicate criminal activity has occurred and reasonably warrants further
investigation to determine whether a criminal act did or may have occurred.
Criminal Investigation—An investigation of possible criminal violations of the United States
Code, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, or, when appropriate, state or local statutes or
ordinances or foreign law.
Defense Central Index of Investigations—A computerized, central index of investigations for
all DoD investigative activities managed by the Defense Security Services.
E-Funds—Emergency and Extraordinary (E&E) Expense Funds used to further the
counterintelligence and investigative missions of the Air Force. This subdivision of operation
and maintenance (O&M) funds is allocated to AFOSI, through SAF/IG, by the SECAF under
certain legal restrictions to reimburse investigators for authorized expenses incurred in the
performance of their assigned duties.
Electronic Communication—Any transfer of signs, signals, writing, images, sounds, data, or
intelligence of any nature, transmitted in whole or in part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic,
photoelectronic, or photooptical system that affects interstate or foreign commerce, but does not
include the following: any wire or oral communication; any communication made through a
tone-only paging device; any communication from a tracking device as defined by 18 U.S.C.
3117; electronic funds transfer information stored by a financial institution in a communications
system used for the electronic storage and transfer of funds (18 U.S.C. 2510 [12]).
Extract—A verbatim portion or combination of portions of a report of investigation selected for
use in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Indexing—The recording of information so that an orderly retrieval process can identify and
access a particular file or investigation.
Interception—According to 18 U.S.C. 2510(4), the aural or other acquisition of the contents of
any wire, electronic, or oral communication through use of any electronic, mechanical, or other
device. The term "contents," when used with respect to any wire, oral, or electronic
communication, includes any information concerning the substance, purport, or meaning of that
communication.
Liaison Function—An official gathering with foreign or US citizens that gives AFOSI
personnel access to counterintelligence or investigative sources, counterparts, information, or
cooperation.
Oral Communication—Any oral communication uttered by a person exhibiting an expectation
that such communication is not subject to interception under circumstances justifying such
expectation, but such term does not include any electronic communication. (18 U.S.C. 2510[2]).
Pen Register—A device that records or decodes electronic or other impulses which identify the
numbers dialed or otherwise transmitted on the telephone line to which such device is attached,
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                           23


but does not include any device used by a provider or customer of a wire or electronic
communication service for billing, or recording as an incident to billing, for communications
services provided by such a provider, or any device used by a provider or customer of a wire
communication service for cost accounting or other like purposes in the ordinary course of its
business (18 U.S.C. 3127 [3]).
Report of Investigation—The official written record of an AFOSI investigation. The record of
all investigations is maintained at AFOSI/XILI and destroyed according to the AF RDS in
AFRIMS, https://www.my.af.mil/gccs-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Self-Inflicted Death—A death resulting from the actions of the deceased, and includes suicide
and accidental death.
Subject—A person, corporation, legal entity, or organization about which credible information
exists which would cause a reasonable person to suspect that party had committed a criminal
offense, or would make the party the object of a criminal investigation.
Subscriber—There is a distinction between user and subscriber. Although the Government may
be the subscriber to the telephone service, it may not be the user. In cases where the installation
is the victim, such as bomb threats or electronic attacks against the base switch to target
Government computer systems, the installation commander can be considered the user.
Suicide—A death resulting from purposeful action intended to result in one’s own death.
Summary—A condensed version of a report of investigation that succinctly discusses the
allegation and results of the investigation. It may include copies of statements. A judicial or
administrative proceeding may use a summary.
Technical Surveillance—All activities associated with installing and operating equipment for
the audio, optical, or electronic recording or monitoring of people, places, things, data, or any
wire, oral, or electronic communication. Technical surveillance does not include use of viewing
equipment (such as binoculars, night vision devices, or telephoto lens-photographic camera
combinations used for viewing only) while conducting a physical surveillance.
Titling—Placing the name of a person, corporation, legal entity, organization, or occurrence in
the subject block of an investigative report. Titling is an operational, rather than a legal decision.
Final responsibility for the decision to title an individual or entity rests with AFOSI. Titling and
indexing do not, in and of themselves, imply any degree of guilt or innocence.
Trap-and-Trace Device—A device that identifies the originating number of an instrument or
device that transmitted a wire or electronic communication. (18 U.S.C. 3127[4]).
United States—For this Instruction, the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States.
US Person—For this Instruction, US citizens, aliens admitted to the United States for permanent
residence, corporations incorporated in the United States, and unincorporated associations
organized in the United States and substantially composed of US citizens or aliens admitted for
permanent residence.
User—Any person or entity who uses an electronic communication service and is duly
authorized by the provider of such service to engage in such use; 18 USC 2510 [13].
 24                                                               AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


Wire Communication—Any aural transfer made in whole or in part through the use of facilities
for the transmission of communications by the aid of wire, cable, or other like connection
between the point of origin and the point of reception (including the use of such connection in a
switching station) furnished or operated by any person engaged in providing or operating such
facilities for the transmission of interstate or foreign communications or communications
affecting interstate or foreign commerce; (18 USC 2510 [1])
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                  25


                                      Attachment 2
               AFOSI AND SECURITY FORCES INVESTIGATIVE MATRIX

Table A2.1. AFOSI and Security Forces Investigative Matrix.
R    If the alleged                             Then contact
U    matter involves:
L
E
                         AFOSI about:                     AF Security Forces about:
1    Assault & Child     1. Aggravated assault or         All other
     Endangerment        child endangerment
                         resulting in grievous (see
                         Note 1) bodily harm 2. Any
                         assault committed during
                         the commission of another
                         crime investigated by
                         AFOSI.
2    Bad Checks,         Major cases involving the        Insufficient funds checks;
     Forgery &           US Treasury or other             minor counterfeiting cases
     Counterfeiting      federal agencies; false          (i.e., fraudulent
                         documents or credentials         identification cards used to
                         manufactured to commit           misrepresent age), and
                         significant fraud/theft or       other instances not resulting
                         misrepresentation to DoD         in significant harm to the
                         (i.e., fake education/           DoD.
                         medical certificates to gain
                         USAF employment as a
                         physician; fraudulent
                         performance reports,
                         fraudulent identification use
                         to access sensitive/
                         classified areas, etc.)
3    Black Marketing     1. Organized criminal            All other cases or as
     and Customs         enterprises involving            deferred by AFOSI.
     Violations          significant financial gains 2.
                         Major cases involving
                         active investigations with
                         host-nation investigative
                         agencies
4    Bribery             All                              None
 26                                                             AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011



R     If the alleged                            Then contact
U     matter involves:
L
E
                         AFOSI about:                    AF Security Forces about:
5     Combat Related     All unless deferred to SFOI     None unless deferred by
      Inquiries (i.e.,                                   AFOSI
      LOAC and treaty
      violations)
6     Computer Crimes    1. Cases involving              1. Minor incidents
                         downloading and/or              2. Cases involving
                         distribution of child           downloading and/or
                         pornography                     distribution of adult
                         2. Unauthorized root/user       pornography 3.
                         level intrusions to DoD         Unauthorized personal use
                         systems 3. Illegal              of government computers 4.
                         interception of computer        General violations of AFI
                         communications 4.               33-119 and AFI 33-129
                         Virus/trojan/denial of
                         service attacks causing
                         significant damage to AF
                         information systems or have
                         major impact on the AF
                         mission 5. Alteration of web
                         pages that cause significant
                         damage or disruption to
                         DoD activities 6. Computer
                         crimes involving classified
                         information, espionage or
                         terrorism
7     Crimes Involving   All unless deferred to SFOI     None unless deferred by
      DoD & USAF                                         AFOSI
      Contracts and
      Procurement
      Matters
8     Compromise of      All                             None
      USAF Test
      Materials

9     Deaths             All, except on-base vehicle     All on-base vehicle deaths
                         fatalities where foul play or   unless foul play or suicide
                         suicide are not suspected       are suspected
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                 27



R    If the alleged                              Then contact
U    matter involves:
L
E
                         AFOSI about:                      AF Security Forces about:
10   Drug Offenses       1. Sale, transfer, trafficking,   1. Simple use, possession
                         or smuggling                      or introduction cases when
                         2. Selected use or                deferred by AFOSI
                         possession or introduction        2. Cases involving results
                         cases with likelihood of          from random urinalysis
                         identifying dealers and           when JDET is not in place
                         traffickers                       3. May participate with
                         3. All investigations             AFOSI in joint operations
                         involving off base activities
                         by persons not subject to the
                         UCMJ (formerly known as
                         Memo 5 cases)
                         4. Positive random
                         urinalysis results when a
                         JDET is in place.
                          5. All cases involving
                         manufacture and cultivation

11   Environmental       All unless deferred to SFOI       None unless deferred by
     Crimes                                                AFOSI
12   Firearm/Weapon      None except discharges that       All except discharges which
     Violations –        result in death/grievous (see     resulted in death or
     Unlawful            Note 1) bodily harm or            grievous (see Note 1)
     discharge,          when used in the                  bodily harm
     Unlawful            commission of another
     Possession or       crime investigated by
     Concealment         AFOSI.
13   Fraudulent          All unless deferred to SFOI       None unless deferred by
     Enlistment,                                           AFOSI
     Appointment,
     Discharge or
     Separation
14   Fugitives,          Fugitive and Desertion            All others
     Desertion, Absent
     Without Leave
     (AWOL), Failure
     To Go, Missing
     Movement
 28                                                                  AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011



R     If the alleged                                Then contact
U     matter involves:
L
E
                             AFOSI about:                     AF Security Forces about:
15    Housebreaking,         1. Entry into a SCIF or other    1. Local incidents involving
      Burglary, Unlawful     controlled/sensitive area        base dormitories and
      Entry & Larceny        2. Involve the commission        housing
                             of another crime                  2. Cases deferred by
                             investigated by AFOSI            AFOSI
                             3. Cases involving significant
                             losses; determined on a case-
                             by-case basis at the
                             installation level. Losses
                             exceeding $10,000 (or
                             approximate value
                             determined by AFOSI).
16    Impersonation          None unless committed in         All other
                             conjunction with another
                             crime investigated by
                             AFOSI
17    Improper use or        1. Controlled                    Cases deferred by AFOSI
      diversion of           pharmaceuticals
      government             2. Arms, ammunition or
      property; larceny,     explosives addressed in
      larceny by fraud,      DoD 5100.76M.
      theft of government    3. Losses having a direct
      property               impact to critical USAF
                             weapons systems
                              4. Classified materials
                              5. Significant losses;
                             determined on a case-by-
                             case basis at the installation
                             level
18    Intimidation/Threat    1. Extortion, kidnapping and     1. Bomb threats 2. Threats
      s (extortion,          incidents involving grievous     to injure or extort money or
      kidnapping,            (see Note 1) bodily harm         favors from others where
      bomb threats,          2. Threats to injure or extort   no overt act actually occurs
      intimidation,          money or favors from others      3. Cases deferred by AFOSI
      bias/hate crimes,      where an overt act occurs 3.
      active participation   Active participation in
      in                     extremist/supremacist
      extremist/supremac     groups prohibited by AF
      ist groups)            Instruction(s) unless
                             deferred to SFOI
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                      29


R    If the alleged                                Then contact
U    matter involves:
L
E
                           AFOSI about:                     AF Security Forces about:
19   Misconduct            None unless AFOSI                All unless assumed by
     (various Article      specifically assumes             AFOSI
     134, UCMJ             investigative responsibility
     offenses) not         (selected major incidents on
     otherwise provided    a case-by-case basis)
     for in this
     Attachment
20   National Security     All                              None
     Matters - Threats
     and acts of
     espionage,
     subversion,
     terrorism
     (bombings,
     hijackings,
     kidnapping, and
     thefts of weapons,
     explosives, and use
     of weapons of mass
     destruction)
21   Non-fatal Self-       None, unless death is a          All NOTE: Notify AFOSI
     Injurious Events      likely future outcome from       if the death is a likely future
     (NFSE)                the NFSE                         outcome from the NFSE.
22   Pay-and-Allowance     None unless AFOSI                All unless assumed by
     Matters               specifically assumes             AFOSI
                           investigative responsibility
                           (significant losses;
                           determined on a case-by-
                           case basis at the installation
                           level)

23   Perjury               All unless deferred to SFOI      Cases deferred by AFOSI
24   Postal Violations     1. Drug smuggling 2. Used        All others
                           to commit other offenses
                           (child pornography, major
                           customs violations, etc.)
 30                                                                 AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011



R     If the alleged                               Then contact
U     matter involves:
L
E
                            AFOSI about:                     AF Security Forces about:
25    Property              1. Arson unless deferred         1. Incidents of damage to
      Destruction, Arson,   2. Intentional damage to         private property
      Bombing,              USAF aircraft or Protection      2. Cases deferred by AFOSI
      Intentional Damage    Level 1, 2, or 3 resources
      to USAF Aircraft or   (see Note 3)
      Equipment, and         3. Other incidents involving
      Intentional Damage    major damages/losses;
      to Government or      determined on a case-by-
      Private Property      case basis at the installation
                            level
26    Prostitution          None unless specialized          All unless assumed by
                            circumstances (e.g.,             AFOSI
                            involves significant human
                            trafficking, major organized
                            crime activity, etc.) exist
                            and AFOSI specifically
                            assumes investigative
                            responsibility.
27    Robbery               All incidents of armed           Incidents in which the
                            robbery or incidents             perpetrator is not armed
                            resulting in grievous (see
                            Note 1) bodily harm
28    Security Violations   None, unless Rule 19             Cases to support command
                            applies                          responsibilities according to
                                                             AFI 31-401, Information
                                                             Security Program
                                                             Management
AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                       31



R    If the alleged                                 Then contact
U    matter involves:
L
E
                            AFOSI about:                      AF Security Forces about:
29   Sex Crimes             1. Rape, Sexual Assault,          1. Stalking, Minor Indecent
                            Aggravated Sexual Contact,        Viewing and Minor Indecent
                            and Abusive Sexual Contact,       Exposure, in violation of
                            in violation of Article 120       Article 120
                            2. Forcible Sodomy (oral or       2. An unprofessional
                            anal sex), in violation of        relationship involving an
                            Article 125                       authority figure (see Note 2),
                            3. Attempts to commit any of      punishable under Article 92,
                            the above offenses, in            that does not involve vaginal
                            violation of Article 80           intercourse, oral or anal
                            4. Forcible Pandering, Major      sodomy, digital penetration
                            Indecent Viewing and Major        of the vagina or anus, or the
                            Indecent Exposure, in             fondling of the genitalia or
                            violation of Article 120          female breasts
                            5. An unprofessional
                            relationship involving an
                            authority figure (see Note 2)
                            and either vaginal
                            intercourse, oral or anal
                            sodomy, digital penetration
                            of the vagina or anus, or the
                            fondling of the genitalia or
                            female breasts, in violation of
                            Article 92
30     Traffic Offenses –   None, unless homicide or       All, unless homicide or
       DUI, Impaired        suicide is suspected           suicide is suspected
       Driving, Reckless
       Driving, Major
       Accidents, Fleeing
       the Scene, Eluding
       Police
NOTE 1: Grievous bodily harm as defined in the UCMJ is serious bodily injury. It
does not include minor injuries such as a black eye or bloody nose, but does include
fractured or dislocated bones, deep cuts, torn members of the body, serious damage to
internal organs, and other serious body injuries.
NOTE 2: Authority figures are defined as:
- By rank - E9 and O-6 and above
- First Sergeants/Command Chiefs/Squadron Commander/Superiors/Rating
  Officials/Supervisors with unit members
 32                                                                AFI71-101V1 8 APRIL 2011


- MTL/MTI with trainees
- Official training/PME instructors/staff with students
- Recruiter with recruits
- Cadets in position of authority over junior ranking cadets
- Medical, psychological, pastoral, legal or other professionals with persons receiving
their services.
NOTE 3: PL 1, 2, & 3 resources are defined in AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense
