Administrative Change to AFI84-104_USAFASUP, Art Program
OPR: HQ USAFA/CMA

The certifying authority name has changed from Ms. Nancy Burns to Mr. Steven Simon.

4 January 2012
BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 84-104
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              1 DECEMBER 2005
                                                HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                            15 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                                            History

                                                                                 ART PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFAPO (Mr. Russell D. Kirk)                                            Certified by: SAF/AA
Supersedes: AFI 84-104, 1 December 1999                                (Mr. William A. Davidson)
                                                                                         Pages: 14
                                            (USAFA)
OPR: HQ USAFA/CMA                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/CMA
Supersedes: AFI84-104_USAFASUP1,                                                (Ms Nancy Burns)
            9 March 2006                                                                 Pages:3


This instruction implements AFPD 84-1, History and Museums Programs, by presenting
requirements and procedures for the Air Force Art Collection and other works of art. It describes
how to acquire, control, report, maintain, and display Air Force Art. This applies to all Air Force
activities to include the Reserve and Guard. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication IAW the Records Disposition Table, found at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil.         To recommend changes, conflicts, suggestions, or
recommendations to departmental publications, use the AF IMT 847 and route it through the
publishing channels to the OPR for the publication.

(USAFA) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 84-104, Art Program, 1 January 2006, is
supplemented as follows: The Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for this supplement is
HQ USAFA/CMA. This supplement identifies requirements and procedures necessary for the
efficient management of all works of art at the Air Force Academy. This supplement applies to
all installation commanders, all Air Force military and civilian personnel assigned to the United
States Air Force Academy (including US Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard forces).
Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to
HQ USAFA/CMA, 2300 Cadet Drive, Suite 351, USAFA CO 80840-5002, on Air Force (AF)
2                                           AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009


Form, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created because of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision updates and expands the Art Program collection process from acquiring to retiring.
Additionally, the Art Program now falls under SAF/AA and is referred to AFAPO (AF Art
Program Office). References previously referred to as SAF/AART should now be referred to as
AFAPO.

(USAFA) This revision updates the format of the supplement to meet the requirements in
AFI33-360. It also corrects the reference of AFMAN37-123 to AFMAN 33-363 throughout and
updates the RDS link. No content in the supplement has changed.
AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009                                                              3



                                            Chapter 1

                       RESPONSIBILITIES FOR AIR FORCE ART

1.1. Air Force Art. As described below, some works of art are centrally owned and
administered by Headquarters Air Force; others belong to local organizations.
   1.1.1. The Air Force Art Collection consists of artwork donated by professional artists that
   portray the people, equipment, activities, facilities, and other historically significant subjects
   related to the United States Air Force and its predecessor organizations in the U.S. Army Air
   Corps. The Collection is centrally registered at Headquarters Air Force. Its holdings are
   exhibited to inform internal and external audiences about Air Force missions and capabilities.
   Although predominately paintings, the collection also contains drawings, sketches, and
   sculptures. The Air Force Art Collection does not include artifacts and other historical
   property covered by AFI 84-103, USAF Heritage Program.
   1.1.2. Air Force organizations may also obtain and display original artworks not registered
   as part of the Air Force Art Collection. Control these items using procedures outlined in AFI
   51-601,Gifts to the Department of the Air Force.
   1.1.3. Artworks and reproductions purchased commercially, such as those used for interior
   decorations, are not covered by this instruction. Control these items using procedures
   outlined in AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual.
   1.1.4. Do not give USAF Art Program accessioned artworks as gifts.
1.2. Air Force Art Program Office (AFAPO) Responsibilities. The Office of the
Administrative Assistant (SAF/AA) provides guidance, sets procedures and executes and
manages the Air Force Art Program through supervision of the AFAPO which:
   1.2.1. Acquires, maintains, controls, and exhibits the Air Force Art Collection.
   1.2.2. Assists professional artists who take part in the program. Participating artists
   interested in aviation art are members of the New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco
   Societies of Illustrators, the Midwest, Southwest, and Northwest Air Force Artists Groups
   and independent artists.
   1.2.3. Handles donated artworks according to AFI 51-601. Provides Major Commands
   (MAJCOM), Forward Operating Agencies (FOA) and Direct Reporting Units (DRU)
   commanders or their designees guidance for accepting artworks in accordance with AFI 51-
   601 and the limits of delegated authority. When an artist or owner donates an original
   artwork portraying the Air Force or a piece of previously unregistered art portraying the Air
   Force is discovered, send AFAPO a reproducible image (e.g., a negative or transparency) to
   help assess it for possible inclusion in the Air Force Art Collection. AFAPO reserves the
   right to reject a submitted artwork. If the artwork is in color, the reproduction must also be in
   color. AFAPO also obtains biographical information on the artist and background about the
   artwork.
   1.2.4. Sets guidelines for the display, storage, transportation, and environmental control of
   artworks.
4                                            AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009


       1.2.4.1. Display artworks in secure areas.
       1.2.4.2. Do not place paintings, drawings, or sketches in direct sunlight, directly under
       fluorescent lighting, over heat registers, or over copying machines.
       1.2.4.3. To prevent damage while in storage, AFAPO must store paintings, drawings,
       and sketches in locations with a temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit and relative
       humidity of 50 percent.
       1.2.4.4. Temporary storage of artwork must be approved by AFAPO.
    1.2.5. Once per year AFAPO, with the assistance of its accountable officers, conducts an
    annual inventory of the Air Force Art Collection. AFAPO will provide accountable officers a
    complete inventory of all artwork assigned to their account. AFAPO and accountable officers
    will confer in reference to any discrepancies.
    1.2.6. Monitors operational aspects of the Art Program and coordinates with host unit
    personnel art program exhibits and visiting artists.
    1.2.7. AFAPO handles all planning and coordination for artists to cover contingency
    operations both in war and peacetime both overseas and in the United States.
1.3. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU History Office Responsibilities. The MAJCOM, FOA and
DRU history offices provide interface between AFAPO, MAJCOM/FOA/DRU commanders,
and subordinate units to ensure the most effective operation of the Art Program. These offices
provide:
    1.3.1. Advice to their commanders about the proper administration of the Art Program
    within their command.
    1.3.2. Coordination of annual inventories with AFAPO.
    1.3.3. Coordination of artist visits to Air Force activities. Assist AFAPO with billeting
    arrangements, local transportation and necessary clearances for artist to sketch or photograph
    base activities. Host unit personnel will also accommodate visiting artists, explain operations
    and arrange for artists to view or participate in as many activities as security restrictions
    allow.
    1.3.4. Coordination of Commander requests for professional artists to visit their installations
    under the auspices of the AFAPO. Send such requests with a description of the planned
    activities to the AFAPO. AFAPO will determine funds are available before coordinating the
    activities planned for the artist(s) visit.
    1.3.5. Field commands and units may arrange for artists to visit their installations
    independently of the AFAPO administered visitations program. AFAPO is not obligated to
    fund these visits.
1.4. Accountable Officer Responsibilities. Commanders or directors of organizations
authorized to display original artworks of the Air Force Art Collection must designate (by
memorandum of appointment) an accountable officer as custodian of these artworks.
Accountable officers:
    1.4.1. Send AFAPO a copy of the appointment memorandum with address and phone
    number.
AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009                                                           5


   1.4.2. At the time of the loan must sign a loan agreement accepting responsibility of the
   artwork and forward a copy of the agreement and inventory to AFAPO.
   1.4.3. Serve as their organization’s point of contact for requesting or turning in artwork to
   AFAPO. The Air Force Art Program will ship art to a requesting agency or organization.
   Accountable officers will contact AFAPO to return artworks no longer wanted. AFAPO will
   give the accountable officer a receipt for the returned artwork and update the organization’s
   inventory. The organization returning the artwork will incur shipment costs. If this creates a
   financial hardship for the organization, please call AFAPO immediately for assistance.
   1.4.4. Oversees the display, storage, transportation, and environmental control of artworks
   on loan to the organization (see paragraph 2.4.).
   1.4.5. Conduct an annual inventory of artworks on loan to the organization using the
   following procedures.
       1.4.5.1. Verify its current location and condition.
       1.4.5.2. Ensure the identification label (1-inch by 5-inch engraved aluminum or durable
       gray plastic label with black lettering) is affixed to the front of each artwork’s frame or
       glass. The label must contain the artwork’s title, accession number, artist name, and
       “U.S. Air Force Art Collection.” Contact AFAPO for all replacement labels.
       1.4.5.3. Ensure “Property, U.S. Air Force” or “Do Not Remove Without Notifying
       AFAPO” stickers (provided by AFAPO) and the accession numbers (approximately 2-3
       inches tall in black marker) are affixed on the back lower right and left corner of each
       painting.
       1.4.5.4. Ensure the accession number entered on each artwork matches the number on
       the inventory printout.
       1.4.5.5. Annotate in ink on the inventory listing any discrepancies or changes noted
       about the artwork or frame (See paragraph 2.6 for loss, theft, or damaged procedures).
       1.4.5.6. Sign the last page of the inventory to acknowledge continued responsibility for
       the artworks listed and return one signed copy to AFAPO, 1720 Air Force Pentagon,
       Room 5E271,Washington DC 20330-1720. Or fax a copy to (703) 695-9388, DSN 225.
       Call (703) 697-6629, DSN 227 to confirm receipt of the fax. Call before emailing an
       inventory.
   1.4.6. Arrange the appointments of new accountable officers when necessary.
   1.4.7. May have the commander appoint additional on-site personnel to help oversee
   artworks displayed at dispersed locations.
1.5. Other Artworks. Organizations that acquire or maintain works of art not in the Air Force
Art Collection must comply with AFI 51-601 and AFMAN 23-110.
1.6. (Added-USAFA) Air Force Academy Sub-Accounts. Academy commanders or chiefs of
organizations authorized to display artwork belonging to the US Air Force must designate (by
memorandum of appointment) a sub-account accountable officer as custodian of these artworks.
Sub-account accountable officers:
6                                         AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009


    1.6.1. (Added-USAFA) Send the Academy art accountable officer a copy of the
    appointment memorandum with address and phone number.
    1.6.2. (Added-USAFA) Account for artworks entrusted to their care by signing and sending
    a copy of the organization’s inventory to the academy art accountable officer.
    1.6.3. (Added-USAFA) Serve as their organization’s point of contact for requesting or
    turning in artworks to academy art accountable officer.
    1.6.4. (Added-USAFA) If a unit wishes to acquire new artwork, they must follow the
    requirements and procedures outlined in AFI51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air
    Force. This action will be coordinated through the Academy Gifts and Memorials
    Department.
AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009                                                            7


                                           Chapter 2

                          MANAGEMENT OF AIR FORCE ART

2.1. Artist Visit to Air Force Activities. Professional artists who visit Air Force installations
generally create artwork for the Air Force Art Collection. Unless specifically commissioned by
a local organization (see paragraph 2.8.4), artists are not legally required to produce or donate
artwork as a precondition to visit an installation.
   2.1.1. AFAPO schedules trips for artists who create artworks for the Air Force Art
   Collection.
   2.1.2. Prior to finalization of an artist trip, AFAPO coordinates with an appropriate artist
   society for the selection of an artist or identify an independent artist. Coordination is then
   made with the MAJCOM, FOA or DRU History Office as appropriate for visits to
   subordinate units within their command. In addition, AFAPO coordinates with Public
   Affairs Officers (PAO) as appropriate. Artists travel on invitational travel orders in an
   equivalent grade of O-6/GS-15.
   2.1.3. AFAPO coordinates with base personnel identified to assist with the artist visit for
   quarters, local transportation, and necessary clearances for artists to sketch or photograph
   base activities.
   2.1.4. AFAPO is not obligated to fund field command and unit artist visit requests
   independently from the program’s activities.
2.2. Accessioning Artworks. For donated artworks, follow the requirements and procedures
outlined in AFI 51-601. Whenever possible, accept an artwork as an unconditional gift.
   2.2.1. To merit acceptance into the Air Force Art Collection, an artwork must contribute to
   the historical significance of the collection (see paragraph 1.1) and meet recognized
   professional standards. AFAPO determines if artworks meet these standards and controls all
   accessioning of artwork into the program. When an artist or owner donates an original
   artwork to the Air Force Art Collection, AFAPO processes the gift for Secretary of the Air
   Force acceptance. This process has been delegated to the Administrative Assistant to the
   Secretary of the Air Force.
   2.2.2. MAJCOM commanders, or their designees, and commanders of FOAs and DRUs may
   accept artworks per to AFI 51-601, for the limits of delegated authority. When an artist or
   owner donates an original artwork portraying the Air Force, or a piece of previously
   unregistered art portraying the Air Force is discovered, send AFAPO a reproducible image
   (e.g., a negative or transparency) to help assess it for possible inclusion in the Air Force Art
   Collection. AFAPO reserves the right to reject a submitted artwork. If the artwork is in
   color, the reproduction must also be in color. AFAPO also obtains biographical information
   on the artist and background of the artwork.
   2.2.3. If AFAPO accepts an item donated to a field organization into the Air Force Art
   Collection, the organization may keep possession of it locally if desired. If a donated
   artwork’s value exceeds that authorized for acceptance in the field, AFAPO processes the gift
   for Secretary of the Air Force acceptance.
8                                              AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009


    2.2.4. Artwork accepted as gifts and not included in the Air Force Art Collection as well as
    those commissioned by field organizations, are controlled and accounted for locally (see
    paragraph 2.8).
2.3. Loaning Air Force Art. Since the Air Force Art Collection is limited, its holdings can be
exhibited only in officially designated public access areas, such as offices and reception areas.
AFAPO will not loan artworks indefinitely or long-term to private individuals or private
organizations, or for display in private quarters. Borrowers must return artworks to AFAPO in
the same condition as loaned, without alterations. Do not remove artworks from their frames.
Only AFAPO will arrange for cleaning, repairing, or restoring artworks. The following locations
are eligible for loans from the collection:
    2.3.1. The offices of the Secretary of Defense, including Assistant Secretaries.
    2.3.2. The offices of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    2.3.3. The offices of the Secretary of the Air Force, including the Under Secretary and
    Assistant Secretaries.
    2.3.4. The offices of the Air Force Chief of Staff, Vice Chief of Staff, and Assistant Vice
    Chief of Staff.
    2.3.5. The offices of Deputy Chiefs of Staff and Assistant Chiefs of Staff.
    2.3.6. The offices of MAJCOM/FOA/DRU commanders.
    2.3.7. MAJCOMs reserve the right to request waivers to allow Numbered Air Force
    Headquarters and wings to display art. AFAPO will render final approval of request.
    2.3.8. Public exhibit areas maintained at the Pentagon, the National Museum of the USAF,
    the Air Force Academy, and Air Force Field Museums.
    2.3.9. The official residences of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force, the
    Chairman of the Joints Chiefs of Staff, and the Air Force Chief of Staff.
    2.3.10. The National Air and Space Museum (NASM), other government agencies and
    public exhibits as deemed appropriate by AFAPO.
    2.3.11. Occasionally, AFAPO will support single-theme exhibits in military or civilian
    settings. If artworks must be withdrawn for loan to support an exhibit, AFAPO will try to
    provide prior notice and pay for return shipments.
2.4. Display and Storage. The safety and security of artworks are of paramount concern.
Accountable officers must set up internal controls for displaying, storing, and transporting all Air
Force Art in their care.
    2.4.1. Display artworks in secure areas. Do not place paintings, drawings, or sketches in
    direct sunlight, directly under fluorescent lighting, over heat registers, or over copying
    machines.
    2.4.1. (USAFA) If art is displayed in the area of fluorescent lighting, Ultra Violet (UV)
    sleeves must be installed.
    2.4.2. To prevent damage while in storage, AFAPO must store paintings, drawings, and
    sketches in locations with a temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit and relative humidity of 50
AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009                                                              9


   percent. Organizations must return artwork not on display to AFAPO. Temporary storage
   requests must be submitted to AFAPO for approval.
   2.4.3. When returning artwork, contact AFAPO prior to shipment. Package and ship the
   artwork to avoid damage and arrive promptly.
2.5. Inventory. AFAPO conducts an annual inventory of the Air Force Art Collection. AFAPO
will provide accountable officers a complete inventory of all artwork assigned to their account.
Accountable officers and AFAPO will confer to resolve any discrepancies. With the assistance of
accountable officers a physical inventory is conducted to:
   2.5.1. Verify the artworks current location and condition.
   2.5.2. Ensure the identification label (1-inch by 5-inch engraved aluminum piece or durable
   gray plastic label with black lettering) is affixed to the front of each artwork’s frame or glass.
   The label must contain the artwork’s title, accession number, artist name, and “U.S. Air
   Force Art Collection.” AFAPO will provide replacement labels.
   2.5.3. Ensure “Property, U.S. Air Force” or “Do Not Remove Without Notifying AFAPO”
   stickers and the accession numbers (approximately 2-3 inches tall in black marker) are
   affixed on the back lower right and left corner of each painting.
   2.5.3. (USAFA) Ensure the “Academy Art Point of Contact” label and the “Bar Code” label
   are affixed to the back of each piece of art.
   2.5.4. Ensure the accession number entered on each artwork matches the number on the
   inventory printout.
   2.5.5. Annotate in ink on the inventory listing any discrepancies or changes noted about the
   artwork or frame (See paragraph 2.6 for loss, theft, or damaged procedures).
   2.5.6. Ensure the last page of each inventory/loan agreement is signed to acknowledge
   continued responsibility for the artwork listed on loan. The inventory is sent to AFAPO,
   1720 Air Force Pentagon, Room 5E271,Washington DC 20330-1720.
   2.5.7. (Added-USAFA) Annually, on the anniversary of the last inventory, the academy
   accountable officer will send an itemized listing of holdings to the sub-account accountable
   officer. The sub-account accountable officer will locate each piece of art, inspect it, annotate
   the listing, sign, and return it to the academy accountable officer.
   2.5.8. (Added-USAFA) When a replacement sub-account accountable officer is being
   assigned, an inventory must be accomplished by both the outgoing and the incoming sub-
   account accountable officers, with both signing the inventory sheet.
2.6. Lost, Stolen, or Damaged Artworks. The Air Force Art Collection contains valuable
property and is subject to control and monitoring as an Inspector General (IG) special interest
item.
   2.6.1. If theft or vandalism is suspected, immediately contact security forces as well as your
   organization’s accountable officer or AFAPO.
   2.6.2. Immediately report loss or damage to an Air Force Art Collection artwork to the
   organization’s accountable officer, who must promptly notify AFAPO. Identify the artwork
10                                             AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009


     by its title, artist, and accession number, and give all circumstances known about the
     artwork’s disappearance or damage.
     2.6.3. AFAPO provides law enforcement agencies images and descriptions of the artwork
     needed to conduct an investigation.
     2.6.4. The accountable officer is responsible for the lost, stolen, or damaged artwork and
     must review the circumstances, complete a written Report of Survey (ROS), and forward the
     report to AFAPO within 30 calendar days of the incident.
     2.6.5. AFAPO will arrange for repairing and restoring damaged artworks.
2.7. Reproduction of Artworks. Submit a written request to reproduce artwork in the Air
Force Art Collection to AFAPO. Each request will be reviewed and handled on a case-by-case
basis. Permission may or may not be granted depending upon the circumstances of the request.
Most artwork in the collection is copyrighted and some has restrictions. In addition, AFAPO will
assist in coordinating, but not guarantee, permission to reproduce artwork if the Air Force does
not have a royalty-free license.
     2.7.1. If approved, do not crop artwork in reproduction, since doing so changes the artist’s
     original concept and composition. Identify artworks by title, artist name, and the notation
     “Courtesty, U.S. Air Force Art Collection.”
     2.7.2. Coordinate with AFAPO about overprinting of fine art production, since doing so is
     generally considered to be in bad taste and a discredit to the artwork.
     2.7.3. The purely commercial use of any artwork accepted by the Air Force is prohibited.
2.8. Value of Artworks. Accepting a work of art entails responsibility for controlling and
reporting it as an asset of the organization and, in some cases, reporting a donation to the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) in accordance with the US Code Title 26. Organizations must record
donated artwork valued at $25 or more at the time the Air Force takes custody. AFAPO will
determine the fair market value of an artwork as follows:
     2.8.1. If an artist or other owner donates an artwork without using it for a tax deduction, its
     monetary value is based on the costs of travel, the materials used, and time spent creating the
     artwork (which will vary depending on the artist’s status in the art world). These must be
     stated in the letter or equivalent instrument offering the work to the Air Force.
     2.8.2. If the artist or owner intends to claim the value of a donated artwork as a tax deduction
     of $250, a qualified professional appraisal must accompany the letter of offer. The donor
     organization must ascertain that the appraisal presents all relevant facts as identified in the
     Standard Federal Tax Reports (SFTR) and provide the IRS with a contemporaneous written
     acknowledgment of its appraised value.
     2.8.3. If a donated artwork was previously purchased or commissioned by a corporation or
     person, the donation letter should identify the original purchase price and date. If recently
     purchased, this price will be the fair market value (if the cost is within reason and there is no
     appearance of intent to defraud). If bought several years ago, an appraisal may be needed to
     set the current value.
     2.8.4. If an organization requests an artist visit an installation to create an artwork, this may
     constitute a valid commission (procurement contract) for the artist’s services. In this case, an
AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009                                                         11


   agreed-upon price would be used as the cost basis for the artwork. If the artist agrees to
   accept only travel, transportation, lodging and/or per diem, the value of the artwork will be
   based on these items plus out-of-pocket expenses incurred. Under circumstances of a
   commission, the artist’s time cannot be considered as charitable donation and used as an
   income tax deduction.
   2.8.5. Contracting for the services of a professional appraiser may be necessary to determine
   the value of older artworks.
2.9. Financial Reporting. AFAPO will provide the fair market value or best estimate of Air
Force artworks as of 30 September in a Supporting Schedule as explained in DFAS 5010.32R,
General Accounting and Finance Systems at Base Level. This report goes to the Defense Finance
and Accounting Service (DFAS-DE/ADR) by 15 October annually.
   2.9.1. AFAPO reports all artworks in the Air Force Art Collection.
   2.9.2. Organizations report works of art worth more than $25 that are not in the Air Force
   Art Collection
   2.9.3. Follow the guidance in DFAS-DE 7010.1-R for capitalization and depreciation
   criteria.
2.10. Disposing of Artworks. Excess artworks acquired as an unconditional gift may be
transferred to other Air Force, DoD, or government agencies, or disposed through the servicing
Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO). Transfer or disposal of artworks acquired
as conditional gifts will depend on the terms of the original instruments of offer and acceptance
and must comply with the provisions of AFI 51-601, AFMAN 23- 110, Vol. 6, Excess and
Surplus Personal Property, DoD 4160.21-M. In all cases, local inventory records will reflect
any transfer or disposal actions.
12                                         AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009


                                Chapter 3 (Added-USAFA)

              INFORMATION COLLECTIONS, RECORDS, AND FORMS.

3.1. (Added-USAFA) Information Collections. No information collections are created by this
publication.
3.2. (USAFA) Records. Ensure that all records created because of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
3.3. (USAFA) Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     3.3.1. (Added-USAFA) Prescribed Forms.
No forms are prescribed.
     3.3.2. (Added-USAFA) Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                            C.R. ANDEREGG, SES, DAF
                            Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs

                            (USAFA)

                            DAVID K. CANNON
                            Director of Communications
AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009                                                       13


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force
AFI 84-103, Museum System
(Added-USAFA) AFI 84-104, Art Program
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual
AFMAN 23-110 Volume 6, Excess and Surplus Personal Property
(Added-USAFA) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records


Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-USAFA) AF—-Air Force
AFAPO—Air Force Air Force Art Program Office
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IG—Inspector General
(Added-USAFA) IMT—-Information Management Tool
(Added-USAFA) OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
PAO—Public Affair Office
MAJCOM—Major Command
SAF/AA—Office of the Administrative Assistant
(Added-USAFA) UV—-Ultra Violet

Terms
(Added-USAFA) Academy Accountable Officer—A person designated in writing by a
commander, deputy chief of staff, or HQ USAFA director as responsible for all artworks at the
US Air Force Academy.
Accession Number—A number assigned to every artwork in the Air Force Art Collection. It
indicates the sequential number of the artwork and the year it became a part of the collection.
(Example: 1961.050 indicated the 50th artwork acquired in 1961. Some artworks may have the
old numbering system of 50.61—that still means the same as the 50th artwork acquired in 1961).
14                                           AFI84-104_USAFASUP_I 15 DECEMBER 2009


AFAPO places accession numbers on the back of all artworks and on the identification label on
the front.
Accountable Officer—A person designated in writing by a MAJCOM/FOA/DRU commander
and HAF two-letter office heads as custodian of artwork on loan from AFAPO.
Air Force Art—A work of art that portrays the people, equipment, activities, facilities, and other
subjects related to the United States Air Force and its predecessors organizations in the U.S.
Army.
Air Force Art Collection—Historically significant works of Air Force Art donated by
professional artists and controlled through a central inventory by the Air Force Art Program
(AFAPO).
Artist Tour—A trip by one or more professional artists who have volunteered to visit Air Force
locations to view and document Air Force activities (see paragraph 2.1.).
Artwork—A painting, drawing, sketch, or sculpture in any medium or combination of media.
Exhibit—Selected artworks from the collection for public showing.
Identification Label—A label (AFAPO requires a 1-inch by 5-inch aluminum or durable grey
plastic piece with double-sided foam tape) on the front of a painting or drawing that gives the
title, artist, ownership, and accession number. (Example: “Launching an Atlas ICBM,” by
Ralph Iligan, U.S. Air Force Art Collection, 1961.050).
Professional Artist—An individual who makes illustration of art a profession, earning at least
60 percent of all income through that profession. Professional artists from the New York, Los
Angeles, San Francisco Societies of Illustrators, the Midwest, Southwest and Northwest Air
Force Artists, and Independent artists participate in the Air Force Art Program.
(Added-USAFA) Sub-Account Accountable Officer—A person designated in writing by a
unit commander or director as responsible for all artworks located in their physical area.
