                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                             HEADQUATERS 412TH TEST WING (AFMC)
                             EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE CALIFORNIA



                                                       AFI99-103_EDWARDSAFBGM2014-04

                                                                                     5 June 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 412TH TEST WING PERSONNEL

FROM: 412 TW/CC
      195 E Popson Ave
      Edwards AFB, CA


SUBJECT: Edwards AFB Guidance Memorandum, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Edwards Air Force Base Commander, this Guidance Memorandum
immediately implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and
Evaluation. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are
inconsistent with other Edwards Air Force Base publications; the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. Test and evaluation (T&E) should be planned, conducted, analyzed, and reported in a
defensible manner to provide customers the most value for their T&E investments. The 412 TW
approach to defensible T&E supports the Department of Defense implementation plan for
“Scientific Test and Analysis Techniques in Test and Evaluation” dated January 2012, and AFTC
memorandum “Defensible Test and Evaluation by the Air Force Test Center” dated 25 July
2013.

3. Defensible T&E uses physics-based and statistical modeling techniques as a basis for test
planning, data analysis and reporting. This approach informs customers of the confidence
expected in test results, conclusions and recommendations, and helps determine the best use of
test resources. While best practices for traditional physics-based test planning are well defined,
statistical techniques have not historically been a significant consideration in many 412 TW test
programs. However, we have recently emphasized the use of statistics as a critical component in
test programs and will continue promoting statistics appropriately in our T&E business.

4. The use of defensible T&E techniques may vary considerably based on the scope, engineering
disciplines, and complexity of test programs. 412 TW scientists, engineers, and test project
managers should consider program constraints and customer requirements when implementing
defensible T&E. Independent technical experts and statisticians should participate early in test
planning, data analysis, and reporting when appropriate. We will team with customers to identify
technical risks, tradeoffs and confidence in test results.
5. Contact Mr. Doyle B. Janzen, Senior Technical Director, 412th Test Wing at (661) 275-4000
with any questions.

6. This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon publication of an interim change or rewrite of AFI 99-103, Capabilities-
Based Test and Evaluation, whichever is earlier.




                                            MICHAEL T. BREWER
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
