BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE
COMMAND
                                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 99-103
                                                AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                         Supplement
                                                                               1 JULY 2010
                                                       Certified Current 4 September 2012
                                                                        Test and Evaluation

                                                        CAPABILITIES-BASED TEST AND
                                                                        EVALUATION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3IT                                              Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3I
                                                                  (Col Michael F. Nahorniak)
                                                                                   Pages: 18




This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 99-103,
Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 20 Mar 2009. This supplement describes HQ AFGSC’s
procedures for use in conjunction with the basic AFI. Additional bomber testing guidance is
contained in Air Combat Command Instruction (ACCI) 99-101, ACC Test and Evaluation,
Memorandum of Agreement for Operational Test Support Between ACC/A8 and AFGSC/A3/5/8
for B-2 and B-52 Nuclear and AFGSC-Assigned Conventional Weapons Systems and
AFGSC/CC Plan 001. Additional Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) testing guidance is
contained in AFGSCI 99-102, Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Force Development
Evaluation (FDE) Procedures. This instruction applies to HQ AFGSC, subordinate units and all
organizations receiving support from AFGSC assets. This supplement does not apply to Air
National Guard units or the Air Force Reserve. Users of this instruction must notify ICBM
Operations Division (HQ AFGSC/A3I) of conflicts between this instruction and other directives,
instructions or technical orders. Forward unit supplements to HQ AFGSC/A3IT, 245 Davis
Avenue East, Suite 345, Barksdale AFB, LA 71110. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field through
appropriate functional manager’s chain of command.
 2                                                                                    AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at           ttps://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or servi

e in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.




        1.1.     ...............................................................................................................................   2

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                     14

Attachment 3—(Added) TEST REQUEST FORMAT                                                                                                           17


1.1. The two cornerstone concepts for “Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation (T&E)” are
collaboration and early tester involvement. Testers must determine the level and types of testing
required and document these decisions in T&E Strategies (TES), T&E Master Plans (TEMPs),
and other program documents. Additionally, testers must be knowledgeable of capability gaps
and requirements. This necessitates close work between HQ AFGSC/A5/8 and HQ AFGSC/A3
from program inception through fielding, Initial Operating Capability (IOC) and Full Operating
Capability (FOC).
        1.5.2. Early tester involvement in defining requirements ensures program specifications
        are testable and measurable in an operational environment and allows for meaningful test
        measures and criteria development. Early tester collaboration facilitates the development
        of a single integrated test strategy that incorporates the requirements and objectives of
        Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E), Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E)
        and all other kinds of T&E requirements for the program. Tester collaboration and the
        creation of an integrated strategy serves to: increase the linkage between DT&E and
        OT&E measures; “operationalize” DT&E by introducing operationally realistic scenarios
        and conditions; increases the likelihood that test events and data collected during
        development can be used to provide early insight to system effectiveness and suitability;
        and potentially shorten dedicated OT&E.
     2.10. (Added) T&E Supporting DoD-level Programs:
        2.10.1. (Added) MAJCOM personnel tasked to participate in High Performance Teams
        (HPTs) developing ICDs and CDDs, and those HPTs following Requirements Strategy
        Reviews (RSR) will consult with developmental and operational testers to ensure T&E
        concerns are addressed. As a minimum, MAJCOM testers will coordinate on all
        MAJCOM-sponsored ICDs and CDDs. Testers will provide test and evaluation expertise
        to the development of ICDs to ensure smooth transition to development of follow-on
        measures of effectiveness, suitability and performance.
AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010                                                               3


     2.10.2. (Added) MAJCOM Support to OSD OT&E Oversight Programs. MAJCOM test
     organizations may be required to support testing of OSD OT&E Oversight Programs if
     AFOTEC is not the operational test agency (OTA) according to AFI 99-103, paragraph
     4.6.
  2.11. (Added) T&E Supporting Modification Programs:
     2.11.1. (Added) Command-Level Modifications. The process for modifying existing
     systems (i.e. 1067 Programs) is defined in AFI 63-101 and AFI 63-131. For those
     modifications defined as command-level, Integrated Test Team (ITT) representatives will
     participate as a voting member in Configuration Review Boards. The wings will develop
     procedures for the Configuration Review Boards and required membership. Specifically,
     they will provide the board with advice as to the level and type of testing required or if
     Installation and Checkout (I&C) will suffice and more formal OT&E is not required. For
     all modifications, the Configuration Review Board will specify and document the type of
     testing required.
     2.11.2. (Added) Wing-Level Modifications. The process for modifying existing systems
     is defined in AFI 63-101 and 63-131. For those modifications, such as form, fit, function
     replacements, the Wing/CC will provide guidance for documenting and conducting I&C
     as required. If the modification requires MAJCOM attention, HQ AFGSC/A3 will assess
     the type and level of test required with inputs from the ITT and affected NAF. For all
     modifications the ITT will specify and document the type of testing required.
  2.12. (Added) External Test Requests. Operational test requests from external agencies
  must be submitted to HQ AFGSC/A3 at the earliest opportunity. These requests will be
  submitted using the Test Request guidelines provided in Attachment 3. HQ
  AFGSC/A3/A5/8 will coordinate to validate these requests. Validated Test Requests will be
  submitted to HQ AFGSC/A3/A5/8 for approval.
  3.17. (Added) Headquarters, Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC). HQ
  AFGSC will:
     3.17.1. (Added) Develop HQ AFGSC T&E policies, procedures, guidance, and MOAs
     for AFGSC programs to supplement this AFI. Forward draft copies for HQ USAF/TEP
     and SAF/AQXA review prior to publication.
     3.17.2. (Added) Ensure Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E)
     representation to pre-Concept Decision activities to assist in early requirements and
     CONOPS development, early T&E strategy development, and early acquisition planning.
     Participate in HPTs according to AFI 10-601.
     3.17.3. (Added) Participate in ITTs as necessary to help ensure program success.
     3.17.4. (Added) Advocate for and procure T&E infrastructure, resources, and
     requirements.
     3.17.5. (Added) Review and coordinate on test plans, test reports, and test-related
     correspondence for programs on OSD OT&E Oversight.
     3.17.6. (Added) Maintain operational testing expertise.
4                                                   AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


    3.17.7. (Added) Ensure T&E training is provided for AFGSC personnel involved in
    T&E.
    3.17.8. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3 will:
       3.17.8.1. (Added) Act as command focal point with responsibility for MAJCOM-
       conducted OT&E, including policy and guidance.
       3.17.8.2. (Added) Release test reports and associated documents resulting from
       dedicated, MAJCOM operational testing.
       3.17.8.3. (Added) Advocate for and/or fund T&E to include sustainment and
       infrastructure requirements.
       3.17.8.4. (Added) Participate in ITTs as required.
       3.17.8.5. (Added) Ensure MAJCOM test representation on modification review
       boards.
       3.17.8.6. (Added) Review ITT Charters, TESs, and TEMPs.
       3.17.8.7. (Added) Coordinate AFOTEC non-involvement determinations.
       3.17.8.8. (Added) Serve as final decision authority for conflict resolution.
       3.17.8.9. (Added) When AFOTEC is the lead OTA, HQ AFGSC/A3IT, A3IH or
       A3TW, as applicable, provides personnel to serve as standing ITT members to assist
       in the transition of responsibility from AFOTEC to AFGSC.
       3.17.8.10. (Added) Prioritize resources and task subordinate units to provide support
       to programs. The HQ AFGSC/A3 will also appoint the AFGSC OT&E organization
       that will conduct OT&E in those instances where AFOTEC is not conducting Initial
       Operational Test & Evaluation (IOT&E).
       3.17.8.11. (Added) Chair Test Readiness Review Boards (TRRBs) for all AFGSC-
       led OT&E.
       3.17.8.12. (Added) Receive OT&E readiness certification from SPO for non-
       AFOTEC tests and provide acceptance/exception memo.
       3.17.8.13. (Added) Support Configuration Review Boards to determine OT
       requirements.
       3.17.8.14. (Added) Coordinate with HQ AFGSC Program Element Monitors to
       authorize release of resources to test agencies as applicable.
       3.17.8.15. (Added) Participate in certification and accreditation process.
       3.17.8.16. (Added) Coordinate with Product Centers, Logistics Centers and
       NAF/CCs to integrate and de-conflict test activities.
       3.17.8.17. (Added) Ensure HQ AFGSC/A3TW participates in Air Launched
       Munition Analysis Groups (ALMAG) to investigate air launched guided munition
       and missile mishaps and incidents that occur during FDE as required by AFI 99-151,
       Air Launched Munition Analysis Group (ALMAG).
    3.17.9. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A4/7 will:
AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010                                                            5


        3.17.9.1. (Added) Ensure the Modification Management Process is adhered to in
        accordance with (IAW) AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management. Provide
        guidance on the execution of the USAF Deficiency Reporting Process (Technical
        Order (T.O.) 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting And Investigating System).
        3.17.9.2. (Added) Provide inputs to the system acquisition, system modifications
        and operational acceptance processes.
        3.17.9.3. (Added) Participate in ITTs.
     3.17.10. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A5/8 will:
        3.17.10.1. (Added) Act as command focal point for test infrastructure planning and
        funding. Consolidate requirements for OT&E infrastructure, resource and capabilities
        and advocate for funding.
        3.17.10.2. (Added) Identify and provide personnel and funding for early test
        planning activities including Analysis of Alternatives (AoA), HPTs, and strategic
        planning meetings.
        3.17.10.3. (Added) Ensure operational system test criteria are given to the
        operational test agency.
        3.17.10.4. (Added) Advocate for and fund T&E and infrastructure requirements.
        3.17.10.5. (Added) Review ITT Charters, TESs, and TEMPs.
        3.17.10.6. (Added) Provide guidance to HQ AFGSC/A3 regarding the releasability
        of test-related information to outside agencies and foreign nationals.
        3.17.10.7. (Added) Oversee treaty compliance and international affairs issues
        according to AFPD 16-6, Intercontinental Arms Control and Nonproliferation
        Agreements.
        3.17.10.8. (Added) Provide modeling and simulation (M&S) policy and guidance on
        the accreditation process, review accreditation plans and reports, and provide
        recommendations.
        3.17.10.9. (Added) Participate in ITTs and HPTs.
        3.17.10.10. (Added) Participate in the information assurance certification and
        accreditation process in accordance with AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and
        Accreditation (C&A) Program (AFCAP).
        3.17.10.11. (Added) Provide HQ AFGSC/A3 information concerning upcoming
        ICDs, CDD, AoAs, etc., in which MAJCOM testers may need to be involved.
     3.17.11. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A6 will:
        3.17.11.1. (Added) Review and coordinate on test documentation to ensure
        information assurance, security test and evaluation and system accreditation issues
        have been adequately addressed.
        3.17.11.2. (Added) Participate in certification and accreditation process to support
        information assurance and operational acceptance.
        3.17.11.3. (Added) Participate in ITTs.
6                                                    AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


    3.17.12. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A9 will:
       3.17.12.1. (Added) Coordinate on M&S related products.
    3.17.13. (Added) HQ AFGSC/JA will:
       3.17.13.1. (Added) Coordinate on Programmatic Environmental, Safety, and Health
       Evaluation for test activities as requested.
       3.17.13.2. (Added) Coordinate on safety and liability issues related to test activities,
       including contractor liability relationships.
       3.17.13.3. (Added) Review all joint/multiple command/agency agreements.
    3.17.13. 4 (Added) Review test program documentation for adherence to AFPD 16-6.
    3.17.14. (Added) HQ AFGSC/SE will:
       3.17.14.1. (Added) Establish AFGSC test safety policy, including test safety
       planning, risk management training, and mishap response/investigation.
       3.17.14.2. (Added) Advocate for OT&E test safety requirements and OT&E mishap
       prevention funding.
       3.17.14.3. (Added) Participate in ITTs.
       3.17.14.4. (Added) Maintain situational awareness of testing impacts on operational
       systems and test waivers.
       3.17.14.5. (Added) Review test organization safety policies and procedures.
    3.17.15. (Added) 576th Flight Test Squadron (FLTS) will:
       3.17.15.1. (Added) Be the command focal point for executing ICBM operational
       testing.
       3.17.15.2. (Added) Establish local procedures for implementing the T&E process
       consistent with the DoD 5000-series regulations, AFGSCI 99-102, and this
       supplement.
       3.17.15.3. (Added) Identify and provide personnel for early test planning activities
       including AoAs, HPTs, and strategic planning meetings as required.
          3.17.15.3.1. (Added) Participate in ITTs for ICBM OT&E programs where
          AFOTEC is the lead OTA.
          3.17.15.3.2. (Added) Participate in ITTs for joint ICBM OT&E programs where
          the AF is not the lead operational test organization.
       3.17.15.4. (Added) Provide OT&E training to command personnel including TMs,
       Test Support Managers (TSM) and other project leads for OT&E activities.
       3.17.15.5. (Added) Develop T&E policies, procedures, guidance and MOAs to
       supplement this instruction. Submit to HQ AFGSC/A3 for review prior to
       publication.
       3.17.15.6. (Added) Identify test capabilities, resources, and infrastructure necessary
       to execute testing.
AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010                                                               7


        3.17.15.7. (Added) 576 FLTS/CDS will maintain safety oversight of test programs,
        including support for test planning meetings, and serving as a voting member
        on squadron-level test readiness reviews.
        3.17.15.8. (Added) Participate in the information assurance certification and
        accreditation process in accordance with AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and
        Accreditation (C&A) Program (AFCAP).
     3.17.16. (Added) NAF will:
        3.17.16.1. (Added) Approve the use of AFGSC operational assets for testing. This
        applies to Developmental Testing, Operational Testing and integrated test efforts
        where testing procedures are not covered by a system TO, but are covered in whole or
        in part by approved test procedures.
        3.17.16.2. (Added) Task units to appoint a TSM and direct unit support of testing.
        3.17.16.3. (Added) Coordinate with the appropriate office to de-conflict test
        activities.
        3.17.16.4. (Added) Approve   waivers         for    operational     weapon     system
        components/hardware TO procedures.
        3.17.16.5. (Added) Coordinate on or approve applicable test-related special
        requests, to include waivers.
        3.17.16.6. (Added) Participate in certification and accreditation process as required.
        3.17.16.7. (Added) Coordinate or review test documentation including the ITT
        Charter, TES, TEMP and DTP as applicable.
     3.17.17. (Added) Operational Wings will:
        3.17.17.1. (Added) Maintain situational awareness of testing impacts on operational
        systems and ensure testing does not impact operational systems and overall mission
        accomplishment.
        3.17.17.2. (Added) Assign a unit TSM to support the TM in executing the test, as
        applicable.
        3.17.17.3. (Added) Identify test capabilities, resources, and infrastructure necessary
        to support testing.
        3.17.17.4. (Added) Participate in certification and accreditation process as required.
        3.17.17.5. (Added) Ensure compliance with applicable treaties, federal, state, and
        local environmental laws and Security Classification Guides (SCGs).
        3.17.17.6. (Added) Wing Safety Offices will maintain safety oversight of all T&E
        related activities of the wing. In addition to traditional DT&E and OT&E activities,
        wing safety offices will have safety oversight of I&C, Verification and Validation
        (V&V) and Initial Operational Checkouts.
     3.17.18. (Added) Units will:
     3.17.18.1. (Added) Provide Test Support Managers (TSM) and other test support as
     directed.
8                                                   AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


       3.17.18.2. (Added) Operate equipment IAW specific TOs and/or associated
       waivers and/or detailed test procedures.
       3.17.18.3. (Added) Comply with ORM/Safety guidance included in all test related
       documentation.
    3.17.19. (Added) Lead Test Organization:
       3.17.19.1. (Added) Test organization with the responsibility for coordinating actions
       leading to planning, executing and reporting on test activities during OT&E involving
       multiple test organizations. The Lead Test Organization (LTO) may be lead for a
       team consisting of more than one service, command or testing discipline.
       3.17.19.2. (Added) LTOs will:
          3.17.19.2.1. (Added) Act as single point of contact for a test event described in
          approved test procedures.
          3.17.19.2.2. (Added) Prescribe processes associated with planning, executing
          and reporting specific integrated test efforts consistent with appropriate guidance.
          Arbitrate differences among PTOs consistent with direction from the ITT.
          3.17.19.2.3. (Added) Coordinate for the use of required test assets, to include
          operational assets, from the appropriate agencies.
          3.17.19.2.4. (Added) Transmit appropriate messages (e.g., Test Start/Test Stop,
          Test Complete/Test Stop, Test Not Complete) associated with specific test events.
          3.17.19.2.5. (Added) Provide Test Resource Plan (TRP) to agency responsible
          for funding the test effort.
    3.17.20. (Added) Test Support Manager:
       3.17.20.1. (Added) The person identified at the wing or unit level that supports the
       test organization and/or LTO in planning and conducting the test. The TSM is
       assigned from operational units supporting the test activity and serves as a liaison
       between the operational unit and the test organization/LTO. The TSM will support
       the testing process from test planning through reporting.
    3.17.20.2. (Added) TSMs will:
          3.17.20.2.1. (Added) Typically be provided by unit operating the system under
          test.
          3.17.20.2.2. (Added) Assist the test team in developing the test plan and detailed
          test procedures when applicable.
          3.17.20.2.3. (Added) Assist in developing test criteria and measures when
          applicable.
          3.17.20.2.4. (Added) Oversee the system during test execution.
          3.17.20.2.5. (Added) Assist in data collection as required.
          3.17.20.2.6. (Added) Participate in data scoring boards as required.
          3.17.20.2.7. (Added) Assist in mission-specific analysis as required.
AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010                                                                   9


     4.6.2. B-2 and B-52 OT&E roles and responsibilities are outlined in the Memorandum of
     Agreement for Operational Test Support Between ACC/A8 and AFGSC/A3/5/8 for B-2
     and B-52 Nuclear and AFGSC-Assigned Conventional Weapons Systems. B-2 and B-52
     FDE is accomplished IAW AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, ACCI
     99-101, ACC Test and Evaluation and this supplement. ICBM FDE is accomplished IAW
     AFI 99-103, AFGSCI 99-102, Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Force Development
     Evaluation Procedures and this supplement. UH-1 FDE is conducted by 20th Air Force
     under the direction of HQ AFGSC IAW AFI 99-103 and this supplement.
  4.11. TESs for non-ACAT I, II or OSD OT&E Oversight list programs will normally be co-
  signed by HQ AFGSC A3 and A5/8.
  4.13. (Added) Test Support Tasking. Test support can be broken into two broad
  categories: test asset support and operational asset support. Test asset support requires the use
  of an AFGSC test unit or dedicated test asset. Test asset support is tasked to NAF
  commanders as described below. Test asset support requirements are detailed in test plans.
  Operational asset support is the use of an AFGSC system or unit whose primary mission is
  not test and evaluation. NAF/CCs or their designee approve the use for testing of AFGSC
  operational assets not assigned to USSTRATCOM IAW paragraph 4.13.2.1
     4.13.1. (Added) Test Asset Support. NAF Commanders are responsible for
     identifying and tasking appropriate units and resources to support command priorities.
     Test team approval to begin test execution activities will be based on an approved test
     procedures, TRRB approval and governing local procedures. NAF will direct their
     respective wings to appoint TSMs as required and TSMs will coordinate with ITTs and
     LTOs for scheduling operational resources. The NAF will publish a support list
     informing requesters of their intent to support testing along with any deviations and
     requirements. Examples are deadlines for funding transfer to support test-planning efforts
     or necessary schedule changes. Test procedure approval (if required) will be based on
     LTO processes. For the purpose of this supplement, AFGSC-sponsored JCTDs, ACTDs
     and ATDs will be considered external agencies.
     4.13.2. (Added) Operational Asset Support. NAF and wing representatives will
     coordinate the use of their respective assets to maximize the use of test resources. During
     coordination, wing representatives ensure the amount and duration of testing do not
     adversely impact overall mission accomplishment while maximizing support to AFGSC
     test initiatives.
         4.13.2.1. (Added) Requesting AFGSC Operational Assets. Use of AFGSC
         operational assets requires NAF approval. The LTO is responsible for coordinating
         with the appropriate TSM and generating each request. The request must include a
         detailed list of impacted systems, test schedule and test points of contact. For AFGSC
         test units, this instruction provides test plan approval guidance. For other agencies,
         test/demonstration plan approval will be IAW the appropriate guidance (e.g.,
         AFOTEC instructions, etc). The NAF will approve based on impact to overall
         mission accomplishment and willingness to accept residual risk following mitigation
         efforts. Conflicting requests for use of assets will be adjudicated by the NAF/CC or
         designated alternate. The NAF will establish a process for requesting and approving
         the use of operational assets that include a test safety review. Test plan approval,
10                                                      AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


        ORM procedures and TRRB approval will be in accordance with LTO procedures
        and specific directions from the NAF/CC. The final authority to begin testing lies
        with the unit commander. Unit commanders should ensure that testing does not
        adversely impact overall mission success or safety. Operational asset support for test
        events will be documented on maintenance schedules or other documents as required.
        This process does not preclude the need to request MRTFB assets through the
        Universal Documentation System process.
        4.13.2.2. (Added) Use of AFGSC Operational Assets in Test Activities. For
        example: tester observation of scheduled crew training would not constitute use of the
        asset, but requesting additional down time to run specific scenarios would constitute
        use and require approval.
     5.8.1. (Added) Organizations developing M&S capabilities must work with product
     end-users, developmental and operational testers and other relevant organizations to
     develop and implement an M&S strategy (documented in an M&S Support Plan) that
     supports the entire acquisition lifecycle. The M&S developer is responsible for
     documenting and executing an appropriate V&V approach. Organizations will develop
     local procedures to define staffing requirements for V&V plans and reports, however all
     M&S related products developed by, or in support of, AFGSC organizations must be
     coordinated through AFGSC/A9 prior to approval.
     5.8.2. (Added) Accreditation. Upon successful completion of V&V activities, model
     proponents shall request formal accreditation of M&S capabilities for their intended use.
     The accreditation report will address the intended use of the capability, the impact of
     non-accreditation and any known limitations or risks based on supporting V&V results
     and the scope of intended use. All accreditation requests must be coordinated through the
     affected functional stakeholders, prior to submission for approval by the appropriate
     Accreditation Authority(ies). If accreditation is requested for multiple uses, a
     consolidated accreditation request may be submitted for approval. The Accreditation
     Authority is HQ AFGSC/A3.
        5.14.2.4. (Added) TEMPs for non-ACAT I, II or OSD Oversight list programs will
        normally be co-signed by HQ AFGSC A3 and A5/8.
  6.6. To certify systems are ready to enter dedicated OT&E, the SPO should coordinate a
  letter from the certifying official to HQ AFGSC/A3 NLT 30 days prior to TRRB.
     6.6.4. (Added) Pre-test Activities using Operational Assets. Pre-test activities are
     those efforts intended as precursors to formal operational testing. Pre-test activities which
     will change the status of an operational site will have approved test procedures and be
     listed as an individual test event. If testers wish to include pre-test activities in approved
     test procedures, the procedures must include contingency procedures for reacting to
     unexpected outcomes from pre-test activity execution. All pre-test activities which will
     change the status of an operational site will be preceded by a TRRB approved at the
     appropriate level based on risk assessment. A chair may elect to combine TRRBs for
     related test events occurring close to each other such as pre-test activities immediately
     followed by formal testing.
AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010                                                                 11


  6.10. For AFGSC Systems, HQ AFMC may grant waivers on a case-by-case basis.
  Waiver requests should be coordinated through HQ AFGSC/A4/7 who will make
  recommendations for waiver approval/disapproval. Testers will ensure Deficiency Reports
  (DR) validated during testing are entered into DRIS and the appropriate command lead
  notified of DRIS tracking and resolution responsibilities. Joint systems under test, operated
  and/or maintained by AFGSC will use these procedures to ensure commonality of reporting
  and resolution. The individual program office or lead service may establish specific reporting
  and resolution requirements over and above these requirements as long as those requirements
  are transparent to AFGSC users.
     6.10.5. (Added) Reporting Requirements. The test team will ensure all DRs are
     reported to the appropriate SPO and HQ AFGSC/A3/A5/8/9 leads. As a minimum, all
     CAT I 1A through CAT II 2B deficiencies will be included in final test reports. The
     appropriate HQ AFGSC/A3/A5/8/9 lead is responsible for tracking the resolution of DRs
     after the final test Deficiency Review Board (DRB). For ICBM testing, the Launch
     Analysis Group, Anomaly Analysis Team, or Operations Control Board (instead of a
     DRB) analyzes and resolves deficiencies found during ICBM test. More information on
     deficiency reporting can be found in T.O. 00-35D-54.
  6.14. (Added) Test Readiness Review Boards. Test Readiness Review Boards (TRRB)
  are required for all AFGSC OT&E. The TRRB chair for testing involving AFGSC
  operational assets is HQ AFGSC/A3. For TRRBs held prior to dedicated OT&E leading to a
  FRP or fielding decision, as a minimum, the LTO, PTOs, system developer, operating unit,
  MAJCOM program lead and supporting units should be present. When applicable, the test
  range controller will also be invited. TRRBs for dedicated OT&E will be held no later than
  five days prior to test execution and after receipt of a certification letter per AFMAN63-119.
  For all other TRRBs, lead-time and board composition is at the discretion of the approval
  authority. A HQ AFGSC/SE representative is a mandatory member of all TRRBs.
  6.15. (Added) Test Start/Pause/Stop Procedures:
     6.15.1. (Added) The purpose of these procedures is to inform the operational
     community of certain test activities and provide the test schedule, contact points, and
     guidance for interacting with the unit/system under test (SUT).
     6.15.2. (Added) Test Start. The LTO will transmit a Test Start message no later than
     24 hours prior to the start of execution of tests that are impacting operational units and/or
     assets. The message will be distributed to all units at or above wing level that may be
     impacted by test activities, to include inadvertent release of data outside the SUT. The
     distribution list for the Test Start message will be used for the following test messages:
         6.15.2.1. (Added) Test Pause. There may be occasions that require some form of
         intervention short of a formal “stop test.” In these instances, the LTO may pause test.
         The decision to pause test must be coordinated with the TM, PM and test plan
         approval authority. In the event of a test pause, the TM will notify HQ AFGSC/A3
         within 24 hours.
             6.15.2.1.1. (Added) Safety/Security Test Pause. The LTO will ensure that all
             procedures and criteria for pausing a test event for safety or security concerns are
             briefed at the TRRB and included in Test Team training and all site in-briefs. For
12                                                     AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


            all safety and security test pauses, the TM will submit an incident report per
            paragraph 7.13 A follow-up incident report will be issued in the event of a test
            restart and will explain the corrective actions taken.
        6.15.2.2. (Added) Test Restart Message. Following the decision to pause testing,
        the test plan approval authority will establish restart criteria after consulting with the
        PM. A formal TRRB is not required prior to restarting test after pausing, unless the
        test plan approval authority requests one.
        6.15.2.3. (Added) Test Stop Message. The primary purpose of a Test Stop message
        is to inform the operational community that on-site test activities have ceased. The
        Test Stop message is released under one of two conditions, either the test is complete
        or the test is not complete based on preliminary status of test objectives. Refer to the
        following sections for details on the circumstances and requirements for each
        condition.
            6.15.2.3.1. (Added) Test Stop, Test Complete Message. When testing
            activities have ceased and test objectives have been met, the TM will transmit a
            Test Stop, Test Complete message no later than 24 hours after all on-site test
            activities have ceased. This message serves to inform the operational community
            that the units and personnel involved in supporting the test may resume normal
            operations. The message will summarize test execution success or failure, initial
            deficiency listing (if available) and date of the last dedicated test event. This
            message will also indicate the dates of the initial post-test DRB and reporting
            timelines. This message will not include test results, analysis, conclusions or
            recommendations and will not be used to support fielding decisions.
            6.15.2.3.2. (Added) Test Stop, Test Not Complete Message. When testing
            activities are halted because of significant system performance or safety issues
            and the test cannot be restarted within a reasonable amount of time following a
            test pause, the Test Manager will transmit a Test Stop, Test Not Complete
            message. This message serves to inform the operational community the on-site
            test has ceased prematurely and the units and personnel involved in supporting the
            test may resume nor- mal operations. For dedicated operational tests, the Test
            Stop, Test Not Complete message will be accompanied by, or followed up with, a
            letter decertifying the system for dedicated operational test. Operational test
            organizations are responsible for documenting a process for decertifying systems
            for dedicated operational test.
     7.5.2. The approval authority for the test plan also approves the final report unless
     otherwise specified. HQ AFGSC/A3 will release test reports resulting from dedicated
     MAJCOM OT. Reports must include production, acceptance or fielding
     recommendations. For time constraints, a final report briefing may substitute for an
     interim summary report supporting a fielding or FRP decision as long as the briefing
     contains the same information as is required in a final report. If a final briefing is
     selected, it will be approved no later than 60 days from the last dedicated test event.
     Additionally, a written final report shall still be approved no later than 90 days from the
     last dedicated test event defined in the test plan.
AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010                                                               13


  7.6. Distribution lists will include, as applicable: members of the ITT, HQ
  AFGSC/A3/A5/8/A4/7/ A6/A9/HO, HQ USAF Weapons School, applicable product center,
  applicable NAF and operating wing.
  7.13. (Added) Incident Reports. The LTO’s TM will transmit an incident report whenever
  a test is halted due to safety, security or other event where immediate notification of higher
  authority is warranted. If operational reporting per AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, is
  required, the TM need not send a separate incident report, but must ensure all applicable
  organizations are addressed. As a minimum, for safety and security related issues, HQ
  AFGSC/A3/A5/8/SE, SPO/CC, and applicable Wing/CC/SE will be addressed.
  7.14. (Added) Briefing Requirements. Briefing requirements will be specified in the test
  plan and are at the discretion of the ITT and test report approval authority. As the release
  authority for OT&E test reports, the HQ AFGSC/A3 will be briefed on the results of all
  dedicated MAJCOM OT&E. In all cases, reporting must include adequate details of test
  scenarios, processes, anomalies encountered and deviations from planned test procedures.




                                           TIMOTHY M.RAY
                                           Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Director of Operations
 14                                                   AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting
AFI 99-151, Air Launched Munition Analysis Group (ALMAG)
AFMAN 63-119, Certification of System Readiness for Dedicated Operational Test and
Evaluation
AFPD 16-6, Intercontinental Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements
AFGSCI 99-102, Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Force Development Evaluation Procedures
Memorandum of Agreement for Operational Test Support Between ACC/A8 and AFGSC/A3/5/8
for B-2 and B-52 Nuclear and AFGSC-Assigned Conventional Weapons Systems
AFGSC/CC Plan 001
ACCI 99-101, ACC Test and Evaluation

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACCI—Air Combat Command Instruction
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFGSCI—Air Force Global Strike Command Instruction
ALMAG—Air Launched Munition Analysis Group
COMSEC—Communications Security
DRB—Deficiency Review Board
DRIS—Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System
FLTS—Flight Test Squadron
FOC—Full Operational Capability
I&C—Installation and Checkout
IAW—In Accordance With
INFOSEC—Information Security
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
LTO—Lead Test Organization
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MW—Missile Wing
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010                                                                  15


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operational Security
RSR—Requirements Strategy Review
SCG—Security Classification Guide
SUT—System Under Test
TES—Test and Evaluation Strategy
TM—Test Manager
TRRB—Test Readiness Review Board
TSM—Test Support Manager
V&V—Verification and Validation

Terms
Fit—The “mating” characteristics of an item that allow it to physically interface or interconnect
with or become an integral part of another item. NOTE: limited to hardware items.
Form—The defined configuration, including the geometrically measured configuration, density,
and weight or other visual shape/size parameter that uniquely characterize the physical
characteristics of an item. NOTE: limited to hardware items.
Function—The action or actions that an item is designed to perform and must be capable of
doing for a defined set of conditions. NOTE: may apply to hardware and/or software items.
Installation & Checkout (I&C)— Test units conduct I&C to support the acceptance of
operational unit/depot-supplied test assets and processing equipment swaps covered by
operational and test- specific technical manuals and checklists. I&C activities are also
appropriate for routine updates to operational databases which do not directly affect or have the
potential to affect mission accomplishment and following maintenance of software that does not
add new capabilities to the system (e.g., maintenance releases, database changes, COTS
updates, etc). Additionally, I&C activities may be used to support acceptance of SPO
modifications being installed at multiple sites after the initial site passes a successful OT&E.
Lead Test Organization (LTO)—Test organization with the responsibility for coordinating
actions leading to planning, executing and reporting on test activities involving multiple test
organizations. The LTO may be lead for a team consisting of more than one service or command.
Test Manager (TM)—The person identified by the commander of the test organization to act as
the focal point for overall test planning, test conduct and reporting on the test program. The
commander of the test organization will appoint the TM and ensure the rank is commensurate
with the risk associated with the testing. The TM has overall responsibility for the safe conduct
of the test.
Test Readiness Review Board (TRRB)—The TRRB is a meeting to determine the readiness to
begin executing test activities. While the format and structure of the TRRB is at the discretion of
the approval authority, TRRBs should, as applicable, confirm the following: approved test
procedures, test team, operators and maintainers are ready to support to include test
specific and system operations training; all safety aspects have been addressed and residual
 16                                                      AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


risks have been accepted at the appropriate level; test halt procedures with associated criteria are
established and trained; configuration management processes are in place; and significant DRs
have been resolved.
Test Support Manager (TSM)—The person identified at the wing or unit level that supports the
test organization and/or LTO in planning and conducting the test. The TSM is assigned from
operational units supporting the test activity and serves as a liaison between the operational unit
and the test organization/ LTO. The TSM will support the testing process from test planning
through reporting.
AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010                                                                        17


                                      Attachment 3 (Added)
                                  TEST REQUEST FORMAT

A3.1. Test Request Format. The Test Request is intended for use by external agencies that
operate outside existing ITTs. The Test Request is used to obtain sufficient information from a
requesting agency for planned test activities. This information will be used for determining the
scope of a requested effort and the proper allocation of testing resources. Incomplete information
may result in extended planning time and unnecessarily create additional workload on test
organizations. In addition to the items listed below, requesters should attach pertinent system
documents such as the ICD, CDD and operational and enabling concepts. The request should be
submitted as an official memorandum to HQ AFGSC/A3 with a courtesy copy to HQ
AFGSC/A5R and signed at the HQ division, wing, or group level. Paragraphs should include
the following:
1. A description of the SUT as well as a listing of systems that must interact with the SUT.
1.a. Describe how the system will be employed including intended operators and maintainers.
1.b. Provide security classification guidance or attach appropriate documents.
1.c. Provide applicable Information Assurance documentation to include certifications to operate.
2. Provide a general statement of the overall purpose of this test. State why the test is required,
the critical questions the test is to answer and how the results will be used.
3. Summarize the support required including documents supported.
4. Provide a list of points of contact to include other agencies that may be required to support
testing.
5. Provide as comprehensive list of program milestones as possible in achieving decision points,
estimated fielding dates, contract expiration dates, etc.
6. AF Precedent Rating (if applicable): See AFI 16-301, US Air Force Priority System for
Resources Management.
7. Identify if the T&E effort entails a system acquisition, sustainment effort, support to
technology transfer or tactics development and evaluation.
7.a. For acquisition programs list any associated Acquisition Category and/or OSD oversight
requirements. If requesting support for a specific test event rather than support to an overall
program, list what specific decision(s) are being supported (e.g., milestone, fielding, ops
acceptance, etc).
7.b. For support to technology transfers, identify if project is an Experiment Support,
JCTD/ATD. Describe the level of maturity for the technology supporting the project including
the Technology Readiness Level, if available. For TD&Es, provide command level rankings
from associated tactics boards including command(s) and relative position on list(s). AFGSC
A3TW review is needed for TD&E.
7.c. For tests of systems in sustainment, describe the frequency the system is employed in terms
of almost never, rarely, sporadically, routinely, daily, constantly.
8. Characterize how urgent the request is by defining the ramifications of not doing the test as
 18                                                       AFI99-103_AFGSCSUP 1 JULY 2010


envisioned as it relates to mission impact, funding perishability and impact to other
program elements.
8.a. For mission impact statements, please describe if the SUT constitutes an existing mission or
an acquisition of a new mission. Also describe if the system directly executes an AFGSC or Air
Force mission or serves in a supporting role. Additionally, explain if the test supports restoring a
mission critical function, correcting a previous degrade, or enhancing an existing capability.
8.b. In describing funding allocated for T&E activities, please indicate budgeted amount, the
type of funds, when funds will be available, and when they will expire.
8.c. Please describe the programmatic impact in schedule and resource terms if the requested test
support is not provided in a timely manner. Examples could include increased contractor costs,
delay of fielding subsequent systems, or increased sustainment costs associated with maintaining
legacy systems. Additionally, please indicate if delaying the requested testing will impact other
programs or associated decisions.
9. Provide any additional information that may be of use for test organization planning efforts or
assist in correctly prioritizing the request.
