BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-204
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                          AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement

                                                                               11 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                           Safety

                                                 SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFRC/SEF                                       Certified by: HQ AFRC/SE (Col Les Anzjon)
Supersedes: AFI 91-204_AFRCSUP, 10                                                  Pages: 5
            January 2007



This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and
Reports, 24 September 2008. It applies to all AFRC personnel. This AFI may be supplemented
at any level, but all supplements must be routed to AFRC/SE for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through AFRC/SE. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
updates guidance and references throughout.
1.2.Waivers to this Instruction.Waivers to this instruction will be requested through the
appropriate Numbered Air Force Safety Office to HQ AFRC/SE.
1.3.1.1.These Air Force operations include a mishap involving an AFRC military member in the
following situations:
1.3.1.1.1 (Added) Traveling directly to or from the place at which military duty is performed; or
 2                                                   AFI91-204_AFRCSUP 11 AUGUST 2009


1.3.1.1.2. (Added)While remaining overnight, at unit-provided billeting immediately before the
commencement of military duty training; or
1.3.1.1.3. (Added)While remaining overnight, at unit-provided billeting between successive
periods of military duty.
1.4.6.Report all FOD discovered during inspections to Safety for mishap reporting
determination.
1.8.1.3.2 For clarification, “reportable property damage” includes equipment damaged in airdrop
malfunctions that meet mishap reporting criteria.
1.13.Note: AFSAS will not generate mishap to OSHA 300 log until report is final.
2.6.1.1 (Added) Ensure that all Safety Investigation Board personnel are trained IAW AFMAN
91-22X series prior to assuming investigative duties.
2.7.2.NAF/SEs will ensure that each unit safety office has reviewed/updated their mishap
response plan and SIB support MOUs/MOAs on an annual basis during the last quarter of each
fiscal year. Each unit safety office will post their mishap response plan and SIB support
MOUs/MOAs on the AFRC CoP in the appropriate folder. In addition each NAF/SE will
provide a report to AFRC/SE on an annual basis NLT 1 Oct confirming that an annual review
has been accomplished. Note: Tenant units on active duty Air Force bases are not required to
have an MOU/MOA with the nearest base. However, all units must post their mishap response
plans on the AFRC CoP.
2.7.2.1. (Added)AFRC units should base their mishap response kit’s contents IAW the
requirements dictated by their SIB support MOUs/MOAs.
2.7.4.For aviation mishaps, AFRC host, tenant, and associate units are not to be tasked to
conduct on-scene Interim Safety Boards (ISB) to the maximum extent unless the commitment
has been coordinated with the nearest active duty installation and included in a letter of
agreement or host base support agreement.
2.8.AFRC units refer to paragraphs 2.7.4., and 2.10.3. for guidance.
2.9.2.For aviation mishaps, AFRC units will create “local” ISB initial response procedures to
accomplish the actions required by paragraphs 2.8.1 and 2.8.3. Refer to Attachment 1 for the
definition of “Local ISB Duties.”
2.10.1.The Chiefs of Safety at each level of command (HQ AFRC/SE, NAF/SE, Wing/SE and
Group/SE) will ensure privilege training requirements are accomplished annually for their
respective staffs and associated personnel.
2.10.2.Populating and updating the AFRC SIB Database satisfies the “roster” requirement. HQ
AFRC, HQ NAF and unit-level safety personnel will ensure the database is updated within 60
days of an assigned individual completing formal training and will complete an annual review
during the last quarter of each fiscal year. If a member transfers to another unit notify your
NAF/SE so the member can be moved within the database accordingly. Likewise, if a member
transfers out of your NAF, notify AFRC/SEF so the member can be moved within the database
accordingly. Delete members from the database who retire or separate.
4.5.Mishaps Involving AirReserve Component Assets. Unless specifically retained by AFRC,
Class B mishaps are delegated to the respective NAF. Unless specifically retained by AFRC or
AFI91-204_AFRCSUP 11 AUGUST 2009                                                                  3


the NAF, all other mishaps/events are delegated to the mishap wing/group for investigation; this
only applies to AFRC organizations with a full time safety staff.
5.2.Investigative Timeline.Extension requests will be submitted to the convening authority for
review/release via AFSAS with one of the following comments added: “Extension approved by
XXAF/SE for the Commander” or “Extension approved by XX Wing or XX Group/SE for the
Commander.” The convening authority’s release of the status message is approval of the
extension request. The convening authority’s rejection of a status message is a rejection of the
extension request.
5.3.2.The unit providing a SIB member(s) is responsible for all pay/allowances and per diem and
travel expenses. The SIB member’s orders will use an ESP code of “IS” to facilitate the tracking
of incurred expenses. The unit experiencing the mishap does not provide funding for SIB
participation. If the SIB member’s unit requires reimbursement for the incurred expenses, they
must submit an unfunded requirement request (UFR) through appropriate FM channels.
5.4.1.5.Any AFRC personnel participation on SIBs convened outside of AFRC by any AFRC-
assigned personnel must be coordinated through the appropriate NAF/SE and AFRC/SE for
AFRC Command approval.
6.2.2.1 (Added) In addition to normal OPREP-3 reporting, the unit safety office will immediately
notify HQ AFRC/SE and appropriate NAF/SE of any Class A or B mishap. If in doubt about
reporting an event, contact the NAF and HQ AFRC/SEF, SEW or SEG for guidance. After duty
hours, contact the NAF and HQ AFRC/SE on-call representative through the AFRC Command
Center Console at Robins AFB, DSN 497-0680, commercial (478) 327-0680 or toll-free 800-
223-1784, ext. 7-0680.
6.4.1.4. (Added)On-duty Class A ground/weapons mishaps will be briefed to the AFRC/CC or
designated representative.
6.4.1.4.1. (Added)For on-duty Class A ground/weapons mishap briefings, the following will
attend unless authorized or coordinated with AFRC/SE: all primary members of the SIB, mishap
NAF/CC or designated representative, and mishap Wing/CC or designated representative.
6.4.1.4.1.1. (Added)The board president or the investigating officer will conduct the briefing.
6.4.1.4.2. (Added)AFRC/SE is the point of contact for all ground safety briefings.
6.4.1.5. (Added)Off-duty Class A ground mishaps and all Class B ground/weapons mishaps will
normally be briefed to the NAF/CC and may be briefed to the AFRC/CC if requested.
6.4.1.5.1. (Added)The Wing /CC or designated representative will attend unless authorized or
coordinated with NAF/SE or AFRC/SE if the AFRC/CC is to be briefed.
6.4.1.5.2. (Added)The board president or the investigating officer will conduct the briefing.
6.4.1.5.3. (Added)At the discretion of the NAF/CC, these briefings may be conducted via
teleconference, VTC or in person. The Wing/Group Commander will approve and attend the
briefing.
6.4.1.5.4. (Added)At the NAF/CC’s discretion, either the mishap board or Group/Squadron
commander experiencing the mishap will conduct the briefing.
 4                                                 AFI91-204_AFRCSUP 11 AUGUST 2009


7.2 Memorandum of Final Evaluation (MOFE). AFRC/SE will coordinate with each tasked
functional area (e.g., A3, A4, etc.) to ensure they review applicable final messages or formal
reports. The functional areas will provide comments, as required, via AFSAS.
7.3.2.When designated as the OPR for open recommendations involving Class C, D, E, HAP and
HATR mishaps or events, AFRC units will request closure through AFSAS for
recommendations that are completed by internal unit actions. If the action agency is outside the
reporting unit, coordinate closure of recommendations and/or corrective actions through HQ
AFRC/SEF, SEG or SEW as required.
7.3.8.AFRC/SE will coordinate with the functional areas (project officers/points-of-contact
assigned by each directorate) who have been tasked with the recommendations. AFRC/SE will
provide semi-annual updates to each directorate prior to the CV brief. Additionally, AFRC/SE
will provide quarterly updates if deemed necessary. AFRC/SE will convene a full MRP meeting,
chaired by the CV or his/her representative, around 1 May and 1 November each year to provide
the AFRC/CV with the current status of open recommendations. The functional area POCs will
brief the CV and other participants on the current status, planned actions and estimated
completion dates of any open recommendations assigned to their directorate. Following the
meeting, and with AFRC/CV approval, AFRC/SE will enter the updates into the AFSAS system
per paragraph 7.3.6.
7.4.Prescribedand Adopted Forms.
7.4.1.Prescribed Forms.
No Forms prescribed.
7.4.2.Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation of Change of Publication




                                            CHARLES E. STENNER, JR., Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI91-204_AFRCSUP 11 AUGUST 2009                                                                 5


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
LOCAL ISB DUTIES— AFRC defines local ISB duties as preserving evidence and gathering
factual data (e.g. aircraft maintenance records, aircrew and maintenance training records, etc.) in
support of the “on-scene” ISB president. The commander of the mishap unit will appoint a
representative to ensure these duties are accomplished in a timely manner (preferably the wing
chief of safety or flight safety officer). This representative is the unit point-of-contact for the
“on-scene” ISB President.
