BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-208
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 16 MAY 2013
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 14 November 2013

                                                                                            Safety

                                                        HAZARDS OF ELECTROMAGNETIC
                                                       RADIATION TO ORDNANCE (HERO)
                                                      CERTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFSEC/SEW                                         Certified by: AF/SE (Maj Gen Margaret
                                                                                 H. Woodward)
                                                                                      Pages: 48




This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements and extends the policy of the Department of
Defense (DoD) Directive (DoDD) 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, DoD Instruction
5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, DoDD 3222.3, DoD Electromagnetic
Environmental Effects (E3) Program, DoDD 6055.9E, Explosives Safety Management and the
DoD Explosives Safety Board, DoD 6055.09-M, DoD Ammunition and Explosives Safety
Standards, AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-5, Warfighting Integration, AFPD 91-2, Safety
Programs, AF Manual (AFMAN) 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, and AF Space Command
Manual 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements Manual. This publication establishes AF
policy for hazards of electromagnetic radiation to ordnance (HERO) certification and
management of ordnance in the AF inventory. It applies to explosive operations of any kind in
AF, Air National Guard, AF Reserve-owned or –leased facilities, and to United States-titled
ammunition in contractor or host-nation facilities, including Foreign Military Sales. Compliance
is mandatory. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the AF. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate (Major Command) publications/forms
manager. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes described in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance      with    the     AF      Records        Disposition    Schedule       located     at
 2                                                                                                 AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.               Send recommendations for
improvements to Headquarters AF Safety Center, AF Weapons Safety (AFSEC/SEW), 9700 G
Avenue SE, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670, or email HQAFSECSEW@kirtland.af.mil. Send
Major Command (MAJCOM) supplements to this instruction to AFSEC/SEW, 9700 G Avenue
SE, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670 for coordination before publication. The authorities to waive
wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)
number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit waiver requests through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval
authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change incorporates AFI 33-360 guidance to include tier waiver requirements and
provides the correct paragraph reference in paragraph A2.5.3 and correct units in Table A2.11.
A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.


        1.     OVERVIEW. .........................................................................................................    2
        2.     RESPONISIBILITIES. ..........................................................................................          7
        3.     HERO CERTIFICATION PROCESS FOR ORDNANCE. ..................................                                           11
        4.     MAINTAINING SAFE HERO OPERATIONS. ...................................................                                 14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       19

Attachment 2—SAFE SEPARATION DISTANCE (SSD)                                                                                          29

Attachment 3—EMR ANALYSIS ASSISTANCE                                                                                                 42

Attachment 4—HERO PACKAGE AND EMR SURVEY                                                                                             43

Attachment 5—ORDNANCE MODIFICATION GUIDANCE                                                                                          47

Attachment 6—REQUEST FOR HERO CERTIFICATION LETTER GUIDANCE                                                                          48


1. OVERVIEW.
     1.1. Purpose.
        1.1.1. This Air Force (AF) Instruction (AFI) implements the hazards of electromagnetic
        radiation to ordnance (HERO) certification and management requirements of the Weapon
        System Safety and Explosives Safety Programs.
        1.1.2. With the exception of the Eastern and Western Space Test Ranges, the HERO
        program encompasses the establishment and implementation of explosives safety
        standards, criteria, instructions, regulations, and electromagnetic emission control
        procedures of electromagnetic radiation (EMR) emitters throughout the AF in accordance
        with (IAW) the organization and general responsibilities assigned by this instruction.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                          3


     1.1.3. Military-Standard (MIL-STD) -464, Electromagnetic Environmental Effects
     Requirements for Systems, latest revision, general requirements indicate that each system
     (i.e., aircraft, ground vehicles, ordnance containing electrically initiated devices (EIDs),
     etc.) will be electromagnetically compatible among all subsystems and equipment within
     the system and with environments generated by emitters and other electromagnetic
     sources external to the system to ensure safe and proper operation and performance.
     Design techniques used to protect ordnance against EMR effects must be verifiable,
     maintainable, and effective over the rated lifecycle of the system. Verification addresses
     all lifecycle aspects of the system, including (as applicable) normal in-service operations,
     checkout, storage, transportation, handling, packaging, loading, unloading, launch, and
     normal operating procedures associated with each aspect.
     1.1.4. MIL-STD-464 requirement of intra-system electromagnetic compatibility
     indicates the system will be electromagnetically compatible with itself such that system
     operational performance requirements are met. Verify compliance by system-level test,
     analysis, or a combination thereof IAW guidance provided by Military-Handbook (MIL-
     HDBK)-240, Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordnance Test Guide, latest
     revision. Integration of individual components shown to be HERO SAFE does not imply
     the resulting system is a HERO SAFE system.
     1.1.5. MIL-HDBK-240 defines HERO as the situation in which exposure of ordnance to
     external electromagnetic environments (EMEs) results in specific safety or reliability
     margins of EIDs or electrically powered ordnance firing circuits to be exceeded, or EIDs
     to be inadvertently actuated. External EMEs may originate from equipment emitting on
     command (e.g., radios, radars, electronic countermeasures, etc.), automatic sources (e.g.,
     arcing, high current switching transients, etc.), and the EME defined in MIL-STD-464.
     Consequences include both safety (premature firing) and reliability (EID dudding or
     altered function characteristics) effects.
     1.1.6. MIL-STD-464 and MIL-HDBK-240 define three classifications pertinent to
     HERO for ordnance:
        1.1.6.1. HERO SAFE. Any ordnance item proven by test or analysis to be
        sufficiently shielded or otherwise so protected that all EIDs contained by the item are
        immune to adverse effects (safety or reliability) when the item is employed in the
        EME delineated in MIL-STD-464.
        1.1.6.2. HERO SUSCEPTIBLE. Any ordnance item containing EIDs proven by test
        or analysis to be adversely affected by EMR to the point that the safety and/or
        reliability of the system is in jeopardy when the system is employed in the EME
        delineated in MIL-STD-464.
        1.1.6.3. HERO UNSAFE. Any ordnance item containing EIDs not classified as
        HERO SAFE or HERO SUSCEPTIBLE as a result of a HERO analysis or test.
        Additionally, any ordnance item containing EIDs (including those previously
        classified as HERO SAFE or HERO SUSCEPTIBLE) that has its internal wiring
        exposed; when tests are being conducted on that item resulting in additional electrical
        connections to the item; when EIDs having exposed wire leads are present and
        handled or loaded in any but the tested condition; when the item is being assembled
4                                                                      AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


           or disassembled; or when such ordnance items are damaged causing exposure of
           internal wiring or components or destroying engineered HERO protective devices.
       1.1.7. Percussion or non-electrically initiated ordnance items have no HERO
       requirements.
    1.2. Requirement.
       1.2.1. To address HERO as stated in Department of Defense (DoD) Directive (DoDD)
       3222.3, DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program, latest revision, and
       DoD Manual 6055.09-M, DoD Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards, latest
       revision. AF programs shall conform to MIL-STD-464. Exceptions to such certification
       are commercial space launched type EID applications.
       1.2.2. IAW DoDD 3222.3, E3 issues, which include HERO, shall be identified and
       assessed prior to entering the Systems Demonstration and Production and Deployment
       phases and shall be addressed during critical design reviews. Ordnance shall not be
       deployed or released for service use until it is HERO certified unless a deviation is
       granted.
    1.3. Scope.
       1.3.1. The HERO program includes, but not limited to, vulnerable assets and sources.
       Vulnerable assets include nuclear and conventional ordnance such as gun systems and
       their munitions, missiles, bombs, flares, aerial target drones, depth charges, mines,
       torpedoes, and other materials embodying EIDs (e.g., cable cutters, chaff and munitions
       dispensers, self-destruct devices, aircraft engine fire extinguishing systems, aircraft
       ejection seats, etc. Sources include aircraft emitters, radars, antennas, radio frequency
       identification (RFID) systems, wireless laptops, handheld communication devices, etc.
       1.3.2. Ordnance applicable to this instruction consists of all equipment, subsystems, and
       materials containing EIDs, which affects safety and/or mission reliability and are defined
       as explosives, chemicals, pyrotechnic, and similar stores carried on an airborne, sea,
       space, or ground system.
       1.3.3. An EID is a single unit, device, or subassembly that uses electrical energy to
       produce an explosive, pyrotechnic, thermal, or mechanical output. Examples include
       electro-explosive devices such as hot bridgewire, exploding bridgewire, semiconductor
       bridge, carbon bridge, and conductive composition, as well as, laser initiators, burn wires,
       fusible links, and exploding foil initiators (EFIs), such as slapper detonators and low
       energy EFIs.
       1.3.4. Ordnance test variants that contain EIDs and include temporary instrumentation,
       such as measurement hardware, telemetry, flight safety systems/flight termination
       systems, etc., are subject to this instruction.
       1.3.5. This instruction applies to research, development, testing, operations, and
       equipment utilized during all six phases of the stockpile-to-safe separation sequence (S4)
       as defined in MIL-HDBK-240; transportation/storage, assembly/disassembly, staged,
       handling/loading, platform-loaded, and immediate post-launch. Furthermore, the
       program applies during the disposal of ordnance.
    1.4. Applicability.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                        5


     1.4.1. All ordnance, except for percussion or non-electrically initiated ordnance, used in
     or on AF installations, ground vehicles, aircraft, etc., including Foreign Military Sale
     items.
     1.4.2. Certification of complete rounds is required. A complete round (CR) is any
     combination of DoD Identification Codes (DODICs) to form a higher assembly. Identify
     complete rounds by using the Complete Round Code (CRC) in the Complete Round
     Dictionary (CRD) maintained by the Global Ammunition Control Point (GACP) at Hill
     AFB.
     1.4.3. Ordnance, EIDs, and emitters used by the Eastern (45th Space Wing) and Western
     (30th Space Wing) Ranges are addressed by AF Space Command Manual (AFSPCMAN)
     91-710, Range Safety User Requirements Manual, latest revision, local Space Wing
     instructions, and AF Manual (AFMAN) 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, latest
     revision.
     1.4.4. DoD or foreign ordnance used by the AF or as part of a joint development effort
     and/or usage. Foreign ordnance is classified as HERO UNSAFE unless certified as
     HERO SAFE or HERO SUSCEPTIBLE.
  1.5. Deviations.
     1.5.1. A deviation is written authority provided by AFSEC/SEW, permitting exception
     from the requirement for HERO SAFE certification. For ordnance items containing EIDs
     with a firing consequence of safety, AFSEC/SEW will only grant a deviation based on
     overriding field requirement for strategic or other compelling reasons (AFMAN 91-201,
     Section 1B-Exception Program).
     1.5.2. Deviations or Launch Safety Requirement Relief Requests must be IAW
     AFSPCMAN 91-710 requirements.
     1.5.3. For circumstances where a deviation is required, the PM shall perform a risk
     assessment to determine the level of risk associated with a (S4) deployment of the
     ordnance. The risk assessment may follow MIL-STD-882, Standard Practice for System
     Safety, latest revision, AF Air Worthiness Bulletin-013, Risk Identification and
     Acceptance for Airworthiness Determinations, latest revision, or other equivalent method,
     for determining the relative level of risk associated consequence and probability. Risk
     assessment shall be based upon the currently available set of electromagnetic
     environmental effects (E3) test data and analysis and shall be assessed against the
     completeness, or lack thereof, versus MIL-STD-464 EME.
  1.6. Implementation.
     1.6.1. The primary objective of the HERO program is to have all AF ordnance certified
     and classified as HERO SAFE. Until an ordnance system is certified, follow standard
     best practices and procedures. Ordnance System Program Offices (SPOs)/Project
     Management Offices (PMOs) have five years after the publication of this instruction to
     achieve certification and classification of HERO SAFE. If funding is received in the fifth
     year, the responsible ordnance SPO/PMO shall have two more years to have the ordnance
     certified and classified appropriately. Ordnance not certified by this timeframe shall be
     deemed HERO UNSAFE by AFSEC/SEW.
6                                                                AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


    1.6.2. All existing ordnance, including nuclear weapons, must be certified IAW this
    instruction. For ordnance having HERO test data and/or analysis, the responsible
    ordnance SPO/PMO shall submit a certification request to AFSEC/SEW (Attachment 6).
    For ordnance not having HERO test data, analysis, or a combination thereof, the
    responsible ordnance SPO/PMO shall have the ordnance HERO evaluated, analyzed, or a
    combination thereof IAW this instruction.
       1.6.1.1. If HERO test data, analysis, or a combination thereof, for existing ordnance
       indicates a classification of HERO SUSCEPTIBLE, the responsible ordnance
       SPO/PMO shall attempt to resolve the issue and achieve HERO SAFE classification.
       If unable to achieve HERO SAFE classification, the responsible ordnance SPO/PMO
       submits a request for deviation IAW this instruction and the ordnance is classified as
       either HERO SUSCEPTIBLE or HERO UNSAFE, depending on the information
       provided.
       1.6.1.2. Legacy ordnance can also be considered for HERO certification if an
       assessment of the existing data, supporting analysis, or a combination thereof, shows
       the ordnance shall satisfy the HERO requirements per MIL-STD-464 and the host
       platform EME. Existing data needs to address the ordnance item in all configurations
       (i.e., storage, transportation, loading/installation, and operation) including the
       appropriate margins. Operational history alone does not provide justification for
       HERO certification no matter how much time has passed without incident.
       1.6.1.3. For ordnance classified as either HERO SUSCEPTIBLE or HERO
       UNSAFE, exposure to EMR must be minimized by ensuring ordnance distance to
       EMR sources are beyond the calculated safe separation distance (SSD) and by
       isolating the ordnance from EMR sources if the ordnance are within SSD. This is
       applicable for all S4 phases. For ordnance on aircraft, ground vehicles, etc., adjust
       the SSD to mitigate risk due to the fixed emitter/store locations.
       1.6.1.4. Foreign ordnance is considered HERO UNSAFE unless certified. The
       ordnance SPO/PMO having foreign ordnance under their cognizance may request test
       data and/or analysis from the country of origin indicating compliance with EME
       levels in MIL-STD-464 for classification of HERO SAFE or SUSCEPTIBLE,
       otherwise the item shall be classified as HERO UNSAFE.
    1.6.2. SPOs/ PMOs employing ordnance on their platforms (aircraft, ground vehicles,
    etc.) shall ensure platform EME have been characterized. The platform SPO/PMO shall
    comply within five years after the publication of this instruction by providing to
    AFSEC/SEW documentation of the EME characterization. System modifications may
    alter the baseline EME. Evaluate modifications for EME impact and adjust the baseline
    throughout the system lifecycle. Coordinate changes with AFSEC/SEW by updating the
    EME characterization.
    1.6.3. The base or installation Weapons Safety Manager (WSM) shall prepare and
    maintain the HERO package (Attachment 4) after ordnance under their cognizance has
    been certified IAW this instruction.
    1.6.4. The nuclear weapon design agencies (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory,
    Los Alamos National Laboratory, and Sandia National Laboratories) ensure a nuclear
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                         7


     weapon design meets military characteristics (MCs) and stockpile-to-target sequence
     (STS) requirements, which will include MIL-STD-464 EME levels. The Department of
     Energy (DOE), National Nuclear Security Administration, nuclear certifies a nuclear
     weapon (the articles under their cognizance) and delivers it to DoD. Air Force Nuclear
     Weapons Center (AFNWC) is responsible for having the weapon HERO certified by
     providing AFSEC/SEW the appropriate HERO evaluation and/or analysis from the
     design agency.
     1.6.5. AFNWC shall submit certification requests to AFSEC/SEW (Attachment 6) for all
     current nuclear weapons, including test and/or analysis regarding nuclear weapon
     systems compliance with MIL-STD-464 EME, within five years of publication. For
     DOE ordnance not meeting the criteria for classification of HERO SAFE, AFNWC shall
     take the necessary action to resolve these issues. Legacy nuclear weapons are required to
     maintain current safety standards with respect to HERO until HERO certified. Upon
     certification, the safety standards outlined in this document shall apply.
2. RESPONISIBILITIES.
 2.1. Air Force Spectrum Management Office (AFSMO). EMR emitters and receivers,
 including commercial-off-the-shelf and non-developmental items purchases, and all AF
 spectrum dependent equipment must receive spectrum certification. IAW AFI 33-580,
 Spectrum Management, latest revision, AFSMO reviews all spectrum certification requests for
 technical accuracy and submits these requests to the national spectrum certification system for
 their acceptance.
     2.1.1. DELETED
     2.1.2. DELETED
  2.2. Air Force Safety Center (AFSEC) will:
     2.2.1. Establish criteria and guidance to ensure future designs are safe from EMR
     hazards.
     2.2.2. Establish and maintain procedures for HERO certification of ordnance and
     promulgate these procedures to AF, e.g., AF Sustainment Center (AFSC) and AF Life
     Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) Organization Commanders, Program Executive
     Offices (PEOs), Program Managers (PMs), and Inventory Management Specialists
     (IMSs) for all ordnance under their cognizance.
     2.2.3. Establish and maintain procedures for using electronic equipment that emits on
     command or automatically generates EMR, such as Modern Mobile Emitters (MMEs), in
     the vicinity of ordnance.
     2.2.4. Review requests for certification submitted IAW this instruction and certify and
     classify ordnance within thirty days after receipt of request.
     2.2.5. Return HERO certification requests to the submitter within seven days after
     receipt of request without granting certification for items classified as HERO
     SUSCEPTIBLE or HERO UNSAFE when exposed to MIL-STD-464 EME, unless a
     deviation has been requested and granted.
     2.2.6. Maintain a permanent file of the following:
8                                                                     AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


           2.2.6.1. Certifications for all AF ordnance (both conventional and nuclear). For
           items not classified as HERO SAFE, the file will include a detailed description of the
           ordnance item HERO susceptibility and restrictions either on ordnance handling and
           loading procedures, or on the control of EMR required for HERO safe operations.
           2.2.6.2. Platform EME characterizations.
       2.2.7. Provide a method for preparing the HERO package (Attachment 4) to determine
       safe processes for use on AF installations, when the storage, handling, loading, and/or
       maintenance of ordnance occurs. The HERO package is required for ordnance provided
       by other Services or coalition partners, and used by the AF.
       2.2.8. Represent the AF in HERO matters on the following:
           2.2.8.1. Committees, boards, panels, and programs with other Services and foreign
           nations.
           2.2.8.2. Joint Ordnance Commanders Group E3 program.
           2.2.8.3. Joint Spectrum Center (JSC) Operations E3 Risk Analysis Database
           (JOERAD) Configuration Control Board.
       2.2.9. Ensure all HERO data generated by ordnance SPO/PMO is provided to JSC for
       incorporation into JOERAD, which provides a list of approved equipment and the
       capability to calculate the associated SSDs. Obtain access to JOERAD database by
       contacting JSC (J5) at commercial (410) 293-4957, DSN 287-4957, or online at
       https://acc.dau.mil/joerad (complete the Defense Spectrum Organization access request
       form). JOERAD is available to United Stated Military, United States Government, and
       their supporting contractors.
    2.3. Nonnuclear Munitions Safety Board. Considers HERO evaluations and HERO
    certifications by AFSEC/SEW when assessing munitions and related items containing EIDs
    for final Operational Certification and flight test.
    2.4. Major Commands (MAJCOMs) will:
       2.4.1. Perform spectrum management process and obtain frequency assignment and
       allocation for spectrum dependent systems in support of operational requirements.
       2.4.2. Provide, through the MAJCOM safety office, responses to installation safety
       offices’ HERO safety inquiries and distribute updated HERO information to their
       installations when it becomes available.
       2.4.3. Provide the requisite parametric data as specified in this instruction for EMR
       emitting equipment under their design cognizance to the installation safety office in order
       to calculate SSDs for ordnance.
       2.4.4. Treat nuclear weapons with exposed EIDs as HERO UNSAFE. Conduct
       maintenance operations under HERO UNSAFE conditions only when the EME is
       restricted and does not exceed levels defined in Table A2.3 and illustrated in Figure A2.3
       (Attachment 2).
    2.5. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and System Lead Commands. Shall ensure
    engineering, support, and test facilities are available to verify ordnance complies with MIL-
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                        9


  STD-464 EME and this instruction, testing is conducted IAW the guidance provided in MIL-
  HDBK-240, and acquisition is performed IAW guidance from MIL-HDBK-237,
  Electromagnetic Environmental Effects and Spectrum Supportability Guidance for the
  Acquisition Process, latest revision.
     2.5.1. Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC) will:
         2.5.1.1. Ensure, IAW AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for
         Nuclear Weapon Systems, latest revision, the design of a nuclear weapon systems,
         such as AF and foreign aircraft, cruise missiles, Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles
         (ICBMs), transportation aircraft, etc., will minimize undesired emissions that could
         cause a nuclear hazard or ordnance ignition.
         2.5.1.2. Specify MIL-STD-464 EME in the nuclear weapon MCs and STS to ensure
         DOE ordnance is HERO SAFE.
         2.5.1.3. Ensure design for nuclear weapons to be HERO SAFE IAW MIL-STD-464
         HERO aspects during all phases except assembly/disassembly.
         2.5.1.4. Ensure when changes to DOE ordnance are proposed that requests for HERO
         evaluation (test, analysis, or a combination thereof) is IAW this instruction when the
         changes involve the EIDs directly, any modification that affects the EIDs
         susceptibility to EMR, or adds EMR devices to the weapons.
         2.5.1.5. Require nuclear weapons entering the Phase 6.X or DoD 5000-series
         acquisition process (life extension programs or major modifications) undergo HERO
         classification IAW this instruction and MIL-STD-464 HERO aspects.
         2.5.1.6. Ensure DOE ordnance variants, which include temporary instrumentation
         such as measurement hardware, telemetry, flight safety systems/flight termination
         systems, etc., and contain EIDs or adds EMR are subject to this instruction.
     2.5.2. Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) will:
         2.5.2.1. Define the EME for HERO and establish design and verification
         requirements (AFLCMC is the preparing activity for MIL-STD-464).
         2.5.2.2. Provide technical advisors on HERO certification and overall E3 matters to
         AFSEC and AFMC.
         2.5.2.3. Review and provide technical coordination for deviation requests.
     2.5.3. Air Force Program Executive Officer will:
         2.5.3.1. Ensure implementation of HERO requirements for applicable programs.
         2.5.3.2. Ensure the applicable criteria for HERO safety are included in applicable
         program documents (i.e., Systems Engineering Plans, Test and Evaluation Master
         Plans, System and Equipment Specifications, etc.) IAW guidance from MIL-HDBK-
         237.
         2.5.3.3. Ensure ordnance variants, which include temporary instrumentation such as
         measurement hardware, telemetry, flight safety systems/flight termination systems,
         etc., and contain EIDs are subject to this instruction.
10                                                                  AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


     2.5.4. Platform SPOs/PMOs will:
         2.5.4.1. Characterize the EME of the delivery system, including the EME in enclosed
         cavities such as weapon bays, by system-level test, analysis, or a combination thereof,
         which directly impacts ordnance, and retains the information to ensure ordnance
         remains safe from EMR hazards. Document the EMR characterizations and provides
         the information to AFSEC/SEW.
         2.5.4.2. Update the initial EME characterization when modifications to the delivery
         system affect the platform EME every year.
  2.6. Installation Safety Office will:
     2.6.1. Implement HERO safety procedures for ordnance on their base. (T-1).
     2.6.2. Ensure the WSM prepares and maintains the installation HERO package
     (Attachment 4) and annually reviews this information against munitions procedures
     performed on their base (AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program,
     latest revision). (T-1).
     2.6.3. Review and approve, for HERO safety, all installation-level design changes for
     new EMR transmitters and relocating or upgrading EMR emitting systems. (T-1).
     2.6.4. Determine, for the development, installation, and use of electronic equipment that
     emits on command or automatically generates EMR for use within magazine or ordnance
     assembly/disassembly areas or employed around ordnance, if the equipment falls within
     characterized EMR environment. Use guidance provided in paragraph A2.4 (Attachment
     2) for MMEs radiating less than 1 watt. (T-1).
     2.6.5. Ensure an EMR survey is performed when all the sources of EMR cannot be taken
     into account, the attenuation of the surrounding environment is unknown, and/or
     minimum SSD cannot be complied with. Perform periodic reviews on a yearly basis to
     determine if an EMR survey is necessary and, if required, perform an EMR survey
     following major changes to the installation’s EMR environment or at least periodically
     every ten years. (T-1).
  2.7. Installation Spectrum Manager (ISM) will:
     2.7.1. Provide installation safety office with EMR data necessary to prepare the HERO
     package. (T-1).
     2.7.2. Ensure coordination between using unit and safety office prior to relocating EMR
     emitters or changing frequency, gain, and/or power characteristics of existing EMR
     emitters on the installation. (T-1).
     2.7.3. Prepare and maintain spectrum assignment records for their installation and
     provide the installation safety office a radio frequency authorization upon request. (T-1).
  2.8. Civil Engineering Squadron will:
     2.8.1. Report any using unit project plans/efforts to install new emitters to the ISM and
     installation safety offices. (T-1).
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                           11


     2.8.2. Report any using unit project plans/efforts to relocate any existing EMR emitters
     or change to the frequency, gain, and/or power characteristics of any existing EMR
     emitter on their installation to the ISM and installation safety office. (T-1).
  2.9. Munitions Squadrons will:
     2.9.1. Incorporate into the unit’s Explosives Safety Training Plan the susceptibility of
     EIDs, classification of ordnance, and their physical configuration, IAW AFMAN 91-201.
     (T-1).
     2.9.2. Maintain configuration control of their maintenance facilities with respect to the
     permanent/recurring EME and submit EMR configuration changes to the ISM and safety
     office. (T-1).
3. HERO CERTIFICATION PROCESS FOR ORDNANCE.
  3.1. Scope.
     3.1.1. This chapter provides guidance on the procedures used to obtain HERO
     certification for ordnance.
     3.1.2. This process is used by AF programs responsible for the design, development, test
     and evaluation, and sustainment of ordnance.
  3.2. Process.
     3.2.1. DoD Manual 6055.09-M requires HERO certification of all DoD ordnance. This
     certification covers all six-phases of the S4 in the EME cited in MIL-STD-464, Table 9
     and applies during the disposal of ordnance.
     3.2.2. The six-phases, as defined in MIL-HDBK-240, are as follows:
         3.2.2.1. Transportation/Storage. The phase in which the ordnance is packaged,
         containerized, or otherwise prepared for shipping or stored in an authorized storage
         facility. This includes transporting of the ordnance.
         3.2.2.2. Assembly/Disassembly. The phase involving all operations required for
         ordnance build-up or breakdown and typically involves personnel.
         3.2.2.3. Staged. The phase where the ordnance has been prepared for loading and is
         pre-positioned in a designated staging area.
         3.2.2.4. Handling/Loading. The phase where physical contact is made between the
         ordnance item and personnel, metal objects, or structures during the process of
         preparing, checking out, performing built-in tests, programming/reprogramming,
         installing, or attaching the ordnance item to its end-use platform/system; e.g., aircraft,
         launcher, launch vehicle, or personnel. These procedures may involve making or
         breaking electrical connections, opening and closing access panels, and
         removing/installing safety pins, shorting plugs, clips, and dust covers. This
         configuration also includes all operations required for unloading; i.e., removing,
         disengaging, or repackaging the ordnance item.
         3.2.2.5. Platform-Loaded. The phase where the ordnance item has been installed on
         or attached to the host platform/system (e.g., aircraft, ground vehicle, and personnel
         and so forth) and all loading procedures have been completed.
 12                                                                 AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


           3.2.2.6. Immediate Post-Launch. The phase where the ordnance item has been
           launched from its platform/system, but up to its SSD with regard to the actuation of
           its explosives, pyrotechnics, or propellants.
       3.2.3.

Figure 3. 1 illustrates the process of HERO certification for ordnance.

Figure 3.1. HERO Certification Process for Ordnance.




       3.2.4. PM of new or modified ordnance provides information to the HERO evaluation
       organization concerning the design, development, and evaluation schedules for items
       under their cognizance. (T-1).
       3.2.5. PM provides all of the affected CRCs, anticipated deployable aircraft, ground
       vehicles, etc., with applicable launcher or bomb racks, and designates all subsystems
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                        13


     containing EIDs be evaluated individually.            PM provides item nomenclature,
     DODIC/National Stock Number (NSN) (for existing ordnance), cognizant branch, field
     station, or contractor concerned with development or modification of the ordnance
     (Attachment 5), and anticipated period for various development phases. This information
     is essential for planning and scheduling consultation, analysis, and/or test. (T-1).
     3.2.6. HERO evaluation organization shall be either a DoD facility (e.g., Naval Surface
     Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division, E3 Assessment and Evaluation Branch, Q52; White
     Sands Missile Range, Electromagnetic Radiation Effects facility; and Redstone Technical
     Test Center) or an appropriate contractor. (T-1).
        3.2.6.1. HERO evaluation organization provides the PM with cost and schedule
        estimates regarding requested consultation services, analysis, and/or testing services.
        3.2.6.2. PM ensures adequate funding is provided to the HERO evaluation
        organization for supporting the required consultation services, analysis, and/or testing
        services. (T-1).
        3.2.6.3. HERO evaluation organization provides test plans, test reports (including
        data), and/or a plan of action and milestones for consultation services, analysis,
        and/or test services to the PM. (T-1).
        3.2.6.4. PM reviews and approves the test plan prior to start of the HERO test
        submitted by the HERO evaluation organization for accuracy of handling and loading
        procedures and hardware nomenclature and provide comments prior to the
        performance of the HERO tests. (T-1).
        3.2.6.5. HERO evaluation organization schedules the HERO test based on the
        availability of the facilities and assets. At the request of the PM, preliminary tests
        may be conducted during the various developmental phases to obtain engineering
        data. (T-1).
        3.2.6.6. PM provides all test articles to the HERO evaluation organization IAW
        requirements of the approved HERO test plan. (T-1).
        3.2.6.7. HERO evaluation organization will instrument the test article and conduct
        the test. (T-1).
        3.2.6.8. HERO evaluation organization submits the HERO test and/or analysis report
        to the PM with a HERO classification recommendation. (T-1).
     3.2.7. PM submits the HERO certification and provides the HERO test and/or analysis
     report as rationale for requesting HERO certification. PM also provides system and
     component NSNs and DODICs. This ensures that the production design is the same as
     the tested configuration with respect to HERO (Attachment 6). (T-1).
     3.2.8. AFSEC/SEW reviews the HERO certification request along with supporting data
     and/or analysis and either approves or rejects the request as follows:
        3.2.8.1. If determined HERO SAFE, the ordnance is certified and classified as HERO
        SAFE, be included in the next change/revision of JOERAD, and listed by
        AFSEC/SEW. AFSEC/SEW retains the HERO certification on file and provides the
        PM a copy. (T-1).
14                                                                   AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


        3.2.8.2. If not determined HERO SAFE, AFSEC/SEW provides justification. The
        PM may authorize corrective actions to rectify the hazards identified by the HERO
        test, analysis, or combination thereof. Funding for this activity is the responsibility of
        the PM. (T-1).
        3.2.8.3. If use of the system is required due to operational necessity, the ordnance is
        treated as HERO UNSAFE, until suitable modifications are fabricated, evaluated, and
        retrofitted, or HERO SUSCEPTIBLE, if test data and/or analysis supports such
        classification. The PM shall request a deviation of the HERO certification
        requirements IAW this instruction. (T-1).
     3.2.9. The IMS applies to the AF Cataloging, Battle Creek, Michigan, for DODIC/NSN
     IAW AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, latest revision, before the ordnance has
     been certified. (T-1).
     3.2.10. HERO certification is required prior to deployment or release for service unless a
     deviation is granted. However, a HERO assessment is necessary to support test and
     evaluation (e.g., to support aircraft/store compatibility) any time prior to low rate initial
     production or production approval. The PEO/PM requests a HERO evaluation from
     AFSEC/SEW and provides tests data and/or analysis to support the evaluation. If
     AFSEC/SEW determines that the ordnance does not comply with MIL-STD-464,
     AFSEC/SEW advises the PEO/PM on the suitability of ordnance production, fielding and
     use in writing within thirty days after receipt of the request. Test data and/or analysis
     used to support the HERO evaluation may be used to support final HERO certification if
     modifications performed after HERO evaluation does not directly affect the EIDs and/or
     their EMR susceptibility (Attachment 5). (T-1).
4. MAINTAINING SAFE HERO OPERATIONS.
  4.1. Overview.
     4.1.1. The primary method to protect ordnance from EMR hazards is to ensure the
     ordnance are never located where EMR power density is sufficiently high to couple
     enough electrical energy into the device to initiate the device or degrade performance. In
     addition, shielding the ordnance can protect the ordnance item.
     4.1.2. HERO SAFE ordnance are considered unserviceable after exposure to EME above
     those defined in MIL-STD-464, Table 9, due to the potential for both direct EMR
     induced actuation of the EIDs and inadvertent activation of an electrically powered firing
     circuit.
     4.1.3. HERO UNSAFE and HERO SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance are considered
     unserviceable after exposure to EME above those defined in Tables A2.1 and A2.2
     (Attachment 2), respectively, due to the potential for both direct EMR induced actuation
     of the EIDs and inadvertent activation of an electrically powered firing circuit.
     4.1.4. The following general HERO requirements must be implemented when
     conducting operations with any ordnance, regardless of HERO classification:
        4.1.4.1. Plan ordnance operations so that the ordnance has a minimal exposure to
        EME. Use the HERO package for guidance. (T-1).
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                      15


        4.1.4.2. Do not alter ordnance or handle umbilical cables and cable connectors
        unnecessarily. (T-1).
        4.1.4.3. Unless authorized by item technical order, do not expose internal wiring and
        firing circuits by assembling or disassembling the ordnance in EME. (T-1).
        4.1.4.4. Transport all HERO SUSCEPTIBLE and HERO UNSAFE ordnance in
        sealed, all-metal containers whenever possible. When transporting ordnance in a
        vehicle, the minimum SSD requirements are applicable. (T-1).
        4.1.4.5. Ordnance containing disassembled EIDs or when exposed EIDs, firing
        circuits, or wiring are present shall be treated as HERO UNSAFE. (T-1).
        4.1.4.6. For HERO SAFE ordnance, maintain a minimum SSD of 10 feet from a
        transmitting antenna. This assumes that at 10 feet the EMR from the transmitting
        antenna does not exceed MIL-STD-464 EME. If the transmitting antenna is an
        MME, refer to guidance provided in paragraph A2.4 (Attachment 2). For ordnance
        on a delivery platform, where a minimum of 10 feet is not possible, an analysis must
        prove that a smaller SSD is permissible. (T-1).
        4.1.4.7. For HERO UNSAFE or HERO SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance, formulas for
        SSDs from Tables A2.4 and A2.5 (Attachment 2), respectively, determine the
        appropriate SSDs. If the calculation results in SSDs less than 10 feet, maintain an
        SSD of 10 feet. If an MME is involved, refer to guidance provided in paragraph A2.4
        (Attachment 2). (T-1).
  4.2. Platform EME.
     4.2.1. Platforms externally carrying items containing EIDs shall assess the onboard EME
     to ensure it is sufficiently low to prevent initiation or degradation of the EIDs. (T-1).
     4.2.2. Platforms internally carrying items containing EIDs, such as in equipment or
     weapons compartments, shall assess the EME in these compartments to ensure it is
     sufficiently low to prevent initiation or degradation of the EIDs. Techniques such as
     mode stirring/reverberation or equivalent shall be used. (T-1).
  4.3. Traditional Fixed-Location Emitter (TFE).
     4.3.1. The emitters are in a fixed location, usually mounted on a tower, mast, or rooftop
     and separated at a distance from the ordnance such that the far field applies.
     4.3.2. For HERO UNSAFE and HERO SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance, the choice of formula
     used to calculate the SSD for a TFE depends on the frequency of the transmitted EMR
     and the total effective isotropic radiated power (EIRP) of the emitter (Tables A2.4 and
     A2.5 (Attachment 2), respectively). If this minimum distance (SSD) is maintained
     between the ordnance and the emitter, the EMR power density at the location of the
     ordnance, even under the most optimal transmission and more efficient coupling
     conditions, will be too low to provide sufficient energy to initiate or degrade the
     ordnance.
     4.3.3. WSM shall collect and review the following information prior to performing any
     operation involving ordnance:
16                                                                   AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


         4.3.3.1. HERO classification of the ordnance during the planning operation is
         determined by reviewing the HERO package or contacting AFSEC/SEW for the
         listing. Ordnance classified as HERO SAFE or HERO SUSCEPTIBLE can be
         degraded to HERO UNSAFE during assembly, disassembly, or by subjecting the item
         to unauthorized conditions and/or operations. (T-1).
         4.3.3.2. The EME at the location of the planned operation must be determined. This
         information is available from the HERO package, the ISM, or the installation safety
         office. (T-1).
  4.4. Modern Mobile Emitter (MME). MMEs may transmit lower power levels than
  conventional emitters (TFEs), but they may also be brought much closer to conventional
  ordnance, even into the near field of their antenna. Use guidance provided in paragraph A2.4
  (Attachment 2) for MMEs radiating less than 1 Watt.
     4.4.1. The Program Manager Joint-Automatic Identification Technology (PM J-AIT) is
     testing radiated emissions from RFID and automatic identification technology equipment
     for near field operation using worst-case guidance limitations. Observe all SSDs
     calculated, approved, and published by PM J-AIT for individual pieces of equipment
     applicable to munitions operations. Contact AFSEC/SEW for listing.
     4.4.2. Transceiver devices such as cellular telephones, active pagers, and some walkie-
     talkies automatically transmit EMR without operator action. Follow guidance set forth in
     paragraph A2.4 (Attachment 2), otherwise turn off the devices when the 10 feet SSD
     cannot be maintained.
     4.4.3. For all remote entry devices, including car entry keys, the SSD is 0.5 feet from all
     EIDs regardless of configuration. This guidance assumes the remote entry devices
     comply with Code of Federal Regulations, Title 47, Radio Frequency Devices, paragraph
     15.231, Periodic operation in the band 40.66-40.70 MHz and above 70 MHz.
  4.5. Electronic Devices. Electronic devices are authorized for use in storage, build-up, and
  assembly areas where conventional ammunition and explosives are present, as long as they
  are not connected to power via power cords, with the following restrictions:
     4.5.1. For electronic devices, without any radiating wireless capability and unknown
     EMR emissions, shall undergo an EMR survey. Use the distance at which the
     measurement is performed to establish the SSD. Compare the EMR results with Table 9,
     MIL-STD-464, for HERO SAFE ordnance, Table A2.2 (Attachment 2) for HERO
     SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance, and Table A2.1 (Attachment 2) for HERO UNSAFE
     ordnance, to ensure the EMR level poses no hazard. Emissions may occur at various
     frequencies and the worst case EMR level shall be used to establish the SSD.
     4.5.2. Electronic devices, without radiating wireless capability, that are certified to meet
     Code of Federal Regulations, Title 47, Radio Frequency Devices, Class A and B limits
     and labeled accordingly, require no SSD and can be used in close proximity but must not
     come in direct contact with ordnance, regardless of classification.
     4.5.3. For electronic devices radiating at less than 1 Watt with known transmitter average
     power output, antenna gain, and transmission frequency, use Table A2.7 (Attachment 2)
     to establish the SSD.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                         17


  4.6. TFE and MME Safety Procedures for Nuclear Weapons.
     4.6.1. IAW this instruction all nuclear weapons must be certified and classified as HERO
     SAFE. The procedures for ensuring the EMR from TFEs do not cause inadvertent EID
     initiation or degradation are similar to the procedures for conventional ordnance, i.e.,
     maintain a minimum of 10 feet between transmitting antennas and all nuclear weapons
     containing EIDs, assuming that at 10 feet the EMR from the transmitting antenna does
     not exceed MIL-STD-464 EME.
     4.6.2. The following are safety procedures involving nuclear weapons in a HERO SAFE
     configuration (Ultimate User configuration, i.e., all-up-round, shipping configuration)
     and electronic devices:
        4.6.2.1. MMEs and electronics devices cannot be connected to power via power
        cords.
        4.6.2.2. For an MME radiating at less than 1 Watt with known transmitter average
        power output, antenna gain, and transmission frequency, use Table A2.7 (Attachment
        2), HERO SAFE column, to establish the SSD.
        4.6.2.3. Electronic devices, without radiating wireless capability, that are certified to
        meet Code of Federal Regulations, Title 47, Radio Frequency Devices, Class A and B
        limits and labeled accordingly, require no SSD and can be used in proximity to the
        nuclear weapon but must not come in direct contact with the nuclear weapon.
        4.6.2.4. For electronics devices, without wireless capability and unknown
        electromagnetic emissions, require an EMR survey. The distance at which the EMR
        is measured will establish the SSD as long as the EMR is below HERO SAFE EME
        levels listed in Table 9, MIL-STD-464. Emissions may occur at various frequencies
        and the worst case EMR level shall be used to establish an SSD.
     4.6.3. The following are safety procedures involving nuclear weapons in a non-Ultimate
     User configuration, e.g., undergoing maintenance, (HERO UNSAFE nuclear weapon)
     and electronic devices that intentionally or unintentional emit EMR:
        4.6.3.1. The use of electronic equipment within 10 feet of a nuclear weapon or
        associated nuclear weapon component is prohibited, unless:
            4.6.3.1.1. An EMR survey is accomplished for the specific electronic device and
            the appropriate SSD established. Use the distance at which the measurement is
            performed to establish an SSD. Compare the EMR results with Table A2.3,
            which is illustrated in Figure A2.3 (Attachment 2), to ensure the EMR level poses
            no hazard. Emissions may occur at various frequencies and the worst case EMR
            level shall be used to establish the SSD. This applies to all unintentional emitters
            of EMR for which an SSD cannot be calculated IAW with this instruction due to
            unknown power or frequency characteristics.
            4.6.3.1.2. The local Weapon Safety Office has determined the item is certified by
            the manufacturer to meet Code of Federal Regulations, Title 47, Radio Frequency
            Devices, Class A and B limits, and is labeled accordingly. The item can be used
            in proximity to the nuclear weapon but must not come in direct contact with the
            nuclear weapon.
18                                                             AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


       4.6.3.2. For an MME radiating at less than 1 Watt with known transmitter average
       power output, antenna gain, and transmission frequency, use Table A2.7 (Attachment
       2), HERO UNSAFE column, to establish the SSD. The item must not come in direct
       contact with the nuclear weapon.
     4.6.4. DELETED




                                       MARGARET H. WOODWARD
                                       Major General, USAF
                                       Chief of Safety
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                         19


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-5, Warfighter Integration, 11 January 2013
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 24 July 2012
AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, 20 June 2005
AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, 7 March 2012
AFI 33-33-580, Spectrum Management, 17 January 2013
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011, Incorporating
Change 2, 20 August 2013
AFI 91-205, Nonnuclear Munitions Safety Board, 12 April 2012
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009, Incorporating Through Interim Change
11, 1 April 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, 4 August
2010, Incorporating Through Change 2, 19 October 2011
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
AFSPCMAN 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements Manual, 1 July 2004
United States Air Force Airworthiness Bulletin-013A, Risk Identification and Acceptance for
Airworthiness Determination, 29 June 2011
Engineering Technical Letter 11-7, Nuclear Weapons-Capable Maintenance and Storage
Facilities, 1 September 2011
Technical Order 31Z-10-4, Joint Services Command, Control, Communication, and Computer
Systems Electromagnetic Radiation Hazards, 1 February 2005
DoD Directive 3222.3, DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program, 8 September
2004
DoD Directive 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003, Certified Current as of
20 November 2007
DoD Directive 6055.9E, Explosives Safety Management and the DoD Explosives Safety Board,
19 August 2005
DoD Instruction 4650.01, Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the
Electromagnetic Spectrum, 9 January 2009
DoD Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
DoD Manual 6055.09-M, DoD Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards, 29 February 2008,
Administratively Reissued, 4 August 2010
 20                                                               AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


Code of Federal Regulations, Title 47, Telecommunications, Chapter I, Federal Communications
Commission
MIL-STD-464C, Electromagnetic Environmental Effects Requirements for Systems, 21
December 2010
MIL-STD-882E, Standard Practice for System Safety, 11 May 2012
MIL-HDBK-235-1C, Military Operational Electromagnetic Environment Profiles, Part 1C,
General Guidance, 1 October 2010
MIL-HDBK-235-7, Military Operational Electromagnetic Environment Profiles, Part 7,
External Electromagnetic Environment Levels for Ordnance, 1 October 2010
MIL-HDBK-237D, Electromagnetic Environmental Effects and Spectrum Supportability
Guidance for the Acquisition Process, 20 May 2005
MIL-HDBK-240A, Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordnance Test Guide, 10 March
2011
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Manual of Regulations and
Procedures for Federal RF Management, Chapter 5, Spectrum Standards, May 2011
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Force Sustainment Center
AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center
AFSEC/SEW—Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division
AFSMO—Air Force Spectrum Management Office
AFSPCMAN—Air Force Space Command Manual
CR—complete round
CRC—Complete Round Code
CRD—Complete Round Dictionary
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                          21


DC—duty cycle
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DODIC—Department of Defense Identification Code
DOE—Department of Energy
E3—electromagnetic environmental effects
EFI—exploding foil initiator
EID—electrically initiated device
EIS—Engineering Installation Squadron
EIRP—effective isotropic radiated power
EME—electromagnetic environment
EMR—electromagnetic radiation
EOD—explosive ordnance disposal
ERP—effective radiated power
GACP—Global Ammunition Control Point
HERO—hazards of electromagnetic radiation to ordnance
IAW—in accordance with
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
IMS—Inventory Management Specialist
ISM—Installation Spectrum Manager
JOERAD—Joint Spectrum Center Operations Electromagnetic Environmental Effects Risk
Analysis Database
JSC—Joint Spectrum Center
MAE—maximum allowable environment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCs—military characteristics
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MIL—HDBK–Military-Handbook
MIL—STD–Military-Standard
MME—modern mobile emitter
NSN—National Stock Number
PEO—Program Executive Office
PM—Program Manager
 22                                                                   AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


PM J—AIT–Program Manager Joint-Automatic Identification Technology
PMO—Project Management Office
prf—pulse repetition frequency
pri—pulse repetition interval
p-static—precipitation static
pw—pulse width
RFID—radio frequency identification
rms—root-mean-squared
S4—stockpile-to-safe separation sequence
SPO—System Program Office
SSD—safe separation distance
STS—stockpile-to-target sequence
TFE—traditional fixed-location emitter

Terms
Antenna—That part of the receiving or transmitting system designated to radiate or receive
electromagnetic fields.
Antenna Gain (G)—An antenna’s power gain, or simply gain, is a performance figure
combining the antenna’s directivity and electrical efficiency. In a transmitting antenna, gain
describes how well the antenna converts input power into electromagnetic fields headed in a
specified direction. In a receiving antenna, gain describes how well the antenna converts
electromagnetic fields arriving from a specific direction into electrical power. For the purposes
of this instruction, gain is expressed in dBi, unless otherwise noted. The numerical (far field)
gain ratio, not the dBi value, of a transmitting antenna can be determined from the gain
expressed in dBi as follows:


where
      numerical (far field) gain ratio of the transmitting antenna
         antenna gain (dBi)
Decibel isotropic is the measurement of gain in a directional antenna compared with a theoretical
isotropic antenna radiating the exact same energy in all directions. Gain may also be expressed
relative to a dipole antenna with units of dBd. Use the following formula to convert from dBd to
dBi:

where
        antenna gain (dBi)
        antenna gain (dBd)
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                             23


Antenna Field Regions–The electromagnetic fields surrounding an antenna are divided into
three principle regions as illustrated in Figure A1.1. For a more detailed explanation of antenna
field regions, reference technical order 31Z-10-4 or MIL-HDBK-235-1C. The electromagnetic
fields around an antenna are divided into three regions: the reactive near field, the radiating near
field or Fresnel, and the far field or Fraunhofer. The distance, close to the antenna, the reactive
near field, is given approximately by the following formula:


where
        reactive near field distance (meters)
    maximum linear dimension of an antenna (meters)
    wavelength (meters) of the antenna derived from the frequency

Figure A1.1. Antenna Field Regions.




The near field of an antenna is any location closer to the antenna than the far field distance,
comprising of the reactive and radiating near fields. In the near field, the equations for the
radiating electromagnetic fields must be used without simplification and calculating the coupling
of EMR to the receiving antenna becomes very complicated and difficult. For a more detailed
explanation of near field calculations, see technical order 31Z-10-4 or MIL-HDBK-235-1C.
Replacement of equations for radiated electromagnetic fields at the far field distance with
simpler equations is the point where the difference has dropped below a threshold margin
accepted by engineers. The simpler far field EMR equations describe a more consistent power
density environment and the propagation and coupling of the EMR to a receiving antenna is
easier to apply to the EID scenario. Use the following formula to determine the distance from an
antenna where the far field region begins:


where
        far field distance (meters)
    maximum linear dimension of an antenna (meters)
    wavelength (meters) of the antenna derived from the frequency
 24                                                                     AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


Note that the distance from the antenna must be much greater than the maximum linear
dimension of the antenna and wavelength. The antenna maximum linear dimension is the length
of the longest dimension of the antenna itself. For a dipole antenna or yagi it is simply the length
of the antenna. For a parabolic dish, the dimension is the diameter of the dish. For any other
shape, use the longest single dimension, which could be diagonal across a rectangular element
such as a grid sectional parabolic antenna. Figure A1.2 consists of examples of antenna
maximum linear dimensions.

Figure A1.2. Examples of Antenna Maximum Linear Dimensions.




Average Power Output of a Transmitter (Pt)–For continuous systems, the peak radiated power
is considered the average power output of the transmitter, expressed in watts.

where
      average power output of a transmitter (W)
        peak radiated power of a transmitter (W)
For pulsed-modulated signals, typically radars have differences between peak and average root-
mean-squared (rms) power. Determine the average power output of the transmitter by using the
ratio of time-on and time-off over an interval. The time-on/off is the duty cycle (DC).


where
      duty cycle (unitless)
      pulse width (seconds)
      pulse repetition interval (seconds)
       pulse repetition frequency (Hz)
The product of the peak power and DC is the average power output of the transmitter.

where
    average power output of a transmitter (W)
      peak radiated power of a transmitter (W)
      duty cycle (unitless)
Use peak power as Pt for pulsed transmitters with wide pulse widths, one millisecond or greater.

Bridgewire–A metal wire heated by the passage of electrical current, which initiates the
deflagrating or detonating charge surrounding the wire.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                               25



Dudding–The inability of the EIDs to function as intended because the physical/electrical
properties have been altered due to the application or repeated application of energy below that
required to initiate the device.

Effective Isotropic Radiated Power (EIRP)–EIRP is the amount of power in watts a theoretical
isotropic antenna would emit to produce a peak power density observed in the direction of
maximum antenna gain. Assuming a lossless system, EIRP is the product of average power
output and numerical gain.

where
         effective isotropic radiated power (W)
      average power output of the transmitter (W)
      numerical (far field) gain ratio (not the dBi value) of the transmitting antenna
For EIRP in terms of power ratio, average transmitter power output to a milliwatt, with a unit of
decibel milliwatt (dBm) or average transmitter power output to one watt, with a unit of decibel
watt (dBW), use the following equations to convert from dBm or dBW to watts:




In some cases, the average power output of the transmitter may be expressed in terms of
effective radiated power (ERP) instead of EIRP. ERP is referenced to a half-wave dipole
radiator instead of an isotropic radiator. To convert ERP to EIRP, multiply ERP by a factor of
1.64, the gain of a half-wave dipole antenna relative to an isotropic radiator.

where
         effective isotropic radiated power (W)
        effective radiated power (W)

Electric Field Strength (E)–Electric field strength is the magnitude of the electric field vector
with units of volts (V) per meter. Determine the electric field strength from the power density
using the following formula:

where
      electric field strength (V/m)
       power density (W/m2)
       intrinsic impedance of free space (120π or approximately 377 Ω)
This relationship only exists for a plane wave, within the far field of the antenna where the
relationship between the electric field and magnetic field is orthogonal and clearly defined.

Electromagnetic Environment (EME)–EME is the resulting product of the power and time
distribution, in various frequency ranges, of the radiated or conducted electromagnetic emission
 26                                                                        AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


levels that may be encountered by a military force, system, or platform when performing its
assigned mission in its intended operational environment (in the case of ordnance, during its S4).
It is dynamically comprised of electromagnetic energy from a multitude of natural sources
(lightning, precipitation static (p-static), electrostatic discharge, galactic and stellar noise, and so
forth) and man-made sources (electrical and electronic systems, radio frequency systems,
electromagnetic devices, ultra-wideband systems, high-power microwaves systems, and so
forth). When defined, the EME will be for a particular time and place. Specific equipment
characteristics, such as operating frequencies and emitter power levels, operational factors, such
as distance between items and force structure and frequency coordination, all contribute to the
EME.

Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3)–E3 is the impact of the EME upon the
operational capability of military forces, equipment, systems, and platform/systems. It
encompasses all electromagnetic disciplines, including electromagnetic compatibility;
electromagnetic interference; electromagnetic vulnerability; electromagnetic pulse; electronic
protection; electrostatic discharge; and hazards of electromagnetic radiation to personnel,
ordnance, and volatile materials such as fuel; and includes the electromagnetic effects generated
by all EME contributors including radio frequency systems; ultra-wideband devices; high-power
microwaves systems; lightning; p-static; and so forth.

Frequency (f)–For a periodic function, frequency is the number of cycles or events per unit time
measured in hertz (Hz) or cycles per second. Use the following formulas to convert between
kilohertz (kHz) (1,000 Hz), Megahertz (MHz) (1,000,000 Hz), and Gigahertz (GHz)
(1,000,000,000 Hz)
1 kHz = 0.001 Mhz
1 GHz = 1,000 MHz
For EMR, frequency is related to wavelength, in a vacuum, as follows:

where
    frequency (Hz)
   speed of light (3×108 meters/second)
   wavelength (meters)

HERO Margin–The difference between the maximum no-fire stimulus and the permissible EID
response level. For EIDs with a safety consequence, the margin is defined in MIL-STD-464 as
16.5 dB; for EIDs with a reliability consequence, the margin is defined as 6 dB.

Maximum Allowable Environment (MAE)–MAE is the highest radiated field strength levels
to which ordnance can be exposed to without exceeding EID HERO margins.

Modern Mobile Emitter (MME)–Certain EMR emitters have the capability of moving with
respect to the location of the EIDs, as well as any other low power emitters, part of modern
communication and data systems including MMEs, e.g, cellular telephones, barcode readers,
RFID devices, wireless laptops, network access points, and any other transmitter potentially
brought close to EIDs.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                           27



Power Density (Pd)–Power density is the power flow per unit area with units of W/m2 or
mW/m2. Average power density is the quantity related to the heating properties of EMR and,
hence, to personnel and other hazards, while peak power density becomes important in the study
of the effects of electromagnetic fields on EIDs and on fuel hazards. In the far field, assuming a
lossless system, calculate the power density of a directional antenna as follows:


where
     power density (W/m2)
    average power output of a transmitter (W)
     numerical (far field) gain ratio of a transmitter
   distance or range from an antenna (meters)
        effective isotropic radiated power (W)
Power density levels are calculated within a 3 dB beam width or the main beam.

Reliability Consequence–The inadvertent actuation of an EID that does not result in a safety
consequence, but degrades system performance; i.e., renders the ordnance item either ineffective
or unable to function as intended. In addition, the definition has been expanded to include
dudding where the system would no longer be reliable.

Safe Separation Distance (SSD)–For HERO, SSD is the calculated distance, in meters or feet,
from an emitter beyond which the radiated power density from the emitter has decreased to a
level too low to couple enough energy into the EIDs to initiate detonation. Measurements of the
SSD may take into account both the horizontal and vertical difference in length and height
between the emitter and the EIDs.

Safety Consequence–The inadvertent actuation of an EID that creates an immediate catastrophic
event with the potential to either destroy equipment or injure personnel, such as the firing of an
inline rocket motor igniter by EMR energy; or the inadvertent actuation of an EID that increases
the probability of a future catastrophic event by removing or otherwise disabling a safety feature
of the ordnance item. This, for example, might be caused by the EMR initiation of a piston
actuator that removes a lock on the safety-and-arming rotor of an artillery fuze, thus allowing a
sensitive detonator to rotate in-line with the explosive train.

Symbols and Units–The following are symbols and units used in this instruction:

c–speed of light (3×108 meters/second)
d–antenna maximum linear dimension
dB–decibel
dBi–decibel isotropic
dBm–decibel milliwatt
dBW–decibel watt
 28                                                                    AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


E–electric field strength
EMAE–maximum allowable environment electric field strength
f–frequency
G–antenna gain
GdBd–antenna gain relative to a dipole antenna
GdBi–antenna gain expressed in dBi
GHz–gigahertz
Gt–numerical (far field) gain ratio of a transmitting antenna
Hz–hertz
i–number of traditional fixed-location emitters
kHz–kilohertz
λ–wavelength
m–meter
MHz–Megahertz
mW–milliwatt
Ω–ohm
π–pi (3.14159)
Pd–power density
Ppk–peak radiated power
Pt–average power output of a transmitter
r–distance or range from an antenna
Rff–far field distance
Rnf–near field distance
SSDi–safe separation distance for each traditional fixed-location emitter
SSDm–safe separation distance for multiple traditional fixed-location emitters
      –summation operator
V–volts
W–watts
Z0–instrinstic impedance of free space (120π or 377 Ω)

Traditional Fixed-Location Emitter (TFE)–TFEs are all EMR emitters traditionally tracked by
the ISM. These emitters are in a fixed location, usually mounted on a tower, mast, or rooftop,
and separated by a great distance from the EIDs such that the far field applies.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                29


                                    Attachment 2
                       SAFE SEPARATION DISTANCE (SSD)

A2.1. Maximum Allowable Environment (MAE).
  A2.1.1. For ordnance classified as HERO UNSAFE, the MAE electric field strength (EMAE)
  is defined in Table A2.1 and illustrated in Figure A2.1.

Table A2.1. EMAE for HERO UNSAFE Ordnance.




Figure A2.1. HERO UNSAFE EMAE Curve.
30                                                          AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


  A2.1.2. For ordnance classified as HERO SUSCEPTIBLE, the EMAE is defined in Table
  A2.2 and illustrated in Figure A2.2.

Table A2.2. EMAE for HERO SUSCEPTIBLE Ordnance.




Figure A2.2. HERO SUSCEPTIBLE EMAE Curve.




  A2.1.3. For nuclear weapons classified as HERO UNSAFE, the EMAE is defined in Table
  A2.3 and illustrated in Figure A2.3.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                       31


Table A2.3. EMAE for HERO UNSAFE Nuclear Weapons.




Figure A2.3. HERO UNSAFE Nuclear Weapons EMAE Curve.




   A2.1.4. To convert from power density to electrical field strength, use the formula provided
   in Attachment 1.
A2.2. SSD Formulas.
   A2.2.1. SSD is determined using formulas in Table A2.4 for HERO UNSAFE ordnance.
   A2.2.2. SSD is determined using formulas in Table A2.5 for HERO SUSCEPTIBLE
   ordnance.
 32                                                       AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


   A2.2.3. SSD is determined using formulas in Table A2.6 for HERO UNSAFE nuclear
   weapons. Nuclear weapons are HERO UNSAFE when EIDs are exposed due to
   maintenance, assembly, or disassembly.

Table A2.4. Equations for Computing SSD for HERO UNSAFE Ordnance.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                    33


Table A2.5. Equations for Computing SSD for HERO SUSCEPTIBLE Ordnance.
 34                                                                    AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


Table A2.6. Equations for Computing SSD for HERO UNSAFE Nuclear Weapons.




Note: For Tables A2.4, A2.5, and A2.6:

1. Formulas in the subject tables apply to the far field region of the antenna only. Far field
region is determined using the formula provided in Attachment 1. For other far field
requirements, see technical order 31Z-10-4, Joint Services Command, Control, Communications,
and Computer Systems Electromagnetic Radiation Hazards, latest revision, or MIL-STD-235-1,
Military Operational Electromagnetic Environmental Profiles, latest revision.

2. In cases where the calculated SSD is less than 10 feet, refer to paragraph A2.4 for guidance if
MMEs are involved, otherwise the SSD is 10 feet.

3. For frequencies outside the range specified in these tables, request assistance from
AFSEC/SEW.

4. Use average transmitter power (W), antenna gain (dBi), and the lowest operation frequency
(MHz) for frequencies greater than 2 MHz and the highest operational frequency for frequencies
less than or equal to 2 MHz.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                        35


5. For pulsed transmitters with wide pulse widths one millisecond or greater, use the peak
transmitter power, Pt, instead of the average power of the transmitter.

6. The SSD for HERO SAFE ordnance in EME higher than MIL-STD-464 EME is determined
by multiplying 10 feet (3 meters) by the ratio of the higher EME (EME measured or determined
using the antenna characteristics) to the lower EME (MIL-STD-464 EME).
A2.3. Multiple TFEs. When multiple TFEs are present, use the following methodology:
   A2.3.1. For multiple TFEs operating in the same frequency/band, the SSD is determined
   using the formula in Figure A2.4:
Figure A2.4. SSD for Multiple TFEs Operating in the Same Frequency/Band.
   A2.3.2. For multiple TFEs operating at different frequency/bands, the largest individual SSD
   applies.
A2.4. MMEs. For MMEs radiating less than 1 Watt, use Table A2.7. Use the lowest operation
frequency (MHz) for frequencies greater than 2 MHz and the highest operational frequency for
frequencies less than or equal to 2 MHz.

Table A2.7. Determining SSDs Involving Ordnance and MMEs.
 36                                                                   AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


A2.5. Examples for Calculating SSDs.
   A2.5.1. EMAE Examples.
Scenario 1. HERO SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance exposed to power density of 450 W/m2 at a
frequency of 200 MHz.

Step 1. Assuming the ordnance is in the far field region of the antenna, using the formula for
electrical field strength (Attachment 1), convert the measured power density to the measured
electric field strength (V/m-rms).

Step 2. Using Table A2.2, determine EMAE for HERO SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance.

Step 3. Compare the EMAE and the measured electric field strength, determined from the
measured power density (Figure A2.5). The ordnance exposure is 412 V/m-rms. The EMAE is 5
V/m-rms. The situation is unacceptable. Therefore, the ordnance must be moved to an area
where the electric field is lower than 5 V/m-rms or power density is less than 66 mW/m2.

Figure A2.5. Scenario 1. Comparing EMAE to Measured Electric Field Strength.




Scenario 2. HERO SAFE ordnance exposed to a power density of 450 W/m2 at a frequency of
200 MHz.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                             37


Step 1. As determined in Scenario 1, the measured electrical field strength is determined to be
412 V/m-rms.

Step 2. Using MIL-STD-464, Table 9, determine the EMAE for the ordnance. For the frequency
range from 150 to 225 MHz, the unrestricted average EMAE is 200 V/m-rms and the restricted
average EMAE is 70 V/m-rms.

Step 3. Compare EMAE for the ordnance to the measured electric field strength, determined from
the measured power density (Figure A2.6). This situation is unacceptable no matter which S4
phase the ordnance is in. Therefore, move the ordnance to an area where the electric field
strength is less than 200 V/m-rms for unrestricted and 70 V/m-rms for restricted. This
corresponds to power density levels of 106 and 13 W/m2, respectively.


Figure A2.6 Scenario 2. Comparing EMAE to Measured Electric Field Strength.




A2.5.2. TFE Example.
Scenario 3. Assuming the ordnance is in the far field region of the antenna, HERO
SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance exposed to an emitter transmitting at 300 MHz having an average
transmitter power of 1,000 W and antenna gain of 15 dBi.
 38                                                                    AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


Step 1. Determine the EIRP (W) given the following
     1,000 W
        15 dBi

 The numerical gain ratio is determined as follows:


and

Step 2. The ordnance is classified as HERO SUSCEPTIBLE; therefore use the formula from
Table A2.5. Because the frequency is 300 MHz, the applicable formula, in feet, is as follows:


A2.5.3. Multiple TFEs Example.
Scenario 4. Assuming the ordnance is in the far field region of the antennas, consider the site
where the antennas are collocated on a tower and have characteristics listed in Table A2.8.

Table A2.8. Scenario 4. Antenna Characteristics.




Step 1. Convert EIRP from dBm to watts using the formula from Attachment 1, resulting in
values listed in Table A2.9.


Table A2.9. Scenario 4. EIRP(W).




Step 2. Calculate the SSD based on equations from Tables A2.4 and A2.5 (Attachment 2) for
HERO UNSAFE and HERO SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance, respectively, resulting in values listed in
Table A2.10.

Table A2.10. Scenario 4. Individual TFE SSDs.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                            39




Step 3. For the two antennas, antennas 1 and 2, operating at 1,930 MHz, the SSD based on
multiple TFEs is determined using the formulas in paragraph A2.3 (Attachment 2). For HERO
UNSAFE ordnance, the SSD, in feet is based on multiple TFEs, is a follows:


For HERO SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance, the SSD, in feet, and based on multiple TFEs, is as
follows:

Step 4. Compare all of the determined SSDs (Table A2.11) and apply the largest value to the
situation because the other antennas (antennas 3, 4, and 5) are not operating at the same
frequency as antennas 1 and 2.

Table A2.11. Scenario 4. Final SSDs.




Note: For this scenario, the SSD value of 374 feet would apply if all ordnance items were
classified as HERO UNSAFE. The SSD value of 94 feet would apply if all ordnance items were
classified as HERO SUSCEPTIBLE. If the site has mixed classification, the worst SSD value
applies, and, in this case, the value of 374 feet. If all ordnance items were classified as HERO
SAFE, the SSD would be 10 feet. To verify that the ordnance, classified as HERO SAFE, EME
exposure does not exceed MIL-STD-464 levels at 10 feet, determine the electric field strength
using the formula from Attachment 1.


Table A2.12 lists the resulting approximate electric field strengths at 10 feet from each antenna.
To use this formula, the distance or range from the antenna (r), is in meters, therefore use 3
meters.

Table A2.12. Scenario 4. Electric Field Strengths.
 40                                                                  AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013




For the two antennas operating at the same frequency, antennas 1 and 2, the superimposed fields
are determined as follows:

Comparing the calculated fields from Table A2.12 with average values given in MIL-STD-464,
Table 9, EME (Table A2.13 and illustrated in Figure A2.7) indicate that at 10 feet, for ordnance
classified as HERO SAFE, the EME exposure does not exceed MIL-STD-464 EME for S4
phases involving transportation/storage, staged, platform-loaded, and immediate post launch,
which is known as the unrestricted environment. For S4 phases involving assembly/disassembly
and loading/unloading, known as the restricted environment, there is an issue because the
calculated electric field exceeds the average MIL-STD-464 EME for restricted environment.
That is the combined fields of antennas 1 and 2 exceed the restricted average.

Table A2.13. Scenario 4. Electric Field Strengths Comparison.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                      41


Figure A2.7. Scenario 4. Comparing EMAE to Calculated Electric Field
Strength.




To determine the SSD for HERO SAFE ordnance involved in assembly/disassembly and
loading/unloading, the electric field strength needs to be less than 160 V/m-rms. As stated in
Note 6 for Tables A2.4, A2.5, and A2.6, the SSD is determined by multiplying 10 feet by the
ratio of the higher EME as measured or determined using the antenna characteristics (228 V/m-
rms) to the lower EME per MIL-STD-464 EME (160 V/m-rms).


For this scenario, HERO SAFE ordnance in the restricted environment must be kept 14.25 feet
away from the antennas.
 42                                                                 AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


                                        Attachment 3
                             EMR ANALYSIS ASSISTANCE

A3.1. Assistance Requests.
   A3.1.1. When a HERO situation is suspected or the minimum SSD for a particular location
   is in question, request assistance from MAJCOM/SEW. When classification of an emitter as
   a TFE or an MME is unclear, request assistance from AFSEC/SEW.
   A3.1.2. MAJCOM/SEW may request assistance from AFSEC/SEW.
   A3.1.3. Assistance requests must include all of the information needed for a complete
   understanding of the situation. Minimum requirements are as follows:
      A3.1.3.1. Type of aircraft or ground vehicle, ordnance, and applicable EIDs involved
      (HERO classification) and, if available, characteristics of the EIDs (maximum no fire
      power or energy levels).
      A3.1.3.2. Base layout of the area showing transportation routes of EIDs and ordnance
      subsystems, locations of ordnance, and EIDs maintenance, storage, and
      assembly/disassembly areas, and location of all transmitting systems, including the
      antenna system characteristics as listed in the HERO package.
   A3.1.4. Decisions are sent to the originating base or command, with information copies sent
   to all agencies involved in the decision process and an additional copy to AFSEC/SEW, if
   applicable.
A3.2. Radiation Hazard Tools.
   A3.2.1. The United States Navy provides radiation hazard tools online at
   https://www.e3teamonline.org. In particular, use the HERO SSD calculator to determine
   SSDs for HERO classified ordnance.
   A3.2.2. Input the transmitter start or lower frequency (MHz) for frequencies greater than 2
   MHz or the higher frequency for frequencies less than or equal to 2 MHz, the transmitter
   maximum average power (W), and antenna gain (dBi). The program calculates EIRP (W)
   and SSD (feet and meters) for HERO SAFE, HERO SUSCEPTIBLE, and HERO UNSAFE
   ordnance.
   A3.2.3. The calculator also provides SSDs of less than 10 feet for certain emitters. In that
   case, refer to paragraph A2.4 (Attachment 2) for guidance. Note that the calculator does not
   take into account EME that exceed MIL-STD-464 EME and the result of 10 feet may be
   misleading for HERO SAFE ordnance. Before using the tool, determine if the EME is below
   MIL-STD-464 EME.
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                           43


                                         Attachment 4
                          HERO PACKAGE AND EMR SURVEY

A4.1. Requirement. The Weapons Safety Manager shall prepare and maintain a HERO
package consisting of the following:
   A4.1.1. D-8 map showing EMR emissions affecting the following operations per AFI 91-
   202, paragraph 9.4.9.10: Storage, handling, maintaining, loading/unloading, explosive
   ordnance disposal (EOD), and assembly areas of explosives; delivery routes
   (nuclear/conventional); weapons loading operations (nuclear/conventional); and EOD
   operations.
   A4.1.2. Excel spreadsheet, built with the assistance of the base frequency manager,
   consisting of an emitter list (both mobile and non-mobile). Document and ensure that the
   ordnance is located in the far field region of the antenna by determining the far field distance
   (Rff) (Attachment A) using the maximum linear dimension of the antenna and the
   wavelength.
   A4.1.3. Excel spreadsheet of SSDs for all ordnance containing EIDs.
   A4.1.4. Weapons Safety Manager’s assessment, in writing, of hazards to explosives/nuclear
   operations.
   A4.1.5. Provide the HERO package to base users, EOD, Munitions Supervision/Control, fire
   department, and any other organization deemed necessary.
A4.2. Purpose. To prescribe, through advanced planning, the easiest and most efficient method
of managing the conflict between the EME created by transmitting equipment and HERO
classified ordnance.
A4.3. HERO Package.
   A4.3.1. The purpose of completing an emitter list is to gather all installation, emitter system
   information.     This includes all specifications necessary to calculate the HERO
   SUSCEPTIBLE and HERO UNSAFE ordnance SSDs for each emitter system and ensure
   that for HERO SAFE ordnance the EME are below MIL-STD-464 EME. The list consists of
   all transmitters and antennas, including MMEs, identified by military nomenclature or, if
   appropriate, manufacturer and model. Cite all transmitter and antenna facilities, including
   fixed, mobile, relay, etc. Document this information ninety days prior to the intent-to-install
   of any transmitter or antenna system.
       A4.3.1.1. For each transmitter/antenna system, document the following parameters:
       frequency range (MHz), maximum average output power (W), antenna type, antenna gain
       (dBi), antenna dimensions, and transmitter/antenna location.
       A4.3.1.2. Use the maximum antenna dimension (see Figure A1.2 for examples) and
       wavelength (determined from frequency, see Attachment 1) to determine where the far
       field region begins for each antenna (see Attachment 1 for far field region formula).
       Ensure ordnance is in the far field region of the antenna.
       A4.3.1.3. For radar systems, the important parameters to document are average power,
       frequency band, antenna type, and gain. Because the average power is derived from
44                                                                  AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


     formulas involving peak power, DC, pulse width (pw), and pulse repetition frequency
     (prf), these parameters must also be documented. Use this information and the formulas
     provided in Attachment 1 to determine the transmitter average power. Note the pw and
     prf are calculated from radar modes producing the highest average power. Consider peak
     power as the average power for pulsed transmitters with wide pulse widths, one
     millisecond or greater.
     A4.3.1.4. Inform the Communication Squadron and/or ISM of an EMR equipment
     increase ninety days prior to the change. This information consists of data required to
     calculate SSDs IAW this instruction, determine ordnance operational impact, and update
     existing HERO packages and EME. The installation safety office updates the emitter list
     as required.
  A4.3.2. Once the transmitter/emitter characteristics are obtained, calculate the HERO
  UNSAFE and/or HERO SUSCEPTIBLE ordnance SSDs using Tables A2.4 and A2.5
  (Attachment 2), respectively. For MMEs radiating less than 1 Watt, use the guidance
  provided in paragraph A2.4 (Attachment 2) to determine the SSDs. Alternatively, use the
  online HERO calculator to determine SSDs. Compare the calculated distance to the actual
  distance between each antenna and the various ordnance locations, this process allows for
  identification of potential HERO problems. Using the information obtained from the
  transmitter/antenna systems or actual EMR survey results ensures the EME at the ordnance
  location are below MIL-STD-464 EME for HERO SAFE ordnance.
  A4.3.3. The purpose of the listing and identifying the location of the ordnance present is to
  determine their HERO classification and to make note of EMR concerns at their respective
  locations. Ordnance locations include all locations represented in the S4 for a specific
  ordnance item; e.g., storage areas, assembly areas, transportation routes, staging areas, and
  deployment locations. AFSEC/SEW provides HERO classification and susceptibility
  criteria. Ordnance not having a HERO classification is treated as HERO UNSAFE until a
  HERO status is provided by AFSEC/SEW. This ordnance may include components or
  subsystems of all-up rounds or HERO untested ordnance. In all instances, observe the
  protective requirements outlined in paragraph 4.1.4 of this instruction. Perform the following
  steps to complete the ordnance list and location identification:
     A4.3.3.1. Consult with Munitions Accountable Systems Officer to determine the types
     and locations of ordnance items, ensure Operational Security and security classification
     requirements are enforced. Identify ordnance locations on the base D-8 map, as well as
     the ordnance transportation routes. This information is useful when performing EMR
     surveys.
     A4.3.3.2. Once all ordnance and their location have been identified, refer to
     AFSEC/SEW listing to determine their HERO classification. The ordnance items are
     subject to the HERO package and their location is compared to the location of the emitter
     system listed, as described in paragraph A4.3.1.
  A4.3.4. Once emitters, ordnance, and their respective locations have been identified, use the
  base D-8 map to determine the distances between the antennas and the various ordnance
  locations. Identify the emitter systems requiring HERO EMR control for each ordnance
  location, if required. In those instances where the SSDs exceed the distance to a specific
  ordnance location, HERO EMR control (radio silence) is necessary. Impose this HERO
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                        45


   EMR control condition when conducting ordnance operations, if necessary. Different
   locations may have identical HERO conditions as a result of this process; i.e., the same
   emitter system is restricted by HERO EMR control imposed in more than one location. In
   these instances, combine the same HERO EMR control condition by applying to more than
   one location in order to limit the number of HERO conditions imposed.
   A4.3.5. Changes to the emitter and/or ordnance configuration can necessitate the update or
   modification of an existing HERO package. The deletion of either ordnance or emitters is
   simply a matter of removing the item from the existing HERO package.
       A4.3.5.1. Upon receipt of new ordnance, identify its location and classification as
       described in paragraph A4.3.3 to determine if the existing HERO package needs
       modification. If the ordnance is percussion initiated or non-explosive, there is no EMR
       control requirement. For ordnance containing EIDs, match its location to the location
       description and specific conditions and procedures provided in the existing HERO
       package. Similarly, when ordnance items are relocated to an additional area, evaluate the
       ordnance location and add the results to the HERO package under the new location.
       A4.3.5.2. The following applies to new emitter systems as well as relocated or upgraded
       existing emitter systems. Add relocated or upgraded emitter systems to an existing
       HERO package when system parameters change (e.g., power or gain increase) results in
       changes to the appropriate SSD. Assess whether the emitter SSD encompasses the
       ordnance location outlined in the existing HERO package. Assess the SSD and identify
       antenna location, then compare these distances with the distances from known ordnance
       locations outlined in the existing HERO package. If the SSD encompasses any of these
       ordnance locations, as outlined in the existing HERO package, incorporate EMR control
       restrictions (radio silence) into the existing HERO package for the appropriate location.
   A4.3.6. The HERO package also documents the use of MMEs or other electronic equipment
   that emits on command or automatically generates EMR for use within magazine or ordnance
   assembly/disassembly areas or when employed around ordnance.
A4.4. EMR Survey. When the installation safety office cannot take into account all sources of
EMR, needs to evaluate the attenuation of the surrounding environment, and/or cannot comply
with minimum SSD because of the lack of real estate or other limitations, the Air Base Wing
Commander shall request an EMR survey.
   A4.4.1. An EMR survey provides measurements of the EMR fields, as well as a more
   detailed look at the operational environment. In some instances, data gathered by the EMR
   survey will alleviate some restrictions imposed by this instruction. The Air Base Wing
   Commander is responsible for requesting and funding an EMR survey. The installation
   safety office documents the results in the HERO package.
   A4.4.2. The 85th Engineering Installation Squadron (EIS), Keesler AFB, is the AF provider
   of electromagnetic compatibility, electromagnetic interference, EMR and electromagnetic
   pulse field measurements, and analytical capabilities. Request these capabilities from 85th
   EIS at (228) 377-3920, DSN 597-3920, or email: 5EIS.SCYM.1@us.af.mil, or from the
   Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division,
46                                                                   AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


E3 Assessment and Evaluation Branch (Q52).
  A4.4.3. The EMR survey consists of performing EME measurements and documenting the
  results with relevant technical data. Conclusions and recommendations regarding the use of
  transmitters during ordnance operations must be included and presented with supporting
  documentation. The organization performing the EMR survey prepares a report and provides
  their assessment to the WSM.
  A4.4.4. IAW Engineering Technical Letter, 11-7, Nuclear Weapons-Capable Maintenance
  and Storage Facilities, latest revision, an EMR survey is required within each facility to
  ensure that exposure of nuclear weapon systems to the EME from all equipment installed or
  used within the facility, individually and collectively, does not result in an overall EME that
  exceeds the weapons’ STS levels. Because nuclear weapons shall be certified as HERO
  SAFE, the EME shall not exceed MIL-STD-464, Table 9 levels, when the weapon is
  configured as an all-up round. If the nuclear weapon is undergoing maintenance, the weapon
  is classified as HERO UNSAFE, and the EME at that particular time and place must not
  exceed levels indicated in Table A2.3 and illustrated in Figure A2.3 (Attachment 2).
  Furthermore, perform EMR surveys at all other areas where nuclear weapons are employed
  during their S4 (e.g., dock, transportation routes, etc.).
AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013                                                                         47


                                         Attachment 5
                        ORDNANCE MODIFICATION GUIDANCE

A5.1. Guidance. Use the following as guidance to determine what changes in ordnance usually
result in a recommendation for a HERO test. Note that most changes to firing circuits result in a
recommendation to conduct a HERO test.
   A5.1.1. EID changes that require a HERO evaluation consist of changing firing stimulus
   response characteristics, changing the type of transducer that converts electrical input to
   energetic output, changing the fit or form of the EID, changes to EMR suppression
   components, and relocating EID to within ¼ λ (approximately 0.667 inches) of wiring that
   enters or exits ordnance envelope.
   A5.1.2. Firing circuit changes that require a HERO evaluation consist of all non-direct
   current firing circuits (always require testing), relocating firing circuits within ¼ λ
   (approximately 0.667 inches) of wiring that carries signal or enters or exits ordnance
   envelope, changes to EMR suppression components, and most change to firing circuits.
   A5.1.3. Ordnance envelope changes that require a HERO evaluation are any added aperture
   or antenna, changes to corrosion protection at mating seams, changes to wiring running
   outside the ordnance envelope, changes to EMR absorber coatings or gaskets, and relocating
   connectors involving ordnance subassemblies that contain EIDs.
   A5.1.4. S4 changes that require a HERO evaluation consist of changes in EMR levels in
   authorized assembly/disassembly spaces for operations that expose EIDs or internal wiring of
   ordnance subassemblies that contain EIDs, and changes in shipping/storage container where
   container is intended to provide protection from EMR.
 48                                                                      AFI91-208 16 MAY 2013


                                           Attachment 6
             REQUEST FOR HERO CERTIFICATION LETTER GUIDANCE

A6.1. Request for Certification Letter Contents. The first step in achieving HERO
certification is the preparation of the request for HERO certification letter. The PM will prepare
a letter, which consists of the following information:
   A6.1.1. Nomenclature and/or description of ordnance, DODIC, and NSN of the system.
   A6.1.2. If the ordnance requires assembly of several components, include the DODIC and
   NSN as well as part numbers for each component. These components must have been used
   when the ordnance was HERO tested/analyzed. Only that configuration, using those specific
   parts, will be certified.
   A6.1.3. The recommended HERO classification (HERO SAFE, HERO SUSCEPTIBLE, or
   HERO UNSAFE) based on the information provided. If the HERO test/analysis indicates
   that the ordnance is HERO SUSCEPTIBLE or HERO UNSAFE and the PM has not elected
   to resolve the issue, the PM shall request a deviation. The contents and attachments will
   consist of the same information as listed above and will include a detailed risk assessment
   IAW paragraph 1.5.3.
   A6.1.4. A technical point of contact familiar with the technical data/analysis provided.
A6.2. Attachments. Include with the letter any information that supports the HERO
certification. In particular, include HERO test/analysis reports or in depth information, when
comparing the article in question with existing HERO certified ordnance. Include the original
test plan with the test report. The test report/test plan shall consist of the information outlined in
MIL-HDBK-240. An analysis will consists of the same sections except a detailed analysis
replaces any test results/discussions.
