BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-1601
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                     22 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                                                AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                     15 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                       Special Management

                                                        AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED
                                                                         PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This AFI is availiable for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A9L                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A9
                                                              (Dr. Jacqueline R. Henningsen)
Supersedes:   AFI 90-1601, Air Force                                               Pages: 41
              Lessons Learned Program
              dated 26 June 2008.
                                          (ACC)
OPR: HQ ACC/A9L                                                    Certified by: HQ ACC/A9
                                                                  (Mr. Thomas D. Entwistle)
Supersedes:   AFI 90-1601_ACC SUP, 19                                               Pages:15
              November 2008


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-16, Air Force Studies,
Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned. It provides guidance for the Air Force Lessons
Learned Program (AFL2P) to include developing standards for major activities under the Air
Force Lessons Process (AFLP). It covers all activities associated with lessons learned (L2)
support for operations, exercise and wargame after action reports (AARs) as well as other L2
activities. This instruction guides AF positions to the Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP)
and the joint community on L2 matters. This instruction applies to all Air Force military,
civilian and contractor personnel, including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Command. This AFI may be supplemented by Air Force MAJCOMs or other subordinate levels,
but must be coordinated with AF/A9L prior to approval. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field
through MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a result of
 2                                           AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

(ACC) AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010, is
supplemented as follows: This supplement prescribes policies and procedures governing Lessons
Learned (L2) management for Air Combat Command (ACC) and its subordinate organizations,
including the Component Numbered Air Forces (C-NAFs). It provides a broad management
framework for subordinate organizations to adjust procedures to compensate for differences in
their organizations, i.e. mission, facility, and geographic location. While this supplement does
not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), it does
apply to Combat Air Force (CAF) Classic Associate units. Units may publish a single
supplement to consolidate local policies mandated by this supplement. Additionally units may
develop separate operating instructions as long as they are referenced in their 90-1601
supplements. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional‟s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
them in accordance with the Air Force Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
See Att achment1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision clarifies the roles and responsibilities in the lessons learned process (Chapter 2);
expands description of the lessons learned collection process (Chapter 3); provides a more
detailed lessons learned resolution process (Chapter 6); expands the roles and responsibilities for
the AFL2P Training program (paragraphs 8.2. thru 8.3.); clarifies after action reporting and
information in the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS, Chapter 9);
incorporates procedures for the Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group
(Attachment 1); adds an After Action Report (AAR) Template (Attachment 4).

(ACC) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include the deletion of the requirement for Exit Interviews to be performed by
ACC/A9L and the deletion of obsolete organizational structures. Another major change is the
requirement to assist warfighters with dissemination in Paragraph 2.2.2.20. Also, Figure A6
denotes an updated process for action officers to determine what observations should be vetted
for the Lessons Learned database.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                                                3



       1.    PURPOSE. .............................................................................................................    4
Figure 1.    1 Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP). ....................................................................                  5
Figure 1.    (ACC) 1 ACC A9L Lesson Learned Process ........................................................                           6
       2.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                          7
       3.    COLLECTION. .....................................................................................................        12
       4.    VALIDATION. ......................................................................................................       14
       5.    DISSEMINATION. ...............................................................................................           15
       6.    RESOLUTION. .....................................................................................................        16
       7.    JOINT LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (JLLP). ............................................                                       17
       8.    AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (AFL2P) TRAINING. ...........                                                          18
       9.    JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM (JLLIS). ..................                                                     19
       10.   FORMS ADOPTED. .............................................................................................             25

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        25

Attachment 2—AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING GROUP
             (AF L2 GOSG) CHARTER                                     29

Attachment 3—OBSERVATION OR LESSON LEARNED TEMPLATE                                                                                   31

Attachment 4—AFTER ACTION REPORT TEMPLATE                                                                                             32

Attachment 5—(Added-ACC) ACC/A9L COLLECTION PROCESS                                                                                   33

Attachment 6—(Added-ACC) ACC/A9L VALIDATION PROCESS                                                                                   35

Attachment 7—(Added-ACC) ACC/A9L RESOLUTION PROCESS                                                                                   38

Attachment 8—(Added-ACC) ACC/A9L DISSEMINATION PROCESS                                                                                40

Attachment 9—(Added-ACC) ACC/A9L SUPPORT TO ACC CONTINGENCY

             ACTION TEAM                                                                                                              41
4                                             AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


1. PURPOSE.
    1.1. Purpose. The AFL2P exists to enhance readiness and improve combat capability by
    capitalizing on the experiences of Airmen. A Lesson Learned (L2) is an Observation that,
    when validated and resolved, results in an improvement in military operations or activities at
    the strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
    individual or an organization. Coupling L2 with past experiences should also assist senior
    leaders in programming, budgeting and allocating resources as well as making changes to
    doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership & education, personnel, facilities and
    policy (DOTMLPF&P). An L2 finding is not a compliance “report card” nor is it
    automatically accepted and implemented without the scrutiny of functional experts. An L2 is
    also not “owned” by any one organization. Rather, the mandate for all organizations
    participating in the AFL2P is to coordinate activities and collaboratively exchange
    Observations and Lessons Identified for the benefit of the total Air Force mission.
       1.1.1. (Added-ACC) ACC/A9L Mission Statement: ACC/A9L collects, validates,
       resolves and disseminates (Find, Fix and Follow-up) lessons to improve the effectiveness
       and efficiency of the warfighter. ACC/A9L will improve effectiveness and efficiency of
       Combat Air Forces (CAF) units through focused and deliberate observation, collection,
       resolution, dissemination and tracking of lessons, issues and observations to achieve
       operational-level effects.
    1.2. Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP).
       1.2.1. The role of the AFLP is to facilitate the learning of Lessons identified across the
       Air Force. The AFLP has four fundamental components: Collection, Validation,
       Dissemination and Resolution. Figure 1.1 depicts the AFLP.
       1.2.1. (ACC) The purpose of validation is to collaborate with ACC SMEs to determine
       the proper course of action. The purpose of resolution is to coordinate and facilitate with
       the ACC Staff, NAFs, and operators in the field to assist them in producing lessons from
       issues. The purpose of dissemination is to share observations and lessons learned.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011          5


Figure 1. 1 Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP).
 6                                          AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


Figure 1. (ACC) 1 ACC A9L Lesson Learned Process




      1.2.2. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the AFLP.
      Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection efforts or they
      can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individuals. In a learning
      culture, every Airman, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the AFLP.
      1.2.3. Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational expert to
      confirm an Observation has identifiable lessons to be processed through the AFLP. Once
      validated, an Observation is a Lesson Identified and represents a matter (e.g., capability,
      concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson
      Identified contains a better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader
      community.
      1.2.4. Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for action,
      along with making lessons available for wider use. The aim of dissemination is to get
      lessons to decision makers and Airmen in time for them to make more informed
      decisions.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                       7


     1.2.5. In Resolution, Lessons Identified are addressed to ensure they become Lessons
     Learned and are not forgotten or ignored. Resolution ensures they are staffed for action
     (DOTMLPF&P changed), captured in JLLIS (or appropriate documents) and tracked to
     closure. Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that occurs throughout the life cycle of
     a validated Observation.
     1.2.5. (ACC) ACC A-Staff Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) are tasked to develop viable
     solutions for issues or verify that proposed solutions from an observation are actionable.
     ACC/A9L will actively track and facilitate each issue and observation to conclusion
     through periodic ACC L2 staff updates. Solutions are lessons learned ready for
     dissemination. Additional details on the resolution process are in Attachment 7
     (Added), ACC/A9L Resolution Process.
     1.2.6. Each L2 office will establish procedures to monitor the status of Lessons
     Identified and actions taken by Offices of Primary Responsibility (OPRs). The
     monitoring office will ensure periodic updates are annotated in JLLIS. Until
     DOTMLPF&P changes from a Lesson Identified are implemented and become a Lesson
     Learned, OPRs and L2 offices should observe corrective actions and be vigilant for
     similar repeat Observations.
     1.2.7. The L2 process is not intended to bypass the chain of command. A structured
     process is in place to review Observations by appropriate JLLIS Tier Managers and
     functional subject matter experts (SMEs).
     1.2.8. Due to their different mission and responsibilities, L2 functions will not be
     combined in the same office with Historians (HO) and/or Inspector General (IG) and/or
     standardization and evaluation (stan/eval) functions. Whereas the IG and stan/eval
     functions are tasked to provide an objective “report card” on organizational compliance,
     L2 functions are collaborative partnerships to capture and share lessons. For similar
     reasons, the L2 program will not be combined with the Safety function at any echelon.
     However, Lessons Identified in both IG and Safety functions should, when possible, be
     sent to the AF L2 Community. In addition, the History function will not be combined
     with the L2 program as historical documentation encompasses operational, maintenance,
     agile combat support and various other command functions. Common source data
     (interviews, AARs, etc.) should be shared between the L2 and HO communities.
     1.2.9. In accordance with CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP),
     JLLIS is the system of record for the Department of Defense and the JLLP. As such,
     Observations and Lessons Identified will ultimately reside in the JLLIS database to the
     maximum extent feasible. To ensure maximum sharing of L2s, JLLIS must be the
     primary vehicle used to implement the AFLP.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
  2.1. HQ USAF/A9.
     2.1.1. The Director of Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (AF/A9):
        2.1.1.1. Oversees the AFL2P and AF participation in the JLLP.
        2.1.1.2. Serves as the chief L2 advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief
        of Staff of the Air Force.
8                                        AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


       2.1.1.3. Ensures the AFL2P meets the goals of USAF leadership and the needs of
       Airmen and commanders at all levels.
       2.1.1.4. Upon CSAF approval, manages annual CSAF vector-aligned Lessons
       Learned Focus Areas for collection.
       2.1.1.5. Requests each SAF/HAF 2-letter office identify a POC for the AFL2P and
       address their Observations through the AFLP.
    2.1.2. The Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned (AF/A9L):
       2.1.2.1. Provides guidance for the AFLP to include developing standards for major
       activities under the AFL2P.
       2.1.2.2. Serves as the OPR for the AFL2P.
       2.1.2.3. Establishes processes to support guidance contained in this instruction.
       2.1.2.4. Oversees training and development of members of the Air Force lessons
       learned community.
       2.1.2.5. Ensures ready access to these processes and information through JLLIS.
       2.1.2.6. Assists Air Force organizations in performing L2 activities as required.
       2.1.2.7. Manages the Air Force portion of JLLP online database for collecting,
       storing, tracking and displaying L2 information. Works to maximize joint and multi-
       service sharing of L2 information.
       2.1.2.8. Oversees the AFL2P and JLLIS training program.
       2.1.2.9. Addresses Lessons Identified forwarded by subordinate L2 organizations or
       Observations submitted by the Headquarters Air Force staff.
       2.1.2.10. Tracks AF-level Lessons Identified through       resolution and assists
       information crossflow between OPRs and offices of collateral responsibility (OCRs)
       working their implementation.
       2.1.2.11. Provides AFL2P inputs to HQ USAF corporate processes. Provides the AF
       position to the JLLP and advises the joint community on lessons learned matters.
       2.1.2.12. Collects USAF headquarters-level Lessons Identified from exercises, and
       contingency operations in which the AF Crisis Action Team (AFCAT) participates.
       2.1.2.13. Maintains trained and ready personnel for the AFCAT L2 position.
       2.1.2.14. Accomplishes L2 studies and collection activities, in cooperation with the
       AF History Program research and collection efforts, on specific topics/events as
       directed by senior USAF leadership. Annually implements the CSAF Focus Area
       lesson learned collection plan.
       2.1.2.15. Integrates L2 with the Joint Staff, other service and non-DoD government
       agencies. Integrates L2 activities and processes across the total force to synchronize
       collections and disseminate information quickly.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                        9


        2.1.2.16. Analyzes L2 content produced by other members of the L2 community,
        other government organizations and research agencies to extract lessons applicable to
        AF operations not previously reported and/or acted upon.
        2.1.2.17. Reviews AARs and any collection reports to extract and act upon any
        Lessons Identified not previously reported and or acted upon.
        2.1.2.18. Coordinates L2 studies that have operational and basic doctrine
        implications with the LeMay Center.
  2.2. MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs.
  2.2. (ACC) ACC NAFs/DRUs/and other reporting organizations:
     2.2.1. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs will designate an organization as lead for L2
     activities, normally designated as A9L. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs may designate that
     a subordinate NAF or Center perform all or part of MAJCOM, FOA or DRU-level L2
     functions in accordance with their respective supplement to this AFI.
     2.2.1. (ACC) As described in PAD 07-13, Implementation of the Chief of Staff of the
     Air Force Direction to Transform and Consolidate Headquarters Management Functions,
     Headquarters Air Combat Command (HQ ACC)/A9L Lessons Learned is the CAF focal
     point for implementation of the ACC lessons learned program.
     2.2.2. The MAJCOM/FOA/DRU L2 organization will:
        2.2.2.1. Serve as OPR for the L2 program.
        2.2.2.2. Ensure L2 collection processes are established implemented. Ensure AARs
        are submitted and Lessons Identified are addressed for major operations,
        contingencies, key exercises, experiments and other significant events and topics
        identified by leadership.
        2.2.2.3. Enter Observations and AARs into JLLIS NLT 30 days after the event.
           2.2.2.3.1. (Added-ACC) The Joint Lessons Learned Information System
           (JLLIS) will be used to record and forward observations to ACC/A9L for action.
           It is a web based system that provides for the rapid distribution of observations,
           After Action Reports (AARs), Tactics, Techniques and Procedures, best practices,
           recommendations, and other L2 information, not only across the AF, but
           throughout DoD and other governmental agencies. ACC directorates, functional
           communities, and subordinate units will use JLLIS to share better ways/lessons
           and prevent information stove-piping.
        2.2.2.4. Establish a process to validate Observations and share Lessons Identified.
        2.2.2.5. Share L2 products Lessons Identified with other MAJCOMs, NAFs and
        lower echelons through the AFL2P .
        2.2.2.6. Elevate to AF/A9L any Lessons Identified with cross-AF implications or that
        are beyond the scope of the organization‟s authority to address.
        2.2.2.7. When designated as the Air Force Component to a Unified Combatant
        Command (UCC), participate in both the AFL2P and in the UCC‟s L2 process (as the
        air component). These roles overlap as AF organizations may have an interest in
10                                    AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


     operational lessons originating in other AORs and the UCC may have an interest in
     AF initiatives that can improve operations in that theater.
     2.2.2.8. Facilitate the expedient up-channeling of AARs and Lessons Identified
     through the AFL2P and the UCC L2 process as appropriate.
        2.2.2.8.1. (Added-ACC) ACC NAFs & ACC/A3Y will post approved AARs
        from ACC exercises into JLLIS. AARs that contain non-exercise observations,
        issues and/or lessons will be forwarded to ACC/A9L for input. ACC/A9L will
        identify and extract any non-exercise related observations or lessons for entry into
        the ACC/A9L L2 process and JLLIS.
     2.2.2.9. Represent their organization‟s participation in or provide input to AF/A9L
     for L2 activities.
     2.2.2.10. Participate with HAF, MAJCOM, Joint and Interagency L2 activities.
     2.2.2.11. Work with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU A-Staff and special staff planning teams
     to incorporate applicable lessons to support the full spectrum of military operations.
     2.2.2.12. Work with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU teams across all functional areas to
     coordinate policy, tactics, techniques and procedures (TTP) and operational strategy,
     and with the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education to coordinate
     doctrine development.
     2.2.2.13. Provide Fiscal Year plans and schedules to AF/A9L for publication by
     1 Sep each year, and provide updates as they are available.
     2.2.2.14. (Added-ACC) Provide decision support for the Commander, ACC
     (COMACC) and his staff.
     2.2.2.15. (Added-ACC) Maintain an ACC/A9L portal to share L2 products
     throughout the CAF.
     2.2.2.16. (Added-ACC) Provide ACC directorates, functional areas, and NAFs
     support, to include but not limited to: JLLIS support; L2 program instruction;
     conference briefings and collection efforts; issue resolution; and observation/L2
     dissemination.
        2.2.2.16.1. (Added-ACC) Support the CAF Strategic Plan and COMACC
        Strategy. The ACC/A9L L2 program will provide input and be directly linked to
        all phases of the CAF strategic planning process. Lessons and issues captured by
        the Joint and AFL2P will be used to implement the goals of COMACC‟s current
        strategy.
        2.2.2.16.2. (Added-ACC) Capture observations from ACC exercises, ensure
        issues and lessons from ACC exercises are entered into JLLIS and provide
        exercise planning materials/briefs, as needed.
        2.2.2.16.3. (Added-ACC) Provide support to the ACC A- and Special Staff as
        required. For example, ACC/A3TW hosts the annual Weapons and Tactics
        Conferences (WEPTAC). ACC/A9L may assist in the dissemination of
        WEPTAC results between the NAFs, MAJCOMs and services, and facilitate the
        resolution of issues that do not qualify as tactics, techniques, and procedures.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                     11


            2.2.2.16.4. (Added-ACC) Provide L2 support to the ACC Operations Center
            when activated. ACC/A9L support to the ACC Operations Center is outlined in
            Attachment 9 (Added).
        2.2.2.17. (Added-ACC) Provide L2 expertise, training, and reach back support to
        Headquarters Air Force (HAF), ACC and the CAF during exercises, operations,
        contingencies and other significant events as identified by HAF/A9 and CAF
        commanders.
        2.2.2.18. (Added-ACC) Augment NAFs and units as required. For example, HQ
        ACC/A9L personnel may augment or provide all manning in support of
        AFNORTH/A9L in the event AFNORTH implements its Emergency Relocation Plan
        and upon transfer of activities to their Emergency Relocation Site.
        2.2.2.19. (Added-ACC) Improve effectiveness and efficiency of CAF units through
        focused and deliberate observation, collection, resolution, dissemination and tracking
        of lessons, issues and observations to achieve operational-level effects.
        2.2.2.20. (Added-ACC) Ensure push, pull and dissemination mechanisms exist to
        broadcast lessons and observations throughout the CAF. Periodically publish an
        ACC/A9L L2 bulletin to provide a summary of key observations, issues, and potential
        lessons. ACC/A9L will encourage and provide assistance to disseminate lessons to
        affect most direct warfighting organization and the greatest number of warfighters.
        2.2.2.21. (Added-ACC) Provide a senior leader review or periodic L2 Update to HQ
        ACC directorates and CAF components on the status of all issues and lessons
        currently tracked by ACC/A9L.
        2.2.2.22. (Added-ACC) Coordinate with Component NAFs and Tactics Squadrons
        to ensure tactical, operational and strategic lessons from Air Expeditionary Forces
        operations, such as Operation NEW DAWN/Operation ENDURING FREEDOM, are
        collected and entered in JLLIS. Observations at all levels will be forwarded to the
        appropriate L2 organization for staffing regardless of the collection source (i.e.
        AFCENT/A9 will forward tactical observations to the 561 JTS and the 561 JTS will
        forward operational and strategic lessons to AFCENT/A9 or ACC/A9, as
        appropriate). ACC/A9L will work closely with Component NAFs, the 561 JTS and
        AEF Operations (formally the AEF Center) to systematically disseminate warfighter
        lessons, AARs and senior leader exit interviews to deploying personnel in a timely
        manner. The goal is to provide these “lessons from the field” with enough lead time
        to allow for changes in training and spin-up for deploying units.
        2.2.2.23. (Added-ACC) Periodically update the ACC A-Staff on the status of issues,
        observations, and lessons learned. Details are contained in A6.4.
  2.3. All Airmen.
     2.3.1. All Airmen are encouraged to enter Observations that contain potential lessons
     into JLLIS for coordination through the AFLP and/or inform the local chain of command
     as appropriate.
     2.3.2. Individuals or organizations lacking access to the JLLIS website may use AF IMT
     Forms 4329 and 4330 (Attachments 3 and 4) to record their Observations and e-mail
12                                         AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


     them directly to the appropriate NAF, MAJCOM, or HQ USAF-level L2 office. Both
     forms are avaliable online at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
3. COLLECTION.
  3.1. Purpose. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the AFLP.
  Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection efforts or they can be
  “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individuals. In a learning culture,
  every Airman, AF civilian and contractor can contribute to the AFLP.
  3.2. Types of Collections.
     3.2.1. After action collection to capture important events. Reconstructs specific events or
     combat operations after the fact to gain a better understanding of the event‟s successes
     and challenges. AFLP allows an organization to capture historical events and share
     lessons gained from participants‟ knowledge and experience, even though the Lessons
     Identified may already be resolved and no further actions are required. This can be done
     in partnership with historians but is not intended to duplicate their work.
     3.2.2. Event collection. Captures the facts and participant Observations regarding a
     combat or non-combat event as it occurs. The collection can occur at the strategic,
     operational, and/or tactical level. Examples include exercises, such as RED FLAG, or
     contingencies, such as Hurricane Katrina or Operation UNIFIED ASSISTANCE. Event
     collections may be accomplished two ways:
         3.2.2.1. Participative collection. The L2 staff performs two roles during the event.
         First, they participate in the unit‟s operational battle rhythm, attend staff meetings,
         man the Crisis Action Team and/or provide real-time inputs to the commander‟s
         planning and decision process. Second, the staff forms teams to collect data at the
         tactical, operational and/or strategic levels. Large-scale operations, such as disaster
         relief operations, might involve teams from HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, NAFs, other
         Services and UCCs collecting data either independently or in concert based on goals.
         3.2.2.2. Observational collection. An L2 team records the organizational structures,
         processes and resources used to accomplish an infrequent, noncombat event so that
         tacit knowledge gained during the event can be explicitly documented, stored and
         retrieved for later use during similar events (e.g., Quadrennial Defense Review
         [QDR] Process).
     3.2.3. Topical collection. This collection focuses on a specific subject or cyclic process
     (e.g., surveys, Focus Areas, etal) based on an L2 organization‟s desire to further examine
     or collect information about a certain topic.
     3.2.4. Observations and Lessons Identified through event collections and topical
     collections will be entered into JLLIS for validation, dissemination and resolution. JLLIS
     is the system of record for the AF L2 process and may be used by any Airman. JLLIS is
     the central repository for Observations, Lessons Identified, AARs and other L2 reports.
  3.3. Techniques and Tools. L2 collections can employ the full range of techniques and
  tools, tailoring them to the specific situation. Techniques and tools include direct
  observation, in-person interviews, commanders‟ exit interviews, surveys, database
  submissions by participants, AARs, data and database mining and document capturing.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                        13


  Sharing of data between L2 professionals, historians and other learning organizations is
  highly encouraged to coordinate on collection dissemination, especially via the JLLIS online
  database.
  3.4. General L2 Collection Approach.
     3.4.1. When possible, collections should be coordinated in advance with involvement of
     trained L2 staff. Collections on many important events (warfare, contingencies, etc.) are
     often conducted with little or no notice. Individuals must be trained on collection
     techniques and prepared to apply them at any time.
     3.4.2. Where possible, an L2 collection within an organization‟s Area of Responsibility
     (AOR) should be augmented as required by other L2 offices and SMEs. For most
     collections, SMEs and functional area experts are better suited to observe and document
     employment of their respective processes.
     3.4.3. The L2 office (at any level) will normally lead collection efforts. AF/A9L
     participation with other L2 organizations in CSAF-directed/multi-service/joint collections
     permits better access senior leadership and documents broader perspectives.
     3.4.4. (Added-ACC) Each year ACC/A9L will formally request USAFE, PACAF,
     ACC/A3Y, and NAF/CCs identify priorities and events requiring ACC/A9L support.
     ACC/A9L will focus on capturing lessons at all levels as directed by the supported
     commander and will lead/assist with the compilation, staffing and approval of products,
     as required. Typical deliverables may include AARs and JLLIS inputs.
  3.5. Observation Submission Procedures.
     3.5.1. AFLP procedures standardize Observation submission and management at all AF
     echelons. Observation submission procedures consist of collecting Observations of
     events and operations, reviewing and entering them in JLLIS. Lower echelons will
     address Observations at their level and forward those beyond their scope to the
     appropriate level.
     3.5.2. Observation submission procedures apply to all units either conducting their day-
     to-day mission or participating in real world operations and/or exercises (e.g., combat
     operations, humanitarian operations, base closures, peacekeeping operations,
     noncombatant evacuations, exercises, etc.).
     3.5.3. Observations should flow from the reporting individual and agency to the
     reviewing office or functional expert and, if required, to the next-level L2 office.
  3.6. After Action Report (AAR) Reporting.
     3.6.1. After Action reports (AARs) are intended to help Airmen fight a smarter, more
     capable fight. The next Airmen to deploy, to participate in that exercise, to train for that
     type contingency, etc., should benefit from reports submitted by those who have gone
     before. Timely submission of AARs (and the individual Observations which comprise
     them) are a command responsibility. Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF)
     commanders, commanders of subordinate AETF units, exercise/experiment directors, and
     other like commanders/directors are expected to submit a unit-level AAR for the event
     (deployment, contingency, exercise, etc.) for which they are responsible. AARs are
     posted in JLLIS and accessable to all registered users.
14                                         AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


     3.6.2. Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in military
     operations at the strategic, operational, or tactical level. AAR Observations should
     describe how the mission could be/was improved, potential risks to mission degradation
     and how to mitigate those risks. AARs are intended to be more than a summary or rollup
     of unit/tactical actions. Commanders/directors are not required to hold Observations until
     the end of an operation, exercise or AEF cycle to be included in an AAR. Whenever
     possible, AARs should be submitted as soon as practical to permit timely action.
     3.6.3. Units participating in operations as part of a continuous AEF cycle will submit
     AARs to their respective HHQ NLT than 45 days following the end of their deployment.
     AFFOR staff and AOC staff will also submit periodic AARs for continuous AEF
     operations (e.g., OEF). Individual Observations deserving urgent attention should not be
     delayed for inclusion in the next AAR but should be forwarded up the chain of command
     as soon as sufficient information is gathered. The goal is to get the information to the
     next set of deployers and/or HHQ staff decision makers quickly for action/resolution.
     3.6.4. AARs for operations not supported by a continuing AEF cycle, contingencies and
     exercises will be submitted to HHQ NLT 30 days after the end of the event unless
     otherwise directed.
     3.6.5. Owning organizations will review AARs to pull Observations for processing
     through the AFLP and post AARs to JLLIS. Lessons Identified during the review will be
     entered in JLLIS and disseminated to the appropriate OPR for information and resolution.
4. VALIDATION.
  4.1. Purpose. Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational experts
  to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed through the AFLP.
  Once validated, an Observation becomes a Lesson Identified and represents a matter (e.g.,
  capability, concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson
  Identified contains a better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader
  community. Validation ensures accuracy, applicability, and completeness, and activates the
  Observation in JLLIS. The goal of the validation process is to get to root causes.
  4.2. Validation Authority.
     4.2.1. The validation authority has a key role in the AFLP. Validation authorities will:
         4.2.1.1. Review Observations for accuracy, applicability and completeness. If
         Observations do not meet these criteria, validation authorities will contact the
         originator for futher clarification.
         4.2.1.2. Determine if an Observation had previously been addressed. If the
         Observation duplicates previous Observations, it will be manually linked in JLLIS
         with the previous Observations.
         4.2.1.3. Determine the applicable guiding documents (e.g., statute, DoD or AF
         instruction).
         4.2.1.4. Parse Observations to determine DOTMLPF&P actionable areas.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                       15


         4.2.1.5. Submit to the appropriate SME for evaluation. Once the SME confirms the
         Observation‟s validity, it is processed as a Lesson Identified. IG, stan/eval or QA
         offices will not be appointed as the evaluation agency.
         4.2.1.6. Ensure Lessons Identified are returned to the originating JLLIS Tier-1
         Administrator and/or Tier-2 Command Lesson Manager (CLM) for dissemination to
         issue resolution OPRs.
         4.2.1.7. Forward Lessons Identified intended for the HQ USAF staff through JLLIS
         to AF/A9L.
         4.2.1.8. Inform the chain of command as to status of Observations submitted to
         higher level L2 offices.
     4.2.2. Validation SMEs may be instructors, staff functionals, career field functional
     managers, commanders, senior AF leaders or L2 offices.
     4.2.3. Lessons Identified deemed as time-critical and/or mission-critical will be
     concurrently disseminated to other potentially interested organizations and individuals
     where mission impact may occur.
  4.3. (Added-ACC) The ACC/A9L Validation Process is detailed in Attachment 6
  (Added).
5. DISSEMINATION.
  5.1. Purpose. Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for
  action, along with making lessons available for wider use. The goal of dissemination is to
  get lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions.
     5.1.1. Lessons may be disseminated through tasks, briefings, bulletins, reports or
     database entries.
     5.1.2. An OPR will be tasked to either resolve to closure Lessons Identified requiring
     DOTMLPF&P action/changes or ensure Lessons Identified requiring wider dissemination
     to a wider audience are appropriately promulgated.
     5.1.3. An OCR will be assigned as required by the originator of the lesson idenitifed or
     as required by the OPR.
  5.2. Dissemination Techniques.
     5.2.1. The guiding principle in executing a dissemination strategy is to get the right
     information to the right person at the right time. Dissemination of Lessons Identified to
     individuals or organizations may be solicited or unsolicited. Techniques for either type
     of dissemination encompass both „push‟ and „pull‟ methodologies.
         5.2.2.1. “Push” methodologies transmit lessons proactively to identified recipients.
         In this case, L2 specialists identify target audiences for dissemination. Examples of
         when to “push” Lessons Identified are when assisting planning staffs during emerging
         situations (contingencies, relief operations, etc.), assisting headquarters staffs with
         Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) decisions, and when
         sending completed L2 documents such as AARs to identified audiences via a
         subscription service. Push solicited information when responding to a Request for
16                                          AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


         Information (RFI). In this case, L2 specialists may push relevant lessons on the
         particular event or topic to the requesting party.
         5.2.2.2. “Pull” methodologies allow individuals to retrieve lessons by conducting
         JLLIS queries or by researching and retrieving published L2 reports and bulletins.
         (The “Daily Digest” feature in JLLIS is a “pull” resource.)
     5.2.3. Other dissemination processes may already exist within lower echelons or
     functional communities. Examples include the Tactics Review Board process and the
     Maintenance Quality Assurance flash process. Integration of Lessons Identified provides
     a mechanism to integrate the AFLP with lower echelon processes.
     5.2.4. Although dissemination activities may be conducted using different approaches,
     the basic process step of identifying action items must take place for each Lesson
     Identified before submittal to the resolution processes or inclusion in publications,
     reports, summaries, briefings and analyses.
6. RESOLUTION.
  6.1. Purpose. In Resolution, Lessons Identified are tracked to ensure they become a
  Lessons Learned and are not forgotten or ignored. Resolution ensures they are staffed for
  action (DOTMLPF&P changed), captured in JLLIS (or appropriate documents) and tracked
  to closure. Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that occurs throughout the life cycle of a
  validated Observation.
     6.1.1. Resolution has three main objectives:
         6.1.1.1. Enhance the Air Force‟s and the joint community‟s ability to learn from the
         conduct of operations across the levels of warfare, training activities, exercise events
         and other activities.
         6.1.1.2. Enhance warfighting capabilities by documenting potential solutions across
         DOTMLPF&P approaches and implementation decisions.
         6.1.1.3. Support Air Force senior leaders as well as a broad range of subject specific
         stakeholders.
  6.2. Tracking Issue Resolution (TIR). TIR ensures Lessons Identified are worked to
  closure. TIR documentation establishes accountability for resolution, monitors resolution
  actions to closure, and provides a means of disseminating Lessons Identified.
     6.2.1. AF/A9L will:
         6.2.1.1. Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified between the HAF, Services, Joint
         Staff, UCCs and other government organizations.
         6.2.1.2. In conjunction with SMEs and subordinate L2 offices, track the status of AF
         Lessons Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons
         with programmatic implications.
         6.2.1.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for all HAF
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS MAJCOM Tier-1 Sites.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                       17


     6.2.2. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU L2 Organizations will:
     6.2.2.1.   Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified among lower echelons and HQ
     USAF.
         6.2.2.2. In conjunction with SMEs and subordinate L2 offices, track the status of
         Lessons Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons
         with programmatic implications.
         6.2.2.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for their respective
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS NAF/Wing/Center/FOA/DRU Tier-2 CLMs.
     6.2.3. NAF/Center L2 Organizations will:
     6.2.3.1. Maintain a cross-flow of Lessons Identified within their command/ functional
     community.
         6.2.3.2. In conjunction with SMEs, track the status of NAF/Center Lessons
         Identified to the JLLP. Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons with
         programmatic implications.
         6.2.3.3. Provide training on TIR including the use of JLLIS for their respective
         organizations.     Training includes techniques on integrating lessons into
         staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between
         JLLIS Tier-2 CLMs.
     6.2.4. (Added-ACC) The purpose of the ACC/A9L Resolution Process is to work with
     the ACC staff to find solutions to valid issues. The ACC/A9L Resolution Process is
     detailed in Attachment 7 (Added).
  6.3. Closure of Lesson Actions. Lessons Identified that are entered into an organization‟s
  resolution process should be resolved at the lowest level. Actions for Lessons Identified may
  be closed when a solution has been implemented or a decision made to accept the risk of not
  implementing a solution. Closed Lessons Identified will be archived in JLLIS for future
  reference and their final action/determination will be disseminated and periodically reviewed.
7. JOINT LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (JLLP).
  7.1. Purpose. The JLLP is governed by CJCSI 3150.25, Joint Lessons Learned Program.
  In support of the JLLP, the Air Force Lessons Learned Program will:
     7.1.1. Provide and maintain JLLP support for Air Force-specific, tactical, operational
     and strategic level lessons.
     7.1.2. Interact with other stakeholders within the JLLP community on L2 matters.
     7.1.3. Submit Lessons Identified that affect the joint community or requiring joint
     resolution to the Joint Staff.
18                                         AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


  7.2. Concept. AF/A9L will:
     7.2.1. Represent the Air Force to the Joint Staff and the JLLP community on JLLP
     matters except when the JLLP matter only applies to a specific UCC. Air Force matters
     only applying to a specific UCC will be represented by the AF component to that UCC.
     7.2.2. Provide personnel and technical expertise to document Lessons Identified, analyze
     causation and impact, train collection team SMEs and coordinate Air Force SME
     participation in JLLP activities.
     7.2.3. Track and coordinate joint Lessons Identified within the AFL2P.
  7.3. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) Integration. L2
  involvement and participation in the JLLP will include:
     7.3.1. Monitoring joint L2 products to include the JCIDS and Joint Staff Action
     Processing systems.
     7.3.2. Assisting HQ USAF MAJCOM offices with Joint L2 submissions and
     DOTMLPF&P Change Request (DCR) development, as required.
8. AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM (AFL2P) TRAINING.
  8.1. Purpose. The purpose of the AFL2P training is to ensure individuals assigned to L2
  offices or as collection team augmentees/SMEs receive appropriate L2 training to understand
  their role in the AFLP.
  8.2. AF Lessons Learned Program Training. AF/A9L is responsible for oversight of the
  AFL2P training program. Each L2 office will ensure its training program is up to date with
  material found on the AF Lessons Learned Program website: https://www.jllis.mil/usaf or
  http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf. AF/A9L will provide train-the-trainer services for all aspects
  of the AFL2P. Each L2 office will establish guidelines to maintain curreny for members
  supporting their L2 program.
  8.2. (ACC) ACC/A9L Program Training. The designated ACC/A9L training monitor and
  alternates will manage the ACC/A9L training program. The training monitor will ensure the
  training program is up-to-date with the latest training materials, ensure all ACC/A9L
  personnel and SME augmentees are trained before participating in an L2 event, track annual,
  ancillary and L2 training and experience of all A9L personnel, and run group training
  sessions, as needed.
     8.2.1. (Added-ACC) ACC/A9L will provide training on all aspects of L2 (collection
     team composition, L2 processes and JLLIS) to NAFs, ACC directorates, SMEs, and
     units, as required.
  8.3. L2 Collection Team Training. L2 offices will provide collection team members
  training prior to L2 collection efforts. Training will include collection plan development,
  conduct of interviews, collection management tools (JLLIS, interview management tools,
  etc.), data gathering techniques, product development, and dissemination. L2 collection team
  members and SMEs provide expertise required for a focused collection. The L2 collection
  team lead is responsible for coordinating training with the JLLIS Tier-1 Administrator or
  Tier-2 CLM.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                      19


  8.4. JLLIS Training. L2 offices will provide JLLIS training to their orgainzations and
  lower echlons. Local training will emphasize use of JLLIS for capturing and managing
  Observations and Lessons Identified.
9. JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM (JLLIS).
  9.1. DoD system of record for JLLP. JLLIS is a web-based system that implements the
  requirements for the JLLP. JLLP provides transfer of knowledge within the DoD through the
  rapid distribution of Observations and recommendations, AARs, TTPs, topic papers,
  briefings and interviews.
  9.2. JLLIS. JLLIS allows Air Force personnel to search, submit and manage all Air Force
  Observations, lessons, AARs, L2 and other information up to SECRET. JLLIS is used to
  track and disseminate Lessons Identified throughout the Air Force and DoD. JLLIS provides
  L2 office management, data collection, data management and L2 information distribution.
  9.3. System Administration.
     9.3.1. AF/A9L is responsible for system administration of the AF JLLIS master site
     through coordination with Joint Staff/J7 and JLLIS programmers.
     9.3.2. The AF/A9 JLLIS Program Manager will update the JLLIS User Guide and
     checklists, maintain a standard training package on the JLLIS home page and update this
     instruction annually or when changes to the system and/or process occur.
  9.4. JLLIS Business Rules.
     9.4.1. The JLLIS community will abide by the CJCSI 3150.25, JLLIS Business Rules
     and the following guidelines in managing their JLLIS operations:
         9.4.1.1. A Tier-1 is at the HAF and MAJCOM level. All other organizations will be
         assigned as a Tier-2. A Lesson Manager is the manager of Observations and Lessons
         Identified at the Tier-1 and Tier-2 level. A SME is a person within a Directorate or
         Command possessing expertise on an Observation, finding, issue, or Lesson
         Identified.
         9.4.1.2. Validation Process. Tier-1 and Tier-2 Lesson Managers and SMEs will
         review all “Pending” lessons within their Tier. Once an Observation is deemed valid,
         the Tier-1 or Tier-2 Lesson Manager will activate the Observation as a Lesson
         Identified and transfer it to the appropriate OPR/OCR for review. Observations that
         require work within the Tier will be coordinated through the Tier-1/Tier-2 CLM or
         the appropriate OPR/OCR.
         9.4.1.2. (ACC) Validation Process. ACC, NAF, Center and CAF Tier-1 and Tier-2
         JLLIS Lesson Managers and AOs will review all “Pending” lessons within their Tier
         for accuracy, applicability and completeness. Once an Observation is deemed to meet
         these criteria, the Tier-1 or Tier-2 Lesson Manager will place the Observation in
         "Active" status and staff it to the appropriate OPR/OCR for their review, validation
         and, if applicable, resolution plan. If an Observation does not meet these criteria of
         accuracy, applicability and completeness, Lesson Managers will contact the
         originator for further clarification. For a detailed explanation of the Validation
         Process, see Attachment 6 (Added).
20                                        AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


            9.4.1.2.1. (Added-ACC) Resolution Process. ACC, NAF, Center and CAF Tier-
            1 and Tier-2 Lesson Managers and AOs will facilitate the resolution of all issues
            validated by a SME. AOs will ensure all issues validated by a SME are identified
            as "Validated" in JLLIS. For a detailed explanation of the Resolution Process,
            see Attachment 7 (Added).
            9.4.1.2.2. (Added-ACC) Dissemination Process. ACC, NAF, Center and CAF
            Tier-1 and Tier-2 Lesson Managers and AOs will facilitate the dissemination of
            all resolved issues and other lessons learned. For a detailed explanation of the
            Dissemination Process, see Attachment 8 (Added).
        9.4.1.3. Coordinating Observations Outside a Tier-1. Tier-1 Lesson Managers will
        work together toward resolving an Observation‟s ownership. If the OPR/OCR for an
        Observation belongs to another Tier-1, the owning Tier-1 Admin will contact the
        appropriate Tier-1 Admin for coordination before transferring. Once transferred, the
        accepting Tier-1 assumes responsibility for the Observation. If it is found that the
        OPR/OCR is incorrect, the process will begin again. If ownership cannot be resolved
        at the Tier-1 level, AF/A9L will resolve ownership. All Lessons Identified will be
        worked through to resolution.
  9.5. Disputes between Tiers.
     9.5.1. As Lesson Managers receive Observations submitted by JLLIS users, there may be
     occasions where a Tier-2 is not appropriate to validate that Observation. In these cases,
     the Tier-2 Lesson Manager will transfer the Observation to their Tier-1 for reassignment.
     When doing this, include results of any coordination in the “comment” section of the
     Observation in JLLIS.
     9.5.2. When Observation reassignments between Tier-2 CLMs are disputed, the issue
     should be brought to the attention of the MAJCOM L2 Director to render a recommended
     assignment. If the dispute continues, the MAJCOM L2 Director will present it to
     AF/A9L for L2 GOSG review and coordination. The L2 GOSG is chaired by the
     AF/CVA. The AF/CVA will serve as final arbiter of disputed Observations assignments
     if necessary.
  9.6. JLLIS Maintenance.
     9.6.1. Tier Maintenance. All Tier-1 Administrators should perform periodic Tier
     maintenance. Maintenance includes reviewing the status of “Active” Observations. Any
     Observations that have not been worked in more than 30 days should be reviewed and
     readdressed by the Tier-1 or Tier-2 CLM through the OPR/OCR for resolution, closure or
     removal from the database.
        9.6.1.1. Observations that should be removed include the following: “Test
        Observations,” Observations that are incomplete or unfocused, complaints or personal
        attacks.
        9.6.1.2. Test Binders and AARs should also be removed periodically to keep the Tier
        free of unnecessary information.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                      21


     9.6.2. MAJCOMs or NAFs that are an air component to a UCC may be asked by the
     UCC to participate in the UCC L2 program. Component MAJCOMs and NAFs will
     participate in their UCC‟s L2 program as directed by UCC policy and are authorized to
     coordinate Observations directly with their responsible UCC. Coordination may be
     conducted by emailing the Observation to the UCC JLLIS Administrator or by entering
     the Observation on the UCC JLLIS site.
     9.6.3. MAJCOMs not a component of a UCC will forward Observations requiring Joint,
     DoD Agency or UCC coordination to the HAF Tier-1 or the appropriate MAJCOM/C-
     NAF. The HAF Tier-1 Administrator will notify the responsible action officer/SME who
     will review and validate the Observation with their Joint, Agency or UCC point of
     contact and assume responsibility for tracking the Observation through to resolution.
     9.6.4. JLLIS website status updates are the responsibility of the AF/A9L action
     officer. Updates are available upon request through the responsible AF/A9L action
     officer.
  9.7. JLLIS Configuration Review Board (CRB).
     9.7.1. The JLLIS CRB will be held semiannually as part of the AF L2 Community
     Conference. The AF CRB will be scheduled to allow sufficient time to address AF
     requirements prior to the Joint CRB.
     9.7.2. The Board will review action items from the previous Board, configuration issues,
     modifications and business rules. Each Tier-1 Administrator will have an opportunity to
     provide input during the Air Force JLLIS CRB. New JLLIS technologies will also be
     reviewed during the Technical Sessions of the Air Force L2 Community Conference.
     9.7.3. The Air Force JLLIS CRB is chaired by the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager.
     Tier-1 Administrators and the Recorder are voting members of the CRB. Members of the
     Joint Staff/J7 have a standing invitation to attend. This courtesy is also extended to the
     other members of the Air Force JLLIS and L2 community.
     9.7.4. Each Tier-1 Administrator is responsible to collect input(s) from their respective
     Tier-2s for the Air Force CRB prior to the conference. The purpose is to provide an
     opportunity for Administrators to speak/vote for the actions that affect their Tier. The
     Tier-2 CLMs are not voting members of the Air Force CRB. In the event of a tie during
     the voting process, the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager will cast the deciding vote.
     9.7.4. (ACC) ACC Tier-2 Command Lesson Managers (CLMs) will provide Command
     Resolution Board (CRB) inputs to ACC/A9L quarterly (Jan, Apr, Jul, Oct). In addition,
     Tier-2 CLMs may provide CRB or other JLLIS Administrative suggestions/requests as
     they occur.
     9.7.5. All Air Force CRB items that impact the other JLLIS master sites must go before
     the Joint Staff/J7 and the Worldwide Joint Training and Scheduling Conference (WJTSC)
     CRB for review and approval. The AF JLLIS Program Manager will represent the Air
     Force during the WJTSC on all Air Force JLLIS related issues. Results from the WJTSC
     will be shared and reviewed by the JLLIS L2 community.
22                                        AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


  9.8. Network Security.
     9.8.1. Joint Staff/J7 policy and guidance for NIPRNET JLLIS only allows access to
     Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States (ACGU) personnel and Foreign
     Exchange Officers / LNOs sponsored and/or assigned to DoD organizations. United
     States Government has a National Disclosure Policy for SIPRNET. The following
     information is in accordance with Joint Staff/J7 guidance pending release of formal DoD
     guidance for JLLIS:
        9.8.1.1. JLLIS information is considered For Official Use Only (FOUO). If there is a
        requirement to convert/migrate FOUO data to a DoD-wide system of Controlled
        Unclassified Information (CUI), the FOUO marking of JLLIS products will help
        prevent commercial access but allow access to those with valid requirements and
        registration (soft certs).
        9.8.1.2. DoD Instruction 8110.1, Multinational Information Sharing Networks
        Implementation, February 6, 2004 implements policy and designates the MNIS
        Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange System (MNIS CENTRIXS) as
        the DoD standard for multinational information sharing networks using the Global
        Information Grid (GIG).
     9.8.2. ACGU personnel assigned to or sponsored by a DoD organization and issued a
     Common Access Card (CAC) permitting access to the DoD computer network/system are
     authorized access to JLLIS. These members are authorized to register in JLLIS as
     members of their assigned and sponsoring DoD organization.
        9.8.2.1. Registration is validated and controlled through the organizations‟ security
        office and approved by the Air Force JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.8.2.2. ACGU personnel who are validated and authorized access to the US DoD
        SIPRNET are authorized access to JLLIS on SIPRNET. (i.e., DoDD 8500.01,
        Information Assurance, paragraph 4.8. - 4.9.1)
     9.8.3. AF/A9L guidance concerning loading, access, and release of JLLIS information
     for both sites is IAW Air Force and Joint Staff Network Security Guidance. SIPRNET:
     http://www.jllis.smil.mil/usaf and NIPRNET: https://www.jllis.mil/usaf. For any
     questions or concerns please contact the JLLIS Program Manager,
     afa9jllis@pentagon.af.mil.
  9.9. JLLIS Tier-1 Administrators and Tier-2 Command Lesson Managers.
     9.9.1. Tier-1 Administrators will:
        9.9.1.1. Be appointed by the MAJCOM L2 Director and the names sent forward to
        the AF/A9L JLLIS Program Manager.
        9.9.1.2. Forward all JLLIS issues (e.g., permission upgrade requests and system
        malfuncations and modifcation recommendations) to the Air Force JLLIS Program
        Manager for coordination, review and resolution.
        9.9.1.3. Have one vote on the JLLIS Configuration Review Board.
        9.9.1.4. Establish and certify Tier-2 CLMs.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                      23


         9.9.1.5. Coordinate validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by collection
         teams, Tier-2 Lesson Managers or other authorized users.
         9.9.1.6. Send name, contact information and graphics for the Tier-2 CLM, to the AF-
         JLLIS Program Manager (AF/A9L) for review, approval and implementation. A
         Tier-2 site cannot be authorized in JLLIS without approval of the applicable Tier-1
         Administrator.
         9.9.1.7. Provide JLLIS and collection guidance for all Tier-2 CLMs assigned within
         the HAF/MAJCOM Tier-1.
         9.9.1.8. Act as the single point of contact within the command for JLLIS issues
         (registration, system errors and configuration requests).
         9.9.1.9. At a minimum, conduct Tier maintenance as required to maintain currency.
         Guidelines for Observation and Tier maintenance should be developed locally based
         on the needs of the command and mission requirements.
     9.9.2. Tier-2 Command Lesson Manager (CLM) will:
         9.9.2.1. Consist of a primary and alternate            to   be   appointed   by   the
         Commander/Director to manage the Tier-2.
         9.9.2.2. Be identified by their MAJCOM/A9 Tier-1 Administrator to the AF/A9L
         JLLIS Program Manager.
         9.9.2.2. (ACC) ACC Tier-2 organizations will ensure they have at least one assigned
         individual with CLM permissions on both NIPR and SIPR JLLIS. ACC Tier-2
         organizations will forward names of personnel requiring CLM permissions to the
         Tier-1 Administrators as required.
         9.9.2.3. Not vote on the JLLIS Configuration Review Board.
         9.9.2.4. Coordinate validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by collection
         teams or other authorized users.
         9.9.2.5. Forward all JLLIS issues (e.g., issues and permissions) to their Tier-1
         Administrator for coordination, review and resolution.
         9.9.2.6. Act as the single point of contact within the command for JLLIS issues
         (registration, system errors and configuration requests).
  9.10. Tracking Database Management. L2 organizations will use JLLIS to archive and
  track their Observations and Lessons Identified action items. Exception: organizations with a
  requirement to track lessons on coalition partner networks may use other methods as
  required. Organizations using stand-alone methods should transfer lessons with broader AF
  equity to JLLIS to ensure they are accessible by the widest possible AF and DoD audience.
  9.11. JLLIS Training. AF/A9L is responsible for oversight of the JLLIS training program.
  The AF-JLLIS Program Manager is available to provide formal JLLIS training classes for
  Tier-1 Administrators, Tier-2 CLMs and personnel assigned to HAF. Each L2 office will
  establish guidelines for JLLIS training currency and a method to track training completion.
     9.11.1. The Tier-1 Administrators JLLIS training program consists of training newly
     assigned Tier-2 CLMs, establishing a Tier-1 training program for use throughout the
24                                      AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


     command, as well as conducting classroom and over-the-shoulder training sessions
     locally through recurring sessions or just-in-time training as required.
     9.11.2. Tier-2 CLMs will provide training for NAF and lower echelon personnel. If the
     Tier-1 has no Tier-2 CLMs assigned, overall training for NAF and/or lower echelon
     personnel remains the responsibility of the Tier-1 Administrator.
     9.11.3. Tier-1/2 training should cover coordinating and tracking Observations through
     the AFLP. Training will include tracking a lesson to resolution and basic authorized
     JLLIS user training. Training should include the command‟s local process based on
     command guidance through a tutorial or a locally developed training course.
     9.11.4. MAJCOM/A9L offices will provide their personnel basic authorized JLLIS user
     training, Tier-1 Administrator training for newly assigned Administrator/Managers and
     Tier-2 CLM training.
     9.11.5. Basic Authorized JLLIS User Training is provided by AF/A9L, Tier-1
     Administrator/ Manager or Tier-2 CLMs. This training is for new JLLIS users who will
     use the system on a recurring basis for research, submitting Observations, AARs, etc.
     Basic user training information is also posted on the JLLIS home page.




                                        Dr. JACQUELINE R. HENNINGSEN
                                        Director, Studies, & Analyses, Assessments, and
                                        Lessons Learned

                                        (ACC)

                                        THOMAS D. ENTWISTLE
                                        Director, Analyses, Lessons Learned & AFSO21
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                               25


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program, 10 Oct 08
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
(Added-ACC) ACCI 10-255, Contingency Action Team. 17 Feb 07
AFPD 90-16, Air Force Studies, Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned, 4 Jun 08
Adopted Forms.
   AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
   AF IMT 4329, Observation or Lesson Learned (NIPR)
   AF IMT 4329A, Observation or Lesson Learned (SIPR)
   AF IMT 4330, After Action Summary Report (NIPR)
   AF IMT 4330A, After Action Summary Report (SIPR)
(Added-ACC) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
(Added-ACC) ACC—Air Combat Command
ACGU—Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Forces
AEG—Air and Space Expeditionary Group
AETF—Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force
AEW—Air and Space Expeditionary Wing
AF—Air Force
(ACC) AF—JLLIS—Air Force Joint Lesson Learned Information System
(Added-ACC) AFCENT—Air Force Central Command
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFL2P—AF Lessons Learned Program
AFLP—Air Force Lessons Process
(Added-ACC) AFNORTH—Air Force Northern Command
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
ANG—Air National Guard
(Added-ACC) AO—Action Officer
 26                                       AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AOR—Area of Responsibility
CAC—Common Assess Card
(Added-ACC) CAF—Combat Air Forces
(Added-ACC) CAT—Contingency Action Team
CLM—Command Lessons Manager
(ACC) CLM—Command Lesson Manager
C-NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
(Added-ACC) COMACC—Commander, Air Combat Command
(Added-ACC) CONR—Continental NORAD Region
CRB—Configuration Review Board
(ACC) CRB—Command Resolution Board
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DCR—DOTMLPF Change Request
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
(Added-ACC) FAR—Functional Area Representative
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GOSG—General Officer Steering Group
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
IR—Issue Resoulution
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JET—Joint Expeditionary Tasking
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
JLLP—Joint Lessons Learned Program
LI—Lessons Identified
LNO—Liaison Officer
L2—Lesson Learned
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                         27


NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Periodic Report
RFI—Request For Information
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SME—Subject Matter Expert
Stan/Eval—Standardization/Evaluation
TIR—Tracking Issue Resolution
TTPs—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UCC—Unified Combatant Command
USAF—United States Air Force
(Added-ACC) USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
(Added-ACC) WEPTAC—Weapons and Tactics Conference
WJTSC—Worldwide Joint Training and Scheduling Conference

Terms
Active—A status of a Lesson Identified indicating that the lesson is currently being worked to
resolution by a DOTMLPF&P OPR.
After Action Report (AAR)—The AAR is a consolidated report that includes an executive
summary covering the event information (e.g., dates, locations, and participants) and
Observations. Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in
military operations. AAR Observations should describe how the mission could be/was
improved, potential risks to mission degradation and how to mitigate those risks.
Collection—Collection is a method by which Observations enter the AFLP and involves formal
and informal methods. Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal collection
efforts or they can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units and individual Airmen.
In a learning culture, every Airman, civilian and contractor contribute to the AFLP.
Dissemination—Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for
action, along with making lessons available for wider use. The goal of dissemination is to get
lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions.
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities and Policy are factors that implement senior leader guidance and lead to the
development and employment of joint force capabilities.
Lesson Identified—A validated Observation that represents a matter (e.g., capability, concept,
process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed. A Lesson Identified contains a
better way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader organization.
 28                                            AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


Lesson Learned—An insight gained that improves military operations or activities at the
strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
individual or an organization.
Observation—An input from any source into the AFLP. Observations contain information
regarding specific events, activities, circumstances or outcomes and should include sufficient
factual and contextual information to support their validation.
Resolution—Process to ensure Lessons Identified are staffed for action. Resolution actions
should be captured in JLLIS or appropriate documents and tracked to closure.
System of Record (SoR)—An information storage system (commonly implemented on a
computer system), which is the authoritative data source for a given data element or piece of
information. The need to identify systems of record can become acute in organizations where
management information systems have been built by taking output data from multiple source
systems, re-processing this data, and then re-presenting the result for a new business use. Where
the integrity of the data is vital, a data element must either be linked to, or extracted directly from
its system of record. The integrity and validity of any data set is open to question when there is
no traceable connection with a known System of Record.
Validation—Process to ensure an Observation is reviewed by staff functionals and/or
operational experts to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed
through the AFLP.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                   29


                                        Attachment 2
 AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING GROUP (AF L2
                         GOSG) CHARTER

A2.1. Purpose. The GOSG is a forum for senior leaders to discuss operational and strategic
level lessons and to shape AFL2P activities.
A2.2. Concept. AF/A9 sponsors an AF/CVA-chaired annual meeting attended by HQ USAF
senior leaders, MAJCOM/CVs and other invited senior leaders. This meeting provides a means
for senior leaders to:
   A2.2.1. Enhance the understanding of L2 from the conduct of operations, exercises and
   contingencies.
   A2.2.2. Inform key process owners of important L2 information that can be used for their
   decisions.
   A2.2.3. Review current CSAF L2 focus areas, status of any associated lessons and proposed
   topics for future CSAF L2 focus areas.
A2.3. Membership:
   A2.3.1. Chair: AF/CVA
   A2.3.2. Co-chair: AF/A9
   A2.3.3. SAF: XC, LL, IA, IG
   A2.3.4. AF: A1, A2, A3/5, A4/7, A8, A9, A10, HC, HO, JA, SE, SG
   A2.3.5. MAJCOM/CVs, NGB/CF
   A2.3.6. LeMay Center/CC, USAFWC/CC, USAFEC/CC
   A2.3.7. AFDW/CV
   A2.3.8. Others as required by the meeting agenda
A2.4. Roles and Responsibilities:
   A2.4.1. AF/CVA chairs the meeting.
   A2.4.2. AF/A9 develops the agenda and content for approval.
   A2.4.3. GOSG members discuss L2 and associated topics for their functional areas.
   A2.4.4. Selected members and guests provide highlights of their L2 activities.
   A2.4.5.1.    AF/A9L serves as GOSG secretariat to organize meetings and accomplish
   follow-on tasks.
A2.5. Timing and Venue:
   A2.5.1. Annual, preferably pre-CORONA
   A2.5.2. HQ USAF (Secure VTC for members outside National Capitol Region)
 30                                         AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


A2.6. AF Stakeholder GOSG Role:
   A2.6.1. Stakeholders GOSGs are formed as advocacy groups related to specific reports or
   threads designated under CSAF Focus Areas.
   A2.6.2. Stakeholder GOSG members will advise collection team members on content of
   specific collections and preview designated reports at the GO/SES level prior to more general
   distribution.
   A2.6.3. Stakeholder GOSG members will validate Observations, advocate for issue
   resolution, implement solutions and incorporate lessons within their area of functional or
   operational responsibility.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                31


                              Attachment 3
             OBSERVATION OR LESSON LEARNED TEMPLATE
32               AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


              Attachment 4
     AFTER ACTION REPORT TEMPLATE
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                        33


                                 Attachment 5 (Added-ACC)
                            ACC/A9L COLLECTION PROCESS

A5.1. (ACC) Purpose. The purpose of the collection process is to gather inputs from a variety
of sources, catalog and store the inputs, and prepare them for entry into the resolution process.
ACC/A9L action officers (AO) will actively extract individual observations from the various
input sources and ensure they are entered into JLLIS. Branch chiefs will prioritize observations
and staff them through designated AOs for validation.
A5.2. (ACC) Inputs from the Field. ACC/A9L will take advantage of various field input
sources to uncover observations. These sources generally fall into one of the following three
main categories: 1) ACC/A9L Deployed Collection efforts which consist of Air Force Exercises
(Operational and Tactical), Joint Force Exercises (Operational and Strategic),
Operations/Contingencies, and ACC CAT Support. 2) Formal external sources, which may
consist of HAF/A9, MAJCOM A9s, NAF A9s, ACC/A3Y, and the Air Warfare Center. 3)
Informal external sources, which consist of exercise AARs, contingency AARs, AEF Rotation
AARs and individual JLLIS submissions.
A5.3. (ACC) ACC/A9L is designed to support/augment NAF L2 organizations across the CAF
but may also support other commands and HAF depending upon ACC/A9L commitments at that
time.
A5.4. (ACC) Collection Team Guidance. When required, ACC/A9L will form a collection
team for each supported event. The team is typically comprised of a team leader and a
compliment of AOs from ACC/A9L. Team composition is based on the needs of the event and
will include augmentation by SMEs from the ACC staff and other organizations, when required.
   A5.4.1. (ACC) Collection event planning should include consideration of the following
   critical aspects:     Commander-directed interest areas to include reviewing relevant
   information from past AARs, past lessons materials, JLLIS data-mining and trends; SME and
   size of the team necessary to facilitate collection; collection plan; file plan, location of
   collection activities; and specific methods of data collection to be used including collection
   forms, and interview guides. If interviews are to be conducted, pre-event coordination with
   the individuals may be necessary to include release authority/staffing requirements for
   observations, appropriate format for deliverables such as the AAR.
   A5.4.2. (ACC) The team leader is in charge of the L2 collection team and reports to the
   sponsoring commander while deployed. The team leader will coordinate with supported
   leadership and exercise POCs, provide overall direction for the team, appoint a project
   officer and assign additional duties to team members, direct, coordinate, and prioritize the
   activities of team, refine and tailor interview questionnaire and observation worksheets, in-
   brief appropriate senior leadership at TDY location, coordinate interviews and present final
   report and out-brief the supported senior leadership if required.
   A5.4.4. (ACC) Team members support the team leader throughout the collection process.
   In general, team members will assist in collection plan development, conduct interviews and
   collect data through observation. Additionally, they will manage collection actions to
   include document version control, file structure, and format reports and briefings, capture
   observations, issues, or lessons learned, and recommend OPR. Finally, they will assist in
 34                                         AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


   preparing the final report, out-briefing, and provide feedback to the team leader evaluating
   the success of the mission.
   A5.4.5. (ACC) All data collected during an event is owned and controlled by the
   Commander Air Force Forces, or senior airman of the particular event. After completion of
   the After Action Report, due within 30 days of event completion, ACC/A9L will review and
   extract observations for processing, as needed.
A5.5. (ACC) Informal External Sources. In addition to direct exercise and contingency
support, ACC/A9L will research formal reports and briefings from CAF exercises and
contingency operations to identify observations to input into the L2 process. Standard items to
review include exercise, contingency, and AEF rotation AARs, and other similar reports.
A5.6. (ACC) Formal External Sources. ACC/A9L has formal working relationships with
organizations across the AF to facilitate the lesson learned development and dissemination.
These organizations may include HAF/A9, MAJCOM A9s, NAF A9s, ACC/A3Y and Air Force
Warfare Center. ACC/A9L will work with HAF/A9 and MAJCOM A9s to ensure CAF
observations are addressed appropriately. ACC/A9L will work with ACC/A3Y on observations
from ACC exercises. Additionally, ACC/A9L will work with NAF A9s to facilitate cross-
command observations and observations that require ACC or HAF action to resolve.
A5.7. (ACC) Extraction of Observations.
   A5.7.1. (ACC) ACC/A9L branch chiefs will actively manage the observation extraction
   process. This process includes the review of various input sources, prioritization of
   observations for action, and coordination with other branches for assignment. Additionally,
   branch chiefs will assign AOs to review source documents, determine which observations
   should be forwarded to other commands, and approve/disapprove observations to be input
   into JLLIS and formally tasked to HQ ACC staff for validation.
   A5.7.2. (ACC) AOs will review source documents according to branch chief direction and
   produce potential observations write-ups for branch chief.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                        35


                                 Attachment 6 (Added-ACC)
                            ACC/A9L VALIDATION PROCESS

A6.1. (ACC) Purpose. The purpose of validation is to collaborate with SMEs to determine the
proper course of action. Observations identified for validation are input into ACC/A9L‟s
internal tracker/database for management. AOs will work with originators to gain a clear
understanding of the observation. AOs will ensure the observation status is "Active" in JLLIS
and the internal tracker/database, then staff the observation for validation with the appropriate
SME.

Figure A6.1. ACC/A9L Validation Process
 36                                          AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


A6.2. (ACC) Assignment of Observations. Branch chiefs periodically review the prioritized
list of observations developed during the collection process. Branch chiefs will assign
observations for efficient workload management between branches.
A6.3. (ACC) Responsibilities of the AO. Validation begins when an AO is assigned an
observation. AOs will review the observation, determine appropriate ACC staff three-letter for
action, determine if the level of detail in the observation is appropriate to forward to SME for
validation and update the status of the observation. The AO will prepare the observation staff
package for SME validation using the validation/resolution letter template, assign suspense of 10
working days, and forward the staff package to the ACC/A9L division e-mail box. When the
validation letter is sent to the SME, the AO will update the observation (e.g. Assigned to
ACC/XXX for Validation; Suspense: DD/MM/YYYY; initials).
A6.4. (ACC) SME Review. SMEs will review each observation and determine if there is
enough information for them to address the observation, if they are the correct OPR for the
observation, and if the observation is a valid issue or lesson.
A6.5. (ACC) ACC/A9L Review of SME Response
   A6.5.1. (ACC) If a SME indicates that there is not enough information available to evaluate
   the validity of the observation, the AO will work with the SME and observation originator
   for clarification. Extend the internal suspense/formal suspense by five working days and
   update the observation with the new suspense.
   A6.5.2. (ACC) If a tasked ACC SME indicates that they are not the right OPR, A9L will
   request they suggest an appropriate OPR within the ACC Staff or potentially an organization
   outside of ACC. If the observation is returned because it was sent to the wrong OPR, the AO
   will review with the branch chief and determine proper OPR for validation. If the proper
   OPR is in the ACC staff, the package will be re-staffed for SME validation. Otherwise, the
   observation will be forwarded to the appropriate organization. The AO will draft a memo,
   email, etc as required and coordinate with the division chief to determine appropriate level
   (2/3-letter) to staff the package. When ACC/A9L sends the memo, the AO will update the
   observation (e.g. Forwarded to XXX/A9L for action; Date: DD/MM/YYYY; initials).
   A6.5.3. (ACC) SMEs will assess the validity of the observation and determine if the
   observation is an issue or a lesson. If the observation is a valid issue, it will be moved to the
   resolution phase. If the observation is a valid lesson identified, it will moved to the
   dissemination phase. The AO will update the observation with details from the validation
   response and update the status (e.g. Validated by: ACC/XXX; Date: DD/MM/YYY;
   initials). In addition, the AO will ensure both AF-JLLIS and the internal tracker/database
   status are updated as required, i.e. "Validated" for a valid issue requiring resolution.
   A6.5.4. (ACC) If the SME says the observation is not valid, the AO will review the
   observation with the branch chief and make a recommendation to the ACC/A9L Division
   Chief. If ACC/A9L agrees with the ACC A-Staff POC response, the AO will close and
   update the observation (e.g. Closed: No Action; Date: DD/MM/YYYY; initials). In
   addition, the AO will ensure both JLLIS and the internal tracker/database status are updated
   to "Closed." If no agreement is reached at the ACC A-Staff Division-level, observations will
   be raised to the next level for validation.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                     37


  A6.5.5. (ACC) The validation process successfully concludes when an observation has been
  passed to another organization as the OPR, validated as either an issue or an observation by
  an appropriate ACC SME or closed as non-valid.
 38                                          AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                 Attachment 7 (Added-ACC)
                            ACC/A9L RESOLUTION PROCESS

A7.1. (ACC) Purpose. The purpose of the resolution process is to coordinate with the ACC
Staff, NAFs, and operators in the field to assist them in producing lessons from issues. ACC A-
Staff Divisions and other staff entities (JA, PA, etc.) are tasked to develop viable solutions for
issues or verify that proposed solutions from an observation are viable. ACC/A9L will
track/manage each issue and observation to closure or transfer.

Figure A7.1. ACC/A9L Resolution Process.




A7.2. (ACC) Resolution. If a SME determines that an issue is valid (validation phase) and
requires resolution, they will forward the resolution plan and estimated closure date to
ACC/A9L. A9L AOs will update the observation with the required information (OPR:
ACC/XXX; POC Name/Rank/DSN/email; ECD: DD/MM/YYYY; Details/comments from 2-
Letter response; initials). AOs will also ensure the observation status is "Validated" in both
JLLIS and the internal tracker/database. SMEs will resolve issues and verify the potential
solutions from observations according to their own internal processes. A9L AOs will coordinate
with designated SMEs to ensure issue resolution remains on schedule, and assist SMEs in
overcoming obstacles when appropriate.
A7.3. (ACC) A9L Periodic Review of Progress on Open Issues/Lessons A9L AOs will
conduct periodic reviews with SMEs to maintain visibility and accountability during the
validation/resolution process. In addition, A9L will provide the opportunity to discuss proposed
solutions, roadblocks, and the way-ahead for issues/lessons. A9L will determine the forum
(phone call, electronic coordination, formal meeting, etc.) for reviews. The purpose of the
periodic review is to review status of open observations/lessons, review status of
observations/lessons closed since last review & update ACC Staff on A9L dissemination of
closed observations/lessons. At the conclusion of a review, the A9L AO will update the
observation e.g. (Formally reviewed by ACC/A9L; Date: DD/MM/YYY; initials).
   A7.3.1. (Added-ACC) ACC/A9L will monitor the status of all observations/issues/lessons
   currently in the ACC/A9L MAJCOM tier to provide analysis of current objectives.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                        39


   ACC/A9L branch chiefs and action officers will keep this database up to date on actions
   being worked on both NIPRNET & SIPRNET.
A7.4. (ACC) Senior Leader Review. As necessary to elevate action, ACC/A9 will facilitate
the Senior Leader Review to update the ACC staff on the status of issues, observations, and
lessons learned. The update will enable A9 to maintain visibility and accountability during the
validation/ resolution process, and obtain the necessary support to resolve difficult issues. The
purpose of the update will be to update ACC Directors on the status of observations and obtain
COMACC guidance for difficult observations/lessons.
A7.5. (ACC) The resolution process successfully concludes when issues have viable solutions
(lessons) that have been fielded or senior leaders determine that the risk to not resolve a valid
issue is acceptable. Lessons and issues will be forwarded for dissemination.
 40                                         AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                 Attachment 8 (Added-ACC)
                          ACC/A9L DISSEMINATION PROCESS

A8.1. (ACC) Purpose. The purpose of dissemination is to share lessons learned and better
ways with the Air Force through published lessons learned. Once all necessary coordination has
been completed between ACC/A9L and SMEs, a lesson learned is ready for dissemination.
ACC/A9L, in coordination with SMEs, will identify organizations that may benefit from the
published lessons learned and precisely push them to those organizations. The primary
customers for “Precise Push” include but are not limited to ACC NAFs, ACC Wings, the CAF,
HAF, MAJCOMs, and United States Joint Forces Command (USJFCOM).
A8.2. (ACC) Precise Push. A9L will determine the means of “Precise Push”. Examples
include targeted email distribution list, bulletin publications, etc. The AO will draft email for
A9L, author a newsletter article, or provide additional documentation, as required, and update
the observation (e.g. Published in: XXXX, DD/MM/YYYY; initials) and update the A9L
tracker/database.
A8.3. (ACC) Responsive Pull. A9L will support “Responsive Pull” efforts by ensuring lessons
learned are stored in a variety of Air Force tools (AF-JLLIS, AF L2 Library, etc.). ACC L2
products will also be stored on the ACC/A9L Air Force Portal Page and the ACC/A9L Air Force
Knowledge Now Community of Practice.
AFI 90-1601_ACCSUP_I 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                           41


                                  Attachment 9 (Added-ACC)
             ACC/A9L SUPPORT TO ACC CONTINGENCY ACTION TEAM

A9.1. (ACC) The primary function of the ACC Contingency Action Team (CAT) is to act as
the COMACC‟s force provision focal point for coordination of actions to source, task, deliver
and track ACC resources during surge, crisis, and steady-state operations/exercises. The CAT
responds to higher headquarters taskings that deploy, redeploy, reconstitute, and sustain ACC
forces to the combatant commanders. In addition, the CAT provides feedback/courses of action
through the Ryan Center and/or Air Force Operating Group in response to combatant
commanders‟ Request for Forces or Request for Capability.
A9.2. (ACC) ACC/A9L Functional Area Representative (FAR) Duties. The primary duties
of all ACC CAT FARs are defined by ACCI 10-255, Contingency Action Team. The A9 FAR‟s
primary focus will be coordinating with the A-staff FARs and Functional Area Managers
(FAMs) to identify, collect and disseminate ACC CAT lessons learned. The ACC/A9L FAR
will:
   A9.2.1. (ACC) Check SIPRNET and NIPRNET accounts at least twice daily for lessons
   learned.
   A9.2.2. (ACC) Check SIPRNET and NIPRNET from the Ryan Center workstation and the
   regular office at least monthly for good connectivity.
   A9.2.3. (ACC) Accomplish FAR training requirements listed in the ACCI 10-255,
   paragraph 6.
A9.3. (ACC) Disposition and Dissemination of Observations Post Event. It is the
responsibility of the ACC A9 FAR to collect observations and disseminate lessons learned from
the ACC CAT. Guidance and support from CAT leadership (Director and Ops Officer) is
needed to successfully capture and collect observations. It is also important to coordinate with
the other A9 agencies involved. While ACC/A9 is the lead collector for the ACC CAT, it is
typically not the lead collector for an overall exercise or operation. Therefore, close coordination
with the lead A9 is needed to avoid duplication of effort and to ensure observations are captured
at the appropriate level.
