BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-821
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            27 JANUARY 2014

                                                                          Special Management

                                                  HAZARD COMMUNICATION (HAZCOM)
                                                                       PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFMSA/SG3PB                                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/SG3
                                                                   (Brig Gen Charles E. Potter)
                                                                                     Pages: 25
Supersedes:   AFOSHSTD161-21,
              23 January 1989 and
              AFI90-821, 30 March 2005


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI)
6050.05, DoD Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program, and Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 90-8, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Management and Risk
Management. It describes the Air Force (AF) HAZCOM Program that puts into effect the
requirements of Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 1910.1200, Hazard
Communication. Unless otherwise noted, the guidance and procedures outlined in this AFI apply
to all United States Air Force (USAF) military and civilian personnel at AF installations and
geographically separated units (GSU) within the United States (US) and its territories. For
installations and GSUs located in foreign countries, this AFI only applies to the extent it
addresses matters not covered by country-specific Final Governing Standards (FGS), the
Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD), Combatant Command policy,
and environmental consideration annexes to operation orders, operation plans, or other operation
directive that apply at the overseas location. Additionally, this AFI applies to the AF Reserve
(AFR), the Air National Guard, and direct reporting units (DRU) and field operating agencies
(FOA) not located on AF installations. Government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO)
operations within the US or US territories shall implement 29 CFR 1910.1200. GOCO
operations outside the regulatory jurisdiction of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) shall comply with this standard in response to Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR) 52.223-3, Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
 2                                                                                              AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-
0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. This
publication may be supplemented at any level when additional or more stringent safety and
health criteria are required. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updates that align the program with the United Nations Globally Harmonized System of
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS). Specifically, changes include terminology,
safety data sheet (SDS) format, and labeling requirements.


Chapter 1—PROGRAM OVERVIEW                                                                                                                     4
       1.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................     4
       1.2.    Scope. .....................................................................................................................    4
       1.3.    Hazard Classification. ............................................................................................             7

Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                           8
       2.1.    Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, and Logistics
               (SAF/IE). ................................................................................................................      8
       2.2.    Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). ..........................                                       8
       2.3.    Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG). ....................................................................                         8
       2.4.    MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRU Commanders. ..........................................................                                    8
       2.5.    United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM). ................                                                9
       2.6.    Wing/Installation Level Commanders. ..................................................................                          9
       2.7.    Tenant Units. ..........................................................................................................       12
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                                3


Chapter 3—WRITTEN WORK-AREA SPECIFIC HAZCOM PROGRAM
           REQUIREMENTS                                                                                  13
     3.1.   Written Work-Area Specific HAZCOM Programs. ..............................................   13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                           18

Attachment 2—SAMPLE TRADE SECRET INFORMATION REQUEST LETTER                                              25
 4                                                               AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


                                            Chapter 1

                                   PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. Purpose. Hazardous chemicals are found in virtually every AF operation, including aircraft
and missile maintenance, civil engineering, transportation, supply, medical, and support
functions. This AFI is intended to minimize the incidence of chemically induced occupational
and environmental health-related illnesses and injuries by establishing guidance for training
employees on the health and physical hazards associated with and proper preventive measures to
be taken when using or handling hazardous chemicals in work areas.
1.2. Scope. This AFI provides the requirements for an effective AF HAZCOM Program for
those work areas that have workers that handle or use hazardous chemicals. All employees that
work in an environment where hazardous chemicals are known to be present in such a manner
that employees may be exposed under normal conditions of use or in a foreseeable emergency,
will be provided information about the hazardous chemicals to which they may be exposed. This
information shall be provided by means of a written work area-specific HAZCOM program,
including but not limited to SDSs (formerly known as Material Safety Data Sheets or MSDSs),
labels, and other forms of warning, information and training.
     1.2.1. This AFI applies to:
        1.2.1.1. All U.S. AF military and civilian personnel at AF installations, GSUs, and
        GOCO operations in the US and US territories. For installations located in foreign
        countries, this AFI only applies to the extent it addresses matters not covered by country-
        specific FGSs, the OEBGD, Combatant Command policy, and environmental
        consideration annexes to operation orders, operation plans, or other operation directive
        that apply at the overseas location.
        1.2.1.2. The AF Reserve, the Air National Guard, and DRUs and FOAs not located on
        AF installations.
        1.2.1.3. All AF military and civilian personnel who use, handle, or may be potentially
        exposed to hazardous chemicals while working under a contractor or working in
        contractor facilities.   The AF retains ultimate responsibility for AF personnel
        participation and oversight.
        1.2.1.4. Contractor employees who are employed at AF-owned or operated facilities that
        may be exposed to hazardous chemicals used during an AF operation with the following
        exceptions:
            1.2.1.4.1. This AFI does not excuse contractors, as stipulated in their specific
            contracts, from their compliance obligations under 29 CFR 1910.1200 or any
            applicable State and local requirements.
            1.2.1.4.2. Contractors are required to train their own employees in accordance with
            29 CFR 1910.1200 and any applicable State and local requirements. Contractors are
            not authorized to use the AF HAZCOM Program for this purpose.
        1.2.1.5. 29 CFR 1910.1200 has primacy over state programs at AF installations even if
        the state has an OSHA-approved state program.
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                       5


  1.2.2. Laboratories (see definition at Attachment 1) are primarily governed by AFI 48-22,
  Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories. Laboratories are not
  required to establish a work area-specific HAZCOM program.
  1.2.3. In work operations, such as warehousing, where employees only handle chemicals in
  sealed containers that are not opened under normal conditions of use, this Instruction applies
  to these operations only as follows:
     1.2.3.1. Labeling requirements of paragraph 3.1.3.
     1.2.3.2. SDS requirements of paragraph 3.1.4.
     1.2.3.3. Training requirements of paragraph 3.1.6.
  1.2.4. Materials Exempt from the AF HAZCOM Program. AF HAZCOM Program
  requirements do not apply to the following:
     1.2.4.1. Hazardous wastes regulated under Title 42 United States Code Sections 6901-
     6992k, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).
     1.2.4.2. Hazardous substances subject to a remedial action or removal action under Title
     42 United Stated Code Sections 9601-9675, Comprehensive Environmental Response,
     Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA).
     1.2.4.3. Tobacco or tobacco products.
     1.2.4.4. Wood or wood products that will not be processed (wood or wood products
     which have been treated with a hazardous chemical covered by 29 CFR 1910.1200 and
     wood which may be subsequently sawed or cut, generating dust, are not exempt).
     1.2.4.5. Articles. An article is a manufactured item other than fluid or particle: (1) is
     formed to a specific shape or design during manufacture which; (2) has end-use
     function(s) dependent in whole or in part upon its shape or design during end use; and (3)
     under normal conditions of use does not release more than very small quantities, e.g.,
     minute or trace amounts of hazardous chemicals [as determined under 29 CFR
     1910.1200(d)], and does not pose a physical hazard or health risk to employees.
     1.2.4.6. Food or alcoholic beverages.
     1.2.4.7. Any drug in its solid, final form for direct administration to a patient or intended
     for personal consumption by employees while in the work area (such as first aid supplies,
     non-prescription and prescription, dry pelletized drugs, e.g., tablets, pills or capsules).
     Tablets, capsules, or pills which are designed to be dissolved or crushed by employees
     prior to administration to a patient are not exempt. Where employees are counting tablets
     /pills/capsules for packaging and processing, even when they are in their solid, final form,
     are not exempt. Liquid drugs, injections, gels, and ointments are not exempt.
     1.2.4.8. Cosmetics.
     1.2.4.9. Consumer products in normal consumer use such as vehicle propane tanks,
     copier toner, etc. (i.e., material usage in the work area is for the purpose intended by the
     chemical manufacturer or importer of the product, and the use results in a duration and
     frequency of exposure which is not greater than the range of exposures that could
     reasonably be experienced by consumers when used for the purpose intended).
6                                                              AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


          1.2.4.9.1. Whether consumer products are subject to the AF HAZCOM Program and
          require training is based on the frequency and duration of use of the products and
          requires a case-by-case judgment by the supervisor in consultation with
          Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE). For example:
          1.2.4.9.2. Personnel who use window cleaner in a manner similar to that of any
          consumer in terms of frequency and duration of use (e.g. the window cleaner is used
          once a week to clean bathroom mirrors) will not require HAZCOM training;
          however, maintenance personnel using the same window cleaner at a frequency and
          duration that would exceed that expected of a typical consumer (e.g. the window
          cleaner is used four hours a day to clean vehicle windows) will require training.
       1.2.4.10. Nuisance particulates that do not pose any physical or health hazard.
       1.2.4.11. Ionizing and non-ionizing radiation.
       1.2.4.12. Biological hazards.
       1.2.4.13. Munitions as defined in AFI 21-200, Munitions and Missile Maintenance
       Management.
    1.2.5. Materials Exempt from the AF HAZCOM Program Labeling Requirements. AF
    HAZCOM Program labeling requirements do not apply to the following:
       1.2.5.1. Any pesticide as such term is defined in Title 7 United States Code Sections
       136-136y, Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), when subject to
       the labeling requirements of that Act.
       1.2.5.2. Any chemical substance or mixture as such terms are defined in Title 15 United
       Sates Code Sections 2601-2629, Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), when subject to
       the labeling requirements of that Act.
       1.2.5.3. Any food, food additive, color additive, drug, cosmetic, or medical or veterinary
       device or product, including materials intended for use as ingredients in such products
       (e.g., flavors and fragrances), as such terms are defined in Title 21 United States Code
       Sections 301-399f, Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act), or Title 21
       United States Code Sections 151-159, Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (VSTA).
       1.2.5.4. Any distilled spirits (beverage alcohols), wine, or malt beverage intended for
       non-industrial use, as such terms are defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act,
       and regulations issued under that Act, when subject to the labeling requirements of that
       Act and labeling regulations issued under that Act by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
       Firearms and Explosives.
       1.2.5.5. Any consumer product or hazardous substance as those terms are defined in Title
       15 United States Code Sections 2051-2084, Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), and
       Title 15 United States Code Sections 1261-1278, Federal Hazardous Substances Act
       (FHSA), respectively, when subject to a consumer product safety standard or labeling
       requirement of those Acts, or regulations issued under those Acts by the Consumer
       Product Safety Commission.
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                        7


       1.2.5.6. Agricultural or vegetable seed treated with pesticides and labeled in accordance
       with Title 7 United States Code Sections 1551-1611, Federal Seed Act, and labeling
       regulations issued under that Act by the Department of Agriculture.
1.3. Hazard Classification. The AF will rely on the hazard classification of the supplier or
manufacturer of purchased chemicals. For AF produced chemicals, the AF activity controlling
the formulation will make the hazard classification and produce an SDS in accordance with
(IAW) 29 CFR 1910.1200. The AF activity producing the chemical will include hazard
classification procedures in their work-area specific written program, and ensure their personnel
are trained on the hazards. If the chemical is transferred to any other organization, the producing
organization will provide an SDS with the shipment and transmit the SDS to the SDS Focal Point
at the United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM) for submission into
Defense Logistics Agency’s (DLA) Hazardous Material Data Management System.
 8                                                              AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


                                            Chapter 2

                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, and Logistics
(SAF/IE).
     2.1.1. Establish AF Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH) policy and
     promulgate and oversee AF HAZCOM Program policy.
     2.1.2. Coordinate AF HAZCOM Program implementation and compliance efforts with those
     of the other Services to identify common areas of interest and to help prevent duplication of
     effort.
2.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). SAF/AQ will
incorporate AF HAZCOM Program requirements, where applicable, into acquisition processes
through policies, procedures, and training.
2.3. Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG).
     2.3.1. Air Force Medical Support Agency (AFMSA). AFMSA will provide policy and
     guidance to facilitate effective implementation of the AF HAZCOM Program.
     2.3.2. Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA).
        2.3.2.1. Advocate for Defense Health Program (DHP) funding needed for the AF
        Medical Service (AFMS) to execute AF HAZCOM requirements and to maintain the
        occupational health portion of the SDS focal point at the USAFSAM.
        2.3.2.2. Validate and allocate DHP resources required for occupational and
        environmental health surveillance activities associated with the HAZCOM Program at
        MAJCOM installations and GSUs.
        2.3.2.3. Provide policy interpretation and guidance for AFMS personnel to execute AF
        HAZCOM Program requirements at installations and GSUs.
2.4. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRU Commanders.
     2.4.1. Provide execution guidance, resolve questions, and provide interpretation of AF
     HAZCOM Program requirements for their installations and units.
     2.4.2. Specify AF HAZCOM Program support responsibilities for GSUs.
     2.4.3. MAJCOM Surgeons (MAJCOM/SG). MAJCOM/SGs will ensure BE and Public
     Health (PH) at the MAJCOM’s installations provide technical assistance, such as health-risk
     assessment and training assistance, to installation personnel covered by this Instruction.
        2.4.3.1. For AFR host locations, this responsibility is shared by AFRC/A7 in concert
        with AFRC/SG.
     2.4.4. Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC). AFCEC will establish procedures with
     the Enterprise Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health-Management Information
     System (EESOH-MIS) Program Office to electronically submit SDSs to the USAFSAM
     focal point for submittal into DLA’s Hazardous Material Data Management System.
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                       9


2.5. United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM).
   2.5.1. USAFSAM         Occupational      and      Environmental       Health      Department
   (USAFSAM/OE).
      2.5.1.1. Be the focal point for SDSs. Ensure the occupational health portion of the SDS
      and associated data is entered into DLA’s Hazardous Material Data Management System.
      (T-0)
      2.5.1.2. Review submitted SDSs for completeness and legibility, request additional
      information from manufacturers to correct SDS deficiencies, or return deficient SDSs to
      the appropriate procurement officer to correct the deficiencies. (T-0)
      2.5.1.3. Plan, program, and budget for the SDS focal point activities. (T-1)
      2.5.1.4. Develop and maintain AF HAZCOM supervisor training, a work-area specific
      training template (which must be able to be modified or supplemented locally so that it is
      work-area specific) and training templates for OSHA expanded standards. This training
      must be readily available AF-wide. (T-1)
   2.5.2. USAFSAM          Public            Health           Education   Division
   (USAFSAM/PHD). USAFSAM/PHD will assist USAFSAM/OE in the development and
   maintenance of HAZCOM training materials and tools as requested. (T-3)
2.6. Wing/Installation Level Commanders.
   2.6.1. Ensure supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to
   hazardous chemicals in the course of official AF duties are provided information and training
   on the AF HAZCOM Program and the specific hazards in their work areas according to
   paragraph 3.1.6. (T-0)
   2.6.2. Ensure supervisors of work areas where hazardous chemicals are used or handled,
   understand, prepare and implement a written work area-specific HAZCOM program, which
   includes a work area-specific training plan, tailored to their work area tasks and hazards. (T-
   0)
   2.6.3. Ensure all installation hazardous material (HAZMAT) Tracking Activities (HTAs),
   formally known as HAZMARTs, meet relevant AF HAZCOM Program requirements. (T-0)
   2.6.4. Medical Group Commanders (MDG/CC). MDG/CCs will ensure qualified
   occupational and environmental health (OEH) personnel (see Attachment 1) perform the
   responsibilities described in paragraph 2.6.4.2. for installations without a BE function. (T-0)
   For AFR host locations, this function is supported by the Mission Support Group
   Commander (MSG/CC) and capability gaps will be handled through established Wing
   procedures.
      2.6.4.1. Public Health (PH).
          2.6.4.1.1. Assist work area supervisors with accessing USAFSAM’s training
          materials and tools. (T-1)
          2.6.4.1.2. Assist BE with addressing work area supervisor inquiries regarding
          potential health hazards associated with hazardous chemicals, especially those related
          to mutagens, teratogens, carcinogens, and reproductive hazards. (T-2)
10                                                            AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


         2.6.4.1.3. Review and approve new or modified work area-specific HAZCOM
         training plans for technical accuracy and completeness prior to implementation by the
         work area supervisor. (T-3)
     2.6.4.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE).
         2.6.4.2.1. As requested, provide clarification to work area supervisors on potential
         health hazards, training requirements, and regulatory requirements associated with
         hazardous chemicals and the AF HAZCOM Program. (T-0)
         2.6.4.2.2. Review and approve new or modified work area-specific HAZCOM
         training plans for technical accuracy and completeness prior to implementation by the
         work area supervisor. (T-3)
         2.6.4.2.3. Assess work area program compliance in conjunction with routine or
         special assessments and when deemed necessary. (T-0)
         2.6.4.2.4. Maintain access to SDSs contained in DLA’s Hazardous Material Data
         Management System. (T-0)
         2.6.4.2.5. Request from manufacturers, as needed, portions of a SDS designated by
         the manufacturer as a trade secret, and send proprietary SDS information to
         USAFSAM/OE for incorporation into DLA’s Hazardous Material Data Management
         System. A sample request letter is provided in Attachment 2. When requesting
         proprietary information, BE personnel may be asked to sign a non-disclosure
         agreement regarding a manufacturer’s proprietary information; consult with the
         installation legal office when non-disclosure criteria are not clear. (T-0)
         2.6.4.2.6. Provide HAZCOM advice to the Contracting Office upon request to assist
         in ensuring contracts include hazardous chemical identification and data requirements
         as appropriate. (T-3)
         2.6.4.2.7. Request copies of, or contractor access to, DLA’s Hazardous Material Data
         Management System when requested by the Contracting Officer for use by a
         contractor’s health and safety representative. BE will coordinate provision of the
         proprietary version of DLA’s Hazardous Material Data Management System to
         contractor representatives who are health professionals (such as physicians, industrial
         hygienists, toxicologists, epidemiologists, or occupational health nurses). BE will
         also coordinate provision of the basic non-proprietary version of DLA’s Hazardous
         Material Data Management System, which is identical to the proprietary version,
         except it does not include proprietary ingredients information, to all other contractor
         representatives. (T-0)
  2.6.5. Hazardous Material Tracking Activities (HTA).
     2.6.5.1. Obtain SDSs for hazardous chemicals received unless the SDS is already
     available in EESOH-MIS and DLA’s Hazardous Material Data Management System. (T-
     0)
     2.6.5.2. Ensure all hazardous chemicals are properly labeled prior to issue. Additional
     labeling is not required if the label is already compliant with 29 CFR 1910.1200(f)
     requirements. For hazardous chemicals received through a DoD supply system, a supply
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                    11


     discrepancy report should be submitted for material received with noncompliant labels
     IAW AFJMAN 23-215, Reporting of Supply Discrepancies. (T-0)
     2.6.5.3. Provide new and updated SDSs to the EESOH-MIS Data Steward for submittal
     into EESOH-MIS IAW AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management. (T-0)
     2.6.5.4. At the time of local purchase approval, ensure the procuring organization obtains
     the most current SDS from the identified vendor. (T-0)
     2.6.5.5. For items procured through DLA/General Services Administration (GSA) that
     are received without a SDS, search DLA’s Hazardous Material Data Management System
     to determine the correct SDS for the product (based upon the contract number) and
     ensure the SDS is submitted to the EESOH-MIS Data Steward for submittal into
     EESOH-MIS. (T-0)
  2.6.6. Contracting Office. IAW FAR Subpart 23.3, include FAR clause 52.223-3 in all
  solicitations and contracts that may reasonably require the delivery of hazardous chemicals to
  the AF or require an offeror or contractor to use hazardous chemicals on an AF installation.
  Transmit contractor SDS submitted IAW this clause to potentially impacted AF work area
  supervisors and BE. (T-0)
  2.6.7. Fire Emergency Services (FES).
     2.6.7.1. Provide technical expertise to work area supervisors on potential fire hazards,
     make recommendations regarding fire-prevention controls, and storage and handling to
     minimize or eliminate potential fire and explosion hazards. (T-3)
     2.6.7.2. Review and approve new or modified work area-specific HAZCOM training
     plans. (T-3)
  2.6.8. Ground Safety (SEG). SEG will review and approve new or modified work area-
  specific HAZCOM training plans. (T-3)
  2.6.9. Squadron/Unit Level Commanders. Squadron/Unit Commanders will provide a
  safe and healthy work environment and ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with the
  hazards within the work area, understand appropriate ways to manage risk associated with
  hazardous chemicals in the work area, and provide the resources to maintain effective work
  area-specific HAZCOM programs within work areas under their control. (T-0)
     2.6.9.1. Work Area Supervisors. Work area supervisors are responsible for HAZCOM
     in their work areas, but may designate an alternate to assist in daily program execution.
         2.6.9.1.1. Review USAFSAM’s AF supervisor HAZCOM training initially and as
         needed to maintain competency. Contact PH for guidance on accessing USAFSAM’s
         supervisor HAZCOM training. (T-0)
         2.6.9.1.2. Develop and implement a written work area-specific HAZCOM program
         IAW Chapter 3. This information shall be accessible by all assigned employees in the
         work area either electronically or hard copy. (T-0)
         2.6.9.1.3. Develop a work area-specific HAZCOM training plan, if one does not
         exist, using USAFSAM’s work area-specific training plan template. (T-0) Ensure
         BE, PH, SEG, FES, and any other locally determined organizations as necessary,
 12                                                          AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


          review and approve new or modified work area-specific HAZCOM training plans for
          technical accuracy and completeness prior to implementation in the work area. (T-3)
          2.6.9.1.4. Ensure assigned personnel receive and understand work area-specific
          HAZCOM training as described in paragraph 3.1.6. (T-0)
          2.6.9.1.5. Through formal contract pre-performance conferences or work area
          familiarization briefings, provide contractors information on AF operational hazards
          and protective measures, where and how relevant SDS information is available, and
          information on the hazardous chemical labeling system. (T-0)
          2.6.9.1.6. Document supervisor, worker initial, and supplemental HAZCOM training
          on the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, in another electronic form
          or in the AF EESOH-MIS. This record should also include external HAZCOM
          training provided to AF supervisors and employees from contractor organizations
          where applicable. (T-1)
2.7. Tenant Units. Tenant units will participate in and comply with all provisions of the
HAZCOM program administered by their host installation. (T-0)
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                        13


                                            Chapter 3

    WRITTEN WORK-AREA SPECIFIC HAZCOM PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

3.1. Written Work-Area Specific HAZCOM Programs. Supervisors of work areas whose
employees use, handle and/or will potentially be exposed to hazardous chemicals not exempted
as described in paragraph 1.2.4. must prepare and implement a written work area-specific
HAZCOM program. Written programs must be readily accessible (in either paper or electronic
format) to all employees. Where personnel must travel between work areas during a work shift
(e.g., their work is carried out at more than one geographical location such as flight line
operations), the written work-area specific HAZCOM program may be kept at the primary work
area facility. The written work area-specific HAZCOM program will be included in the work
area Job Safety Training Outline (JSTO). (T-2) Reference AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
Mishap Prevention Program, for additional information on preparing a JSTO. There is no
requirement to maintain additional copies of the written work area-specific HAZCOM program
in a separate binder, file, or other medium. Written work-area specific HAZCOM programs will
include the following criteria or a description of how each of the following criteria will be met:
(T-0)
   3.1.1. Hazardous Chemical List. The written work area-specific HAZCOM program must
   include a list of the hazardous chemicals present in the work area (the list may be compiled
   for the work area as a whole or for specified and readily distinguishable portions of the work
   area). The product identifier that is used on the SDS must be cross-referenced to the list. (T-
   0) The EESOH-MIS authorization report with product data may serve as the work area
   hazardous chemical list. Work area supervisors will, at least annually, reconcile SDSs on file
   (if files outside of DLA’s Hazardous Material Data Management System and EESOH-MIS
   are maintained) and the work area hazardous chemical list and maintain documentation of the
   reconciliation. (T-1)
   3.1.2. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Chemicals.
       3.1.2.1. Supervisors will ensure work area operating instructions (OIs), specific task lists,
       and job safety analyses (JSAs) thoroughly describe non-routine tasks, associated hazards,
       and controls. OIs do not need to be prepared if technical orders (TOs) or other official
       documents adequately describe these tasks and associated hazards and controls.
       Supervisors will ensure workers review these procedures before performing non-routine
       tasks. (T-0)
       3.1.2.2. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the
       supervisor of the gaining activity will ensure these workers receive initial work area-
       specific HAZCOM training described in paragraph 3.1.6.2. prior to beginning the
       activity. (T-0)
   3.1.3. Labels and Other Forms of Warning.
       3.1.3.1. It is the responsibility of chemical manufacturers, importers, and commercial
       distributors to label containers of hazardous chemicals according to 29 CFR 1910.1200.
       Accordingly, chemical containers entering the installation through the supply system or
       through local purchase should already be properly labeled.
14                                                              AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


     3.1.3.2. Supervisors will ensure labels on containers of hazardous chemicals used in their
     work area meet 29 CFR 1910.1200(f) requirements, remain affixed to their containers,
     and are not obliterated or covered. At a minimum, the following information will appear
     on container labels [refer to 29 CFR 1910.1200(f)(7) for alternate means of identifying
     container contents]: (T-0)
         3.1.3.2.1. Product identifier;
         3.1.3.2.2. Signal word;
         3.1.3.2.3. Hazard statement(s);
         3.1.3.2.4. Pictogram(s);
         3.1.3.2.5. Precautionary statement(s); and,
         3.1.3.2.6. Name, address, and telephone number of the chemical manufacturer,
         importer, or other responsible party. Note: Containers in the work area and locally
         developed labels do not require this information.
     3.1.3.3. If container labeling meets the 29 CFR 1910.1200(f) requirements, no additional
     labeling is required; however, the installation may affix other labels to containers for
     locally determined purposes.
     3.1.3.4. If an employee transfers a chemical from a labeled container (for example, a 55-
     gallon drum) into a portable container for immediate use by the same employee who
     made the transfer, then the portable container does not need to be labeled according to 29
     CFR 1910.1200(f) requirements. Immediate use means that the hazardous chemical will
     be under the control of and used only by the person who transferred it from the labeled
     container and only within the work shift in which it was transferred. If the employee
     cannot maintain full control over the chemical or departs the work area, and if there is
     residual chemical left in the portable container, the chemical shall either be disposed of
     under applicable local disposal regulations, returned to its original container, or labeled in
     accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1200(f). (T-0)
  3.1.4. Safety Data Sheets. Installations will maintain documents consistent with 29 CFR
  1910.1200(g). If a document consistent with 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) cannot be obtained from a
  supplier outside of the US, a document meeting the intent of 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) is
  acceptable. (T-0)
     3.1.4.1. Work areas shall maintain a SDS (in either paper or electronic format) for every
     item on the work area-specific hazardous chemical list. Each SDS shall be readily
     available to workers in the work area. The SDS on file must match the product identifier
     of the chemical on-hand. If a new SDS is received, but the old chemical is still on-hand,
     the SDS which matched the old chemical must be retained as long as the old chemical is
     present in the work area. (T-0)
     3.1.4.2. Ready access to SDSs in the work areas will be provided as follows: (T-0)
         3.1.4.2.1. Shop supervisors will ensure that all workers on all shifts know how to
         obtain an SDS and have unrestricted direct access to SDSs in their work area during
         all shifts. (T-0)
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                    15


         3.1.4.2.2. The location of SDSs and/or means of access for any work area will be
         determined locally. Consideration should be given to how long it would take for a
         worker to obtain an SDS if it were needed to respond to a spill or if a worker was
         accidentally splashed with a hazardous chemical. (T-0)
         3.1.4.2.3. If the primary means for SDS access is electronic, a backup system for
         SDS access must be established in case primary computer access is disrupted. The
         back-up system may include, but is not limited to, paper copies, files on an external
         hard drive or CDs, fax, or telephone transmittal of hazard information from a nearby
         HTA or BE Flight as long as the SDS is delivered to the site as soon as possible.
         Local judgment must be used to determine an adequate back-up system on a case-by-
         case basis. (T-0)
         3.1.4.2.4. Where personnel must travel between work areas during a work shift (e.g.,
         their work is carried out at more than one geographical location such as flight line
         operations), the SDS may be kept at the primary work area facility. (T-0)
     3.1.4.3. Ensure any proprietary formulary and/or trade secret information in an SDS is
     protected and used only as a management tool for exposure and incident prevention or
     health hazard education. During the acquisition process, BE personnel will discuss trade-
     secret limitations with the work area supervisor; however, supervisors using chemicals
     with trade-secret information are encouraged to be familiar with requirements and
     restrictions listed in 29 CFR 1910.1200(i). (T-0)
  3.1.5. Contractors in AF Work Areas. When an AF work area uses hazardous chemicals
  in a way that contractor employees (e.g., a painting contractor working in an industrial shop)
  may be exposed, then access to the work area-specific written HAZCOM program must be
  provided by the work area supervisor to the contractors in accordance with 29 CFR
  1910.1200(e)(2). Specifically, work area supervisors must provide contractors information on
  AF operational hazards and protective measures, where and how relevant SDS information is
  available, and information on the hazardous chemical labeling system. The contractor is
  responsible to determine the adequacy of the HAZCOM information for assessments of
  contractor employees, and is responsible for their own HAZCOM program. (T-0)
  3.1.6. Employee Information and Training. Supervisors and employees who handle, use,
  or are potentially exposed to hazardous chemicals in the course of official AF duties must be
  provided HAZCOM training prior to the use of hazardous chemicals. (T-0)
     3.1.6.1. Supervisor Training. All work area supervisors must review USAFSAM’s
     supervisor HAZCOM training initially and as needed to maintain competency. Prior to
     assuming supervisory duties in a new work area, supervisors must review the existing
     work area-specific HAZCOM training plan and expanded standard training, if required in
     the work area. (T-0)
     3.1.6.2. Initial Worker Training. Workers will receive comprehensive work area-
     specific HAZCOM training from their supervisors at the time of their initial assignment
     in a work area. This training, at a minimum, will include the following: (T-0)
         3.1.6.2.1. The location and details of the work area-specific written HAZCOM
         program, including the hazardous chemical list and SDSs for the work area. (T-0)
16                                                           AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


        3.1.6.2.2. Identification of operations or processes, including non-routine processes,
        in the work area where hazardous chemicals are present or used. (T-0) Supervisors
        may use the hazardous chemical authorization in EESOH-MIS or BE assessment
        letters as sources of information to meet this training requirement.
        3.1.6.2.3. Identification of the hazard categories (e.g., flammability, carcinogenicity)
        or specific chemicals present in the work area. Including, but not limited to, those
        with specific regulatory requirements (e.g., asbestos, benzene, beryllium, cadmium,
        formaldehyde, hexavalent chromium, methylene chloride, and lead) and identification
        of chemicals that pose physical, health, simple asphyxiation, combustible dust, and
        pyrophoric gas hazards, as well as hazards not otherwise classified. (T-0)
        3.1.6.2.4. Proper labeling of hazardous chemicals, including an explanation of the
        labels received on shipped containers and the work area labeling system. (T-0)
        3.1.6.2.5. How to access and read SDSs, including the order of information and how
        employees can obtain and use the appropriate hazard information. (T-0)
        3.1.6.2.6. Controls (engineering controls, administrative controls, and personal
        protective equipment) workers must use to minimize or eliminate exposure to
        hazardous chemicals while performing a specific process (e.g., the specific respirator
        for a specific spray painting process). (T-0) Supervisors shall refer to the BE
        assessment letters for specific control requirements.
        3.1.6.2.7. Emergency procedures, such as recognition of a spill or accidental
        chemical release (e.g., visual, odor, alarm) and escape procedures to include the
        locations of emergency eye wash stations, showers, and monitoring capabilities. (T-0)
        3.1.6.2.8. Methods and observations that may be used to detect the presence or
        release of a hazardous chemical in the work area (such as monitoring conducted by
        the employer, continuous monitoring devices, visual appearance or odor of hazardous
        chemicals when being released, etc.). (T-0)
        3.1.6.2.9. Additional training on expanded standards as required by OSHA. (T-0)
        Expanded standards are regulated by 29 CFR 1910.1001-1052. Refer to BE
        assessment letters to determine if expanded standards apply in a work area.
     3.1.6.3. Supplemental Worker Training. Training for all potentially affected
     employees is required when a new chemical hazard that the employees have not
     previously been trained about is introduced into the work area. The work area-specific
     training plan must be updated with the information concerning the new hazard or
     chemical and reviewed and approved by BE, PH, SEG, FES, and any other locally
     determined organizations as necessary. (T-0)
     3.1.6.4. Activities Not Co-located. AF employees assigned to non-co-located activities,
     such as GOCO facilities, will be trained as GSUs. (T-0)
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                             17


     3.1.6.5. Worker Knowledge Assessment. Work area supervisors will, at least annually,
     assess worker knowledge of basic HAZCOM concepts and work area-specific HAZCOM
     procedures. Completion of the annual knowledge assessment must be documented. (T-1)




                                        THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                        Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                        Surgeon General
 18                                                           AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 6050.05, DoD Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program, 15 Aug 2006
AFPD 90-8 Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Management and Risk Management,
2 Feb 2012
Title 29 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1910.1200, Hazard Communication, 26 May 2012
Title 29 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1910.1450, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous
Chemicals in Laboratories, 26 May 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.223-3, Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety
Data
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013
AFI 48-22, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories, TBD
Title 42 United States Code Sections 6901-6992k, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
Title 42 United Stated Code Sections 9601-9675, Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act
Title 7 United States Code Sections 136-136y, Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
Act
Title 15 United Sates Code Sections 2601-2629, Toxic Substances Control Act
Title 21 United States Code Sections 301-399f, Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
Title 21 United States Code Sections 151-159, Virus-Serum-Toxin Act
Title 15 United States Code Sections 2051-2084, Consumer Product Safety Act
Title 15 United States Code Sections 1261-1278, Federal Hazardous Substances Act
Title 7 United States Code Sections 1551-1611, Federal Seed Act
AFI 21-200, Munitions and Missile Maintenance Management, 13 Nov 2009 (Incorporating
Through Change 2, 4 Jan 2012)
AFJMAN 23-215, Reporting of Supply Discrepancies, 6 Aug 2001
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 Nov 2004
FED-STD 313D, Material Safety Data, Transportation Data and Disposal Data for Hazardous
Materials Furnished to Government Activities, 3 Apr 1996
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 Aug 2011
DoDI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health, 11 Nov 2008
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                      19


Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—AF Reserve
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CERCLA—Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CONUS—Continental United States
DHP—Defense Health Program
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EESOH-MIS—Enterprise Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management
Information System
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FES—Fire Emergency Services
FIFRA—Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GHS—Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals
GOCO—Government-Owned, Contractor-Operated
GSA—General Services Administration
GSU—Geographically Separated Units
 20                                                              AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


HAF—Headquarters, United States Air Force
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
HTA—Hazardous Material Tracking Activity
IAW—In Accordance With
JSA—Job Safety Analyses
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
SDS—Safety Data Sheet
ODS—Ozone Depleting Substance
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PH—Public Health
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
SAF/IE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, and Logistics
SG—Surgeon General
TO—Technical Order
TSCA—Toxic Substances Control Act
US—United States
USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine

Terms
Barriers to access—Anything that prevents employees from accessing HAZCOM information
in their work area during all work shifts. For example, if SDS are maintained electronically and
employees must ask permission from a supervisor to gain access to a computer and hence to an
SDS, this is considered a “barrier to access.” Additionally, if there is particular software that is
used to access HAZCOM information (e.g. EESOH-MIS) and this software requires a user login
and password and all employees do not have a login and password or if employees are not
trained on the use of the software, these are considered “barriers to access.”
Chemical—Any substance or mixture of substances.
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                        21


Chemical manufacturer—An employer with a work area where chemical(s) are produced for
use or distribution.
Chemical name—The scientific designation of a chemical in accordance with the nomenclature
system developed by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) or the
Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) rules of nomenclature, or a name which that will clearly
identify the chemical for the purpose of conducting a hazard classification.
Classification—To identify the relevant data regarding the hazards of a chemical; review those
data to ascertain the hazards associated with the chemical; and decide whether the chemical will
be classified as hazardous according to the definition of hazardous chemical in this Attachment.
In addition, classification for health and physical hazards includes the determination of the
degree of hazard, where appropriate, by comparing the data with the criteria for health and
physical hazards.
Container—Any bag, barrel, bottle, box, can, cylinder, drum, reaction vessel, storage tank, or
the like that contains a hazardous chemical. For purposes of this Instruction, pipes or piping
systems and engines, fuel tanks, or other operating systems in a vehicle are not considered to be
containers.
EESOH—MIS-The Enterprise Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management
Information System is an AF-approved automated system used to store and maintain all AF used
SDSs, HAZMAT authorizations, and tracking of HAZMAT usage information.
Employee—A worker who may be exposed to hazardous chemicals under normal operating
conditions or in foreseeable emergencies. Office workers who encounter hazardous chemicals
only in non-routine, isolated instances are not covered.
Exposure—The intensity, frequency, and length of time personnel are subjected to a hazard.
Hazard category—The division of criteria within each hazard class, e.g., oral acute toxicity and
flammable liquids include four hazard categories. These categories compare hazard severity
within a hazard class and should not be taken as a comparison of hazard categories more
generally.
Hazard class—The nature of the physical or health hazards, e.g., flammable solid, carcinogen,
oral acute toxicity.
Hazard not otherwise classified—An adverse physical or health effect identified through
evaluation of scientific evidence during the classification process that does not meet the specified
criteria for the physical and health hazard classes addressed in 29 CFR 1910.1200. This does not
extend coverage to adverse physical and health effects for which there is a hazard class
addressed in 29 CFR 1910.1200, but the effect either falls below the cut-off value/concentration
limit of the hazard class or is under a GHS hazard category that has not been adopted by OSHA
(e.g., acute toxicity Category 5).
Hazard statement—A statement assigned to a hazard class and category that describes the
nature of the hazard(s) of a chemical, including, where appropriate, the degree of hazard.
Hazardous chemical—Any chemical which is classified as a physical hazard or a health hazard,
a simple asphyxiant, combustible dust, pyrophoric gas, or hazard not otherwise classified.
 22                                                              AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


HAZMAT Tracking Activities (HTA) (formally known as HAZMARTs)—The HTA is the
only entity on an installation authorized to issue government-owned HAZMAT, and is the only
approved source for Class I ozone depleting substances (ODS). HTAs are locations where
HAZMATs are managed and tracked using the EESOH-MIS. HTAs may store material or serve
only as a tracking activity.
Health hazard—A chemical which is classified as posing one of the following hazardous
effects: acute toxicity (any route of exposure); skin corrosion or irritation; serious eye damage or
eye irritation; respiratory or skin sensitization; germ cell mutagenicity; carcinogenicity;
reproductive toxicity; specific target organ toxicity (single or repeated exposure); or aspiration
hazard. The criteria for determining whether a chemical is classified as a health hazard are
detailed in Appendix A to 29 CFR 1910.1200, Health Hazard Criteria.
Immediate use materials—Any hazardous chemical that will be under the control of and used
only by the person who transferred it from a labeled container and only within the work shift in
which it was transferred.
Installation—For purposes of 29 CFR 1910.1200 and this AFI, an installation is a single
geographic location with one or more work areas.
Label—An appropriate group of written, printed or graphic information elements concerning a
hazardous chemical that is affixed to, printed on, or attached to the immediate container of a
hazardous chemical, or to the outside packaging.
Label elements—The specified pictogram, hazard statement, signal word and precautionary
statement for each hazard class and category.
Laboratory—A facility where relatively small quantities of hazardous chemicals are used on a
non-production basis. Use of hazardous chemicals must meet all of the following conditions: i)
chemical manipulations are carried out on a laboratory scale with all work with substances in
containers designed to be easily and safely manipulated by one person; ii) multiple chemical
procedures or chemicals are used; iii) procedures involved are not part of a production process,
nor in any way simulate a production process; and iv) protective laboratory practices and
equipment are available.
Laboratory standard—29 CFR 1910.1450, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in
Laboratories. See AFI 48-22, Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories.
Mixture—A combination or a solution composed of two or more substances in which they do
not react.
Non—routine tasks-Those tasks included within a work area’s normal activities but performed
infrequently, for example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent; temporary duties
outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) or job series.
Ozone depleting substance (ODS)—A compound that contributes to stratospheric ozone
depletion. ODS are generally very stable in the troposphere and only degrade under intense
ultraviolet light in the stratosphere. When they break down, they release chlorine or bromine
atoms, which then deplete ozone.
Physical hazard—A chemical that is classified as posing one of the following hazardous effects:
explosive; flammable (gases, aerosols, liquids, or solids); oxidizer (liquid, solid or gas); self-
reactive; pyrophoric (liquid or solid); self-heating; organic peroxide; corrosive to metal; gas
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                     23


under pressure; or in contact with water emits flammable gas. See Appendix B to 29 CFR
1910.1200, Physical Criteria.
Pictogram—A composition that may include a symbol plus other graphic elements, such as a
border, background pattern, or color, that is intended to convey specific information about the
hazards of a chemical. Eight pictograms are designated in 29 CFR 1910.1200 for application to
a hazard category.
Precautionary statement—A phrase that describes recommended measures that should be taken
to minimize or prevent adverse effects resulting from exposure to a hazardous chemical, or
improper storage or handling.
Product identifier—The name or number used for a hazardous chemical on a label or in the
SDS. It provides a unique means by which the user can identify the chemical. The product
identifier used shall permit cross-references to be made among the list of hazardous chemicals
required in the written HAZCOM program, the label and the SDS.
Produce—To manufacture, process, formulate, blend, extract, generate, emit, or repackage.
Pyrophoric gas—A chemical in a gaseous state that will ignite spontaneously in air at a
temperature of 130 degrees F (54.4 degrees C) or below.
Qualified OEH Personnel—Personnel, such as physicians, nurses, industrial hygienists,
sanitarians, etc., who by virtue of education, training, and experience have acquired competence
in protecting personnel from health hazards by assessing health risks and recommending
solutions to minimize these risks. (DoDI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health)
Ready access—Information is available to all employees during all work shifts and there are no
barriers to access.
Responsible party—Someone who can provide additional information on the hazardous
chemical and appropriate emergency procedures if necessary. This party is generally a
manufacturer’s representative.
Safety data sheet (SDS)—Written or printed material concerning a hazardous chemical that
contains the information listed in 29 CFR 1910.1200(g).
Signal word—A word used to indicate the relative level of severity of hazard and alert the
reader to a potential hazard on the label. The signal words used in 29 CFR 1910.1200 are
"danger" and "warning." "Danger" is used for the more severe hazards, while "warning" is used
for the less severe.
Simple asphyxiant—A substance or mixture that displaces oxygen in the ambient atmosphere,
and can thus cause oxygen deprivation in those who are exposed, leading to unconsciousness and
death.
Substance—Chemical elements and their compounds in the natural state or obtained by any
production process, including any additive necessary to preserve the stability of the product and
any impurities deriving from the process used, but excluding any solvent which may be
separated without affecting the stability of the substance or changing its composition.
 24                                                              AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014


Trade secret—Any confidential formula, pattern, process, device, or information or compilation
of information that is used in an employer’s business and that gives the employer an opportunity
to obtain an advantage over competitors who do not know or use it.
Use—To package, handle, react, emit, extract, generate as a by-product or transfer.
Work area—A room or defined space in an installation where hazardous chemicals are
produced or used, and where employees are present. Note: Employees that often work outside
the physically defined work area, such as pest management personnel during pesticide
application or aircraft maintainers that take chemicals to the flight line, will have their hazards
addressed as part of the work area program.
AFI90-821 27 JANUARY 2014                                                                               25


                                             Attachment 2
             SAMPLE TRADE SECRET INFORMATION REQUEST LETTER

[Date]

Requestor Office Symbol
Address
Base, State, Zip

Company Name
Address
City, State, Zip

Dear Sir or Madam:

        To meet Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Hazard Communication
Standard, 29 CFR 1910.1200, requirements, I request the current safety data sheets (SDSs) for the
following potentially hazardous materials the Air Force has purchased from your company. This request
is made according to FED STD 313D, Material Safety Data, Transportation Data and Disposal Data for
Hazardous Materials Furnished to Government Activities.

Product Identifier:
Trade Name:
FSN:
Code/Color:
Mil Spec:
Part Number:

        I also request the specific chemical identity and percentages of all components in this product.
This information will be used only by health professionals to assess the chemical hazards of this product.
All proprietary information will be kept confidential.

Please forward the information to:

USAF Safety Data Sheet (SDS) Focal Point
USAF School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM/OET)
2510 Fifth Street, Bldg 840
WPAFB OH 45433-7913

and to

Requestor Office Symbol
Address
Base, State, Zip

Sincerely,



SIGNATURE BLOCK
