BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-103
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         17 NOVEMBER 2010
                                                       Incorporating Change 1, 20 October 2011
                                                           AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                             7 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                            Safety

                                                    AIR FORCE NUCLEAR SAFETY DESIGN
                                                             CERTIFICATION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSC/SEWN                                                               Certified by: AF/SE
                                                                      (Maj Gen Gregory A. Feest)
Supersedes:    AFI 91-103,                                                              Pages: 29
               16 September 2005
                                             (AFRC)
OPR: HQ AFRC/SEW                                                      Certified by: HQ AFRC/SE
                                                                              (Col Leslie Anzjon)
                                                                                          Pages:4


This Instruction implements AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety. This publication
is consistent with AFPD 13-5, Nuclear Enterprise. It outlines the Nuclear Safety Design
Certification Program, which is a major component of the overall USAF Nuclear Certification
Program outlined in AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program. It defines the process for
obtaining nuclear safety design certification of hardware, software, procedures and facilities used
with nuclear weapon systems. It applies to organizations that design, develop, modify, evaluate,
nuclear certify, or operate nuclear weapon systems and equipment. This Instruction is applicable
to the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) units performing nuclear
missions or equipped with nuclear certified support equipment. Unless noted otherwise, AF/SE is
the waiver authority for provisions in AFI 91-103. Send supplementing guidance to this
Instruction to AFSC/SEWN, 9700 G Avenue, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670, or
HQAFSC/SEWN@kirtland.af.milfor coordination before publication. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s
 2                                                                  AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with     the   Air    Force     Records     Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)    located
athttps://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

(AFRC) This supplement implements Air Force Reserve Command’s Nuclear Safety Design
Certification Program and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction AFI 91-103, Air Force
Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program. This supplement describes AFRC’s procedures
for use in conjunction with the basic AFI. This instruction applies to HQ AFRC, its Numbered
Air Forces (NAF), and their assigned wings. This publication does not apply to the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to HQ
AFRC/SEW, 255 Richard Ray Blvd (Bldg 220), Robins AFB, GA 31098-1637 using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through the appropriate functional chain
of command. . Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm. This is a new publication and must be
reviewed completely.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change (IC) adds new language in the introductory paragraph, specifically the
second sentence, to make this publication consistent with AFPD 13-5, Nuclear Enterprise. This
IC also adds AFPD 13-5 in the reference section of Attachment 1.

Section A—Scope and Responsibilities                                                                                                      3
       1.      Program Overview. ................................................................................................         3
       2.      Program Goal. ........................................................................................................     3
       3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................    3

Section B—Nuclear Safety Design Certification Criteria                                                                                    7
       4.      Items That Require Nuclear Safety Design Certification. .....................................                              7
       5.      Items That Do Not Require Nuclear Safety Design Certification. .........................                                  10
       6.      Additional Requirements. ......................................................................................           11

Section C—Nuclear Safety Design Certification Process                                                                                    11
       7.      Nuclear Safety Design Certification Process for New or Modified Weapon System
               Hardware, Procedures, Facilities, and Software. ...................................................                       11
       8.      Certification Process for Nuclear Safety Design Certified Technical Order Procedures. 12
       9.      Critical Components. .............................................................................................        12
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                                                 3


       10.     Tamper Detection Indicators (TDIs). .....................................................................            13
       11.     Special Test and Maintenance Programs. ..............................................................                13
       12.     Nuclear Weapon Maintenance or Test Procedures. ...............................................                       13
       13.     Non-specialized Equipment. ..................................................................................        14
       14.     Lifting and Suspension Systems. ...........................................................................          15

Section D—Decertification Process                                                                                                   16
       15.     Design Decertification. ..........................................................................................   16
       16.     Operational Decertification. ...................................................................................     16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      18

Attachment 2—GROUPS, SAFETY ANALYSES, PLANS, EVALUATIONS, AND REVIEWS                                                               22

Attachment 3—GENERIC INDEPENDENT VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION (IV&V)
             PROGRAM PLAN                                                                                                           24

Attachment 4—RECOMMENDED OUTLINE FOR THE NUCLEAR SURETY EVALUATION
             (NSE)                                                 27

Attachment 5—(Added-AFRC) AFRC NUCLEAR CERTIFIED EQUIPMENT PROGRAM                                                                  28

Attachment 6—(Added-AFRC) NUCLEAR SAFETY DESIGN CERTIFICATION OR USE
             RESTRICTION WORKSHEET                                                                                                  29


Section A—Scope and Responsibilities

1. Program Overview. The USAF Nuclear Certification Program (as defined in AFI 63-125)
has two major components: Design Certification and Operational Certification. The Design
Certification has four sub-components and the Nuclear Safety Design Certification is one of the
sub-components. See AFI 63-125 for complete details of the USAF Nuclear Certification
Program.
2. Program Goal. The Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program evaluates
hardware, software, procedures, and facilities against specific nuclear safety criteria before use
with nuclear weapons. The program’s goal is to prevent nuclear weapon accidents and incidents.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition) (SAF/AQ). SAF/AQ will ensure a
   nuclear certification program is established and that Designated Acquisition Official (DAOs),
   and Single Managers for nuclear weapon systems or other items requiring nuclear safety
   certification comply with the requirements of this AFI.
   3.2. Chief of Safety (AF/SE). AF/SE oversees the Air Force Nuclear Safety Design
   Certification Program that is an integral part of the overall Air Force Nuclear Certification
   Process.
4                                              AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


    3.3. Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division (AFSC/SEW) manages the
    nuclear safety design certification program for AF/SE. In this role, AFSC/SEW will:
       3.3.1. Publish design and evaluation criteria according to AFI 91-107, Design,
       Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems.
       3.3.2. Review and coordinate on nuclear certification impact statements (NCIS) that
       affect nuclear safety design certification.
       3.3.3. Approve the Nuclear Safety Certification annex to the Certification Requirements
       Plan (CRP) to ensure nuclear safety design certification requirements are adequately
       addressed.
       3.3.4. Approve new or revised test and weapon maintenance procedures for nuclear
       weapons performed in Air Force facilities, as well as approve the performance of current
       procedures not currently approved for a given facility.
       3.3.5. Review Nuclear Surety Evaluations (NSE) for compliance with all nuclear safety
       design certification requirements.
       3.3.6. Provide nuclear safety design certification of hardware, software, procedures, and
       facilities to be used with nuclear weapons.
       3.3.7. Issue a Nuclear Safety Certification Letter to the Air Force Nuclear Weapons
       Center (AFNWC) upon completion of all nuclear safety design certification actions
       identified in the CRP.
       3.3.8. Designate and certify critical components according to AFI 91-105, Critical
       Components.
       3.3.9. Certify Tamper Detection Indicators (TDI).
       3.3.10. Identify nuclear safety designed certified hardware and software items, and
       restrictions on usage, to AFNWC for listing in the Master Nuclear Certification List
       (MNCL), located at https://wwwmil.nwc.kirtland.af.mil/MNCL/index.cfm.
       3.3.11. Approve Intercontinental Ballistic Missle (ICBM) operational certification
       (OPCERT) and decertification (DECERT) procedures.
       3.3.12. Rescind nuclear safety design certification of hardware, software, procedures,
       and facilities.
       3.3.13. Review high fidelity Joint Test Assembly (JTA) maintenance procedures
       performed in Air Force facilities.
    3.4. MAJCOM Responsibilities. At bases with units and personnel from two or more
    different MAJCOMs, the host/gaining command will have responsibility for the MAJCOM
    responsibilities outlined in this section. Memorandums of Understanding
    (MOU)/Memorandums of Agreement (MOA) may be developed between MAJCOMs to
    delineate the actions required by each command to meet these responsibilities. MAJCOMs
    will:
       3.4.1. Designate someone to manage the nuclear certification program IAW AFI 63-125.
       The designee will:
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                           5


     3.4.1. (AFRC) HQ AFRC/SEW manages the AFRC Nuclear Certification Program.
     AFRC Wing Weapons Safety Manger (WSM) or Ground Safety Manager (GSM) with
     weapons safety responsibilities (at AFRC unit equipped bases) manages the nuclear
     certification program at their level. AFRC Tenant unit (not unit equipped) safety office
     will work with the Host Unit WSM’s pertaining to any issues with Nuclear Certification.
        3.4.1.1. Attend the Nuclear Certification Course taught by AFNWC (AFMC).
        3.4.1.2. Use the MAJCOM and base-level Nuclear Surety Council(s) and/or
        Quarterly Safety Council(s) to emphasize the MAJCOM and unit responsibilities for
        maintaining the configuration and reliability of nuclear certified weapon systems (to
        include all MNCL items).
     3.4.2. Request preparation of a nuclear certification impact statement (NCIS) IAW AFI
     63-125 be prepared by the organization with program management responsibility for
     modifications to previously-certified equipment and non-certified equipment for which
     use with nuclear weapons is desired.
     3.4.3. Recommend new uses for TDIs, and request approval from AFSC/SEW.
     3.4.4. Ensure operational certification (OPCERT) of critical components before use.
     3.4.5. Ensure units report deficiencies on certified items IAW AFMAN 91-221,
     Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports.
     3.4.6. Serve as the Single Manager for the certification and configuration control of
     facilities (as defined in paragraph 4.1.9.) to include lifting and suspension systems.
     Perform the following when serving as the Single Manager for facility certification:
        3.4.6.1. Prepare NCIS IAW AFI 63-125 to support the nuclear safety design
        certification process of Section C, paragraph 7.2.
        3.4.6.2. Develop the Nuclear Safety Certification annex to the Certification
        Requirements Plan (CRP) for each facility to be nuclear safety design certified IAW
        AFI 63-125.
        3.4.6.3. Ensure processes and guidance are in place to maintain configuration control
        of facilities with nuclear safety design certification.
        3.4.6.4. Conduct NSE of the facilities used with a nuclear weapon system.
        3.4.6.5. Review deficiencies (materiel deficiency reports, service bulletins, and
        nuclear safety deficiency reports) for possible impact on facility certification status,
        and implement required corrective action.
        3.4.6.6. Evaluate nuclear surety compliance for facilities used with a nuclear weapon
        system.
     3.4.7. AFR and ANG units with nuclear tasked units or personnel will provide
     headquarter and unit-level OPRs to coordinate and assist the gaining MAJCOM/Wing
     with the duties and responsibilities outlined in this Instruction.
     3.4.7. (AFRC) HQ AFRC POCs for nuclear issues are:
6                                              AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


          3.4.7.1. (Added-AFRC) Directorate of Air, Space and Information Operations (HQ
          AFRC/A3).
          3.4.7.2. (Added-AFRC) Weapons Maintenance and Nuclear Certified Equipment
          Program Management – Munitions Division (HQ AFRC/A4M).
          3.4.7.3. (Added-AFRC) Nuclear Surety and Nuclear Surety Certification –
          Weapons Safety Division (HQ AFRC/SEW).
       3.4.8. (Added-AFRC) The Chief of Safety and Weapons Safety Manager (WSM), at
       nuclear tasked associated units, will be the unit level OPRs to coordinate and assist the
       gaining MAJCOM/Wing with duties and responsibilities outline in this Instruction.
       3.4.9. (Added-AFRC) For AFRC Nuclear Certified Equipment Program Management
       at nuclear tasked and non-nuclear tasked units, see Attachment 5.
    3.5. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). In addition to the responsibilities outlined in
    paragraph 3.4., AFMC will:
       3.5.1. Ensure processes and guidance are in place for Air Force Program Executive
       Officers (AFPEO) programs, System Program Directors (SPD), single managers, etc., to
       maintain configuration control of hardware, software, and procedures which require
       nuclear safety design certification.
       3.5.2. Through the Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC):
          3.5.2.1. Provide independent technical support (analyses, assessments, evaluations,
          reviews, etc.) to AFSC/SEW.
          3.5.2.2. Maintain archives of all pertinent documentation related to nuclear
          certification.
          3.5.2.3. Ensure AFSC/SEW is notified about nuclear weapon maintenance or test
          procedures not defined as a weapon alteration (ALT) or modification (MOD) (see
          paragraph 12.) that will be accomplished in Air Force facilities.
          3.5.2.4. Ensure AFSC/SEW is notified about nuclear weapon ALTs and MODs, as
          defined in paragraph 12, that will be accomplished in Air Force facilities.
       3.5.3. Single Manager(s):
          3.5.3.1. Has ultimate program management responsibilities for execution of the
          nuclear safety design certification program.
              3.5.3.1.1. Designates a nuclear certification manager (NCM) IAW AFI 63-125 to
              serve as the Single Manager’s primary representative within the program office
              for day-to-day management and execution of the nuclear safety certification
              program.
              3.5.3.1.2. Ensures NCM receives nuclear certification manager training as
              required by AFI 63-125.
          3.5.3.2. Prepares NCIS IAW AFI 63-125 to support the nuclear safety design
          certification process of Section C, paragraph 7.2.
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                        7


          3.5.3.3. Develops the Nuclear Safety Certification annex to the CRP for each weapon
          system or subsystem to be nuclear safety design certified IAW AFI 63-125.
          3.5.3.4. Performs unauthorized launch (UL) studies IAW AFI 91-106, Unauthorized
          Launch and Launch Action Studies.
          3.5.3.5. Supports the TDI development and evaluation process.
          3.5.3.6. Conducts NSE of the hardware, software, facilities, and procedures used
          with a nuclear weapon or weapon system IAW AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and
          Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, or AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design
          and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software.
          3.5.3.7. Evaluates support equipment provided by other DOD agencies for use with
          Air Force procedures.
          3.5.3.8. Evaluates Air Force use of Department of Energy (DOE)-certified equipment
          with nuclear weapons to determine whether operating environments are identical and
          if any differences impact nuclear surety.
          3.5.3.9. Ensures all nuclear certified items are marked (when possible) with labels
          (e.g., data plates) to enable positive identification.
          3.5.3.10. Reviews deficiencies (material deficiency reports, service bulletins, and
          nuclear safety deficiency reports) for possible impact on nuclear surety or
          certification status and implements required corrective action.
          3.5.3.11. Ensures all procedures involving nuclear safety processes are marked with
          the "Nuclear Surety Procedures" (NSP) symbol to enable positive identification.
          Apply special emphasis to the NSP to protect against degrading or rendering
          ineffective the critical nuclear safety features of the weapon system. Significant
          changes to NSP-coded steps must be coordinated with AFSC/SEW. AFSC/SEW need
          not coordinate administrative changes.
          3.5.3.12. Develops OPCERT and DECERT procedures.
          3.5.3.13. Monitors nuclear certification (as defined by AFI 63-125) for hardware,
          software, facilities, and procedures used with a nuclear weapon or nuclear weapon
          system.

Section B—Nuclear Safety Design Certification Criteria

4. Items That Require Nuclear Safety Design Certification.
   4.1. Hardware and Software:
      4.1.1. Combat and noncombat delivery vehicles.
      4.1.2. Operational and support equipment used to move, support, store, handle, load and
      unload, or mate and demate nuclear weapons.
      4.1.3. All hardware and software components that directly interface (electrically or
      physically) with a nuclear weapon, critical component, or certified software.
8                                                AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


       4.1.4. Items that, if failed or operating incorrectly, could degrade the nuclear command,
       control, and status reporting capability.
       4.1.5. Hardware and software items designated as critical components IAW AFI 91-105.
       4.1.6. All hardware or software used to directly control critical functions, as defined in
       AFI 91-107 and AFMAN 91-118.
       4.1.7. TDIs used to maintain the OPCERT status of critical components and protection
       of secure nuclear command and control codes and coded components.
       4.1.8. Operational and maintenance hardware and software used to command and control
       critical functions, and perform status reporting as required in AFMAN 91-118 and
       AFMAN 91-119.
       4.1.9. Nuclear Weapons Maintenance, Handling and Storage Facilities. Nuclear safety
       design certification of facilities will be based on the design and evaluation of critical
       facility systems, IAW AFMAN 91-118.
       4.1.10. Modifications to non-specialized equipment that could impact the item’s primary
       structure, electrical and hydraulic power systems, load-bearing capacity, steering and
       braking capability, or positive control features, as well as any changes resulting in
       noncompliance with specific AFI 91-107 design criteria.
       4.1.11. Test equipment that:
           4.1.11.1. Verifies the proper operation of circuits and functions of the Unit Under
           Test (UUT) that perform nuclear critical functions (defined in AFI 91-107 and
           AFMAN 91-118).
       4.1.11.2. Interfaces directly with a nuclear weapon or operationally certified critical
       component.
           4.1.11.3. Is used to operationally certify, decertify, or verify proper operation of
           applicable items identified in paragraph 4.1, and all subparagraphs thereof.
           4.1.11.4. Is used in special test or maintenance programs to identify system
           anomalies or failures.
    4.2. Procedures. Nuclear weapon system technical order procedures involving OPCERT or
    DECERT. Other nuclear weapon or nuclear weapon system technical order procedures are
    certified IAW AFI 63-125.
    4.3. Other. When items do not clearly fall into any of the categories identified, AFSC/SEW
    determines if nuclear safety design certification is required.
    4.4. Non-Specialized Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) Equipment and Other Agency
    Items. The following are considered to be nuclear safety design certified, and therefore do
    not require separate Air Force nuclear safety design certification actions provided the item is
    in its original unmodified condition and is used in its intended operating environment IAW
    approved technical data. Modifications or deviations from original manufacturer’s
    specifications must be approved by AFSC/SEW.
       4.4.1. Tiedown chains and cables, straps, and adjusters used for restraint during
       transportation.
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                           9


     4.4.2. Support equipment and procedures for nuclear logistics movements that other
     DOD agencies have certified for nuclear weapons handling.
     4.4.3. DOE Test, Handling, and Support Equipment provided by DOE to the Air Force
     for use with nuclear weapons or nuclear weapons systems, provided the equipment is
     used for the specific purpose intended, as outlined in approved Joint Nuclear Weapons
     Publication System (JNWPS) publications, special procedures, or authorized
     Unsatisfactory Reports (UR) responses.
     4.4.4. Commercial Vehicles.
        4.4.4.1. CONUS.       Commercial truck-tractors, which meet all the following
        requirements, are nuclear safety design certified. These vehicles are authorized for
        towing certified semi-trailers only.
            4.4.4.1.1. 1979 model year or newer.
            4.4.4.1.2. Gross vehicle weight greater than 20,000 pounds.
            4.4.4.1.3. Manufactured in the United States or Canada.
            4.4.4.1.4. Manufactured by one of the following companies: Navistar (including
            International Harvester Co.), Chrysler (or Daimler Chrysler) Motor Corp.
            (including Dodge), General Motors Corp. (including Chevrolet), Ford Motor Co,
            White Motor Corp, Mack Truck Co, Sterling, Freightliner.
        4.4.4.2. OCONUS. Commercial truck-tractors, which meet all the following
        requirements, are nuclear safety design certified and are authorized for towing nuclear
        certified semi-trailers.
            4.4.4.2.1. 1998 model year or newer.
            4.4.4.2.2. Tractor is a type "N1 or N2" (per EC Directive 70/156/EEC Annex II
            and 97/27/ EC).
            4.4.4.2.3. Meet all applicable EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (EC)-standards
            4.4.4.2.4. Must be compatible with the nuclear certified semi-trailers (i.e. braking
            system, electrical system, mechanical mate/de-mate, etc.).
            4.4.4.2.5. Incorporate a transmission/starter interlock system.
     4.4.5. Tow Vehicles:
        4.4.5.1. Original equipment pintle assemblies are nuclear safety design certified.
        Replacements are considered certified if procured and installed per appropriate tech
        orders.
        4.4.5.2. Vehicles modified IAW TO 36A-1-1341, Compressed Natural Gas And
        Alternative Fuel For Vehicular (Engine Combusted) Propulsion, or TO 36A-1-1331,
        Propane Gas Conversion Guide For Vehicular Equipment, for alternative fuels are
        considered nuclear safety design certified, if they were certified in their unmodified
        state.
     4.4.6. Semi-trailers:
 10                                             AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


          4.4.6.1. Non-specialized semi-trailers are considered nuclear safety design certified
          when they are in original unmodified condition and meet applicable industry
          standards.
          4.4.6.2. The addition of a certified rollerized conveyor or other like item to an
          uncertified trailer does not certify that trailer, even if the stock number changes to a
          certified number. To have a certified unit, both the trailer and the modification kit are
          required to be separately certified.
5. Items That Do Not Require Nuclear Safety Design Certification.
   5.1. Common items:
      5.1.1. General purpose hand tools, such as pliers, wrenches, and screwdrivers.
      5.1.2. Depot and intermediate-level test equipment, if the critical circuits of the tested
      items are verified at the organizational level before use with nuclear weapons.
      5.1.3. Common, multipurpose, and non-specialized test equipment, such as multimeters,
      decade resistance boxes, and impedance bridges unless the equipment directly interfaces
      with nuclear weapons or end item that is nuclear safety design certified.
      5.1.4. Delivery, Loading, Mating, Maintenance, and Explosive Ordnance Disposal
      (EOD) Training Equipment. All Air Force equipment designed and used for proficiency
      training, such as full-scale and miniature practice delivery bombs and bomb dispensers,
      practice loading bombs and warheads, training re-entry vehicles and payload sections,
      EOD disassembly/reassembly training equipment, etc., does not require nuclear safety
      design certification.
      5.1.5. Aircraft Mission Planning Software. Aircraft mission planning system software is
      not nuclear safety design certified. However, aircraft mission planning software that
      transfers operational flight program (OFP) software and cruise missile targeting data
      must ensure the integrity of data during this process is maintained. Mission planning
      systems must be designed and implemented such that:
          5.1.5.1. During the transfer from one media source to another, the OFP software
          containing nuclear critical functions and the mission data containing nuclear targeting
          data are not altered.
          5.1.5.2. Integrity of the data is maintained when loaded on the aircraft.
          5.1.5.3. Procedures are formulated and implemented that satisfy these nuclear surety
          requirements and ensure future software revisions will not alter those modules that
          perform the verification tasks.
          5.1.5.4. New mission planning systems (e.g., Joint Mission Planning System
          (JMPS)) must be documented in an NSE and submitted to AFSC/SEW for approval
          with a copy to AFNWC to document the manipulation, processing and protection of
          flight software and nuclear targeting data.
   5.2. Items listed in the General Guidance section of the MNCL as having blanket
   certification, provided they are in original, unmodified condition and used for their intended
   purpose.
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                            11


6. Additional Requirements. The following requirements apply to critical components, TDIs,
special test and maintenance programs, and host nation-operated weapon systems and
procedures:
   6.1. Critical components also require OPCERT before use in operational systems to verify
   the component is functioning as design certified and to mitigate all credible unauthorized
   launch (UL) threats and scenarios (Refer to AFI 91-105 and AFI 91-106). Certain critical
   components also require specific procedures for DECERT.
   6.2. TDIs may be used to protect the certification status of critical components, if sufficient
   justification exists for their use. However, TDIs may not be used to substitute Two-Person
   Concept control of codes, coded devices, or critical components when an operational code
   that cannot be overwritten passes through it or if the code component or device has no
   operational decertification procedure. TDIs used in an operational system are identified in
   the safety rules for the affected nuclear weapon system IAW AFI 91-104, Nuclear Surety
   Tamper Control and Detection Programs.
   6.3. Special test or maintenance programs conducted in operational facilities that are not
   covered by certified procedures must be approved by AFSC/SEW.
   6.4. When used with nuclear weapons in Air Force custody, host nation-operated nuclear
   weapon systems and procedures must satisfy the same nuclear safety criteria required for Air
   Force systems and procedures.

Section C—Nuclear Safety Design Certification Process

7. Nuclear Safety Design Certification Process for New or Modified Weapon System
Hardware, Procedures, Facilities, and Software. Use the following paragraphs in conjunction
with AFI 63-125 to determine the steps and timelines for the nuclear safety design certification
process.
   7.1. The operational MAJCOM or Single Manager identifies items that may require nuclear
   safety design certification according to paragraph 4.
       7.1.1. The single manager (for facilities, the single manager refers to the lead or using
       command) must maintain configuration control of identified hardware, software, and
       facilities to be nuclear safety design certified throughout their life-cycle.
   7.2. For new weapon systems or weapon system modifications, the Single Manager or
   MAJCOM prepares an NCIS IAW AFI 63-125.
       7.2.1. The NCIS must address those items that require certification and recommend a
       certification approach for verifying compliance with AFI 91-107, AFMAN 91-118 and
       AFMAN 91-119.
   7.3. The NCIS is evaluated, and basic nuclear safety design certification requirements are
   levied in the Basic Certification Requirements Plan submitted by AFNWC in response to the
   NCIS (reference AFI 63-125).
   7.4. As the development or modification effort nears completion (determined by the required
   operational capability or certification need date), the Single Manager or MAJCOM prepares
   a NSE according to Attachment 2, paragraph A2.2., and Attachment 4. This document will
 12                                             AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


   include a recommendation for nuclear safety design certification IAW A4.1 of Attachment 4.
   Submit the evaluation and certification recommendation to AFSC/ SEW. Provide a copy to
   AFNWC. If required, AFSC/SEW will task AFNWC to perform an independent nuclear
   surety evaluation. NOTE: For new (and some modified) weapon systems, a Nuclear Safety
   Analysis Report (NSAR) typically serves as the NSE.
       7.4.1. If a DOD 3150.2-M, DOD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program Manual,
       safety study is required, submit the evaluation to AFSC/SEW 120 calendar days before
       the study IAW AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety
       Reviews, and Safety Rules.
       7.4.2. If a safety study is not required, submit the evaluation 60 calendar days before the
       required operational capability or certification need date.
   7.5. When tasked by AFSC/SEW, AFNWC evaluates the design, evaluation, and
   certification recommendation according to Attachment 2, paragraph A2.3., and provides this
   assessment to AFSC/SEW.
       7.5.1. When a safety study is required, this assessment is submitted as required by AFI
       91-102 in the form of a Technical Nuclear Safety Analysis (TNSA).
       7.5.2. If a safety study is not required, AFNWC must submit the assessment 20 calendar
       days before the required operational capability or certification need date.
   7.6. AFSC/SEW will provide a Nuclear Safety Certification letter to AFNWC IAW AFI 63-
   125 (with a copy to Single Manager). NOTE: Restrictions on the use of items in a nuclear
   role may be imposed to compensate for design deficiencies or significant operational
   hazards.
   7.7. For host nation-owned nuclear weapon systems, the host nation as Single Manager shall
   submit nuclear safety design certification documentation through Air Force Material
   Command’s (AFMC) engineering liaison office. The engineering liaison office will interface
   between the host nation and the USAF on all nuclear safety design certification processes and
   issues.
8. Certification Process for Nuclear Safety Design Certified Technical Order Procedures.
   8.1. AFSC/SEW approves new or major changes to OPCERT/DECERT procedures for
   critical components. These procedures must adequately verify the system or component
   functions as design certified and mitigates all credible threats and scenarios.
   8.2. AFSC/SEW approves troubleshooting and maintenance procedures and operations on
   loaded nuclear weapons systems, as identified by Single Manager.
9. Critical Components. For nuclear safety design certification of critical components, the
organization with program management responsibility:
   9.1. Initiates the design certification process for hardware and software.
   9.2. Provides for a nuclear safety cross-check analysis (NSCCA) or independent validation
   and verification (IV&V) of software critical components according to Attachment 2,
   paragraph A2.4.
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                          13


   9.3. Develops OPCERT and DECERT procedures for hardware critical components and
   sends the procedures to AFSC/SEW for approval.
10. Tamper Detection Indicators (TDIs).
   10.1. For certification of TDIs, the operational MAJCOM or Single Manager determines the
   need for TDI application and sends a request to AFSC/SEW that:
      10.1.1. Identifies the critical component requiring a TDI.
      10.1.2. Justifies why a TDI is needed.
      10.1.3. States whether the TDI will be used in an operational system or a nonoperational
      environment for storage and transportation.
   10.2. AFSC/SEW evaluates the TDI application request and sends the approved application
   to the National Security Agency (NSA) for development of a suitable TDI.
   10.3. By agreement, the NSA:
      10.3.1. Develops the appropriate TDI, based on the parameters and intended-use data
      provided by the operational MAJCOM.
      10.3.2. Coordinates TDI development          with   the organization having program
      management responsibility.
      10.3.3. Sends the TDI data required for application, control, storage, and inspection
      procedures to AFSC/SEW for certification.
   10.4. The requesting MAJCOM maintains responsibility for all procurement actions and
   costs associated with TDI development and integration.
   10.5. Upon approval of the application, the Single Manager provides the technical
   requirements to the NSA and develops the NSE required to obtain certification.
11. Special Test and Maintenance Programs.
   11.1. The Single Manager must evaluate all aspects of the proposed program(s) for potential
   nuclear surety degradation. This evaluation includes conditions that could violate AFI 91-
   107 requirements, degrade safety and security features of the weapon system, or contribute to
   a credible UL scenario.
   11.2. The Single Manager provides this evaluation and requests approval of the proposed
   program(s) from AFSC/SEW.
   11.3. AFSC/SEW bases the approval decision on the findings of the evaluation and an
   independent review of the proposed program(s) (if required). A special safety study may
   also be required IAW AFI 91-102.
12. Nuclear Weapon Maintenance or Test Procedures.
   12.1. Single Manager will perform an evaluation/review of all new or revised nuclear
   weapon maintenance or test procedures in relation to the facility where they are to be
   performed, as well as evaluate/review the performance of current procedures not currently
   approved for a given facility.
 14                                            AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


   12.2. AFSC/SEW must approve implementation of all new or revised nuclear weapon
   maintenance or test procedures that will be accomplished in Air Force facilities, as well as
   approve the performance of current procedures not currently approved for a given facility.
   Example programs include:
       12.2.1. Programs to accomplish warhead ALTs and MODs.
       12.2.2. Any programs that require bypassing or disabling any weapon safety features.
       12.2.3. Procedures that introduce new or significant potential safety hazards, e.g.,
       sources of electrical energy, fire hazards, etc.
   12.3. AFNWC must notify AFSC/SEW of weapon ALTs or MODs and any other new or
   revised maintenance or test procedures accomplished in Air Force facilities.
       12.3.1. The notification via a Statement of Intent (SOI) will initiate an AF safety
       review/evaluation of the proposed procedures in relation to the facility where they are to
       be performed and must:
          12.3.1.1. Provide background information and, describe the maintenance action to be
          performed.
          12.3.1.2. Identify proposed temporary removal, bypass, or disablement of the surety
          features of the weapon itself, and provide general information concerning the
          susceptibility present due to the temporary removal, bypass, or disablement of these
          surety features.
          12.3.1.3. Specify the Air Force facility where the procedures will be performed.
   12.4. For Product Change Proposals (PCPs), AFNWC will submit the notification SOI no
   later than 180 days before scheduled maintenance. For Special Procedures (SPs) and Retrofit
   Orders (ROs), submit the notification when it is distributed for Air Force
   review/coordination.
   12.5. AFSC approval (via formal documentation) must be obtained before implementation of
   procedures described in paragraphs 12.2. and 12.3.
13. Non-specialized Equipment. Any equipment used with nuclear weapons, but not
specifically designed for that purpose, is considered non-specialized equipment, specifically,
items listed in paragraphs 4.4 through 4.4.6.2. Certain modifications to non-specialized
equipment do not require formal nuclear safety design certification. These modifications
include:
   13.1. Common add-on equipment such as fire extinguishers, radios, lights, bedliners, camper
   shells, sirens, foreign object damage (FOD) magnets or containers.
   13.2. Minor field-level modifications to vehicles or aerospace ground equipment (AGE) that
   do not impact the braking, steering, lifting, powertrain, or load carrying/restraint systems.
   13.3. The following process should be used by the field unit to determine the appropriate
   course of action for evaluation and local approval of minor field-level modifications.
       13.3.1. Identify item(s) to be modified, and provide a complete description of the
       proposed changes to the item Maintenance Supervisor/Superintendent (or equivalent) and
       the Unit Safety Office. These offices will jointly review the proposed modification to
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                              15


      determine if approval can be granted at the unit level or if further evaluation of the
      nuclear safety impact is necessary.
          13.3.1.1. If there is no impact to nuclear surety, approve the modification locally.
          13.3.1.2. If further evaluation is required, submit a formal request for
          evaluation/approval from the using MAJCOM’s safety office.
          13.3.1.2. (AFRC) Unit WSM’s requesting further evaluation will forward request or
          approval to modify non-specialized NCE to HQ AFRC/SEW and A4M when
          approval to modify cannot be granted at the unit level.
      13.3.2. If formal nuclear safety design certification is not required, the using MAJCOM
      will:
          13.3.2.1. Provide formal approval to the field unit.
          13.3.2.2. Inform the Single Manager and AFSC/SEW of the approved modification.
      13.3.3. If the modification requires formal nuclear safety design certification, the using
      MAJCOM will:
          13.3.3.1. Notify the submitter that further evaluation is necessary.
          13.3.3.2. Follow the process specified in paragraph 7.
      13.3.4. For all non-specialized equipment (including foreign manufactured, US or host
      nation owned), the host nation as Single Manager shall submit certification
      documentation through AFMC’s engineering liaison office. The engineering liaison
      office will serve as the interface between the host nation and the USAF on all nuclear
      safety certification processes and issues.
14. Lifting and Suspension Systems.
   14.1. The owning command performs a nuclear surety evaluation and sends a certification
   request to AFSC/SEW, according to paragraph 7.4.
   14.2. A design or civil engineering agency evaluates the facility that will support the lifting
   or suspension system to determine if the structure meets the design requirements in AFMAN
   91-118. This evaluation and appropriate analysis that the structure is safe for the rated load
   and meets the required margins of safety, IAW AFMAN 91-118, must be included with the
   lead/using command’s NSE..
   14.3. An inspection and maintenance cycle for each certified facility lifting system will be
   established IAW AFOSH Standard 91-46, Materials Handling and Support Equipment.
   14.4. The lead/using command is authorized to use suspended load-frame assemblies at 100
   percent of their rated load. These assemblies do not require periodic load testing, but must be
   periodically inspected.
   14.5. The lead/using command evaluates item or facility support structure modifications to
   determine their impact on the certification status.
   14.6. AFSC/SEW nuclear safety design certifies the facility lifting system and notifies
   AFNWC. The AFNWC will then update the MNCL accordingly.
 16                                             AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


Section D—Decertification Process

15. Design Decertification.
   15.1. AFSC/SEW may remove nuclear safety design certification for items that have
   demonstrated inadequate safety through analysis, testing, or operational performance.
   15.2. Any Air Force agency may send a recommendation for removal of nuclear safety
   design certification to AFSC/SEW. The recommendation must identify the item as listed in
   the MNCL and include documentation that supports the recommendation.
   15.3. Removal of nuclear safety design certification is done via a formal notification letter
   from AFSC/SEW to AFNWC, with courtesy copies forwarded to MAJCOM Safety Offices.
   15.4. An individual nuclear safety design certified item may be restricted from use with
   nuclear weapons any time for any reason (e.g., damage, modifications, or changes to
   intended usage, etc.). Such restrictions do not constitute removal of nuclear safety design
   certification. However, appropriate documentation in historical or permanent records is
   required to preclude inadvertent use. If desired, submit a request to AFSC/SEW to restrict
   specific item(s) from use, and AFSC/SEW will notify AFNWC to update the MNCL
   accordingly.
   15.4. (AFRC) Coordination process for AFRC Host and Tenant units requesting NCE
   restrictions. Restriction will be initiated by the Unit NCE monitor and coordinated with unit
   WSM or Ground Safety Manager (GSM) with weapons safety responsibilities at tenant ―Unit
   Equipped‖ organizations. Unit WSM will forward coordination approval to AFRC Nuclear
   Certified Equipment Manager (AFRC/A4M) and AFRC Nuclear Certification Manager
   (AFRC/SEW). If approved, AFRC Nuclear Certified Equipment Manager will coordinate
   restriction request with AFSC/SEW and AFNWC. If approved and NCE item is restricted
   from use ensure appropriate documentation in historical or permanent records is annotated to
   preclude inadvertent use. (i.e., ―Conventional use only – approved on {Date}‖). See
   Attachment 6 for ―Restriction of Use‖ worksheet.
16. Operational Decertification.
   16.1. Critical components that have been improperly stored or not maintained IAW AFI 91-
   105 require decertification, if the resulting mishap investigation does not positively rule out
   tampering. Decertification is also required if a critical component is connected to an
   uncertified interface (i.e., not certified via OPCERT procedures or through nuclear safety
   design certification approval as documented in this publication).
   16.2. Operational MAJCOMs may decertify critical components, if they use approved
   decertification procedures (when applicable) and the intended life cycle for the critical
   component does not specifically prohibit decertification.




                                            GREGORY A. FEEST
                                            Major General
                                            USAF Chief of Safety
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                            17


                                (AFRC)

                                LESLIE R. ANZJON, Col, USAFR
                                Director of Safety
 18                                            AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD 3150.2-M, DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program Manual, December 23, 1996
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 15 Mar 2004
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 Jul 2007
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 19 Dec 2005
AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety
Rules, 28 Jul 2004
AFI 91-104, Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs, 28 Feb 2006
AFI 91-105, Critical Components, 10 Dec 1993
AFI 91-106, Unauthorized Launch and Launch Action Studies, 23 Nov 1993
AFI 91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear
Weapon Systems, 6 Apr 1994
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, 18 Jan
1994
AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software,
1 Feb 1999
AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports, 18 Jun 2004
AFOSH STD 91-46, Materials Handling and Support Equipment, 1 Aug 2002
AFPD 13-5, Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 Mar 2006
AFPD 63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 3 Apr 2009
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 Feb 2007
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
TO 36A-1-1331, Propane Gas Conversion Guide for Vehicular Equipment, 1 Sep 1983
TO 36A-1-1341, Compressed Natural Gas and Alternative Fuel for Vehicular (Engine
Combusted) Propulsion, 1 Sep 1985
Adopted Form:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012              19


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFPEO—Air Force Program Executive Officers
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
ALT—Alteration
ANG—Air National Guard
CONUS—Continental United States
COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf
CRP—Certification Requirements Plan
DECERT—Operational Decertification
DAO—Designated Acquisition Official
DOD—Department of Defense
DOE—Department of Energy
EC—European Community
ELO—European Liaison Office
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AFSC/SEW—AFSC, Weapons Safety Division
AFSC/SEWN—AFSC/SEW, Nuclear Weapons Branch
IAW—In Accordance With
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
IV&V—Independent Validation and Verification
JMPS—Joint Mission Planning System
JNWPS—Joint Nuclear Weapons Publication System
JTA—Joint Test Assembly
MAJCOM—major command
 20                                           AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


MNCL—Master Nuclear Certification List
MOD—Modification
NCIS—Nuclear Certification Impact Statement
NCM—Nuclear Certification Manager
NSA—National Security Agency
NSAR—Nuclear Safety Analysis Report
NSCCA—Nuclear Safety Cross-Check Analysis
NSE—Nuclear Surety Evaluation
NSO—Nuclear Safety Objective
NSP—Nuclear Surety Procedures
NSR—Nuclear Safety Requirement
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
OFP—Operational Flight Program
OPCERT—Operational Certification
PCP—Product Change Proposal
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RO—Retrofit Orders
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition
SDP—System Program Director
SM—Single Manager
SOI—Statement of Intent
SP—Special Procedures
TDI—Tamper Detection Indicator
TNSA—Technical Nuclear Safety Analysis
TO—Technical Order
TOMA—Technical Order Management Agency
UL—Unauthorized Launch
UR—Unsatisfactory Report
USAF—United States Air Force
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                              21


Terms—For additional definitions, see AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety
Program.
Master Nuclear Certification List (MNCL)—Identifies equipment, hardware, facilities and
software that are certified IAW AFI 63-125. The MNCL is the sole source for verifying the
nuclear certification status of nuclear certified equipment (system, hardware, software).
Nuclear Certification Impact Statement (NCIS)—Document issued by the Single Manager to
initiate the certification process of an item/software, etc. This statement advises AFNWC that a
new weapon system or a change to an existing weapon system, equipment item, software,
facility, or procedure needs to be evaluated for its impact to the nuclear certification status of a
weapon system. The NCIS must be submitted at least 45 days before the release of a request for
proposal or an equivalent program milestone.
Single Manager (SM)—The single individual specifically designated, under the integrated
weapon system management architecture, to be responsible for the life cycle management of a
system or end-item. The Single Manager is the program manager vested with full authority,
responsibility, and resources to execute and support an approved Air Force program. For
facilities, the SM is the operational MAJCOM vested with life cycle management and
configuration control responsibility for the facility.
 22                                             AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


                                         Attachment 2
      GROUPS, SAFETY ANALYSES, PLANS, EVALUATIONS, AND REVIEWS

A2.1. Nuclear Surety Working Group (ICBMs) and Nuclear Weapon Delivery System
Project Officer Groups:
   A2.1.1. For ground-launched missile systems, a nuclear surety working group is used to
   coordinate nuclear surety requirements among the various agencies involved in nuclear
   certification.
   A2.1.2. For aircraft and air-launched missile systems, a delivery systems project officer’s
   group is used to coordinate nuclear certification issues.
A2.2. Nuclear Surety Evaluation (NSE). Evaluates hardware, software, facilities, and
procedures to be nuclear safety design certified, using the approved certification approach (as
identified in the CRP). The NSE focuses on all AFI 91-107 design and evaluation criteria
applicable to the item. It includes a recommendation for certification or certification with
restrictions (to meet AFI 91-107).
A2.3. Independent Nuclear Surety Evaluation. The independent nuclear surety evaluation:
   A2.3.1. Is of sufficient depth to ensure the nuclear surety evaluation is technically correct
   and complete.
   A2.3.2. Specifically addresses the design requirements.
   A2.3.3. Indicates if the design meets AFI 91-107.
   A2.3.4. When requirements are not met, the evaluation must include comments and
   documentation on adequacy of compensatory measures and specify if the reviewing agency
   concurs with the evaluating agency’s recommendation for nuclear safety design certification.
   A2.3.5. For host-nation procured support equipment, the independent nuclear surety
   evaluation is conducted internally during the NSE development process conducted by
   AFMC’s engineering liaison office.
A2.4. Software Evaluations. Nuclear critical software evaluation can be accomplished by
Nuclear Safety Cross-Check Analysis (NSCCA), or Independent Validation and Verification
(IV&V), or regression testing. Nuclear safety design certified software can be evaluated by
IV&V or other Quality Assurance analyses as delineated in the CRP. AFMAN 91-119 provides
guidelines for determining the method of, and criteria for, evaluation. Requirements for software
evaluation can range from full NSCCA to qualification testing, depending on the relationship to
critical functions (authorization, prearming, launching, releasing, arming, and targeting).
Additional factors include the potential for UL threats and scenarios. Although these evaluations
use many similar techniques, they are typically performed by different organizations, have
different objectives, and produce different results. NSCCA and IV&V are performed by an
organization technically, managerially, and financially independent of the developer.
AFSC/SEW will make the final determination regarding independency requirements.
   A2.4.1. An NSCCA has the single objective of ensuring that the program cannot perform in
   any way that could contribute to a nuclear safety violation. Analysis and testing focus on
   ensuring that nuclear safety-critical functions are performed correctly and that the program
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                            23


  does not perform any unintended functions that could violate nuclear safety. The NSCCA is
  also unique in its concern for sabotage. While the other forms of software evaluation assume
  that any program deficiencies will be unintentional, the NSCCA also looks for intentionally
  caused problems and employs special security and control measures to prevent sabotage of
  the NSCCA effort itself. An NSCCA begins with the development of nuclear safety
  objectives (NSOs) and nuclear safety requirements (NSRs). NSOs represent the overall
  objectives a nuclear weapon system must satisfy in order to obtain nuclear safety
  certification. NSRs form the basis for all subsequent NSCCA activities. A traceability
  analysis is performed to demonstrate that all NSOs are represented in the NSRs and that all
  NSRs are derived from one or more NSOs. The NSCCA is completed by conducting a bit-
  for-bit comparison (under the Two-Person Concept) between the software delivered to the
  operational MAJCOM and the software analyzed by the NSCCA organization.
  A2.4.2. Independent Validation and Verification (IV&V). IV&V is a software evaluation
  process that includes both analysis and testing and extends throughout program development.
  ―Verification‖ analyzes software requirements, design, and code to detect program
  deficiencies before they can propagate into later development phases. ―Validation‖ analyzes
  and tests the final program to determine its compliance with requirements. IV&V is
  distinguished from qualification testing by its emphasis on detecting program weaknesses
  and unforeseen circumstances that the program will be unable to handle. Attachment 3
  provides a generic IV&V program plan to define the approach used by the IV&V
  contractor/evaluation team in support of software nuclear safety design certification.
  A2.4.3. Regression Testing. Regression testing is the selective retesting of a software
  system that has been modified to ensure any errors or defects have been fixed, and no other
  previously working functions have failed as a result of the reparations, and that newly added
  features have not created problems with previous versions of the software. It is initiated after
  a programmer has attempted to fix a recognized problem or has added source code to a
  program that may have inadvertently introduced errors. It is a quality control measure to
  ensure that newly modified code still complies with its specified requirements and that
  unmodified code has not been affected by the maintenance activity.
 24                                              AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


                                          Attachment 3
GENERIC INDEPENDENT VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION (IV&V) PROGRAM
                            PLAN

A3.1. Purpose. The purpose of this program plan is to define the approach to be used by the
IV&V contractor/evaluation team in support of nuclear safety design certification of the
software/firmware in question. The overall nuclear safety design certification effort is defined in
another program plan. Nuclear certification of software/firmware is one of the positive measures
the Air Force uses to assure that the software/firmware, as designed, coded, and implemented,
complies with the DOD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Standards (DOD Directive 3150.2) and
meets the safety design and evaluation criteria for nuclear weapon systems in AFI 91-107.
A3.2. Equipment/System Description. This section provides a brief description of the weapon
system that will allow the reader to understand the functional and nuclear safety implications of
the weapon system. Where individual software/firmware pieces are involved, provide a brief
description of each item at the block diagram level. A brief description includes performance
requirements and software/firmware design showing correlation to requirements and stressing
features that provide nuclear surety.
A3.3. IV&V Concepts.
   A3.3.1. ―Validation‖ is the test and evaluation process that ensures the software/firmware
   meets all system and software performance requirements; ―verification‖ is the repetitive
   process for ensuring that, during each development phase, the software/firmware satisfies
   and implements only those requirements approved at the end of the previous phase. For the
   purpose of nuclear safety, the validation and verification effort has primary emphasis placed
   on the nuclear safety issues identified below. Using an independent contractor to perform
   this task adds an additional layer of confidence and security to the process.
   A3.3.2. The IV&V effort will concentrate on the software/firmware functions that must be
   verified to obtain nuclear safety design certification in accordance with this AFI. The key
   step in this effort is identifying the nuclear safety contributions and how the
   software/firmware could possibly impact or affect the weapon system nuclear critical
   functions, as defined in AFMAN 91-118. These critical functions are: authorization,
   launching/releasing, warhead prearming/arming, and targeting. All of the software/firmware
   functions and capabilities will be evaluated to determine the level and extent of their
   contributions, resulting in nuclear safety impacts to the above critical functions.
   Contributions that cause a possible degradation of nuclear safety or performance will be
   reported as discrepancies for program office evaluation.
   A3.3.3. All nuclear safety discrepancies will be identified, evaluated, and prioritized
   according to their potential impact on nuclear safety. A priority scheme is used to evaluate
   nuclear safety discrepancies and determine their impact on nuclear safety (Critical, Urgent,
   Degraded, Noncritical, Minor).
   A3.3.4. The results obtained from the IV&V effort will be included in the final IV&V report
   and will also be used in the preparation of the demonstration test plan and Nuclear Surety
   Evaluation (NSE) report. Inputs will also be made to the qualification demonstration, and
   data will be examined from those tests with regard to verification of the software/firmware.
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                            25


   Finally, the data from these efforts will be maintained in a database at the program office to
   support future modifications and technical order updates.
A3.4. IV&V Approach. This section describes the specific approach that will be taken to
conduct the IV&V effort.
   A3.4.1. Test Plan. The IV&V contractor designs and conducts tests to verify the
   software/firmware design complies with AFI 91-107. This test approach is detailed in the
   IV&V Test Plan.
   A3.4.2. Configuration Control. The program office will maintain configuration control.
   This task may be contracted out, but the ultimate responsibility for configuration control
   remains with the single manager. Discrepancy reports will address performance, as well as
   nuclear safety aspects of the software/firmware functions and capabilities. These reports will
   provide all pertinent information (such as problem areas, descriptions, impacts, and
   recommendations) required to pursue appropriate action.
   A3.4.3. Analysis Tools. To implement the IV&V approach effectively, specific analysis
   tools may be developed to perform both the tracing studies and the software/firmware
   checkout. The analysis tools themselves will be validated to the degree required to ensure
   accuracy and completeness.
   A3.4.4. AFI Compliance. AFI 91-107 and AFMAN 91-119 will be used to guide and direct
   the IV&V efforts. Particular attention will be given to memory organization, fault
   detection/handling capabilities, and adequacy of self-test circuitry. A summary table should
   show compliance and the specific analysis or demonstration efforts.
   A3.4.5. Source Code Testing. The source code is checked for implementation, using the
   Computer Program Development Specification and the Computer Program Product
   Specification. Items that will be checked are the code structure, decision/branch points,
   input/output handling, and module coupling. The test plan outlines the steps to check the
   source code at both the modular and/or functional level for those areas impacting nuclear
   safety. A ―test requirements" checklist versus a "test approach" checklist will be generated to
   determine how functions will be verified. A "master procedures" checklist will be
   constructed to identify which tests are exercised for each module (or logical group of
   modules). The tests will be a combination of manual analysis and development site testing.
   A3.4.6. Test Results Report. A test results report will discuss the software/firmware code
   checkout effort. Summary result tables will be provided. All discrepancy reports with an
   evaluation and recommendation for resolution will be included.
   A3.4.7. Object Code Testing. Once the source code is checked, it will be compiled into an
   executable object code. For ground-launched missile systems, a bit-by-bit compare against
   the object code delivered by the development contractor will be accomplished. Differences
   will be identified and explained. Discrepancies will be documented and resolution
   recommended.
   A3.4.8. Final Report. A final report will include IV&V results. The report will evaluate
   whether the software/firmware satisfies AFI 91-107 design standards and, via the
   discrepancy reports, will identify any known nuclear surety concerns. The report will
 26                                            AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


   conclude with a recommendation on nuclear safety design certification. The report will be
   included as part of the NSE.
A3.5. Schedules. Significant milestones are submittal/approval of IV&V Program Plan, IV&V
Test Plan, Final IV&V Report, and the NSE report. The first two items are especially critical to
the success of IV&V.
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                                         27


                                         Attachment 4
  RECOMMENDED OUTLINE FOR THE NUCLEAR SURETY EVALUATION (NSE)

A4.1. Certification Action. Recommend certification or certification with restrictions (to meet
AFI 91-107).
A4.2. Item Identification. For hardware or software (as applicable) provide:
   A4.2.1. Nomenclature or common name.
   A4.2.2. National item identification number.
   A4.2.3. Manufacturer and code.
   A4.2.4. Model and part number.
   A4.2.5. Computer program identification number.
   A4.2.6. Item manager (include the functional address symbol and telephone number).
A4.3. Uses and Description. Provide information on:
   A4.3.1. Equipment uses.
   A4.3.2. Weapons.
   A4.3.3. Weapon types (as considered in the analysis).
   A4.3.4. Top-level description.
A4.4. Summary of Engineering Analysis (Evaluation and Test):
   A4.4.1. Identify the specific AFI 91-107, AFMAN 91-118 and/or AFMAN 91-119 criteria
   used in the design and evaluation process for the item.
   A4.4.2. Discuss the certification approach used (compliance verification methods).
   A4.4.3. Identify or reference the specific test and analysis procedures used.
   A4.4.4. Summarize the results of the certification analysis, and discuss any discrepancies
   identified during the evaluation and their disposition.
A4.5. Recommended Restrictions. Recommend any restrictions needed to compensate for
uncorrected design deficiencies or discrepancies.
 28                                            AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012


                                Attachment 5 (Added-AFRC)
                AFRC NUCLEAR CERTIFIED EQUIPMENT PROGRAM

A5.1. (AFRC) Nuclear Safety Certification Policy. HQ AFRC/SEW is the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) for nuclear safety certification policy in AFRC.
A5.2. (AFRC) HQ AFRC Functional Managers.            The following offices are the functional
managers for NCE within AFRC.
   A5.2.1. (AFRC) HQ AFRC/A4MW, A4MZ, or A4RM will provide technical guidance on
   Nuclear Certified Equipment Management, IAW AFI 63-125.
A5.3. (AFRC) AFRC Non-Nuclear Tasked Units. AFRC host/tenant unit Weapons Safety
Managers (WSM) and AFRC tenant unit Ground Safety Managers - with weapons safety
responsibilities, will manage the nuclear safety certification program for their unit equipped
organization. Host safety will have oversight responsibility for NCE issues of subordinate units
that maintain nuclear certified equipment. AFRC Tenant safety office will work with host safety
WSM on issues pertaining to nuclear certification. AFRC unit safety office will:
   A5.3.1. (AFRC) Ensure unit-level NCE lists are created using the Print feature of the
   MNCL. Refer to the MNCL for guidance when developing locally produced printed
   products derived from the MNCL.
   A5.3.2. (AFRC) Perform quarterly spot inspections on the wing NCE program.
   A5.3.3. (AFRC) Inform wing leadership of significant problems associated with NCE.
   A5.3.4. (AFRC) Train unit NCE monitors within 30 days of their appointment on the
   following:
       A5.3.4.1. (AFRC) Applicability and use of AFI 91-204, AFMAN 91-221, AFI 91-103,
       and this supplement.
       A5.3.4.2. (AFRC) Roles and responsibility of deficiency (Dull Sword) reporting.
       A5.3.4.3. (AFRC) Deficiency (Dull Sword) reporting criteria.
       A5.3.4.4. (AFRC) Deficiency (Dull Sword) reporting timeline.
       A5.3.4.5. (AFRC) Locally developed unit NCE potential deficiency (Dull Sword)
       worksheet.
A5.4. (AFRC) Unit-Level Responsibilities at AFRC Nuclear Tasked Units.
   A5.4.1. (AFRC) AFRC Squadrons directly associated with AFRC nuclear tasked units will
   follow Lead Command (AFGSC) guidance, procedures, and MAJCOM supplements.
   A5.4.2. (AFRC) AFRC Tenant unit WSM will ensure host-tenant agreements are developed
   in accordance with AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures, as outlined in AFI 91-101.
AFI91-103_AFRCSUP_I 7 FEBRUARY 2012                                              29


                             Attachment 6 (Added-AFRC)
       NUCLEAR SAFETY DESIGN CERTIFICATION OR USE RESTRICTION
                            WORKSHEET

Figure A6.1. Nuclear Safety Design Certification or Use Restriction Worksheet.
