BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-1001
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  29 MAY 2007
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 25 April 2008
                                                                    AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                               27 AUGUST 2010

                                                                          Specialty Management

                                                   RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TOTAL FORCE
                                                                        INTEGRATION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A8X                                                                 Certified by: AF/A8
                                                                  (Lt Gen Raymond E. Johns Jr.)
                                                                                       Pages: 86
                                             (ACC)
OPR: HQ ACC/A5BT                                                       Certified by: HQ ACC/A5
                                                                   (Brig Gen H. D. Polumbo, Jr.)
                                                                                        Pages:14


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-10, Total Force Integration
Policy, and applies to the Regular Air Force (RegAF) and the Air Reserve Components (ARC).
All references to the ARC throughout this instruction include the Air National Guard (ANG) and
the Air Force Reserve (AFR). It also incorporates changes to the US Code as promulgated by the
National Defense Authorization Act of 2007 (NDAA 2007). Total Force Integration (TFI)
initiatives are Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) approved operational constructs, defined in
concepts of operation, Integration Plans, Air Force Policy Directive (AFPDs), Air Force
Instructions (AFIs), and other supporting documents, which organize, train, and equip our forces
in the same way we would present them to a Combatant Commander (CCDR). This instruction
provides personnel at all levels a single document to help them to understand roles and
responsibilities, craft an integration initiative Integration Plan document, and understand the
different command relationships that will impact the mission accomplishment of integration
initiatives. The desired end state of Total Force Integration is a more capable and a more
resource efficient Air Force that leverages the unique strengths of each component and increases
Air Force combat capabilities. For the purpose of this instruction, the National Guard Bureau
 2                                                  AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


(NGB) functions as both a Headquarters Air Force (HAF) 2-letter and as a major command
(MAJCOM) equivalent organization.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN
33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Requests for waiver to this instruction will be forwarded to AF/A8 for consideration.

(ACC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance in AFI 90-1001,
Responsibilities for Total Force Integration. It describes the process for submitting Total Force
Integration (TFI) initiatives and defines responsibilities for the review/approval of all initiatives
within Air Combat Command (ACC). This publication applies to all ACC-gained Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units, ACC-gained Air National Guard (ANG) units, and all ACC
units. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of according to Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting
records managers as required.           Submit recommended changes on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command to HQ ACC/A5B.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Interim Change is narrowly focused on mission-essential areas of the AFI in need of update
or clarification and are intended to address: policy revisions due to identified gaps in guidance as
discovered in the course of initiatives execution; incorporation of lessons learned (as captured in
May 07); clarification and/or consolidation of guidance from within the AFI. Specifically, this
interim changes establishes guidance that all integration initiatives be requirements based,
reinforces process mechanisms that define mission assignment/direction approval authority,
mandates Initiative Review Worksheets for all initiatives (except for those with existing
Integration Plans), and refines/clarifies the Integration Initiative Process Road Map and its
accompanying explanatory comments (Figure A2.2). A margin bar indicates newly revised
material.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                               3



                                            Chapter 1

             INTEGRATION OBJECTIVE, GUIDANCE, AND CATEGORIES

1.1. Background. The goal of Total Force Integration is to provide the Air Force and the
Combatant Commanders the best possible capabilities to meet their requirements by leveraging
the combined human resources of the Regular, Guard, and Reserve members, Air Force civilian
employees, and Air Force contractors. Recapitalizing our force structure and transforming our
organizational constructs in this way helps preserve combat capability to deter, defend against,
and defeat every adversary in any future challenge to the American way of life. The Total Force
Integration vision is the dynamic and effective integration of all Air Force components to
provide unparalleled air, space, and cyberspace power for the joint warfighter. This Air Force
Instruction provides guidance and direction regarding the operation, support, and management of
units and personnel involved in the development and implementation of Total Force Integration
initiatives consistent with public law, Department of Defense (DOD) directives, and Air Force
policy.
The CSAF, on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), provides oversight for the Air
Force’s Total Force Integration initiatives and is the final approval authority for all integration
initiatives. CSAF approvals will occur after a recommendation for approval by the General
Officer Steering Committee (GOSC) described in the GOSC charter found in the library of
documents at the TFI website. Once approved, the initiative will then formally compete for
funding through the Air Force Corporate Structure Program Objective Memorandum (POM)
processes. For initiatives that involve units of the Air National Guard, the CSAF approval of
integration initiatives should occur in collaboration with the applicable Governors, Commanding
General, or Territorial Governors of the 54 Air National Guard entities. The Deputy Chief of
Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) directs the Total Force Integration program on
behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force and facilitates coordination of initiatives among major
commands and the National Guard Bureau. The Chief of Total Force Integration (AF/A8XF), by
direction of the Director of Strategic Plans (AF/A8X), will provide coordination and oversight on
behalf of AF/A8. The Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) is responsible for administering the
Total Force Integration program within the Air Force Reserve. The NGB is the primary channel
of communication between the SECAF and The Adjutants General (TAG) and is responsible for
administering Total Force Integration within the Air National Guard.
1.2. Applicability. This publication applies to the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve,
and the Air National Guard. Commanders at all levels are expected to seek ways to integrate to
gain benefits from synergizing Air Force component capabilities. This publication also applies to
all existing and future Total Force Integration HAF, MAJCOM, NAF and unit associations or
stand-alone initiatives to include Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC)-directed
actions/associations.
1.3. Objective. The objective of the Total Force Integration program is to meet Air Force
operational mission requirements by aligning equipment, missions, infrastructure, and manpower
resources within the Air Force to enable a more effective and efficient use of these assets. The
key requirement is to ensure that the Air Force maintains the capability to meet combatant
commander (CCDR) requirements for both surge and sustained operations. Current operations
 4                                                  AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


tempo, personnel tempo, dwell time, crew ratios, and a shrinking pool of resources require that
we seek ways to form more Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard
partnerships. By realigning the Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and/or Air National Guard
resources and missions with a focus on combat efficiencies and the ―greater good,‖ these new
organizational constructs and missions with a focus on capability will allow Air Force
organizations to continue to meet their responsibilities and commitments. Air Force Reserve, Air
National Guard and Regular Air Force commanders must ensure that all personnel are familiar
with these concepts and objectives.
1.4. Strategic Vision. While the specific strategic goal for Total Force Integration will be
somewhat different for each USAF air and ground weapon system, the strategic vision remains
focused on an expeditionary mindset and the desire to maintain the highest levels of force
readiness while sustaining the maximum capability to the warfighter. Toward this end,
MAJCOM developed long range positions for the Total Force will be integrated into the Air
Force Strategic Plan and will clearly articulate future Total Force goals and objectives for the Air
Force.
1.5. Core Guidance. At the root of all TFI initiatives is the compelling premise that each
integration initiative that comes forward for consideration is requirements driven and supports
the Total Force objective of meeting CCDR surge and steady state requirements. The
Coordination Relationships and Process Road Map figures at Attachment 2 depict the
relationships and describe the process by which integration initiative ideas come to fruition. One
product, the Initiative Review Worksheet (IRW), is required for all initiatives unless an existing
Integration Plan either describes the initiative in question (in sufficient detail to determine it is
requirements-driven and legally sound) or is modified to do so and re-approved after that
modification. The other TFI-unique document, the Integration Plan, is necessary for stand-alone
units with new/emerging missions (e.g. CA ANG 163RW Predator Unit, DCGS, etc.) as well as
new associate units (e.g. Langley/Richmond F-22 Classic Associate Unit) who will integrate
with other components or organizations in the accomplishment of their assigned mission. The
Associate Unit Integration Plans will likely be more complex since it will be developed in
partnership by both the Host Unit (primary responsibility for the weapon system) and the
Associate Unit (primary responsibility and C2 responsibilities for the individuals in their
respective unit). (The two units, associate and host, together form the overall association.) Each
integration initiative will have a lead MAJCOM or NGB OPR who will be responsible for the
coordination and distribution of the Integration Plan document. The content for the required
Integration Plan document can be found at Attachment 5.
NOTE:
The term Integration Plan replaces the term CONOP previously used to describe the outcomes
and specific objectives of the initiative. If a CONOP is already complete and signed, there is no
need to re-accomplish this effort, but you must ensure that all fields of information contained in
the new format are addressed in the original CONOP. Any missing information must be
collected and added to the original CONOP by means of a revision or addendum. All future
discussions of this information will be called an Integration Plan. For the purposes of Total Force
Integration organizational constructs, the following definitions apply to integration initiatives:
Host Unit: (Defined by Initiative, NOT by Installation) The unit that is equipped/assigned with
the physical resources (aircraft/weapon system equipment/weapon system support and/or
production facilities). For example, the 1st Fighter Wing at Langley is the host unit to the
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                 5


VAANG 192d Fighter Wing (The Associate Unit) in the F-22. While 1st FW has primary
responsibility for the F-22 aircraft and most of the equipment/resources needed to accomplish the
F-22 mission set, the 192d FW brings manpower, but may also contribute other mission support
resources for both this and their additional Title 10/State/Title 32 missions. There may also be
other associate units on the installation as well that require their own Integration Plans. One such
example where an installation has multiple host units can be found at Hickam AFB, HI. At
Hickam AFB, HI: RegAF unit is host for C-17 Unit – HIANG is the Associate Unit; HIANG is
the host unit for the F-22A Active Associate – RegAF Unit is the Associate. Host unit status does
not imply ownership of an installation.
Associate Unit(s): The unit that has primary responsibility for its unit members but shares the
aircraft or weapon system assigned to the host. The associate unit could also provide other
physical resources in support of the host unit mission.
Each of these units (host and associate) should optimize sharing of assigned equipment,
facilities, and other resources to efficiently and effectively train for each unit’s Designed
Operations Capability (DOC) or Mission Directives. While the host unit commander retains
primary responsibility for assigned equipment, ARC associate units can assume responsibility for
that equipment when training separately such as during Reserve Component Unit Training
Assemblies. Specifics regarding availability of physical resources will be included in each
Integration Plan document.
Memoranda of Agreement (MOAs) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) signed by
component unit commanders will be crafted by both host and associate units with oversight and
coordination provided by the host MAJCOMs to detail specifics regarding that integration
initiative. Both the host and associate units should strive to optimize day-to-day functional
integration at all organizational levels where facilities and manpower allow and efficiencies can
be gained. Base installation and facilities plans should be examined to determine the best way to
first collocate like functions common to the associating units and, most importantly, locate
functionally integrated work centers in a common space within existing installation facilities;
second - add on to existing installation facilities; or third and last – build new facilities. Airmen
from both host and associate units should strive to be physically collocated to the maximum
extent possible to provide for seamless coordination and unity of effort.
Additionally, MAJCOMs will provide oversight for the development of specific Memoranda of
Agreement (MOAs) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs), as required, between the host
and associate units to outline specific guidance unique to their partnership IAW public law, this
instruction, policy and guidance and the Integration Plan document.
NOTE:
For Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) directed/associated TFI initiatives, the SAF/IEI
BRAC Program Management Office (PMO) is the headquarters Air Force lead agent on these
initiatives and has implementation oversight responsibility in coordination with AF/A8X. (see
paragraph 3.1.4)
This AFI and core guidance applies to existing TFI initiatives as well as any initiative action that
occurs through the documented and approved TFI processes in the future. Should any
stakeholder - MAJCOM, the NGB, or The Adjutants General through NGB - desire to remove an
initiative from consideration or implementation, the MAJCOM/NGB OPR will announce its
intentions to do so to AF/A8 and closely coordinate that action with Offices of Collateral
 6                                                  AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


Responsibility (OCR) and other stakeholders. Should this request originate from The Adjutant
General (TAG), the input will be coordinated through the NGB to the HAF/A8. Any resultant
resourcing changes will be implemented through normal Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS)
POM/APOM, OCR, PCR or budgeting actions.
1.6. Integration Initiative Organizational Constructs. This AFI implements the following
three distinct integration types: Classic Associate, Active Associate (includes the Community
Basing variation), and Air Reserve Components Associate. At present, these are the only
integration types allowed by law. However, should the law change to allow for a broader subset
of organizational constructs, the MAJCOMs (or equivalent) will periodically investigate
additional integration types to optimize surge and steady state capabilities. Associate unit(s) will
vary from full or tailored wings to groups, squadrons, and detachments, depending on the degree
and scope of the defined mission. MAJCOMs (or equivalent) will develop Integration Plan
documents in accordance with these general categories. The following paragraphs expand on the
definitions found in AFPD 90-10 to provide additional clarity.
     1.6.1. Classic Associate. An integration model in which a Regular Air Force component
     unit retains principal responsibility for a weapon system or systems, which it shares with one
     or more reserve component units. Regular and reserve component units retain command
     authority of their own forces, separate organizational structures (to include UMDs), and
     chains of command. ANG units may also be tasked by the governor of their state/territory
     and must be allowed to fulfill those taskings consistent with provisions of public law.
     Varying degrees of (day-to-day work or) functional integration will be based on the
     Integration Plan objectives and as further defined in MOUs/MOAs, or other appropriate
     functional documents.
     1.6.2. Active Associate. An integration model in which a reserve component (Air National
     Guard or Air Force Reserve) unit retains principal responsibility for a weapon system or
     systems, which it shares with one or more regular Air Force units. Air National Guard or Air
     Force Reserve and Regular Air Force units retain command of their own forces and separate
     organizational structures. Varying degrees of (day-to-day work or) functional integration will
     be based on the Integration Plan objectives and as further defined by MOUs/MOAs, or other
     appropriate functional documents. ANG units may also be tasked by the governor of their
     state/territory and must be allowed to fulfill those taskings consistent with provisions of
     public law. Community Basing. A variation on the Active Associate model in which
     Regular component forces are garrisoned at a Guard or Reserve unit location. (Example:
     Burlington, VT TFI Initiative) Support functions traditionally provided on a Regular
     component installation (e.g., housing, medical, commissary, BX, etc.) are secured through
     the local civilian community.
     1.6.3. Air Reserve Components (ARC) Associate. An integration model where the ARC
     Component integrates two or more ARC units. A designated host unit will retain principal
     responsibility for a weapon system or systems, which are shared by all. Each unit retains
     command of its own forces and separate organizational structures. ANG units may also be
     tasked by the governor of their state/territory and must be allowed to fulfill those taskings.
     Varying degrees of functional integration will be based on the Integration Plan objectives and
     as further defined in MOUs/MOAs, or other appropriate functional documents.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                 7


                                            Chapter 2

            TOTAL FORCE INTEGRATION COMMAND ARRANGEMENTS

2.1. Purpose : Unless federally activated, it is required that ANG and AFRC units have their
own chains of command, separate both from each other and the Regular Air Force. Unless
allowed by law, the legal framework for our Reserve Components (RC) does not permit an
organization, in the U.S. or its territories, composed of personnel from two or more components,
to have a single chain of command under one commander. This guidance applies to those
command arrangement issues impacting functions, actions, and activities that must be addressed
in developing integration initiatives, Integration Plan documents, MOUs, MOAs, Support
Agreements (SAs), Program Plans (PPlans), Program Action Directives (PADs), Organizational
Change Requests (OCRs), and other documents as may be required to implement and execute
each integration initiative.
NOTE:
The Integration Plan document (formerly known as the CONOPS or Enabling Concept
document) described in this instruction is not an Air Force level Capabilities CONOPS
document. The confusion generated about this lexicon is the reason for the name change to
―Integration Plan.‖
2.2. Command Arrangements. Host and associate unit commanders are jointly responsible
for attaining and maintaining operational readiness to ensure both units are capable of operating
together to ensure unity of effort, to fulfill their shared mission. While unit commanders exercise
command within their respective chains of command, the host unit commander will exercise
control, direction, or supervision for all operational matters over all personnel assigned, attached,
or detailed to the host unit to include personnel of a different component as stipulated in
implementing MOUs and/or MOAs. Through MOUs/MOAs, the Associate unit commander may
detail personnel to work within the combined functional organization. Since neither commander
has authority over personnel in the other’s unit, operational tasks will be accomplished through
the exercise of a concept known as ―Operational Direction (OPDIR).‖ OPDIR will allow
functional supervisors from any component to use the concept to direct personnel detailed under
their supervision.
―Operational Direction‖ is defined as ―the authority to designate objectives, assign tasks, and
provide the direction necessary to accomplish the mission or operation and ensure unity of effort.
Authority for operational direction of one component member over members of another
component is obtained by agreements between component unit commanders (most often between
Title 10 and Title 32 commanders) whereby these component commanders, in an associate
organizational structure, issue orders to their subordinates to follow the operational direction of
specified/designated senior members of the other component for the purpose of accomplishing
their associated mission.‖
NOTE:
―Operational Direction‖ is not a formally recognized command authority along the lines of
OPCON or TACON and should not be used outside the context of this AFI. See Attachment 4
for a more complete discussion.
Within the framework of Operational Direction, commanders should rely on delegation of
authorities, as stipulated in governing MOUs/MOAs and commander’s intent, as methods to
 8                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


control, direct, or supervise personnel. The use of the framework of OPDIR is necessary because
the doctrinal concept of Coordinating Authority does not provide the necessary statutorily
enforceable mechanism for command arrangements within functionally integrated units. For this
reason, Coordinating Authority should not be used when describing command arrangements for
integration initiatives. Also, just as in a discussion of command, although commanders may
delegate authority to accomplish operational or training missions, they cannot delegate the
responsibility for the attainment of mission objectives. For this reason, the commander’s intent
should specify the goals, priorities, acceptable risks, and limits associated with training or
operations. Further, commanders have the authority and responsibility to influence training
and/or operations and ensure mission success through other means, such as MOAs, MOUs, and
designation of an executive agent for specific functions.
NOTE:
 A more detailed discussion of Title 10 and Title 32 (RegAF, AFRC, ANG) Command
Arrangements and Operational Direction can be found in Attachment 4 of this publication.
     2.2.1. Discipline. All personnel in Title 10 status are subject to the Uniform Code of
     Military Justice (UCMJ) administered by their respective chains of command. All Air
     National Guard personnel in Title 32 or state status are subject to discipline based upon the
     military justice codes under the laws of their respective states, commonwealths, district, or
     territories. Federal civilians are subject to discipline in accordance with the provisions of
     Title 5, Title 32, and/or applicable collective bargaining agreements. Jurisdiction for
     disciplinary actions will vary depending upon an individual’s duty status and unit of
     assignment/attachment. It is possible for more than one commander to have disciplinary
     authority over an individual at the same time. See Attachment 4, paragraph 2.3, for
     discussion on scenarios under which ANG personnel may fall under two different
     disciplinary systems at the same time.
     2.2.2. Operational Readiness. The host and associate unit’s parent MAJCOM commander
     and the Director of the Air National Guard, through the auspices of the Air National Guard
     Readiness Center and The Adjutants General, are responsible for ensuring the operational
     readiness of their host and associate units and for ensuring that the training of these units
     conforms to established Air Force training standards. The parent component is responsible
     for its own unit’s administrative, personnel, logistical, and budgetary support. Guidance on
     support responsibilities can be found in DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intergovernmental
     Support, AFI 25‐ 201, Support Agreements Procedures, AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air
     Reserve Component (ARC) Forces (formerly AFR 45-1), AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating
     Command Weapon Systems Management, and AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures.
     2.2.3. Communications. Host and associate units are authorized to communicate directly
     with supporting MAJCOMs, centers, or agencies by means of the concept of ―direct liaison
     authorized‖ (DIRLAUTH) to assist with day-to-day management functions. The DIRLAUTH
     relationships may change once units are chopped to a gaining Combatant Commander
     (CCDR). Direct communication between an associate unit and the host unit is authorized and
     encouraged.
2.3. Combatant Commander (CCDR) Command Arrangements. In accordance with JP 1-
02, Operational Control (OPCON) over forces assigned or attached to a joint force resides with
the CCDR (or subordinate JFC, if a subordinate JTF has been established) and is normally
exercised through subordinate Service component commanders. Administrative Control
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                               9


(ADCON) over assigned or attached forces is exercised by the Service component commander
(i.e. Commander of Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR)).
   2.3.1. Short of full mobilization, ANG members are assigned to the ANG Readiness Center
   when activated. For these members, the Commander, ANG Readiness Center, will be
   responsible for administration, support and discipline of assigned personnel. Concurrent
   disciplinary authority resides with the respective CCDR and the CCDR’s delegatees (e.g., the
   COMAFFOR) for conduct occurring while activated individuals are attached to that
   command for mission execution.
   2.3.2. Short of full mobilization, AFRC members remain assigned to their respective AFRC
   units when activated. For these members, the AFRC unit commanders will be responsible for
   administration, support and discipline of assigned personnel. Concurrent disciplinary
   authority resides with the respective CCDR and the CCDR’s delegatees (e.g., the
   COMAFFOR) for conduct while individuals are attached to that command for mission
   execution.
2.4. NGB Command Arrangements. While the National Guard Bureau exercises no command
authority over National Guard units, the NGB, through the auspices of the ANG directorate, is
the channel of communication between the Secretary of the Air Force and The Adjutants General
on all matters related to the Total Force Integration program within the Air National Guard.
2.5. AFRC Command Arrangements. The Air Force Reserve Command reports directly to
Headquarters Air Force. Operational control of AFRC units is exercised by the RegAF-gaining
MAJCOM during federal mobilization in accordance with applicable directives.
2.6. Regular Air Force Command Arrangements. The Regular Air Force MAJCOM with
ARC-gained units has command and control of all ARC-gained units during mobilization. While
these ARC-gained units are in inactive status, the RegAF MAJCOMs provide oversight of all
assigned ARC units to ensure RegAF MAJCOM standards are maintained. The RegAF
MAJCOMs are responsible for missions and ARC-gained units as directed by Headquarters Air
Force.
2.7. Participating State, Commonwealth,               Territory, or         District Command
Arrangements. The Governor (or Commanding General for the District of Columbia), through
The Adjutant General and state/commonwealth/territorial Air Headquarter’s Staff, will continue
to exercise command and control of Air National Guard forces unless those forces have been
mobilized or are voluntarily in Title 10 status. TFI initiatives will not affect the requirement to
maintain unbroken ANG chains-of-command, from the most junior enlisted Guardsman through
The Adjutant General.
 10                                               AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


                                           Chapter 3

                             ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. Headquarters Air Force Responsibilities:
   3.1.1. Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF). CSAF, acting on behalf of the Secretary of
   the Air Force (SECAF), will be the final approval authority for all integration initiatives.
   When approved by CSAF in accordance with this AFI, any initiative that involves support
   for federal training missions will satisfy the SecAF approval requirement under 32 U.S.C.
   Section 502(f)(2)(B).
   3.1.2. The General Counsel for the Department of the Air Force (SAF/GC). SAF/GC
   will provide advice and legal oversight for Total Force Integration initiatives and issues
   having significant policy, legislation, BRAC, cross-DOD or inter-agency implications.
   SAF/GCM will be the authority within SAF/GC to oversee the review of unique operating
   constructs or other legally significant issues in consultation with AF/JAA and provide a legal
   sufficiency opinion in the review of Initiative Review Worksheet (IRW) cases described in
   this paragraph.
   3.1.3. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Reserve Affairs
   (SAF/MR). SAF/MR will provide guidance, oversight and direction of all matters pertaining
   to manpower; military and civilian personnel; reserve components and readiness support for
   the Department of the Air Force. SAF/MR will review any manpower and legislative
   guidance on integration initiatives, and implementation plans initiated by AF/A8.
   3.1.4. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment, &
   Logistics (SAF/IE). SAF/IE will provide guidance, oversight, and direction on all matters
   pertaining to installation issues for the Total Force Integration initiatives. SAF/IEI will
   review and coordinate on integration initiatives documents based upon the underlying real
   estate instrument and Joint Use Agreements and in accordance with the provisions of AFI 10-
   503, Base Unit Beddown Program. For Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC)
   directed/associated TFI initiatives, the SAF/IEI BRAC Program Management Office (PMO)
   is the headquarters Air Force lead agent on these initiatives and has implementation oversight
   responsibility in coordination with AF/A8X.
   3.1.5. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
   (SAF/FM). SAF/FM will provide guidance, oversight, and direction on all matters
   pertaining to funding issues associated with Total Force Integration initiatives. This guidance
   and oversight could include, but is not limited to, recommended approaches to Flying Hour
   Program funding as well as other issues pertaining to association funding and the process by
   which component funds will be used and tracked.
   3.1.6. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1). AF/A1, as the focal
   point for Air Force human capital management policy development, is responsible for
   developing, coordinating, and executing manpower and personnel legislation and policies
   necessary for Total Force Integration Implementation Plans. AF/A1 will review and
   coordinate on all Integration Plan documents within the HAF Integration Plan coordination
   process.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                           11


  3.1.7. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2).
  AF/A2 will provide guidance, oversight, and direction on all matters pertaining to
  intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance issues associated with Total Force Integration
  initiatives. AF/A2 will review and coordinate on all Integration Plan documents within the
  HAF Integration Plan coordination process to ensure compliance with AFI 14-104, Oversight
  of Intelligence Activities and other intelligence related OSD/Joint directives.
  3.1.8. Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5). The
  AF/A3/5 will oversee air, space, command and control and information operations, plans and
  requirements issues for integration initiatives and coordinate on Total Force Integration
  initiative Integration Plan documents and other implementation documents. AF/A3/5 will
  assess and communicate AEF policy, AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space
  Expeditionary Force Presence Policy (AEFPP), for sourcing and presentation of capabilities
  of TFI units during the approval process for Integration Plan or other implementation
  documents. Of critical importance will be the A3/5’s role of re-shaping the personnel and
  equipment UTCs through the efforts of A5XW. AF/A3/5 will also review and assess air,
  space, command and control, cyberspace, and information operations for the operational and
  capability impacts of programmatic inputs that arise as a result of implementing an
  integration initiative.
  3.1.9. Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support
  (AF/A4/7). The AF/A4/7 will oversee installation and logistics issues for integration
  initiatives and coordinate on Total Force Integration initiative Integration Plan documents
  and other implementation documents. AF/A4/7 will also take part in AFCS deliberations on
  installation and logistics programmatic inputs that arise as a result of implementing an
  integration initiative.
  3.1.10. Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8). AF/A8 will lead
  Total Force Integration on behalf of the SECAF and facilitate coordination of initiatives
  among major commands, the National Guard Bureau, the Air Force Reserve, and other air
  staff and secretariat entities. The Directorate for Strategic Plans (AF/A8X), on behalf of
  AF/A8, is the single entry point for the coordination of TFI initiatives through the Total
  Force Integration Division (A8XF). AF/A8X will integrate MAJCOM developed long range
  positions for the Total Force into the Air Force Strategic Plan. In addition, AF/A8P will
  assign Panel/Program Element Monitor (PEM) POCs from across the HAF to ensure
  resource and policy matters are addressed within the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS)
  processes. AF/A8 will ensure ARC representation on all steering groups and other teams
  necessary to implement policy. AF/A8X will coordinate integration initiatives at the HAF
  level and will include, the NGB, the Air Force Reserve, and other Headquarters Air Force
  (HAF) organizations, elements of the secretariat, direct reporting units, and forward
  operating elements, as appropriate. In addition, AF/A8X will coordinate with SAF/IEI PMO
  to ensure the proper review of all issues relating to BRAC actions also identified as TFI
  initiatives.
  3.1.11. Judge Advocate General (AF/JA). AF/JA will provide guidance, direction, and
  oversight on legal matters affecting Total Force Integration. AF/JAA will be the authority
  within AF/JA for review, referral, and resolution for all legal issues encountered during
  preparation of the Initiative Review Worksheet and Integration Plans. Should the IRW or I-
  Plan expose unique operating constructs or other legally significant issues, AF/JAA will refer
12                                              AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


  such products to SAF/GCM for additional review (see para 3.1.2). AF/JAA will review all
  submitted Initiative Review Worksheets and Integration Plans for legal sufficiency prior to
  implementation, and will be the last functional office to review the document before approval
  by the CSAF.
  3.1.12. Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE). The Chief of Air Force Reserve will provide
  guidance, oversight, and direction on all AFRC integration initiatives. AF/RE will also
  coordinate on Total Force Integration initiative Integration Plan documents and other
  implementation documents. AF/RE will take part in AF Corporate Structure deliberations on
  AFRC programmatic inputs that arise as a result of implementing an integration initiative.
  3.1.13. NGB Responsibilities:
     3.1.13.1. The NGB ANG staff performs three distinct roles. First, it performs a
     Headquarters Air Force staff function similar to that performed by the AF/RE staff to
     ensure the ANG equities are properly included and vetted for all Air Force issues.
     Second, within the framework of Total Force Integration, it assumes a role equivalent to a
     MAJCOM so as to collaborate with the major commands in framing and implementing
     integration initiatives. Third, NGB will coordinate all integration initiatives with the
     appropriate TAG of the state, territory, or District of Columbia and is the channel of
     communication to the State Adjutants General.
     3.1.13.2. Prescribe training requirements for ANG units and allocate funds for that
     training.
     3.1.13.3. In conjunction with each MAJCOM, evaluate the readiness of ANG host and
     associate units to effectively execute or support assigned missions.
     3.1.13.4. Provide oversight and assistance with required TFI Integration Plan, MOUs,
     MOAs and support agreements documents. NGB will coordinate on Total Force
     Integration initiative Integration Plan documents and other implementation documents.
     3.1.13.5. Monitor and provide assistance and support to Air National Guard units to
     ensure that ANG host and associate units possess the capability to train personnel to an
     operational standard that meets gaining MAJCOM mission objectives.
     3.1.13.6. NGB/A8, through the PPBE process, and in coordination with the NGB/FM
     and NGB/A1 functionals for near-term budget and manpower requirements, will
     determine long-term programming actions necessary for implementation.
     3.1.13.7. When a TFI initiative involves the Air National Guard, the participating state,
     commonwealth, territory, or district is the primary stakeholder through which the
     Integration Plan is coordinated for approval by the Air Force. The Governor (or district
     equivalent), through The Adjutant General and state/commonwealth/territory/district Air
     Headquarters’ Staff, is the final authority for all TFI initiatives involving that
     state/territory/commonwealth or district. The participating state, commonwealth,
     territory, or district will primarily coordinate and communicate with the Air Force
     through the NGB, however, direct communication between the participating
     state/commonwealth/territory/district and the Air Force may also be required.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                           13


3.2. MAJCOM Responsibilities: (For the purposes of this discussion, the NGB is considered a
MAJCOM equivalent). Each MAJCOM will develop a position for long range Total Force
requirements to guide integration efforts within its command.
3.2. (ACC)MAJCOM Responsibilities. This supplement establishes ACC’s TFI process,
defines roles and responsibilities and provides instructions for submitting/staffing Air Reserve
Component (ARC) integration requests. Attachment 6 (Added), ACC TFI Process, in
conjunction with instructions and procedures contained in AFI 90-1001, and this supplement
provides guidance for submitting initiative requests.
   3.2.1. MAJCOM Director of Plans, Requirements, and Programs offices (or equivalent)
   (A5 or A8). The lead MAJCOM Director of Plans, Requirements, and Programs offices (or
   equivalent) will act as the integration initiative POC for all units under their command or
   those gained by the MAJCOM. Unless otherwise agreed to by the associating commands, the
   lead MAJCOM is the parent command of the organization that possesses the physical
   resources in the association. These offices are responsible for Integration Plan development
   and the implementation of integration initiatives through the use of detailed plans that set
   forth policies and procedures. The lead MAJCOM will ensure that all documents developed
   in support of integration initiatives are reviewed and coordinated upon by all of the
   association’s stakeholders. CSAF approved TFI initiatives will accomplish beddown
   coordination actions as directed by AFI 10-503, Base Unit Beddown Program. In addition,
   MAJCOMs/NGB impacted by BRAC directed initiatives must also follow BRAC PAD 06-
   01 guidance (as amended). The lead MAJCOM will use their existing beddown processes
   and procedures and ensure compliance by including requisite information within integration
   initiative supporting documents. The overarching document for each integration initiative is
   the Integration Plan document.
   3.2.1. (ACC) MAJCOM Director of Plans, Requirements, and Programs offices (or
   equivalent) (A5 or A8). HQ ACC/A5 Directorate is responsible to COMACC for
   facilitating TFI initiatives affecting ACC units, ACC-gained Air Force Reserve Command
   (AFRC) units and ACC-gained Air National Guard (ANG) units.
       3.2.1.1. Prior to developing or tasking for development those documents necessary for
       implementation of an integration initiative, the MAJCOM/A5 or A8 will obtain
       MAJCOM/JA legal review of the completed TFI Initiative Review Worksheet which
       covers the proposed mission, organizational structure, utilization of National Guard and
       Reserve personnel by category, and fiscal requirements. MAJCOM/A5 or A8 will ensure
       the MAJCOM OPR completes the initial concept review IAW the Initiative Review
       Worksheets template(s) provided in Attachment 3 (using either Annex A and/or Annex
       B as required) and obtain MAJCOM-level JA reviews by all association stakeholders.
       Initiatives that are already performing the mission need not accomplish an Initiative
       Review Worksheet, however, the accountable MAJCOM or NGB OPR will ensure that
       an Integration Plan is crafted and forwarded to the HAF (AF/A8XF) for functional
       coordination and legal sufficiency review.
       3.2.1.2. MAJCOM/A5 or A8 will develop, or task for development, the required
       implementing documentation such as Integration Plan, MAJCOM/Numbered Air Force
       (NAF) level MOAs or MOUs, Support Agreements (SAs)(as defined by AFI 25-201),
       and Programming Plans. As a part of this process, MAJCOMs will seek Air Staff
14                                              AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


     functional approval review of the Integration Plan document. MAJCOM/Numbered Air
     Force (NAF)/Unit level MOUs, MOAs, and Support Agreement development
     requirements are captured in AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures. Development
     of an MOU/MOA will be based on the template found in AFI 25-201, Attachment 4
     (alternatively, a sample TFI oriented MOU/MOA can be found in the TFI web site
     documents library). MOU/MOAs may contain language that indicates support agreement
     areas, and/or other topics of interest to the commanders of the
     associating/supported/supporting units (e.g. command arrangements, local policy(ies),
     etc.). If MOU/MOAs address support agreement areas of interest, the support agreement
     issues must also be captured on a DD Form 1144. Support Agreements will continue to
     be developed IAW AFI 25-201 and be captured on DD Form 1144.
         3.2.1.2.1. DELETED
         3.2.1.2.2. DELETED
         3.2.1.2.3. MAJCOMs will ensure that all associated ARC host and associate units are
         aligned with gained/assigned Unified Combatant Command (UCC) OPLANs IAW
         the associated units’ respective DOC statements, or equivalent documents. Parent
         MAJCOMs must ensure that host and associate units train to meet CCDR stated
         mission requirements. MAJCOMs will ensure that procedures are in place to attach
         individuals and units to the appropriate CCDR unit structure when operating in Title
         10 status to ensure an unbroken operational chain of command.
     3.2.1.3. MAJCOM/A5 or A8, with proponent/PEM input throughout the PPBE process,
     and in coordination with the MAJCOM/FM and MAJCOM/A1 functionals for near-term
     budget and manpower requirements, will determine long-term programming actions
     necessary for implementation, and proposed offsets from other programs, if investment
     capital or manpower is required (inclusive of Total Force Integration initiatives).
     3.2.1.4. MAJCOMs/ A5 or A8 will ensure the appropriate metrics (existing or
     developed) are available to evaluate whether integration initiatives are creating the
     desired effects. The metrics should address the overall objectives of the proposed
     integration as stated in the I-Plan and also should address the objectives of other
     implementation documentation such as MOAs, MOUs, and Support Agreements. As
     applicable, operational indicators, at a minimum, will include but not be limited to, crew
     ratio, dwell times, absorption rates, utilization (UTE) rates, Operations Tempo
     (OPSTEMPO), and Personnel Tempo (PERSTEMPO). A5 or A8 will ensure that the
     appropriate functionals begin collection of performance measures/data at IOC.
     3.2.1.5. MAJCOM/A1, A2, A3, A4, A5, A6, A7, A8, JA, and/or FM will coordinate and
     collaborate on the development of all directives, instructions, and regulations impacting
     its units with all components prior to publication.
  3.2.2. The MAJCOM Director of Manpower and Personnel (or equivalent) (A1). A1 is
  responsible for verifying and justifying manpower requirements within an approved
  organizational structure for integration initiative units. The A1 should ensure that the
  manpower requirement determination includes identification of force mix and types of
  component manpower categories (i.e., RegAF, AGR, technician, etc.) necessary for the new
  or existing organization to effectively accomplish the MAJCOM mission. The A1 will also
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                            15


  assist in the development and staffing of a proposed organizational structure using AFI 38-
  101, Air Force Organization, as a guideline. A1 will work closely with RegAF, NGB A-staff
  and/or AFRC equivalent of A1, A2, A3/5, A4/7, A6, A8, JA, and FM. MAJCOM and/or
  NGB A1 will establish a process to collect Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) day
  forecasts from host and associate units and POM for the MPA day resources necessary to
  achieve short-term active force needs of TFI associations. Coordination with other functional
  areas may be necessary. In addition, the A1 will coordinate with its component’s personnel
  functions or the respective personnel centers to ensure impacts to personnel assignment and
  training actions have been properly taken into consideration.
     3.2.2.1. MAJCOM/A1 will coordinate with other MAJCOM functional organizations to
     help quantify and/or identify integration initiative training implications to include any
     production surges required for the initiative, as well as changes to production
     requirements and continuation training requirements in the post-integration environment.
     The MAJCOM/A1 will then coordinate with the various Air Education and Training
     Command (AETC) functional training organizations to determine the feasibility of
     meeting the training requirements deadlines. Refer to AFI 16-501, Control and
     Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 August 2006, Attachment 9, Timeline for
     Development and Programming for Education and Training Framework.
  3.2.3. MAJCOM Director of Intelligence (or equivalent) (A2). MAJCOM/A2, or the
  designated agency, will lead Total Force Integration initiatives for all intelligence issues
  within the command. MAJCOM/A2, or the designated agency will provide guidance,
  oversight, and direction to ensure the successful integration of tasking, processing, analysis,
  evaluation, interpretation, and dissemination of intelligence. MAJCOM/A2, or the designated
  agency will ensure that all units having an intelligence function are trained and evaluated
  IAW AFI 14-202 Volume 1, Intelligence Training, and AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence
  Activities, and meet all intelligence oversight requirements, including required reports.
  3.2.4. MAJCOM Director of Air, Space and Information Operations (or equivalent)
  (A3).
     3.2.4.1. Analyze AEF implications to include the changes to both host and associate
     units’ proposed capability, their ability to continue to support AEF commitments, and any
     changes required in each unit’s AEF Unit Type Code (UTC) libraries.
     3.2.4.2. Ensure Designed Operations Capability (DOC) statements/mission directives for
     new or altered TFI efforts are developed so the proper unit end state is reached and
     reflected on the unit’s DOC statement/mission directives and in the UTC Availability to
     meet mission requirements. Of critical importance will be the A3’s role in re-shaping the
     personnel and equipment UTCs in collaboration with AF/A5XW.
     3.2.4.3. Analyze combat capabilities in proposed TFI units and advocate changes to TFI
     unit composition to ensure rotational and mobilized combat capabilities are enhanced and
     absorption and training concerns are addressed.
     3.2.4.4. Review/update operational policies and/or procedures to reflect the requirements
     of associations.
     3.2.4.5. Coordinate on appropriate sections of Integration Plan, MOAs, MOUs, or other
     implementing documents to ensure A3 concerns are addressed.
16                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


  3.2.5. MAJCOM Director of Logistics and Director of Installation and Mission Support
  (or equivalent) (A4 and/or A7). Describes the Agile Combat Support concepts and changes
  to existing UTCs to reflect host and associate unit capabilities. In addition, the A7 will ensure
  that any facilities requirements (either new construction or building modifications) reflect a
  sharing of common workspaces. It is the intent of the Air Force Corporate Structure that
  requirements for additional workspace be satisfied first by modification/additions to existing
  facilities prior to considering requests for new construction. The host MAJCOM in the
  association will program resources to operate and maintain all facilities necessary for both
  host unit and associate unit to perform their respective association mission(s). These facilities
  will be assigned the lead MAJCOM Command Code as appropriate.
  3.2.6. The MAJCOM Inspector General (IG) will direct the development of applicable
  guidelines, procedures, and criteria to assess unit efficiency, effectiveness, combat readiness
  and nuclear surety of all MAJCOM and/or MAJCOM gained forces. For ARC units,
  inspection dates will be forwarded to the appropriate ARC Gatekeeper with a minimum one
  year notice to ensure annual tours are scheduled accordingly.
     3.2.6.1. Gaining command MAJCOM/IGs will administer comprehensive readiness and
     nuclear surety inspections for all units as specified in AFI 90-201, Inspector General
     Activities. The RegAF MAJCOM/IG will take the lead in this development effort and will
     collaborate with the respective ARC component to ensure the combat readiness of all
     Total Force Integration units. Associated Total Force units will normally be inspected as
     one team with personnel from each of the inspected component's units participating in the
     inspection.
     3.2.6.2. MAJCOM IGs will administer compliance inspections as specified in AFI 90-
     201, Inspector General Activities. Compliance inspections will be conducted by the
     MAJCOM/IG; for NGB units, the gaining command MAJCOM/IG team will conduct the
     inspection.
     3.2.6.3. MAJCOM/NGB IG complaint resolution inspectors will have visibility on al1
     complaints resolution and Fraud, Waste, and Abuse issues or items of interest as may
     impact inspected integrated or associated units in order to ensure good order and
     discipline throughout the Total Force organization consistent with the provisions of AFI
     90-301, Inspector General Complaint Resolution.
  3.2.7. The MAJCOM/JA will provide integration initiative legal guidance consistent with
  existing public laws, DoD, and Air Force instructions. MAJCOM/JA will:
     3.2.7.1. Accomplish a legal review during initial concept development of the integration
     initiative using the completed TFI Initiative Review Worksheet (Attachment 3). The
     completed worksheet will address, at a minimum, the proposed mission, organizational
     structure, utilization of National Guard and Reserve personnel by category, and fiscal
     requirements (see Attachment 3 Annex A and/or Annex B for review format and
     guidelines). The MAJCOM/JA will review the Initiative Review worksheet to ensure the
     proposed integration is legally sufficient. Legal issues encountered during the review may
     be referred to AF/JAA, which will coordinate with SAF/GCM, as necessary. Note: this
     legal sufficiency review and approval is required prior to proceeding with the actual
     Integration Plan document development or implementation.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             17


           3.2.7.1.1. After the coordinated MAJCOM/JA review of the initiative worksheet has
           been certified by the OPR MAJCOM/JA, the MAJCOM A5/A8 TFI lead will forward
           the worksheet to A8XF. Upon receipt from A8XF, AF/JAA will coordinate with
           SAF/GCM as discussed in paragraphs 3.1.2 and 3.1.11 of this AFI. When SAF/GCM
           coordination is not required, AF/JAA will serve as the final legal approval for the
           initiative, after which the MAJCOM may proceed with the development of the
           Integration Plan.
       3.2.7.2. Monitor JA support at each location to ensure necessary services are being
       provided to the host and associate units.
       3.2.7.3. Maintain a liaison between the components to address legal support
       requirements of unit members.
       3.2.7.4. Prepare an annex to the Integration Plan document in cases where the integration
       initiative’s mission requirements are impacted by multiple statutes. This annex will
       provide commanders with clear guidance to help them stay within the bounds of the law.
       3.2.7.5. Partner with the complementary component MAJCOM/JA to visit units when
       specific issues arise which require command attention. Provide staff assistance when
       requested.
   3.2.8. MAJCOM/SEs. The MAJCOM/SE will develop guidance to ensure all aspects of the
   Air Force Mishap Prevention Program as addressed in the 91-series instructions are
   adequately integrated at each installation where Regular Air Force, Air National Guard, and
   Air Force Reserve Command personnel are assigned. Associated Total Force units will
   normally be inspected as one team with personnel from each of the inspected component’s
   units participating in the inspection.
   3.2.9. MAJCOM/FMs will provide guidance, oversight, and direction on all matters
   pertaining to funding issues associated with Total Force Integration initiatives. This guidance
   and oversight could include, but is not limited to, recommended approaches to Flying Hour
   Program funding as well as other issues pertaining to TFI initiatives funding, Execution
   Plans, and the process by which MAJCOM funds will be used and tracked.
3.3. TFI Component Unit Commander Responsibilities: Each unit commander is responsible
for personnel management, performance reviews, career development, and administrative
support for members of their respective units consistent with public law. Command and
disciplinary authority over a member rests with the member’s unit commander and the respective
chain of command. Functional supervisors, whether RegAF, Air Force Reserve, Traditional
Reservist, Air National Guard technician, Air Reserve technician, civilian, AGR (Title 10 or
Title 32), or Drill Status Guardsmen, have the authority by way of OPDIR to guide the day-to-
day functional organizations toward mission readiness. All personnel in a host and associate unit
should be trained, tasked, inspected, and employed as a unified team to the maximum extent
possible.
   3.3.1. Manpower: Each unit, host and associate, considering the integration initiative
   organizational construct described in the Integration Plan document, should coordinate a
   proposed Unit Manpower Document (UMD) that supports desired operational capabilities
   with its own MAJCOM/HHQ. With reference to the approved Integration Plan document and
   the finalized UMD, the participating units should determine optimum functional
18                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


  organizational structures for day-to-day integrated operations in coordination with their
  MAJCOM A1M. While developing the functional organizations, consideration must be given
  to both host and associate unit training activities, deployed training activities as well as
  CONUS and OCONUS operational activities and in the case of the Air National Guard --
  state missions. TFI organizations must properly utilize ARC personnel in various duty
  statuses and must be structured to facilitate applicable work rules in all training activities.
  3.3.2. Memoranda of Agreement (MOA), Memoranda of Understanding (MOU), and
  Support Agreements: Host and associate units (with the assistance of the host and parent
  MAJCOMs) will develop appropriate MOAs and MOUs that describe specifics regarding the
  integration initiative. MOAs and MOUs are agreements between the host and associate units
  and are usually signed by parallel unit commanders after proper HHQ coordination by the
  host MAJCOM. MOAs and MOUs should be revised and updated from time to time as
  deemed necessary by the units and will include guidance for accomplishing unit readiness
  reporting requirements for each component. Development of an MOU/MOA will be based on
  the template found in AFI 25-201, Attachment 4 (alternatively, a sample TFI oriented
  MOU/MOA can be found in the TFI web site documents library). MOU/MOAs may contain
  language that indicates support agreement areas, and/or other topics of interest to the
  commanders of the associating/ supported/ supporting units (e.g. command arrangements,
  local policy(ies), etc.). If MOU/MOAs address support agreement areas of interest, the
  support agreement issues must also be captured on a DD Form 1144. Support Agreements
  will continue to be developed IAW AFI 25-201 and be captured on DD Form 1144.
  3.3.3. Readiness: Host and associate units should coordinate all processes that contribute to
  their combined ability to execute desired operational capabilities.
     3.3.3.1. Unit Recall: Units in each integration initiative should determine if an
     integrated or separate recall process will best serve the partnered units. Consideration
     must be given to varied ARC duty statuses, required recall response times and the
     different types of recall that might be required, including ANG recall to state service.
     ANG associate units may also be tasked by the governor of their state/territory and will
     fulfill those taskings consistent with provisions of public law.
     3.3.3.2. Mobility: Processes necessary to efficiently mobilize and deploy host and
     associate units should be coordinated and specified in local plans, policies and
     procedures. The host unit will ensure that mobilization plans and exercises include both
     host and associate units’ assigned assets, consistent with the training requirements of the
     associate unit. The intent is to functionally integrate to the maximum extent possible and
     to require participation by all of the host and associate unit members.
     3.3.3.3. Readiness Exercises: Host and associate units should revise exercise plans and
     publications considering each component’s requirements for readiness training. ARC
     personnel may not be able to participate in readiness exercises as often as RegAF
     personnel due to limited fiscal resources, finite training opportunities and required time
     away from civilian employers. Associated units should plan exercise schedules as far in
     advance as possible to facilitate ARC personnel absence from civilian employers.
  3.3.4. Training: Airmen in all host and associate units will receive equal priority for
  training opportunities whether primary to operational capabilities or ancillary in nature. Units
  must ensure ARC members who are not available day-to-day are considered when
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             19


  developing and executing training plans. Units should maximize use of video recorded/CBT
  training sessions to enable ARC members to ―make-up‖ missed training opportunities as
  conditions permit. Specifics regarding the tracking of individual training, including required
  events and currencies, should be coordinated and specified in appropriate MOAs and MOUs.
  3.3.5. Facilities: Host and associate units should ensure integrated functions share
  workspaces within the functional organization and work together seamlessly in support of the
  unit mission. Integrated activities/functions will be collocated within the same workspaces to
  the maximum extent possible. When facilities do not permit collocation, long-term planning
  should include adequate space for collocation. As space permits, units sharing a facility
  should collaborate with each other to allow for the display of each unit’s culture and heritage.
  The host unit in the association will be responsible for the control and operation of
  association mission facilities and coordinate funding with the lead MAJCOM for the
  operation and sustainment of these facilities. Specifics regarding the allocation, operations,
  and maintenance of all Real Property including facilities and infrastructure should be
  coordinated as specified in accordance with applicable AFIs, as supplemented, and in
  appropriate MOAs and MOUs.
  3.3.6. Personnel Management: Applicable personnel administration will be accomplished
  by the Commander’s Support Staff (CSS), servicing Military Personnel Flight (MPF), higher
  headquarters personnel function, or through reach back to the parent command. Likewise,
  government civilian employees assigned to integration initiative units will be serviced by the
  host wing Civilian Personnel Flight using all local policies and procedures with the exception
  of performance management and awards. Administration of civilian personnel management
  policies unique to Air National Guard Technicians will be retained by the ANG wing
  commander, Senior ANG technician, or designee. Certain key supervisory ANG technician
  positions must be designated in writing by the unit commander/senior ANG technicians to
  act as the commander's designee. Responsibility for individual ratings, appraisals and
  professional feedback as well as official and periodic awards or decorations will be in
  accordance with applicable AFIs and MAJCOM/NGB directives as supplemented and is
  retained by each associating unit. Processes describing input from functional supervisors
  should be detailed in appropriate MOAs and MOUs.
     3.3.6.1. Disciplinary actions, including letters of counseling, letters of admonishment,
     letters of reprimand, and UCMJ actions, must be accomplished by the member’s own
     component chain-of-command (if a guardsman in Title 10 status, the Title 10 chain has
     authority). Short of full mobilization, all ANGUS members in Title 10 status will be
     assigned to the Air National Guard Readiness Center (ANGRC), and attached to the
     appropriate RegAF unit.
     3.3.6.2. Supervisors or commanders from one chain-of-command cannot take
     disciplinary action against a member of the other component chain of command, but shall
     notify the member’s chain-of-command of the disciplinary infraction or other matters
     requiring redress.
     3.3.6.3. Personnel actions must be accomplished by the member’s own component
     chain-of-command (with inputs from the member’s functional supervisor if a member of
     another component). Designation of raters for performance reports must be IAW the rules
     established by the member’s component.
 20                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


       3.3.6.4. When an entire ANG unit is performing in a Title 10 status, it must be assigned
       to a Title 10 organizational structure. The ANG unit must be attached to a gaining Air
       Force MAJCOM.
   3.3.7. Financial Management: Host and associate units should ensure that costs
   attributable to respective components are captured and sourced from appropriate funds,
   consistent with respective appropriations purposes (in compliance with Anti-Deficiency Act
   and Purpose Statute language) and in accordance with applicable AFIs and policies provided
   by SAF/FM, MAJCOM/FM, and/or the NGB/FM. This includes identifying near-term
   financial requirements for wing execution plan inputs, requirement shortfalls, monitoring
   execution of funds, etc. Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard
   supporting units will budget and manage the financial resources needed for retention of
   ADCON over assigned personnel. This is necessary due to the distinctly separate
   appropriations authorized to support each component.
   3.3.8. Directives: The host unit, in coordination with the associating unit, will publish or
   revise local directives, instructions, and/or operating procedures. These revised directives,
   instructions, or operating procedures will apply to all assigned, attached, or detailed forces
   and include language that describes command arrangements.
3.4. Deployment. All personnel within associate unit(s) and those assigned, attached, or
detailed to a host unit are eligible to deploy with the host unit based on AFPD 10-4 and all other
applicable instructions and/or MOUs/MOAs.
3.5. Total Force Integration Plan Reporting and SORTS. In order to assess the benefits of
Total Force Integration, each TFI Initiative OPR must coordinate for the capture and reporting of
both implementation and performance measures in order to report these metrics to decision
makers. The Total Force Integration Tracking Tool tracks implementation measures while
performance measures are largely captured in current SORTS processes – with a few exceptions.
This requirement is designed to capture those measures that currently exist – not to generate an
additional reporting requirement – except for those few measures of merit that are very unique to
an initiative. Designated OPRs at MAJCOMs/ NGB and units will provide updates and other
information on the progress of TFI initiatives by updating the TFITT database. Unit status will
be reported through SORTS. The measures of merit listed for each objective are required to be
reported either through SORTS or to the parent MAJCOM for capture in their database at least
every thirty days.
   3.5.1. SORTS. Units or designated OPRs will be responsible to report unit status to their
   respective MAJCOMs/NGB through standard DRRS/SORTS/ARTS reporting tools and in
   accordance with established guidance and current AFIs as supplemented. These metrics will
   include the DRRS measures - personnel authorizations, equipment and supplies on hand,
   equipment condition, and training measurement. SORTS reporting is not normally required
   for TFI initiatives until IOC is reached or as directed by the commander.
   3.5.2. TFI Measures of Merit Reporting. TFI specific Measures of Merit will be reported
   to the parent MAJCOM for capture in their database. At a minimum, these metrics should
   include but not be limited to: crew ratio, dwell times, absorption rates, utilization (UTE)
   rates, OPSTEMPO (Operations Tempo), and PERSTEMPO (Personnel Tempo).
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                21


                                            Chapter 4

         INTEGRATION PLAN DOCUMENT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES

4.1. Purpose. This chapter addresses the development and content of the Integration Plan
document (for both existing and future units), and highlights issues impacting functions, actions,
and activities that need to be addressed in the course of developing the document. It is intended
that the MAJCOM OPR for an integration initiative be the responsible agent for the development
of the Integration Plan and that this duty not be delegated below the level of the MAJCOM. It
also addresses MAJCOM and HAF responsibilities in the development of the Integration Plan
document. In those cases where the initiative results in assignment of a new or emerging mission
for an ARC organization and there is no integration of forces between components, there will be
a requirement for an Initiative Review Worksheet, however the development of an Integration
Plan will not be required.
4.2. Background. Integration initiatives come from all levels - not only from inside the Air
Force but also from external sources as well (for example, the Congress or states.) Proposed TFI
initiative sponsors should acquire concurrence from MAJCOM and ANG participants by
following the TFI initiatives process steps described in Figure A2.2 Usually, the first required
step in the TFI initiative process is the development and legal review of the Initiative Review
Worksheet (IRW) prior to development of the TFI Integration Plan. The Integration Plan
document sets the strategic direction for the integration initiative, serves as the basis for the
development of the supporting implementing documents, and helps frame and define the
measures for success. Development of the Integration Plan document is the necessary second
step in the process of executing integration initiatives and sets the conditions for successful
implementation. Since the Integration Plan is a foundational document, the proper and thoughtful
crafting of this document is critical to the overall implementation effort. While it is the intent of
this instruction to direct the development of the Integration Plan document and define its content,
major commands who lead the integration implementation efforts should develop procedures that
expand upon and support this instruction. For example, major commands should publish
guidance for the development of the supporting documents and activities (e. g. Site Activation
Task Force (SATAFs), PPlans, OCRs, MOUs, MOAs, SAs, etc.)
NOTE:
 A detailed description of the construct and content for the Integration Plan document can be
found in Attachment 5. A sample of a completed Integration Plan that meets all TFI
requirements can be found on the TFI web site within the library reference documents section at
―https://www.totalforceintegration.hq.af.mil/library". In addition, other sample documents
such as, MOUs/MOAs, Initiative Review Worksheets, and initiative synopsis documents can be
found at the same web location.
4.3. Integration Plan Development. HAF/MAJCOM/NGB/NAF OPRs are required to develop
an Integration Plan for all existing and future Total Force Integration initiatives, including
BRAC-directed associations. In situations where there is an existing CONOP, I-Plan, or Macro
CONOP/I-Plan, the OPR will only be required to complete an I-Plan addendum that ―fills in the
blanks‖ for missing required template information. Once the I-Plan and/or I-Plan addendum
review and coordination has been accomplished at the MAJCOM/NGB level, the I-Plan (or
 22                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


Addendum) OPR will submit the I-Plan to AF/A8XF for a required HAF functional level
coordination which will culminate in JAA and/or GCM review for legal sufficiency.
4.4. Pre-Integration Plan Legal Review. Obtain MAJCOM/NGB legal review during initial
concept development of an integration initiative. This preliminary legal review, as captured in
the Initiative Review Worksheet (See Attachment 3, Annex A and/or Annex B as appropriate),
will address at a minimum the proposed mission, organizational structure, utilization of National
Guard and Reserve personnel by category, and fiscal requirements. The MAJCOM/NGB OPR
will complete the Total Force Integration Initiative Review Worksheet and forward it to the
MAJCOM/NGB Staff Judge Advocate (JA). See paragraphs 3.2.7.1 and 3.2.7.1.1.
4.5. The Integration Plan Document – MAJCOM Responsibilities. (For the purposes of this
AFI, the NGB is considered equivalent to a MAJCOM headquarters level organization.) Each
potential TFI association initiative will have a lead MAJCOM or an NGB sponsor – an OPR who
will accomplish the development of the I-Plan document. The components affected by the
initiative will agree on the designation of the lead MAJCOM or NGB organization (an OPR) at
the beginning of the integration initiative process. Normally, the lead Integration Plan document
development organization will be the component with the Unit Equipped (UE) assets for the
integration initiative and will collaborate with the other components/commands participating in
the initiative. In most cases, this would be the MAJCOM or component with the host base,
mission responsibility and mission assets which form the basis for the association. When
MAJCOM to MAJCOM (or NGB) level coordination is complete, to include a MAJCOM/NGB
JA review of the document for legal sufficiency, the lead MAJCOM (or NGB) will send the draft
Integration Plan to the Air Staff TFI Integration Plan action officer (AF/A8XF) for final
coordination by Air Staff functionals and for HAF final review by AF/JA and/or SAF/GC. Once
the HAF review of the integration initiative is completed, the AF/A8XF action officer will
transmit the coordinated document back to the respective component commanders (or their
representatives) for their final approval and signatures. Following MAJCOM level stakeholder
approval signatures to the HAF reviewed document, a review of this document will be required
biannually or whenever changes impact the nature of the association. These changes include:
mission changes for either associated unit; structural adjustments to the RegAF or ARC chains of
command; PCR-type changes of personnel composition for either associated unit; and, OCR-type
changes to units within either associated unit.
   4.5.1. Prior to sending the draft Integration Plan to the Air Staff, the lead MAJCOM/NGB
   OPR will ensure the document adequately addresses the following:
       4.5.1.1. Describes the category of the initiative, its overall purpose, the MAJCOM
       requirement it supports, how it supports the MAJCOM’s long range plan to integrate the
       force, and the benefits to be achieved by the proposed integration.
NOTE:
 For Associations that involve Air National Guard units, as a part of the description of the
initiative and the unit’s mission, a description of the state mission for the Air Guard unit must be
stated so that proper equipage (as coordinated with NGB/A4) includes the ability of the unit to
meet validated Homeland Defense mission requirements. Association I-Plans, Support
Agreements, MOUs and MOAs will provide for the capability and identify the resources
required for the ANG unit to respond to Federal Homeland Defense taskings in conjunction with
DOC taskings in the new association. I-Plans, Support Agreements, MOUs and MOAs will also
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             23


include language to recognize the ANG unit's responsibility to the Governor of the state in
responding to domestic emergencies and contingencies
       4.5.1.2. Ensures integration initiatives align with Air Force Doctrine and support Air
       Force CONOPS. This will be accomplished through MAJCOM A3 with DOC statement
       alignment and/or development.
       4.5.1.3. Describes the organizational construct to be implemented, to include command
       relationships (e.g. operational direction, command and control, administrative command
       and control, etc.)
       4.5.1.4. Develops the required implementation documentation such as Addendums,
       MOAs or MOUs, Support Agreements (as defined by AFI 25-201), and Programming
       Plans. For associations that involve ANG units, the development of MOUs/MOAs will be
       accomplished in collaboration with the respective TAG/Governor. MOAs/MOUs should
       address chain of command, roles, missions, operational tasking authorities, and
       procedures to adjudicate differences with regard to Title 10 and Title 32 authorities.
       4.5.1.5. Explains the impacts on manpower and personnel of host and associate units that
       may be caused by relocation, realignment, changes in manpower requirements, and force
       mix. As a part of the personnel requirements description, the originator will detail the
       types of manpower categories, by component (i.e. RegAF, active guard reserve (AGR),
       technician, etc.), that are envisioned in the manning of this new organizational construct.
       4.5.1.6. Clearly states training implications to include any production surges required to
       integrate, as well as changes to production requirements and continuation training
       requirements post-integration.
       4.5.1.7. Determines near-term budget and manpower requirements, long-term
       programming actions necessary for implementation, and proposed offsets, if investment
       capital or manpower is required.
       4.5.1.8. Analyzes Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) implications (if applicable)
       to include the units’ proposed capability to continue to support their AEF commitments,
       and recommend any changes required in AEF Unit Type Code (UTC) libraries.
       4.5.1.9. Describes the Agile Combat Support, including the Expeditionary Combat
       Support (ECS), concepts for the affected weapon systems and capabilities.
       4.5.1.10. Develops/Identifies Measures of Merit (MoM) to evaluate whether integration
       initiatives are creating the desired effects. MoMs should measure the specific objectives
       of the proposed integration as stated in the Integration Plan and also any objectives
       described in other implementing documents, such as, MOAs, MOUs and Support
       Agreements. At a minimum, these MoMs should contain operational indicators, and may
       include but not be limited to: crew ratio, dwell times, absorption rates, utilization (UTE)
       rates, OPSTEMPO, and PERSTEMPO.
       4.5.1.11. Ensures that all initiatives that deal with FOA/DRU issues or operating
       processes have been properly vetted through those agencies.
4.6. The Integration Plan Document – Headquarters Air Force Responsibilities. AF/A8X is
the Headquarters Air Force (HAF) directorate responsible for the preparation and coordination of
the staffing package for each initiative’s Integration Plan. Once MAJCOM coordination is
 24                                               AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


complete, the lead MAJCOM or NGB POC will send the draft Integration Plan (electronic copy
desired) to the AF/A8XF TFI Integration Plan OPR for functional review and final AF/JAA
and/or SAF/GCM review. The process to ensure the draft Integration Plan is properly reviewed
at the HQ USAF level is as follows:
   4.6.1. Each potential TFI initiative will have an AF/A8XF POC. The AF/A8XF POC will:
       4.6.1.1. Monitor the staffing/approval progress of the Integration Plan document.
       4.6.1.2. Prepare the HQ USAF staff package. As required/applicable, the staffing
       package will include coordination with AF/A1, AF/A2, AF/A3/5, AF/A4/7, AF/A6,
       AF/A8, AF/RE, NGB/CF, SAF/XC, SAF/MR, and SAF/FM prior to final review by
       AF/JAA and/or SAF GCM. If required, the AF/A8XF OPR will re-coordinate the
       Integration Plan back through the lead MAJCOM/CV or NGB/CF.
       4.6.1.3. Ensure the Integration Plan is entered into the Total Force Integration Tracking
       Tool (TFITT) database (DB) and that the DB is kept current throughout the staffing
       process and reflects the status of the initiative.
       4.6.1.4. Work with the lead MAJCOM OPR and/or component partners as required to
       resolve any HAF comments or concerns. If required, the AF/A8XF OPR will re-
       coordinate the Integration Plan back through the lead MAJCOM/CV or NGB/CF.
   4.6.2. Legal Review. Each Integration Plan will be reviewed for content and legal
   sufficiency. AF/JAA is responsible for providing the final review for legal sufficiency during
   Air Staff coordination.
NOTE:
 Informal reviews by AF/JAA during the coordination process are permissible and
recommended; however, the ―final draft‖ must be reviewed before it goes back to the respective
component commanders/ representatives for signature/approval. AF/JAA will ensure the
Integration Plan document contains the following closing language, ―This document has been
reviewed by AF/JAA (or, SAF/GCM, if appropriate) and is legally sufficient.‖
   4.6.3. Once AF/JAA (or, SAF/GCM, if appropriate) has coordinated on the integration
   initiative, the AF/A8XF POC will transmit the completed package back to the respective
   component commanders/representatives for signature/approval.




                                            T. MICHAEL MOSELEY, General, USAF
                                            Chief of Staff

                                            (ACC)

                                            WILLIAM M. FRASER III, General, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                            25


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-ACC) AFI 90-1001, Responsibilities for Total Force Integration, 29 May 2007
RELATED STATUTES, POLICIES, DIRECTIVES AND INSTRUCTIONS
A1-1. This policy directive augments and complements AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component
Forces, 17 May 2006, and its implementing instruction, AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air
Reserve Component Forces 16 August 2006.
A1-2. Functional managers will, in addition to those issuances listed in paragraphs A2-3 and A2-
4, consider all relevant guidance documents as they become situationally applicable.
A1-3. Governing statutes policies and directives, to include those areas modified by the NDAA
of 2007.
A1-3.1. 10 U.S.C. §101, §167(b), §8013(b) et seq., §8031(a), §10102, §10110, §10111, §10112,
§10113, §10174, §10202, §10216, §10305, §10501, §12301, 12310(b), §12406
A1-3.2. 31 U.S.C. §1301(a), §1535.
A1-3.3. 32 U.S.C. §102, §109(b), §314(d), §317, §325(a)(2), §328, §502, §709.
A1-3-4. Executive Order 12333.
A1-3.5. DoD Directives:
A1-3.5.1. DoD Directive 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve Components, 25 May
2000. Implemented by AF/RE in AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force
Military Personnel, 1 April 1998, and AFI 36-2132, Full-Time Support (FTS) Active Guard
Reserve (AGR) Program, 19 April 2005.
A1-3.5.2. DoD Directive 1225.7, Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit Stationing, 6
Jun 2001. Implemented by SAF/IE in AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 27 March 1995,
and AFI 32-1012, Reserve Component Facilities Program, 22 July 1994.
A1-3.5.3. DoD Directive 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces, 7 April 2005. Implemented by
AF/A4/7 in AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces, 17 May 2006, and AFPD 10-4,
Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy (AEFPP), 16 June
2004, as well as AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component Forces 16 August 2006
and AFI 10-402, Mobilization Planning, 1 January 1997.
A1-3.5.4. DoD 5240.1-R, Activities of DoD Intelligence Components that Affect United States
Persons, December 1982.
A1-4. Additional guidance:
A1-4.1. AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapons Systems Management, 13 June 2000.
A1-4.2. AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 1 April 1997
A1-4.3. AFPD 90-10, Total Force Integration Policy, 16 June 2006.
A1-4.4. AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 14 April 2005.
 26                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


A1-5. Authorities
A1-5.1. The Secretary of the Air Force. 10 U.S.C. §8013 et seq. enumerates the various
authorities of the Secretary of the Air Force, among other things, to conduct all affairs of the
Department of the Air Force, formulate policies and programs, and prescribe regulations.
A1-5.2. Adjutants General. 32 U.S.C. §314(d) stipulates that ―The adjutant general of each
State…shall make such returns and reports as the…Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe….‖
A1-5.3. National Guard Bureau. 10 U.S.C. §10501(b) states that, ―The National Guard Bureau
is the channel of communications on all matters pertaining to the National Guard…between
the…Department of the Air Force, and the several States.‖ The Chief of the National Guard
Bureau is the principal adviser to the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force on matters
relating to the National Guard, and for Air Force matters is subject to their authority.
A1-5.4. Air Force Reserve Command. 10 USC Chapter 1006 Sec. 10174 states that, ―The
Secretary of the Air Force, with the advice and assistance of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force,
shall establish an Air Force Reserve Command. The Air Force Reserve Command shall be
operated as a separate command of the Air Force. (b) Commander. - The Chief of Air Force
Reserve is the Commander of the Air Force Reserve Command. The commander of the Air
Force Reserve Command reports directly to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. (c) Assignment
of Forces. - The Secretary of the Air Force - (1) shall assign to the Air Force Reserve Command
all forces of the Air Force Reserve stationed in the continental United States other than forces
assigned to the unified combatant command for special operations forces established pursuant to
section 167 of this title (see note); and (2) except as otherwise directed by the Secretary of
Defense in the case of forces assigned to carry out functions of the Secretary of the Air Force
specified in section 8013 of this title, shall assign to the combatant commands all such forces
assigned to the Air Force Reserve Command under paragraph (1) in the manner specified by the
Secretary of Defense.‖
Note: Reserve forces in support of US Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), a Unified
Combatant Command (UCC), will be managed by Air Force Special Operations Command
(AFSOC).

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-ACC) I- Plan— - Implementation Plan
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AF/A3/5—Deputy Chief of Staff, Air, Space, and Information Operations, Plans and
Requirements
AF/A4/7—Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support
AF/A8—Director of Strategic Plans and Programs
AC—Active Component
ACS—Agile Combat Support
AD—Active Duty
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                         27


ADCON—Administrative Control
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AF/JA—The Judge Advocate General of the Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGR—Active Guard and Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ART—Air Reserve Technician
ART—Air and Space Expeditionary Force UTC Reporting Tool
BOS—Base Operating Support
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure
(Added-ACC) CAF— Combat Air Forces
CCDR—Combatant Commander
COCOM—Combatant Command (Command Authority)
CONOP—Concept of Operations
(Added-ACC) CPS— Consolidated Planning Schedule
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DIRLAUTH—Direct Liaison Authorized
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DOD—Department of Defense
DRRS—Defense Readiness Reporting System
ERI—Enroute Readiness Inspection
FTS—Full-Time Support
GOSC—General Officer Steering Committee
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
(Added-ACC) IMA— Individual Mobilization Augmentee
I-Plan—Integration Plan
IAW—In accordance with
 28                                        AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


IG—Inspector General
(Added-ACC) IPT— Integrated Process Team
IRW—Initiative Review Worksheet
JA—Judge Advocate
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM—Major Command
(Added-ACC) MDS— Mission Design Series
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MoM—Measures of Merit
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
(Added-ACC) MPA— Military Personnel Appropriation
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
(Added-ACC) NAF— Numbered Air Force
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NSI—Nuclear Surety Inspection
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OCR—Organizational Change Request
(Added-ACC) OPCON— Operational Control
OPDIR—Operational Direction
OPSTEMPO—Operations Tempo
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
PAD—Program Action Directive
PCR—Program Change Request
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PERSTEMPO—Personnel Tempo
PMO—Program Management Office
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning Programming Budgeting and Execution
PPlan—Program Plan
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                          29


RCs—Reserve Components
RegAF—Regular Air Force
(ACC) RegAF— Regular Air Force
SA—Support Agreement
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/GC—The General Counsel for the Department of the Air Force
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
SATAF—Site Activation Task Force
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
(Added-ACC) SEI— Special Experience Identifier
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training Systems
TACON—Tactical Control
TAG—The Adjutant General
(Added-ACC) TF— Total Force
TFI—Total Force Integration
TFITT—Total Force Integration Tracking Tool
(Added-ACC) TR— Traditional Reservist
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UE—Unit Equipped
(Added-ACC) UMD— Unit manning Document
USAF—United States Air Force
UTC—Unit Type Code
(Added-ACC) UTE— Utilization
(Added-ACC) WMP— War and Mobilization Planning
(ACC) UTC— Unit Type Code

Terms
Activation—Order to active duty (other than for training) in the Federal service. (DODD
1235.10)
Active Associate—An ARC unit has principle responsibility for a weapon system which it
shares with one or more regular units. Reserve and regular units retain separate organizational
structures and chains of command. (AFDD2)
 30                                               AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


Active Associate—An integration model where a reserve component unit has principal
responsibility for weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more regular units.
Reserve and Regular component units retain separate organizational structures and chains of
command. Varying degrees of functional integration based MOUs. (AFPD 90-10)
Community Basing—A variation on the Active Associate model where Regular component
forces are garrisoned at a reserve component unit location. Support functions traditionally
provided on a Regular component installation (housing, medical, commissary, BX, etc) are
instead available in the local community. (AFPD 90-10)
Active Component (AC)—That portion of the armed forces as identified in annual authorization
acts as ―active forces,‖ and in 10 USC 115 as those active-duty personnel paid from funds
appropriated for active-duty personnel. (DODI 1215.06)
Active Duty—Full-time duty in the active Military Service of the United States. It includes full-
time training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in active Military Service, at a
school designated as a Service school by law and the Secretary of the Military Department
concerned. It does not include full-time National Guard duty. At any time, an authority
designated by the Secretary concerned may order a member of the RC under his or her
jurisdiction to AD or retain the member on AD with the consent of the member under the
authority of Sections 12301(d), 12301(h) and 12322 of reference (g). However, a member of the
Army National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS) or Air National Guard of the United
States (ANGUS) may not be ordered to AD under that authority without the consent of the
Governor or other appropriate authority of the State or territory, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, or the District of Columbia. For the RC, AD is comprised of the categories ADT and
ADOT. (DODI 1215.06)
Active Duty for Operations Support (formerly known as Active Duty for Special Work)—
Authorized voluntary AD for RC personnel funded through applicable military or Reserve
personnel appropriations (ADOS-AC funded or ADOS-RC funded) to support AC or RC
programs, respectively. The purpose of ADOS is to provide the necessary skilled manpower
assets to support existing or emerging requirements. (DODI 1215.06)
Active Duty for Training (ADT)—A category of AD that shall be used to provide structured
individual and/or unit training, including on-the-job-training, or educational courses to RC
members. Included in the ADT category are annual training (AT), initial ADT (IADT), and other
training duty (OTD). The primary purpose of ADT is to provide individual and/or unit readiness
training. Support to mission requirements, i.e., operational support, may occur as a consequence
of performing ADT. (DODI 1215.06)
Active Duty Other than for Training (ADOT)—A category of AD used to provide RC support
to either AC or RC missions. It includes the categories of active duty for operational support
(ADOS) (formerly active duty for special work (ADSW)), Active Guard and Reserve (AGR)
duty, and involuntary AD pursuant to Sections 12301, 12302, and 12304 of reference (g) and
Section 712 of reference (h). Training may occur as a consequence of performing ADOT.
Active Guard and Reserve (AGR)—National Guard and Reserve members who are on
voluntary active duty providing full-time support to National Guard, Reserve, and Active
Component organizations for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or
training the Reserve Components. (JP 1-02)
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                 31


Administrative Control (ADCON)—Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or
other organizations in respect to administration and support, including organization of Service
forces, control of resources and equipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and
unit training, readiness, mobilization, demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included
in the operational missions of the subordinate or other organizations. (JP 1-02)
Agile Combat Support CONOPS—ACS CONOPS details the capability to create, protect, and
sustain Air and Space Forces across the full range of military operations and provides the
foundational, cross-cutting, and distinctive capabilities that enable operational AF CONOPS.
The ACS CONOPS promotes highly mobile, technologically superior, robust, responsive,
flexible, and fully integrated support for all combat operations. (AFI 10-2801)
Air Force—―The Air Force consists of — (1) the Regular Air Force, the Air National Guard of
the United States, the Air National Guard while in the service of the United States, and the Air
Force Reserve; (2) all persons appointed or enlisted in, or conscripted into, the Air Force without
component; and (3) all Air Force units and other Air Force organizations, with their installations
and supporting and auxiliary combat, training, administrative, and logistic elements; and all
members of the Air Force, including those not assigned to units; necessary to form the basis for a
complete and immediate mobilization for the national defense in the event of a national
emergency.‖ (10 USC, Section 8062(d))
Air Force Reserve (AFR)—―The Air Force Reserve is a reserve component of the Air Force to
provide a reserve for active duty. It consists of the members of the officers" section of the Air
Force Reserve and of the enlisted section of the Air Force Reserve. It includes all Reserves of the
Air Force who are not members of the Air National Guard of the United States.‖ (10 USC 1003
sec 10110)
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)—―- (a) Establishment of Command. - The Secretary of
the Air Force, with the advice and assistance of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, shall establish
an Air Force Reserve Command. The Air Force Reserve Command shall be operated as a
separate command of the Air Force. (b) Commander. - The Chief of Air Force Reserve is the
Commander of the Air Force Reserve Command. The commander of the Air Force Reserve
Command reports directly to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. (c) Assignment of Forces. - The
Secretary of the Air Force - (1) shall assign to the Air Force Reserve Command all forces of the
Air Force Reserve stationed in the continental United States other than forces assigned to the
unified combatant command for special operations forces established pursuant to section 167 of
this title; and (2) except as otherwise directed by the Secretary of Defense in the case of forces
assigned to carry out functions of the Secretary of the Air Force specified in section 8013 of this
title, shall assign to the combatant commands all such forces assigned to the Air Force Reserve
Command under paragraph (1) in the manner specified by the Secretary of Defense. (10 USC
Chapter 1006 Sec. 10174)‖
Air National Guard (ANG)—"Air National Guard" means that part of the organized militia of
the several States and Territories, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, active and inactive,
that - (A) is an air force; (B) is trained, and has its officers appointed, under the sixteenth clause
of section 8, article I of the Constitution; (C) is organized, armed, and equipped wholly or partly
at Federal expense; and (D) is federally recognized. (US Code, Title 32, Section 101 (6) – also,
US Code Title 10, section 101 (4)).
 32                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS)—The reserve component of the Air Force
all of whose members are members of the Air National Guard. (US Code, Title 32, Section 101
(7) – also, US Code, Title 10, Section 101 (5)).
Air Reserve Component (ARC)—The forces of Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve
Command. Also called ARC. (HQ AFRC, HQ ANG) (AFDD 1-2)
Air Reserve Components (ARC) Associate—Two or more ARC units integrate with one
retaining principal responsibility for the weapon system. Each unit retains separate
organizational structures and chains of command. (AFDD2)
Air Reserve Components (ARC) Associate—An integration model where the ARC
components integrate two or more ARC units with one component’s unit retaining principal
responsibility for weapon system or systems, which are shared by all. Each unit retains separate
organizational structures and chains of commands. Varying degrees of functional integration are
based on MOUs. (paragraph 1.6.3)
Air Reserve Technician (ART) Also see Military Technician (Dual Status)—Air Reserve
Technicians (ARTs) are federal civil service employees who are hired to ensure stable,
continuous management of the part-time Ready Reserve. As a condition of employment, they
must be Ready Reservists, training with the units that employ them. ARTs are a nucleus of
managers, planners and trainers who have knowledge and expertise to smooth an Air Force
Reserve Command unit's transition from a peacetime to a wartime environment. They provide
management continuity, equipment maintenance and training support to help keep their units
combat ready. Aside from being tasked to perform these duties to include their wartime skills,
ARTs in various career fields also perform the unit's full-time mission (e.g., base operations
support functions). ARTs who lose their Reserve assignment may be subject to separation from
their civil service position. Numerous factors affect such a determination, including the reasons
for the loss, the type of position occupied, physical limitations, etc. Different factors apply to
different situations and the potential combinations are too numerous to mention here. (AF/REP)
Annual Training (AT)—The minimal period of training reserve members (Guard associated
with their Reserve (Guard) Component assignment per Joint Publication 1-02)(12 or 14 days for
Ready Reserve assignments per AFMAN 36-8001) must perform each year to satisfy the training
requirements. Funding for annual tours is obtained through the utilization of Reserve Personnel
Appropriation (RPA)/National Guard Personnel Appropriation (NGPA) Man-days for AFRC and
ANG personnel respectively. Reservists receive full military benefits during this period IAW
AFI 36-8001. It is also called Annual Field Training for Category A Reservists, which is a fifteen
day training period in which Reservists are placed on active duty for training purposes.
Assign—(DOD, NATO) 1. To place units or personnel in an organization where such placement
is relatively permanent, and/or where such organization controls and administers the units or
personnel for the primary function, or greater portion of the functions, of the unit or personnel. 2.
To detail individuals to specific duties or functions where such duties or functions are primary
and/or relatively permanent. See also attached forces. (JP 1-02)
Attach—(DOD) 1. The placement of units or personnel in an organization where such placement
is relatively temporary. 2. The detailing of individuals to specific functions where such functions
are secondary or relatively temporary, e.g., attached for quarters and rations; attached for flying
duty. (JP 1-02)
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             33


Availability—(DOD) Availability shown in the apportionment tables is based on a unit’s
capability to start and sustain movement from its normal geographic location (installation or
mobilization station). Forward-deployed (in-place) forces are assumed to be available
immediately for employment or repositioning. Forces are listed with availability as it pertains to
notification day for Active forces, and PSRC and partial mobilization for Reserve forces.
(CJCSM 3110.01A/JSCP)
Civil Service Employee (CIVs)—Personnel hired pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3101 to provide
administrative support to RC units. They are in the category of FTS to the RCs, but are not part
of the Selected Reserve. This category is exclusive of dual-status MTs and NDSTs. (DODI
1215.06)
Classic Associate—A regular Air Force unit retains principal responsibility for a weapon system
that it shares with one or more ARC units. Administrative control will remain with the respective
components. (AFDD2)
Classic Associate—An integration model where a Regular Air Force component unit retains
principal responsibility for weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more Reserve
Component units. Regular and Reserve component units retain separate organizational structures
and chains of command. Varying degrees of functional integration based on MOUs. (AFPD 90-
10)
Command—1. The authority that a commander in the Armed Forces lawfully exercises over
subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and responsibility
for effectively using available resources and for planning the employment of, organizing,
directing, coordinating, and controlling military forces for the accomplishment of assigned
missions. It also includes responsibility for health, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned
personnel. 2. An order given by a commander; that is, the will of the commander expressed for
the purpose of bringing about a particular action. 3. A unit or units, an organization, or an area
under the command of one individual. See also combatant command; combatant command
(command authority). Also called CMD. (JP 1-02)
Command and Control (Also called C2)—The exercise of authority and direction by a
properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the
mission. Command and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel,
equipment, communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning,
directing, coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the
mission. (JP 1-02)
Command Relationships—The interrelated responsibilities between commanders, as well as the
operational authority exercised by commanders in the chain of command; defined further as
combatant command (command authority), operational control, tactical control, or support. (JP
1-02)
Control—Authority that may be less than full command exercised by a commander over part of
the activities of subordinate or other organizations. (JP 1-02)
Detailing—The placement of a member of one service component to another service component
to allow that individual to work day-to-day in a squadron commanded by another component
commander (e.g., Title 10 working in a Title 32 squadron and vice versa).
 34                                                  AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


Drill Status Guardsman (DSG)—Air National Guard officer or enlisted members of the
Selected Reserve required to assemble for drill and instruction, including indoor target practice,
at least 48 times each year; and participate in training at encampments, maneuvers, outdoor
target practice, or other exercises, at least 15 days each year (32 USC 502). DSGs can be
activated (voluntarily or involuntarily) to active duty.
Extended Active Duty (EAD)—An active duty status (normally for more than 90 days) other
than active duty for training or temporary tours of active duty. Personnel on EAD are assigned to
an active duty unit, and accountability is against active force strength. (AFMAN 36-8001)
Direct Liaison Authorized—That authority granted by a commander (any level) to a
subordinate to directly consult or coordinate an action with a command or agency within or
outside of the granting command. Direct liaison authorized is more applicable to planning than
operations and always carries with it the requirement of keeping the commander granting direct
liaison authorized informed. Direct liaison authorized is a coordination relationship, not an
authority through which command may be exercised. Also called DIRLAUTH. (JP 1-02)
Full-time National Guard Duty (FTNGD)—Training or other duty, other than inactive duty,
performed by a member of the ARNGUS or the ANGUS in a member's status as a member of
the National Guard of a state or territory, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or the District of
Columbia pursuant to Sections. 316, 502, 503, 504, or 505 of reference (i) for which the member
is entitled to pay from the United States, or for which the member has waived pay from the
United States. FTNGD is active service. (DODI 1215.06)
Functional Component Command—(DOD) A command normally, but not necessarily,
composed of forces of two or more Military Departments which may be established across the
range of military operations to perform particular operational missions that may be of short
duration or may extend over a period of time. See also component; Service component
command. (JP 1-02)
Inactive Duty Training (IDT)—Authorized training performed by members of an RC not on
AD or FTNGD, and performed in connection with the prescribed activities of the RC, of which
they are a member. It consists of regularly scheduled unit training periods, ATPs, and equivalent
training. (DODI 1215.06)
Integration—The process of harmonizing the organization of two or more Air Force component
units (including Regular Air Force, Guard, and Reserve Components, civilians and contractors)
in order to unify training, equipping, supply, recruiting, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing,
administering, maintaining, etc. (AFPD 90-10)
Lead Agency—(DOD) Designated among U.S. Government agencies to coordinate the
interagency oversight of the day-to-day conduct of an ongoing operation. The lead agency is to
chair the interagency working group established to coordinate policy related to a particular
operation. The lead agency determines the agenda, ensures cohesion among the agencies and is
responsible for implementing decisions. (JP 1-02)
MACRO Integration Plan—A MAJCOM to MAJCOM/NGB level plan, crafted and
coordinated solely at the MAJCOM level, that identifies a class of Total Force Integration
initiatives and sets a strategic direction for this class of initiative, serves both as a basis for the
development of an association specific I-Plan addendum and supporting implementation
documents, and does not contain unit specific implementation concepts or details.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                              35


Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) Man-Days [10 USC 12301(d)]—Support short-
term needs of the active force by authorizing mandays annually to non-Extended Active Duty
(EAD) officers, NCOs and airmen. These days are offered at the convenience of the government
and when there is a temporary need for ARC personnel with unique skills or resources that
cannot be economically met in the active force. Pay and allowances for personnel performing
man-days is from the MPA account (an active duty account) managed by AF/A1XX. ARC
member must volunteer to perform MPA (AFI 36-2619).
Military Technician (Dual Status)—A Federal civilian employee who is (a) employed under
section 3101 of title 5 or section 709 of title 32 ; (b) required as a condition of that employment
to maintain membership in the Selected Reserve; and (c) assigned to a civilian position as a
technician in the organizing, administering, instructing, or training of the Selected
Reserve/National Guard or in the maintenance and repair of supplies or equipment issued to the
Selected Reserve/National Guard or the armed forces. Air Reserve Technicians (ARTs) perform
as Category A reservists when in Military Status. All dual status military technicians must be in
mobilization positions (excludes National Guard civilian or contract ―technicians‖ hired under 32
U.S.C. and personnel identified as Status Quo) per the Reserve Component 101 Handbook (10
USC 10216, 5 USC 3101, 32 USC 709, ANGI 36-101 and the OASD (RA) Reserve
Component Primer).
Mobilization—The act of assembling and organizing national resources to support national
objectives in time of war or other emergencies; the process by which the Armed Forces or part of
them are brought to a state of readiness for war or other national emergency. This includes
activating all or part of the RC and assembling and organizing personnel, supplies, and materiel.
Mobilization of the Armed Forces includes, but is not limited to the following categories:
Selective Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by the
Congress and/or the President to mobilize RC units, the IRR, and the resources needed to meet
the requirements of a military operational mission or specific domestic emergency as prescribed
by statute.
Partial Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by the
Congress (up to full mobilization) or by the President (not more than 1,000,000 for not more than
24 consecutive months) to mobilize Ready RC units, individual Reservists, and the resources
needed for their support to meet the requirements of a war or other national emergency involving
an external threat to the national security.
Presidential Reserve Call-up (PRC) [10 USC 12304]—If the President determines that it is
necessary to augment the active forces for any operational mission, the Service secretary or his
designate may order not more than 200,000 of the Select Reserve to active duty (other than for
training) for the not more than 365 consecutive days. Up to 30,000 members of the Individual
Ready Reserve may be part of the 200,000 Select Reserve total. The President does not have to
declare a national emergency but does have to inform Congress. The PRC may be used to cover
incidents involving Weapons of Mass Destruction.
Full Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by the
Congress and the President to mobilize all RC units in the existing approved force structure, all
individual Reservists, retired military personnel, and the resources needed for their support to
meet the requirements of a war or other national emergency involving an external threat to the
 36                                                   AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


national security. Reserve personnel can be placed on active duty for the duration of the
emergency plus 6 months.
Total Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by the
Congress and the President to organize and/or generate additional units or personnel beyond the
existing force structure, and the resources needed for their support, to meet the total requirements
of a war or other national emergency involving an external threat to the national security.
(DODD 1235.10 – consistent with JP 1-02)
      NOTE: Refer to current Department of Defense Mobilization/Demobilization policy
      for additional guidance on mobilization issues.
―National Guard‖—means the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard. (USC Title
32, section 101 (3) also, USC Title 10, section 101 (c)(1))
Non-Dual Status Technicians—Civilian employees employed by the Department of Defense as
technicians but who are not required to maintain military membership in the Selected Reserve.
The total number of non-dual status technicians employed by the National Guard may not exceed
1,950. Effective October 1, 2007, the total number of non-dual status technicians employed by
the Army Reserve and Air Force Reserve may not exceed 175 (10 USC 10217, 32 USC 709,
Reserve Component 101 Handbook).
Operations Tempo—The rate at which units of the armed forces are involved in all military
activities, including contingency operations, exercises, and training deployments. (US Code
Title 10, Chap 23, section 487)
Operational Control—Command authority that may be exercised by commanders at any
echelon at or below the level of combatant command. Operational control is inherent in
combatant command (command authority) and may be delegated within the command. When
forces are transferred between combatant commands, the command relationship the gaining
commander will exercise (and the losing commander will relinquish) over these forces must be
specified by the Secretary of Defense. Operational control is the authority to perform those
functions of command over subordinate forces involving organizing and employing commands
and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary
to accomplish the mission. Operational control includes authoritative direction over all aspects of
military operations and joint training necessary to accomplish missions assigned to the
command. Operational control should be exercised through the commanders of subordinate
organizations. Normally this authority is exercised through subordinate joint force commanders
and Service and/or functional component commanders. Operational control normally provides
full authority to organize commands and forces and to employ those forces as the commander in
operational control considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions; it does not, in and of
itself, include authoritative direction for logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal
organization, or unit training. Also called OPCON. (JP 1-02)
Operational Direction—The authority to designate objectives, assign tasks, and provide the
direction necessary to accomplish the mission or operation and ensure unity of effort. Authority
for operational direction of one component member over members of another component is
obtained by agreements between unit commanders (most often between Title 10 and Title 32
commanders) whereby these component commanders, in an associate organizational structure,
issue orders to their subordinates to follow the operational direction of specified/designated
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                            37


senior members of the other component for the purpose of accomplishing their associated
mission.
NOTE: ―Operational Direction‖ is not a formally recognized command authority along the lines
of OPCON or TACON and should not be used outside the context of this AFI.
Personnel Tempo (PERSTEMPO)—Personnel Tempo is a quality of life measurement that
measures the amount of time an individual spends away from his or her home station for
operational and training purposes which includes TDY and designated dependent-restricted PCS
assignments. Individuals serving on designated unaccompanied tours are counted as ―deployed‖
for PERSTEMPO purposes whether they have dependents or not. The desired maximum number
of days TDY per person in a 12-month period is 120. (AFPD 36-21)
PUSH-PULL—The system used by the Air Force to mobilize IRR, Standby, and Retired
members. The Air Force determines in advance the number of individuals, by skill, and tells the
Air Force Personnel Center to mobilize those individuals to a technical training location for the
purpose of uniform reissue, medical qualification testing, and skills training needs. Once
completed, the individuals are reported as available for assignment, and assigned where needed.
(AFI 36-2633)
Regular Air Force (RegAF)——The Regular Air Force is the component of the Air Force that
consists of persons whose continuous service on active duty in both peace and war is
contemplated by law, and of retired members of the Regular Air Force. (b) The Regular Air
Force includes -- (1) the officers and enlisted members of the Regular Air Force; (2) the
professors, registrar, and cadets at the United States Air Force Academy; and (3) the retired
officers and enlisted members of the Regular Air Force. (10 USC, Section 8075)
Reserve Components (RCs)—The Reserve Components of the U.S. Armed Forces are: the
Army National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS), the U.S. Army Reserve (USAR), the
U.S. Navy Reserve (USNR), the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve (USMCR), the Air National Guard
of the United States (ANGUS), the U.S. Air Force Reserve (USAFR), and the U.S. Coast Guard
Reserve (USCGR). (DODI 1215.06)
Stop Light Chart Definitions:—
Red: the mission is in jeopardy and management action must be taken to correct the
problem—Examples of this might be: the process is failed, the document has not been
written/staffed, there is no known get well date, or cannot meet established milestones, lack of
funding for support, etc.
Yellow : the job is getting done but there are problems …however, there is a get well date
plus management is monitoring the situation—Examples might be: data points on a control
chart might be headed in the wrong direction, the document is being staffed and is behind
schedule, the numbers aren’t right, work-arounds are required, etc.
     NOTE: Any yellow or red indicator will require that the MAJCOM (or the responsible
     command/functional agency) provide an explanation of why things are not green and a get
     well plan.
Green: Everything is up and running, no problems, progressing to meet deadlines—
Examples might be: time lines are being met, data is all coming back within limits, documents
 38                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


have completed the staffing process (or in the case where the timing is not an issue, documents
are being produced and are projected to be ready in time for execution of activities). (AF/A8X)
The Adjutant General (TAG)—The officer in charge of the National Guard in one of the U.S.
states, territories, or District of Columbia. (AF/A8X)
Total Force—The US Air Force organizations, units, and individuals that provide the
capabilities to support the Department of Defense in implementing the national security strategy.
Total Force includes Regular Air Force, Air National Guard of the United States, and Air Force
Reserve military personnel, US Air Force military retired members, US Air Force civilian
personnel (including foreign national direct- and indirect-hire, as well as non-appropriated fund
employees), contractor staff, and host-nation support personnel. (AFDD 1-2)
Total Force Integration Tracking Tool (TFITT)—A database created for all TFI initiatives to
monitor implementation status of each using a ―stop light‖ dashboard for critical implementation
components. This database provides the impetus for all stakeholders to engage in a collaborative
process to ensure this single source of initiative data is updated and accurate. (AF/A8X)
Traditional Reservist (TR)—A drilling unit member of the Selected Reserve who must
participate in at least 48 scheduled drills or training periods during each year and serve on active
duty for training of not less than 14 days during each year; or serve on active duty for training
not more than 30 days during each year (10 U.S.C. 10143, 10147). TRs can be mobilized
(voluntarily or involuntarily) to active duty.
Unit Training Assembly (UTA)—An authorized and scheduled period of unit inactive duty
training of a prescribed length of time. (JP 1-02)
Unit Type Code—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of five
characters that uniquely identify a "type unit." (JP 1-02)
Volunteerism—The process by which the SECAF places on active duty those ARC members
who have volunteered for activation. The ARC structure retains ADCON except for forces
attached to the COMAFFOR; the COMAFFOR has specified ADCON over assigned and
attached forces. OPCON transfers in accordance with SecDef orders. Volunteerism is usually
used as a bridge to expand regular component force capabilities while awaiting legal authority
for Presidential Reserve Callup authority. Volunteerism is used to partially offset high regular
component operational tempos in the overseas theaters and in CONUS. (AFDD2)
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                              39


                                          Attachment 2
  INTEGRATION INITIATIVE COORDINATION RELATIONSHIPS AND PROCESS
                            ROAD MAPS

NOTE:
 This depiction is intended to show the inter-relationships between the various contributors in the
overall Total Force Integration effort. Nothing in this chart is intended to suggest any abrogation
of functional responsibilities by Secretariat, Air Staff, MAJCOM, state military department
representatives, or components of the units themselves.

Figure A2.1. Integration Initiative Coordination Relationships
 40                                              AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


Figure A2.2. Integration Initiative Road Map




WG: Working Group
IPT: Integrated Process Team
GOSC: General Officer Steering Committee
Integration Initiatives to A8: Integration initiatives are likely to come from a variety of
sources. Those ideas originating from the units should find their way to the MAJCOM/NGB for
submission by the MAJCOM/NGB to A8 and must be MAJCOM requirements based. Also,
ideas from the Congress or other outside sources are most likely to come to A8 by way of either
the SECAF or the CSAF.
Assign lead A8XF AO and Panel OCR: Once an Integration Initiative has been identified, an
A8XF AO will be assigned lead coordination responsibilities and a Panel OCR will be chosen.
At this point, the Panel OCR’s only responsibility is to be aware of the fact that there is an
initiative that may come in to play that may affect his Panel’s POM portfolio.
Vet Initiative – WG/IPT/GOSC: The ―Vet Initiative‖ process step includes the transmission of
the results of the GOSC deliberations by means of a staff summary sheet with its accompanying
background information to the CSAF.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                            41


CSAF Approval: CSAF approval of initiatives, may occur either by direct communication to A8
to direct MAJCOM efforts required to implement an initiative, or by means of approval of
recommendations for initiatives that come to him for approval from the WG/IPT/GOSC vetting.
Communication of approved initiatives will be transmitted by A8XF to the originators of the
initiative for further implementation actions by the associating parties. CSAF initiative/mission
approval is not a substitute for the usual Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) process and
actual implementation may depend on the outcomes of the AFCS deliberative process.
 42                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


                                           Attachment 3
  TOTAL FORCE INTEGRATION INITIATIVE REVIEW WORKSHEETS FOR AIR
  FORCE RESERVE AND AIR NATIONAL GUARD INTEGRATION INITIATIVES


Purpose: This appendix provides the major commands, the Air National Guard, and the Air
Force Reserve with a comprehensive Initiative Review Worksheet (IRW) which must be
accomplished for each initiative. These Initiative Review Worksheets are designed to be
completed by the MAJCOM OPR for an initiative and coordinated through the associating
components. They highlight the legally significant aspects of mixed-component associations and
require the MAJCOM OPR to address these aspects early in the concept development effort.

References: The references for these checklists have already been defined within Attachment 1.

General: It is mandatory for one (or possibly both) of these worksheets to be accomplished for
each initiative. The completed worksheet is then required to be sent to the MAJCOM OPR JA
who will also seek OCR JA(s) concurrence for legal sufficiency. The procedures for IRW JA
review are set out in paragraphs 3.2.7.1 and 3.2.7.1.1 for processing. Each of these worksheets is
designed to accomplish two distinct actions. First, each of the worksheets is designed to solicit
inputs that will frame and define each individual integration initiative’s Integration Plan. Second,
each of the worksheets is also structured to provide the users the background legal and regulatory
guidance that will help them to successfully develop supporting documentation (i.e. Integration
Plan documents, MOUs, MOAs, SAs, PPlans, PADs, etc.). Should you have any comments or
recommendations for improvement of these worksheets, please forward your inputs to
AF/A8XF. The cognizant OPR within AF/A8XF will forward your inputs to AF/JAA and/or
SAF/GCM for consideration. Also, please keep in mind that changes to public law may require
revision of these worksheets.

                                            Appendix A
                     Total Force Integration Initiative Review Worksheet
                           [Plans involving the Air National Guard]

Designation of this Initiative: [Specific ANG Unit and MAJCOM designation. (If a unit
designation is not yet available, use some unique identifier that will clearly refer back to the
organization in the future.)]

Legal Review and Certification to be Accomplished by: [Specific MAJCOM/JA from the
MAJCOM designated by AF/A8XF as OPR for the initiative]
(Note: After the worksheet is forwarded to AF/A8XF in accord with paragraph 3.2.7.1.1,
SAF/GCM or AF/JAA will accomplish final HAF legal review for AF/A8XF.)

Due Date for Review Certification: [Date]
                                  Instructions:
1. The MAJCOM responsible for I-Plan completes Part 1, General Information, on this
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                  43


   document.
2. Organization responsible for integration plan development completes the applicable
   sections of Part 2, Integration Plan Development, on this document. (Boxes will
   ―expand‖ as needed to accommodate the text in each section.)
3. Legal review and certification are performed by the legal office indicated above, on
   this document. (That office obtains operational review at the same time.)
NOTE: The Guiding Principles outlined in this document are based on current law as of
January 2007. If you have questions about these principles or how they apply to your
particular Integration Plan, please contact your staff judge advocate.


                            PART 1. GENERAL INFORMATION

                         (To be completed by the responsible MAJCOM)

                            Description of Initiative: (Please describe)



          [Provide a short description of the Total Force Integration Initiative, here]

 Describe, here, the purpose of the initiative and what/whose MAJCOM requirement it is
 intended to fulfill. (i.e. Purpose of the initiative, background, organizational structure/make-
 up, desired end state or outcome and who the gaining/beneficiary MAJCOM will be in the
 event of full mobilization)
                                Mission Statement: (Please describe)


                          [Provide ANG unit mission statement, here.]




 Measures of Success: (Describe what the measure of success will be for Initial Operating
 Capability (IOC) and final operating capability (FOC))

 [Quantify and describe how “success” will be measured at IOC and FOC, including, for
 example, the number of Primary Aircraft Assigned, crew ratio, capacity, throughput, etc. If
 the organization will be responsible for multiple missions (e.g., ongoing operational mission
 and FTU) describe them separately.]
 44                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


Part 2. Integration Plan Development
 Section I. Chain of Command and Organizational Structures
[Review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required
information in Subsection B consistent with those principles.]
A. Guiding Principles
 1. There are separate chains-of-command for Regular Air Force (Title 10) and Air National
    Guard (ANG) members (Title 32 or State Active Duty (SAD)), with the RegAF chain-of-
    command flowing from the President of the United States and the ANG chain-of-command
    flowing from the Governor of the State
 2. To achieve functional integration and unity of effort, members of one status (Title 10, Title
    32, or SAD) may be ordered by their respective chains of command to accept ―operational
    direction‖ from members in another chain of command in accordance with a Memorandum
    of Understanding between the ANG unit and the associated Regular Air Force unit. Any
    limits on the scope of the direction must be clearly stated in the MOU. (See Section II
    below)
 3. Disciplinary actions, including letters of counseling, letters of admonishment, letters of
    reprimand, and UCMJ actions, must be accomplished by the member’s own component
    chain-of-command (if a guardsman is in Title 10 status, the Title 10 chain has authority.).
    All ANGUS members in Title 10 status will be assigned to the Air National Guard
    Readiness Center (ANGRC), and attached to the appropriate RegAF unit.
 4. Supervisors or commanders from one chain of command cannot take disciplinary action
    against a member of the other component chain of command, but shall notify the member’s
    chain-of-command of the disciplinary infraction or other matters requiring redress.

 5. Personnel actions must be accomplished by the member’s own component chain-of-
    command (with inputs from the member’s functional supervisor if a member of another
    component). Designation of raters for performance reports must be IAW the rules
    established by the member’s component.
 6. When an entire ANG unit is performing in a Title 10 status, it must be assigned to a Title
    10 organizational structure. The ANG unit must be attached to a gaining Air Force
    MAJCOM.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             45


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
numbered item.)
1. Describe, in detail, the organizational structure of the proposed ANG unit and its
   relationship with an integrated or associated RegAF unit, if any. (Attach a ―wiring
   diagram‖).

2. Describe with specificity the proposed chain-of-command for the ANG unit in Title 32
   status,

3. Describe with specificity the proposed chains-of-command for the ANG unit and/or ANG
   members when performing duty in Title 10 status. [This may require more than one
   description if the integration plan includes both activation of the entire unit in some
   circumstances, and of only individual members in other circumstances.]

4. Describe how functional integration will be achieved if an associate unit is proposed and
   identify what MOUs are necessary to achieve cross-component unity of effort.




II. Support of Federal Operations or Missions
Does the purpose of the unit require the unit, or members of the unit, to perform or
support federal operational missions on a routine basis (e.g., day-to-day, or as a regular
part of their military activities -- other than unit mobilization)?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required
information in Subsection B.
46                                                  AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


A. Guiding Principles:
1. Generally, all Federal missions must be performed in Title 10 status, (absent specific
   SECDEF authorization for federal nexus missions to be performed in Title 32 status.) (See
   II.A.4. below for limited exception where performance of the Federal mission is incidental
   to ANG training.)
2. All training outside the United States and its territories must be accomplished in Title 10
   status (absent specific SECDEF authorization for them to be performed in Title 32 status.)
3. The mission of the ANG unit in Title 32 status is to train for their federal mission, not to
   perform a federal mission. Title 32 activities must be consistent with this purpose.
4. ANG members in Title 32 status may support federal operations or missions while training,
   but that support must be incidental to the purpose of training, and consistent with the
   unit’s formalized training program.
5. ANG members may support federal operations or missions undertaken by the members’
   unit at the request of the President or SECDEF, as an additional duty.
6. ANG members who perform a federal mission in Title 10 status must be attached or
   assigned to a specified organization in Active Duty status that is subject to operational or
   tactical control of the appropriate combatant command, while performing that mission.
7. Change of status (into and out of Title 10 status) must be accomplished by federal direction,
   with the specific beginning and end points clearly identified in the federal order.
8. All activities in support of CCDR operations and missions must be performed under the
   OPCON or TACON of the appropriate CCDR, Air Force Component Commander or Joint
   Task Force commander.
9. All duty positions that will require the ANG member to be in federal chain of command to
   accomplish the federal mission must be clearly identified with arrangements in place to
   accomplish that transition in the appropriate timeframe.
10. If the federal authority elects to use standing orders to place volunteers into Title 10 status
   to accomplish a federal mission when specific events occur (relying upon 10 U.S.C.
   12301(d), sometimes referred to as ―self-executing orders), then:
     a. Authority to issue the standing activation orders must have been obtained from the
        SECAF and vested in the federal officer issuing the standing activation orders;
     b. Events that ―trigger‖ when active duty status begins and ends must be clearly defined in
        those orders by the federal authority;
     c. ANG members must consent in writing, in advance, to being placed on active duty; and
     d. The Governor (or his/her designee) must have agreed in advance to the activation (by
        MOU or otherwise).
11. Accounting procedures must be established to properly account for duty performed in each
   status and to charge man-hours and related costs to the appropriate Guard or RegAF
   accounts. [See Section V, below.]
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                               47


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
numbered item.)
1. Describe the manner in which ANG members will be used to support federal operations and
missions (whether federal support is the purpose or is incidental to a Title 32 purpose),
providing details regarding status of individuals at relevant times, the authority for them to be
in respective statuses, and methods to ensure individuals are in the appropriate status and that
the work they are performing is consistent with that status.


2 Explain how all activities performed in Title 32 status are consistent with Title 32 purposes.


3. If standing orders to place volunteers into Title 10 status to accomplish a federal mission
when specific events occur (relying upon 10 U.S.C. 12301(d), sometimes referred to as ―self-
executing orders) will be used, please describe with specificity how you will implement this
aspect with particular attention to the start and end of federal status, and the means of
accomplishing each transition.


4. Explain how time in each status will be accounted for, and how appropriate fiscal accounts
will be charged.




III. National Guard Full-Time Support Personnel

This section must be completed for all initiatives. Review the guiding principles in
Subsection A, below, and provide the required information in Subsection B.
48                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


A. Guiding Principles
1. AGR duties/activities must be primarily for the purpose of organizing, administering,
   recruiting, instructing, and/or training the reserve components.
2. AGR may also perform the following additional duties to the extent they do not interfere
   with performance of the AGR’s primary duties listed above:
     a. Support federal operations or missions undertaken by the members’ unit at the request
         of the President or SECDEF
     b. Support of training operations and training missions assigned in whole or in part to the
        AGR’s unit to the extent such training occurs in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S.
        possessions and is for RegAF military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or
        DoD civilian employees.
3. Technician duties/activities must primarily be administering, organizing, instructing and/or
   training the National Guard, or maintaining and repairing military supplies.
4. Technicians may also perform the following additional duties to the extent they do not
   interfere with performance of the technician’s primary duties listed above:
     a. Support federal operations or missions undertaken by the technician’s unit at the
         request of the President or SECDEF
     b. Support of training operations and training missions assigned in whole or in part to the
        technician’s unit to the extent such training occurs in the United States, Puerto Rico or
        U.S. possessions and is for RegAF military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel
        or DoD civilian employees.
5. The number (and proportion to other organization personnel) of full-time support personnel
   (FTS) (AGRs and Technicians) must be consistent with principles #1 through #4, above.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
numbered item.)
1. Describe the mix of AGRs, technicians, and drill status guardsmen.

     Describe any duties to be performed by FTS personnel which are not to directly organize,
     administer the National Guard, or train guardsmen, or maintain federal military supplies or
     equipment.

     If the proportion of AGRs and technicians is greater than normal (usually not significantly
     in excess of 30 percent of unit total strength), explain how this is consistent with the
     guiding principles outlined in Subsection A.



IV. National Guard Training of Other Components
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                               49


Will the unit be training individuals other than ANG personnel?

Yes __ No __
If yes, please review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the
requested information in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. AGRs and Technicians may support of training operations and training missions assigned
   in whole or in part to the member’s unit to the extent such training occurs in the United
   States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions and is for RegAF military, foreign military, DoD
   contractor personnel or DoD civilian employees. AGRs and Technicians may only
   perform such duties to the extent they do not interfere with performance of their primary
   duties described in Section III.A.1. and 3, respectively.
2. Other circumstances that justify the use of AGRs and Technicians to train personnel from
   outside their own components include:
   a. The ANG unit DOC statement or mission essential tasking includes the formal
       training of other component members as a wartime tasking, and the training of
       other component personnel is necessary for the AGRs and technicians to
       maintain their own wartime skills.
   b. The training of other component personnel is incidental to other authorized
      activities (e.g., training provided in the course of, and incidental to, a scheduled
      proficiency or currency mission).
   c. The training of other component personnel is incidental to the training of ANG
       personnel, and the numbers of RegAF or Reserve personnel trained are not
       disproportionate to numbers of guardsmen trained.
3. The training of other component personnel by Drill Status Guardsmen (DSG) must be in
    conjunction with, or as part of, their own proficiency, currency, or qualification training, or
    in support of federal training operations and missions assigned in whole or in part to the
    member’s unit by the Secretary of the Air Force.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
numbered or lettered item.)
1. If the unit provides formal training, provide the estimated ratio of instructors from each
    component (ANG, AFR, RegAF) and the estimated ratio of students from each component.
    [Note: For these purposes, training of foreign students or civilians should be attributable
    to the component (RegAF or AFR) requesting the training.]

2. If ANG members will provide training to RegAF or AFR members either incidental to
    training other ANG members or incidental to other authorized activities, describe:
    a. The type of training that will be provided;

   b. The circumstances under which the training will be provided; and,

   c. The safeguards to ensure training is only provided on an incidental basis.
50                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010




. Fiscal Considerations Generally (See specifics above)
Does Section II (Operational Activities and Support of Operations or Missions) and/or
Section IV (National Guard Training of Other Components), above, apply to your
initiative?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the requested
information in Subsection B.

A. Guiding Principles
1. Funding sources for activities must be consistent with the purpose of the activity, and ANG
   funds should not be expended to support an RegAF mission (See limited exception in II.A.4.
   above where performance of the RegAF mission is incidental to ANG training or in III.A.2.
   and 4 above where Guard may support federal training missions and operations).
2. Congress appropriates certain personnel and operations and maintenance (O&M) funds
   expressly for the ANG, and those funds must be used to support the ANG.
3. Sufficient fiscal safeguards must exist to ensure ANG appropriations are used to support
   authorized ANG functions, and not diverted to augment RegAF or AFR appropriations for
   federal operations and missions. Fiscal concerns may be raised by:
     a. The use of AGR and technicians in Title 32 status to support federal operations and
        missions without proper justification;
     b. The use of ANG O&M funds to support federal operations and missions (unless properly
        accounted for and reimbursed from RegAF or AFR appropriations or otherwise
        incidental to authorized ANG activities).
4. When ANG members perform federal duty in Title 10 status, adequate fiscal procedures
   must exist to account for the number of man-hours expended in Title 10 status and ensure
   payment for those man-hours from Military Personnel Appropriations (i.e., RegAF
   appropriations). This can be accomplished through:
     a. Publication of individual Title 10 orders providing appropriate fund cites; or

     b. An aggregate reimbursement process (accounting for individual hours and periodic
        reconciliation/reimbursement of Guard funds from Title 10 funds.
5. When ANG and RegAF units participate together in activities that mutually benefit one
   another and the expenditure of funds by each unit is proportional to the respective benefits
   each organization receives, then reimbursement is generally not required (but a record of the
   decision process, and authority making the decision, should be made.)
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                              51


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
   numbered or lettered item.)
1. Please describe the procedures that will be used to account for costs and charge costs to
   the proper appropriations, including, but not limited to:
    a. The number of man hours ANG members perform duty in Title 10 status;


    b. ANG resources (e.g., flying hours/fuel, materials, etc) expended in support of federal
       operations and missions; and,


   c. The incremental increase in ANG resources expended (man hours and other costs)
      related to training RegAF and AFR members or supporting federal operations or
      missions (if not done incidental to training or authorized ANG activities).


2. If reimbursement is not required because the expenditure of ANG resources in support of
   federal operations or missions is proportional to the reciprocal benefit received by the ANG
   unit, incidental to ANG training, or otherwise authorized to be performed in Title 32 status,
   describe in detail the underlying arrangements, rationale, and safeguards to ensure ANG
   resources are properly used.



3. For associate units, identify the organization(s) that will be responsible for programming for
   shared resources (e.g., flying hours) and how costs will be shared/reimbursed.




VI. Intelligence Activities (applicable to foreign intelligence and counter intelligence
activities, including training)
Will the unit be involved in intelligence collection, analysis, storage, or distribution?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required
information in Subsection B.
 52                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


 A. Guiding Principles
 1. All intelligence activities involving federal missions, including training for federal
    intelligence missions, and all personnel involved with such activities, are subject to federal
    intelligence oversight rules, regardless of the duty status of the individual or organization
    (e.g., Title 10 or Title 32.) See DoD 5240.1, DoD 5240.1R and AFI 14-104. Oversight rules
    apply to all aspects of acquisition, collection, retention, protection, and dissemination of
    intelligence information, and include information acquired during the course of ISR training
    activities, including intelligence analysis products resulting from training activities.
 2. Operational intelligence activities may only be performed in Title 10 status.
 3. Intelligence products developed for the purpose of Title 32 training may be used by the
    federal intelligence community generally.
 4. No information that is acquired through federal intelligence activities may move from
    federal activities to state activities by any means other than established federal procedures
    for information sharing between the federal government and state governments. (I.e.,
    intelligence information acquired during the course of a federal mission, or used in the
    course of training in a Title 32 status, may not be accessed or used by individuals in a state
    active duty status unless such dissemination is authorized and conducted in the same manner
    required for dissemination from a federal activity to any other state organization).
 5. All intelligence activities involving federal missions, federally acquired intelligence, and all
    personnel involved with them, are subject to USAF (including NGB) and DoD inspection,
    regardless of duty status.




 B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
 numbered item.)


      Identify which superior federal organization will be responsible for intelligence oversight
      compliance of your unit.

 2. Describe how the unit will comply with initial intelligence oversight training requirements.


Legal and Operational Review Certification:

Please note the portion of the heading of this document that indicates whether HAF or MAJCOM
legal and operational reviews are required before beginning integration plan implementation.
Regardless of the level indicated in the heading, HAF review is required whenever significant
policy or unresolved legal implications arise. Certified reviews accomplished at MAJCOM level
will be forwarded to AF/A8XF, as will documentation requiring HAF level review. Legal issues
encountered during preparation of this document may be referred to AF/JAA, which will
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                              53


coordinate with SAF/GCM. Certification by the respective legal authority indicates that
necessary operational reviews have been accomplished at the appropriate level as well.

Certification: I certify that I have reviewed this document for legal sufficiency of the concepts
described and that it is my opinion that they can be implemented in compliance with applicable
law. Further, I certify that all necessary operational reviews have been accomplished and that the
relevant A3/5 and/or A8 do not object to the concepts described herein. (Note: MAJCOMs may
elect to obtain a second signature from the MAJCOM proponent director, if desired, in lieu of a
JA certification of an operational review. Should a MAJCOM prefer to add a proponent director
signature, the MAJCOM/JA signature will still be required to indicate a completed legal review
of the initiative’s operational concepts.)




                      _______________________________________________________
                                        [MAJCOM SJA or authorized Representative]

                                          Appendix B
                    Total Force Integration Initiative Review Worksheet
                            [Plans involving the Air Force Reserve]

Designation of this Integration Plan:[Specific AFRC Unit and MAJCOM designation. (If a unit
designation is not yet available, use some unique identifier that will clearly refer back to the
organization in the future.)]

Legal Review and Certification to be Accomplished by: [Specific MAJCOM/JA from the
MAJCOM designated by AF/A8XF as OPR for the initiative]
(Note: After the worksheet is forwarded to AF/A8XF in accord with paragraph 3.2.7.1.1,
SAF/GCM or AF/JAA will accomplish final HAF legal review for AF/A8XF.)

Due Date for Review Certification:[Date]
                                       Instructions:
1. The MAJCOM responsible for I-Plan completes Part 1, General Information, on this
   document.
2. Organization responsible for integration plan development completes the applicable
   sections of Part 2, Integration Plan Development, on this document. (Boxes will ―expand‖
   as needed to accommodate the text in each section.)
3. Legal review and certification are performed by the legal office indicated above, on this
   document. (That office obtains operational review at the same time.)


NOTE: The Guiding Principles outlined in this document are based on current law as of
January 2007. If you have questions about these principles or how they apply to your
54                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


particular Integration Plan, please contact your staff judge advocate.

                           PART 1. GENERAL INFORMATION

                       (To be completed by the responsible MAJCOM)
                        Description of Integration Plan: (Please describe)

          [Provide a short description of the Total Force Integration Initiative, here]

Describe, here, the purpose of the initiative and what/whose MAJCOM requirement it is intended
to fulfill. (i.e. Purpose of the initiative, background, organizational structure/make-up, desired
end state or outcome and who the gaining/beneficiary MAJCOM will be in the event of full
mobilization)

                              Mission Statement: (Please describe)


[Provide AFRC unit mission statement, here.] [In doing so keep in mind that Reserve integration
is for the primary purpose of preparing the Reserve to perform its assigned USAF mission(s)
when in an active duty status. While there is incidental mutual advantage to all components
involved with integration, the routine accomplishment of the mission of the RegAF component is
not the primary purpose of Reserve participation. In addition, a principal function of any unit is
to provide command and administrative functions for their respective component personnel.]

Measures of Success: (Describe what the measure of success will be for Initial Operating
Capability (IOC) and final operating capability (FOC))

[Quantify and describe how “success” will be measured at IOC and FOC, including, for
example, the number of Primary Aircraft Assigned, crew ratio, capacity, throughput, etc. If
the organization will be responsible for multiple missions (e.g., ongoing operational mission
and FTU) describe them separately.]




                           Part 2. Integration Plan Development

Section I. Chain of Command and Organizational Structures
[Review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required
information in Subsection B consistent with those principles.]
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                          55


A. Guiding Principles
1. AFRC and RegAF units and personnel fall under a federal chain-of-command that flows from
   the President of the United States to each individual. Consequently, AFRC and RegAF
   officers may give lawful orders to personnel from either component when both the officer and
   personnel are in a duty status.
2. All Air Force Reserve within the United States (except those assigned to SOCOM) must be
   assigned to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC); however, upon full mobilization,
   AFRC units will be assigned to the gaining RegAF MAJCOM.
3. When AFRC personnel are attached to a RegAF unit, the RegAF unit to which they are
   attached will have specified ADCON, including, but not limited to, disciplinary and UCMJ
   authority. Specified ADCON responsibilities will be set forth in a Memorandum of
   Understanding. The AFRC unit to which the personnel are assigned will have full ADCON,
   including concurrent disciplinary authority.
4. In situations where AFRC and RegAF units are associated with one another (not attached),
   each unit will maintain its separate AFRC or RegAF chain-of-command, respectively. The
   following principles apply when personnel from AFRC and RegAF units are functionally
   integrated with one another:
   a. To achieve functional integration and unity of effort, AFRC and RegAF personnel may be
      ordered by their respective chains of command to accept ―operational direction‖ and
      commands from personnel in the other chain of command in accordance with a
      Memorandum of Understanding between the AFRC unit and the associated RegAF unit.
      Any limits on the scope of the direction must be clearly stated in the MOU. (See Section
      II below)
  b. AFRC and RegAF commanders, supervisors, and other persons in authority can issue
     administrative counselings, admonitions, and reprimands to personnel from either
     component.
  c. UCMJ actions and initiation of Unfavorable Information Files (UIF) must generally be
     accomplished by the member’s own chain-of-command.
  d. The member’s own component chain-of-command must accomplish personnel actions for
     the member (with inputs from the member’s functional supervisor if the supervisor is a
     member of another component). Designation of raters for performance reports must be
     IAW the rules established by the member’s component.
56                                               AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
numbered item.)

1. Describe, in detail, the organizational structure of the proposed AFRC unit and its
   relationship with an integrated or associated RegAF unit, if any. (Attach a ―wiring
   diagram‖).

2. Describe with specificity the proposed chain-of-command for the AFRC unit.

3. Describe how functional integration will be achieved if an integrated unit is proposed and
   identify what MOUs are necessary to achieve cross-component unity of effort.




II. Support of Federal Operations or Missions
Does the purpose of the unit require the unit, or members of the unit, to perform or
support operational missions on a routine basis (e.g., day-to-day, or as a regular part of
their military activities -- other than unit mobilization)?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required
information in Subsection B.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                               57


A. Guiding Principles:
1. The mission of the AFRC unit is to train for, support, and perform the federal operations and
   missions assigned to it. The proper source of funding (e.g., Reserve Personnel Appropriations
   v. Military Personnel Appropriations) may change depending upon whether the AFRC unit
   and its personnel are training for their operational mission or actually supporting or
   performing the operational mission.
2. AFRC members may support or perform federal operations or missions without using RegAF
   appropriations if those activities are legitimately done for training purposes and consistent
   with the unit’s formalized training program. (See Section III, AFRC Full-Time Support
   Personnel, for specific information on the use of AGRs and ARTs)
3. Pursuant to SECAF approval, AFRC members may support operations or missions assigned
   in whole or in part to the reserve components, as an additional duty.
4. All activities in support of combatant command operations and missions must be performed
   under the OPCON or TACON of the appropriate CCDR, Air Force Component Commander
   or Joint Task Force commander.
5. AFRC members who perform an operational mission must be attached or assigned to a
   specified RegAF organization that is subject to OPCON or TACON of the appropriate CCDR,
   while performing that mission.
6. Accounting procedures must be established to properly account for man-hours and related
   costs expended in support or performance of operational missions (if not incidental to
   training) and to charge those costs to the appropriate AFRC or RegAF accounts. [See Section
   V, below.]




B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
numbered item.)

 1. Describe the manner in which AFRC members will be used to support or perform federal
    operations and missions (including an explanation as to whether the primary purpose of
    AFRC members’ activities is to support or perform federal operations and missions, or
    whether the support/performance is incidental to training).

 2. When AFRC members are supporting combatant command operations and missions,
    identify the RegAF organization to which they will be attached and the operational chain-of-
    command.

 3. Explain how time spent in support of federal operations and missions (if not incidental to
    training) will be accounted for, and how appropriate fiscal accounts will be charged.
58                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010



III. AFRC Full-Time Support Personnel
This section must be completed for all initiatives. Review the guiding principles in
Subsection A, below, and provide the required information in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. A Reserve AGR’s primary duties are organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing,
   and/or training the reserve components.
2. A Reserve AGR may also perform the following additional duties to the extent that the
   performance of those duties does not interfere with the performance of the AGR’s primary
   duties listed above.
     a. Support operations or missions assigned in whole or in part to the reserve components or
        to mixed-component units, including joint units;
     b. Instruct or train military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian
        employees in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions.
3. Air Reserve Technician (ART) primary duties are administering, instructing, or training the
   reserves, or maintaining and repairing military supplies or equipment.
4. ARTs may also perform the following additional duties to the extent that the performance of
   those duties does not interfere with the performance of the ART’s primary duties listed
   above.
     a. Support operations or missions assigned in whole or in part to the to the technicians unit,
        or to mixed-component units, including joint units, that include the technicians unit;
     b. Instruct or train military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian
        employees in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions.
5. The number (and proportion to other organization personnel) of full-time support personnel
   (FTS) (AGRs and ARTs) must be consistent with principles #1 and 2, above.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             59


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
numbered item.)
1. Describe the mix of AGRs, ARTs, and traditional reservists.


2. Describe any duties to be performed by FTS personnel that do not directly involve organizing
   or administering the reserves, train reservists, or maintaining federal military supplies or
   equipment.

3. Use of FTS for a specific integration function should generally be in the same proportion as
   has historically been the case for similar functions performed by the Reserve. While initial
   standup of a particular function may require a higher proportion of full-time personnel while
   the function is established and the initial cadre of participating personnel are trained,
   integration will be planned and executed to achieve the targeted proportions as soon as
   feasible. If the proportion of FTS is greater than historical proportions, explain how this is
   consistent with the guiding principles outlined in Subsection A, and include justification for
   the departure from historical proportions.




IV. AFRC Training of Other Components
Will the AFRC unit be training individuals other than AFRC personnel?
Yes __ No __
If yes, please review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the
requested information in Subsection B.
60                                                    AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


A. Guiding Principles
1. AGRs and ARTs may instruct or train RegAF military, foreign military, DoD contractor
   personnel or DoD civilian employees in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions, as
   additional duties to the extent that the performance of those duties does not interfere with the
   performance of their primary duties described above in Section III, A.1. and 3, respectively.
2. Other circumstances that justify the use of AGRs, ARTs, and traditional reservists to train
   personnel from outside their own components include:
      a. The AFRC unit DOC statement, Mission Directive, or mission essential tasking
         includes the formal training of other component members as a wartime tasking,
         and the training of other component personnel is necessary for the AGRs and
         ARTs to maintain their own wartime skills.
      b. The training of other component personnel is incidental to other authorized
         activities (e.g., training provided in the course of, and incidental to, a scheduled
         proficiency or currency mission).
      c. The training of other component personnel is incidental to the training of AFRC
         personnel, and the numbers of RegAF or ANG personnel trained are not
         disproportionate to numbers of Reservists trained.
3. The training of other component personnel by traditional Reservists must be in
   conjunction with, or as part of, their own proficiency, currency, or qualification
   training, or in support of federal training operations and missions assigned in whole
   or in part to the member’s unit by the Secretary of the Air Force.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
numbered or lettered item.)
1. If the unit provides formal training, provide the estimated ratio of instructors from each
   component (ANG, AFRC, RegAF) and the estimated ratio of students from each component.
   [Note: For these purposes, training of foreign students or civilians should be attributable to
   the component (RegAF or AFRC) requesting the training.]


2. If AFRC members will provide training to RegAF or ANG members either incidental to
   training other AFRC members or incidental to other authorized activities, describe:

     a. The type of training that will be provided;

     b. The circumstances under which the training will be provided; and,

     c. The safeguards to ensure training is only provided on an incidental basis (or if AGRs will
        be supporting the unit’s mission by training other component personnel, describe how
        this training supports the unit mission and does not interfere with the AGRs’ primary
        duties).
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                            61


V. Fiscal Considerations Generally (See specifics above)
Does Section II (Operational Activities and Support of Operations or Missions) and/or
Section IV (AFRC Training of Other Components), above, apply to your initiative?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the requested
information in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. Funding sources for activities must be consistent with the purpose of the activity, and AFRC
   funds should not be expended to support an RegAF mission (See limited exception in II.A.2.
   above where performance of the RegAF mission is incidental to AFRC training or in III.A.2.
   and 4 above where AFRC may support federal training missions and operations).
2. Congress appropriates certain personnel and operations and maintenance (O&M) funds
   expressly for AFRC, and those funds must be used to support AFRC.
3. Sufficient fiscal safeguards must exist to ensure AFRC appropriations are used to support
   authorized AFRC functions, and not diverted to augment RegAF appropriations for federal
   operations and missions. Fiscal concerns may be raised by:
   a. The use of AGRs and ARTs to support federal operations and missions without proper
      justification;
   b. The use of AFRC O&M funds to support federal operations and missions (unless properly
      accounted for and reimbursed from RegAF appropriations or otherwise incidental to
      AFRC activities).
4. When AFRC members support or perform operations and missions, adequate fiscal
   procedures must exist to account for the number of man-hours expended on those operations
   and missions (if not done incidental to training or other authorized AFRC activities) and
   ensure payment for those man-hours from Military Personnel Appropriations (i.e., RegAF
   appropriations). This can be accomplished through:
   a. Publication of individual orders providing appropriate fund cites; or

   b. An aggregate reimbursement process (accounting for individual hours and periodic
      reconciliation/reimbursement of AFRC funds from RegAF funds).
5. When AFRC and RegAF units participate together in activities that mutually benefit one
   another and the expenditure of funds by each unit is proportional to the respective benefits
   each organization receives, then reimbursement is generally not required (but a record of the
   decision process, and authority making the decision, should be made).
62                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each
    numbered or lettered item.)
 1. Please describe the procedures that will be used to account for costs and charge costs to the
     proper appropriations, including, but not limited to:
     a. The number of man hours AFRC members support or perform federal operations or
        missions (if not done incidental to training or authorized AFRC activities);


     b. AFRC resources (e.g., flying hours/fuel, materials, etc) expended in support of federal
        operations and missions (if not done incidental to training or authorized AFRC
        activities); and,


     c. The incremental increase in AFRC resources expended (man hours and other costs)
        related to training RegAF or supporting federal operations or missions.




2. If reimbursement is not required because the expenditure of AFRC resources in support of
   federal operations or missions is proportional to the reciprocal benefit received by the
   RegAF unit, incidental to AFRC training, or otherwise authorized to be performed by AFRC
   personnel, describe in detail the underlying arrangements, rationale, and safeguards to
   ensure AFRC resources are properly used.


3. For associate units, identify the organization(s) that will be responsible for programming for
   shared resources (e.g., flying hours) and how costs will be shared/reimbursed.




VI. Intelligence Activities (applicable to foreign intelligence and counter intelligence activities,
including training)
Will the unit be involved in intelligence collection, analysis, storage, or distribution?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required
information in Subsection B.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                63


 A. Guiding Principles
 1. All intelligence activities involving operational missions, including training for federal
    intelligence missions, and all personnel involved with such activities, are subject to federal
    intelligence oversight rules (see DoD 5240.1, DoD 5240.1R and AFI 14-104). Oversight
    rules apply to all aspects of acquisition, collection, retention, protection, and dissemination of
    intelligence information, and include information acquired during the course of ISR training
    activities, including intelligence analysis products resulting from training activities.
 2. Intelligence products developed for the purpose of training may be used by the federal
    intelligence community generally.
 3. No information that is acquired through federal intelligence activities may move from federal
    activities to state activities by any means other than established federal procedures for
    information sharing between the federal government and state governments. (I.e.,
    intelligence information acquired during the course of an operational mission, or used in the
    course of training, may not be accessed or used by individuals in a state active duty status
    unless such dissemination is authorized and conducted in the same manner required for
    dissemination from a federal activity to any other state organization).
 4. All intelligence activities involving operational missions, federally acquired intelligence, and
    all personnel involved with them, are subject to USAF and DoD inspection, regardless of
    duty status.
    B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following
    each numbered item.)

 1. Identify which superior organization will be responsible for intelligence oversight compliance
    of your unit.

 2. Describe how the unit will comply with initial intelligence oversight training requirements.



Legal and Operational Review Certification:

Please note the portion of the heading of this document that indicates whether HAF or MAJCOM
legal and operational reviews are required before beginning integration plan implementation.
Regardless of the level indicated in the heading, HAF review is required whenever significant
policy or unresolved legal implications arise. Certified reviews accomplished at MAJCOM level
will be forwarded to AF/A8XF, as will documentation requiring HAF level review. Legal issues
encountered during preparation of this document may be referred to AF/JAA, which will
coordinate with SAF/GCM. Certification by the respective legal authority indicates that
necessary operational reviews have been accomplished at the appropriate level as well.

Certification: I certify that I have reviewed this document for legal sufficiency of the concepts
described and that it is my opinion that they can be implemented in compliance with applicable
law. Further, I certify that all necessary operational reviews have been accomplished and that the
relevant A3/5 and/or A8 do not object to the concepts described herein. (Note: MAJCOMs may
 64                                              AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


elect to obtain a second signature from the MAJCOM proponent director, if desired, in lieu of a
JA certification of an operational review. Should a MAJCOM prefer to add a proponent director
signature, the MAJCOM/JA signature will still be required to indicate a completed legal review
of the initiative’s operational concepts.)

                             ______________________________________________________
                                             [MAJCOM SJA, or authorized Representative]
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             65


                                         Attachment 4
            AIR NATIONAL GUARD, TITLE 10, AND TITLE 32 COMMAND
                      ARRANGEMENTS/ARCHITECTURE.


Command Arrangements/Architecture. The on-going requirement for an unbroken Title 10
chain of command in the execution of federal operational mission(s) requires individuals directly
involved in execution of the mission, to include command and control of Title 10 operational
missions (e.g., missions involving intelligence collection and weapons employment), to be in a
Title 10 status, assigned to a Title 10 organization, and, attached to a unit in the chain of
command of the Combatant Commander (CCDR) responsible for the operation or mission. To
satisfy these requirements individuals directly involved in the execution, or command and
control of Title 10 operational missions will be activated and assigned to the ANG Readiness
Center, and attached to a designated air expeditionary squadron/unit under command of the
CCDR for which an operational mission is performed for the duration of the mission.
MOUs/MOAs will specify the conditions under which and when Title 32 members will be
activated into Title 10 status and when they revert to Title 32 status.
Discussion of Operation Direction (OPDIR). Within the framework of Regular
Component/Reserve Component Associations, there will be a need to maintain a unity of effort
in the accomplishment of the mission(s) of the host and associate units. Since the law does not
allow for the Total Integration of command structures and/or organizations with a single UMD,
there needs to be some mechanism where a functionally integrated activity has a single person to
exercise supervisory direction over all personnel assigned or detailed to work within that
functional area. This mechanism for unity of effort is achieved by means of the concept of
Operational Direction.
"Operational Direction" is a concept used to describe the authority exercised by commanders and
supervisors from one component within host and associate units. It has aspects similar to
―Coordinating Authority‖ such as unity of effort. It is not a command authority and does not, in
particular, convey Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) authority or administrative control
over personnel from another component. ―Operational Direction‖ is defined as ―the authority to
designate objectives, assign tasks, and provide the direction necessary to accomplish the mission
or operation and ensure unity of effort. Authority for operational direction of one component
member over members of another component is obtained by agreements between component unit
commanders (most often between Title 10 and Title 32 commanders) whereby these component
commanders, in an associate organizational structure, issue orders to their subordinates to follow
the operational direction of specified/designated senior members of the other component for the
purpose of accomplishing their associated mission.‖ For example, if the senior person in an
engine shop is a Guard member in Title 32 status, the Regular Air Force and/or Air Force
Reserve Command Title 10 members assigned, attached, or detailed to that section would be
given an order by their respective Regular Air Force or Air Force Reserve Command Title 10
commander to follow the operational direction of the specified senior Title 32 Guardsman.
Likewise, if the specified senior person in an engine shop is a Regular Air Force or Air Force
Reserve Command Title 10 member, the Title 32 Guard members assigned, attached, or detailed
to that section would be given an order by their Title 32 Guard commander to follow the
operational direction of the senior Title 10 Regular Air Force or Air Force Reserve Command
 66                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


member. Violations of these operational direction orders would be dealt with through the
respective chains of command under Title 10 UCMJ authority or Title 32 State discipline codes.
Finally, it is important to emphasize that operational direction is neither a command authority
nor a command relationship as defined in Service and joint doctrine.
Within the framework of Operational Direction, commanders should rely on delegation of
authorities, as stipulated in governing MOUs/MOAs, and commander’s intent as methods to
control, direct, or supervise personnel. However, just as in a discussion of command, although
commanders may delegate authority to accomplish the operational or training missions, they
cannot delegate the responsibility for the attainment of mission objectives. For this reason, the
commander’s intent should specify the goals, priorities, acceptable risks, and limits associated
with training or operations. Further, commanders have the authority and responsibility to
influence training and/or operations and ensure mission success through other means, such as
MOAs, MOUs, and designation of an executive agent for specific functions.
Commanders, managers, and supervisors are responsible for personnel management,
performance reviews, career development, and administrative support for members of their
respective units consistent with provisions agreed to in MOUs and/or MOAs and consistent with
public law. The work center supervisor, whether RegAF, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard,
or civilian must have the authority created by agreements or traditional command structures to
assign tasks to all members assigned, attached, or detailed to that unit in accordance with the
terms of the governing MOU/MOA. All personnel will be trained, tasked, and employed as a
unified team to meet training or operational mission taskings. In addition, Active Guard and
Reserve (AGR) and technician civilian job descriptions should be reviewed and modified as
necessary to make them subject to the direction of functional supervisors, regardless of
component.
Throughout the execution of Operational Direction, the associate unit’s parent component
(RegAF/AFR/ANG) will continue to exercise command over and be responsible for
administration and support of its own personnel. Within the Air Force, command and
disciplinary authority over a member rests with the member’s unit commander and his or her
respective chain of command.
1. Air National Guard Command Arrangements and Duty Status. The Air Force assignment
of federal missions to the Air National Guard, which require 24/7 reachback support of CCDR
mission requirements, represents a new paradigm in developing Integration Plans. These
integration plans must address command relationships between federal and state authorities, and
the determination of appropriate duty statuses when performing the federal mission. This
presents challenges to Air National Guard units in that they must ensure the unit stand-up and
personnel duty statuses are in compliance with the current statutory framework, and that the
personnel performing a Title 10 mission are attached to the appropriate CCDR. This is especially
necessary because the current statutory framework has not caught up with the Air Force and Air
National Guard leadership’s goal of ―Total Force Integration.‖
1.1. Title 10 / Title 32 Command Arrangements.
1.1.1. Title 10 Chain-of-Command (ANG Wing / Tenant Unit / Associate Unit). Individuals
directly involved in the execution, command and control of Title 10 operational missions will be
in Title 10 status, and attached to a unit in the CCDR’s operational chain of command.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                67


Ordinarily, the chain-of-command runs from the CCDR, to the Joint Forces Commander (JFC),
to the Commander Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR), to the Expeditionary unit commander, to
the unit Mission Commander (MSN/CC). (Figure A4.1)

Figure A4.1. Title 10 U.S.C. Operational Chain-of-Command




1.1.2. Title 32 Chain-of-Command (ANG Wing / Tenant Unit / Associate Unit). When not
performing a federal operational mission ANG personnel will usually be in Title 32 status. The
chain-of-command runs from the State governor, to The Adjutant General (TAG), the State’s
Assistant Adjutant General for Air (ATAG), to the unit commander (Figure A4.2).

Figure A4.2. Title 32 U.S.C. Notional Chain-of-Command




1.2. Duty Status and Tracking.
1.2.1. ANG members placed in Title 10 status will be paid from the Title 10 active duty funds to
avoid violations of fiscal law.
1.2.1.1. When in Title 32 status, Active Guard and Reserves (AGRs), Technicians, and
traditional guardsmen will only perform duties allowed by law. ANG members maysupport
federal operations or missions while in training status, so long as support is only incidental to the
 68                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


primary purpose of the training or otherwise specifically authorized by law, (e.g., maintenance of
federal equipment by technicians) unless command and control considerations require that those
individuals be placed in Title 10 status and attached to a unit in the operational chain of
command.
1.2.1.1.1. AGRs, IAW 10 U.S.C. 101 (d)(6)(a), are authorized to organize, recruit, administer,
instruct or train their reserve component.
1.2.1.1.1.1. IAW 32 U.S.C. §§ 328 and 502(f)(2), AGRs, while in Title 32 status, may also
perform the following additional duties so long as those duties do not interfere with their primary
duties of organizing, administering, training, recruiting and instructing the reserve component:
supportoperations undertaken by their units at the request of the President or Secretary of
Defense; support training operations assigned in whole or in part to the Air National Guard by
the Secretary of the Air Force; and instruct and train members of the armed forces, DoD
contractor personnel, DoD civilian employees, and members of foreign military forces (under the
same authorities and restrictions applicable to members providing such instruction or training).
1.2.1.1.1.2. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. § 12310, when individuals are in Title 10 status as
AGRs, their AGR duties in connection with organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or
training reserve components may include: supporting operations or missions assigned in whole
or in part to reserve components; and, supporting operations or missions performed or to be
performed by: a unit composed of elements from more than one component of the same armed
force; or, a joint forces unit that includes one or more reserve component units or includes a
member of a reserve component whose reserve assignment is in a position in an element of the
joint forces unit.
1.2.1.1.1.3. AGRs activated as volunteers under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d), not for the purpose of
performing AGR duties specified in 10 U.S.C. § 12310(a), are not restricted in the duties that
may be performed. Note: AGRs who volunteer for duty under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d) are no
longer performing AGR duties for the reserve component. These volunteers are part of the active
duty force, paid by active duty funds, and count against the active duty manpower end strength
ceilings if on Extended Active Duty (EAD) for more than three years.
1.2.1.1.1.4. Unit AGR positions must be established based upon a need for their primary AGR
duties, not for the additional duties enumerated above.
1.2.1.1.2. Dual status technicians IAW 32 U.S.C. 709 are authorized to organize, administer,
instruct and train the National Guard and maintain and repair supplies issued to the National
Guard or the armed forces. When doing so does not interfere with these primary duties, dual
status technicians may also: support operations undertaken by their units at the request of the
President or the Secretary of Defense; support federal training missions assigned in whole or in
part to the technicians’ units and instruct and train members of the armed forces, DoD contractor
personnel, DoD civilian employees, and members of foreign military forces (under the same
authorities and restrictions applicable to members providing such instruction or training).
1.2.1.1.3. Traditional Guardsmen (TG) performing required inactive duty for training (IDT) or
Annual Training (AT) in a Title 32 training status.
2. MAJCOMs
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                                69


2.1. MAJCOMs must coordinate with the Air Force component to the Unified Combatant
Command for the establishment/activation/designation of air expeditionary squadrons or units
assigned or attached to each CCDR to which personnel can be attached during operational
missions. Each such squadron or unit will be commanded by a Title 10 commander.
2.2. Standing organizational structure. The gaining MAJCOM is the force provider on behalf of
the Air Force. NGB/CF is the channel of communications between the respective states and the
Air Force. Operational and training units (FTUs) will organize under their respective States,
which in turn will report to the National Guard Bureau (reporting includes SORTS, ART, etc.).
Maintenance FTD unit(s) will report to AETC.

2.3. Within the Air Force, the Commander, ANG Readiness Center, will be responsible for
administration, support and discipline of assigned personnel. Concurrent disciplinary authority
resides with the respective CCDR and the CCDR’s delegatees (e.g., the COMAFFOR) for
conduct while individuals are attached to that command for mission execution.
2.4. By means of the procedures contained within the preceding paragraphs, individuals directly
involved in the execution, command and control of Title 10 operational missions will be OPCON
to the CCDR, and to the Joint Force Commander (JFC), COMAFFOR in accordance with the
CCDR’s delegation of authority.
3. Automatically Executing Title 10 Orders (Formerly known as Self-Executing Orders)
3.1. IAW 10 U.S.C. 12301(d) the service secretary may designate an authority to order a member
of the ANG to federal service with the consent of the individual and the individual’s Governor.
Operational requirements of the Federal mission require that NGB coordinate with the gaining
MAJCOM concerning secretarial delegation of this authority. When necessary, ANG personnel
may be involuntarily activated under Chapter 1209 of Title 10, U.S. Code.
3.1.1. SECAF’s designee within the gaining MAJCOM will have the authority to order
volunteers to active duty under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d) and will issue a standing order that
accomplishes the requirements of paragraph 3.1, above. This standing order must specify a
clearly identifiable factual event, the occurrence of which activates the orders, and another
clearly identifiable factual event, the occurrence of which terminates the order. (This has
sometimes been referred to as a self-executing or, more accurately, an automatically executing
order.) In addition, standing orders must be in effect that attach the activating individual to the
appropriate CCDR chain of command for the duration of the activation. However, their
attachment to the respective CCDR for operational missions upon the start of the mission, and
termination of that attachment at the end of the mission, will be accomplished by the standing
order of the MAJCOM representative who has been delegated authority by the SECAF to order
ANG members to voluntary active duty. That same representative has the authority to order the
activation via a verbal order. [Note: Such an order is also based on the prior consent of the
individual and the Governor.] Confirmatory written orders will be accomplished as soon as
possible given that circumstance. Technicians must be in an appropriate leave status while
performing active duty. (Note: Procedures must be in effect to capture the periods of activation
and to ensure that these periods of activation for a federal purpose are funded from Title 10
appropriations. See paragraph 3.2.3.2.)
 70                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


3.2. For designated ANG members expected to perform regular and frequent Title 10 duties
associated with a Federal or operational mission under an operational chain-of-command:
3.2.1. The member will sign a voluntary statement of consent to be ordered to active duty under
10 U.S.C. 12301(d) as a condition of employment or unit membership. For a Guard AGR
member, the AGR order will contain a statement that the member consents to being ordered to
Active Duty for Operational Support under 10 U.S.C. 12301(d), in support of the active
component, whenever he or she performs duties in execution of a federal operational mission
with the beginning and end points of the active duty period as specified in the MOU/MOA.
3.2.2. The state Governor will enter into an MOU/MOA with federal authorities providing
advance consent to the voluntary order to active duty of the ANG member for federal operational
missions.
3.2.3. The designated Title 10 authority will issue an order directing the change in status, as
needed, and attachment of individuals to the designated operational unit in support of a CCDR as
they activate or deactivate pursuant to the MOU/MOA.
3.2.3.1. Based on the member’s and Governor’s advance consent and the order of the designated
Title 10 commander, an AGR is automatically placed on active duty, Title 10, status to perform
duties directly supporting or in execution of a federal operational mission, and automatically
reverts to AGR, Title 32 status, and the performance of Title 32 Full Time National Guard Duty
(FTNGD) functions upon completion of the federal operational mission as required by the
MOU/MOA. Simultaneously, they are attached to the appropriate combatant command unit, and
thereby under the operational command of that CCDR.
3.2.3.1.1. For technicians and traditional Guardsmen, Title 10 orders will ordinarily be requested
and approved in advance of performance of duty requiring Title 10 status. However, their
attachment to the respective CCDR for operational missions upon the start of the mission, and
termination of that attachment at the end of the mission, will be accomplished by the standing
order of the MAJCOM representative who has been delegated authority by the SECAF to order
ANG members to voluntary active duty. That same representative has the authority to order the
activation via a verbal order. [Note: Such an order is also based on the prior consent of the
individual and the Governor.] Confirmatory written orders will be accomplished as soon as
possible given that circumstance. Technicians must be in an appropriate leave status while
performing active duty.
3.2.3.2. Documentation will be created and maintained within the unit to verify all time spent by
each member performing duties in support of a federal or operational mission while in a Title 10
status and not incidental to authorized Title 32 activities, and in execution of a Title 10
operational mission if not automatically documented through MPA orders. For flight duties in a
flying weapons system, the AFTO Form 781 will suffice. An appropriate mission log will be
used to document other operational mission duty assignments. This documentation will be
processed through ANG/FM to the Regular Air Force organization for obligation of Title 10
funds quarterly.
3.2.3.3. ANG technicians and traditional Guardsmen will be placed in Title 10 active duty status
each day they perform any duty in the execution, command and control of Title 10 operational
missions.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                             71


3.2.3.4. AGR time when performing active duty under 10 U.S.C. 12301 (d), aside from duty
performed under 10 U.S.C. 12310(b), is considered active duty for operational support in support
of the Regular Component and represents a reimbursable, Title 10, MPA day for each calendar
day in which any such duty is performed regardless of the duration. While performing the duty
necessitates man-day reimbursement, the member may not perform any Title 32 functions.
Note: Legislation to simplify status and pay accounting requirements is being considered. These
procedures may need to be modified if legislative authorities are revised.
4. Permissible Duties Under United States Code
4.1. State Missions. Generally, ANG personnel perform federal missions under Title 10, train
for federal missions under Title 32, and perform state missions (e.g., responding to natural
disasters) funded by their state. While in Title 32 status or performing state missions, ANG
members are subject to the command and control of their Governor. Governors have
constitutionally guaranteed expectations their National Guard units will be available to perform
state missions allowed by the laws of their states. See also paragraph 3.2.2 of this attachment.
4.1.1. RegAF leadership in conjunction with state ANG leadership should develop contingency
plans that clearly define expectations of both the RegAF and ANG to facilitate continuation of
RegAF participation in ARC training missions in the event of a state recall of ANG personnel for
inclusion in a MOU as appropriate. In either case, RegAF personnel do not participate in state
contingencies, unless directed/approved by a higher federal authority.
4.1.2. When the ANG is called upon by the State Governor for state-only missions, care must be
taken to ensure RegAF personnel and equipment are not improperly used for these state-only
missions (see, e.g., the Stafford Act, DoDD 3025.15, AFI 10-802, etc).
 72                                                    AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


                                            Attachment 5
                  REQUIRED INTEGRATION PLAN (I-PLAN) CONTENT

NOTE:
In instances where a MAJCOM or the NGB has already produced macro level I-Plan documents,
the integration initiative OPR will still need to craft a document using this content template, and
will identify it as an addendum to the existing Macro I-Plan document. Only those portions of
the I-Plan template content that are not already covered within a more macro level document
need be accomplished (i.e. fill in the blanks only where necessary) and submit this abbreviated
document with the CONOPS/I-Plan macro document for HAF functional and legal sufficiency
review. It is not the intent, within the framework of accomplishing an I-Plan to re-write existing
CONOPS documents.
NOTE:
The measures of merit listed for each objective are required to be reported, at a minimum, every
thirty (30) days. Units will be responsible to report to the major commands/National Guard
Bureau all measures of merit. Specific SORTS Measures of Merit will include the DRRS
measures - personnel authorizations, equipment and supplies on hand, equipment condition, and
training measurement and be reported using existing SORTS reporting procedures. Measures to
be reported to the MAJCOM should include, but are not limited to Operations Tempo
(OPSTEMPO), Personnel Tempo (PERSTEMPO), Dwell Time, Crew Ratios, UTE Rates, Career
Development Courses (CDCs). This set of measures constitutes the standard set of performance
measures to be reported by all TFI units.
Sample Construct for ―Integration Plan‖ documents.
Section I – I-Plan Integration Initiative Construct
A narrative description that identifies the type of integration initiative. (i.e. classic associate,
active associate, ARC associate,)
Section II – Overview.
1. Purpose of this I-Plan in overarching terms and a high-level description of the desired
  outcomes/effects to be achieved. (if BRAC directed, include the BRAC language). Each
  desired outcome will require that there be identified objectives that will help commanders at
  all levels focus on accomplishing courses of action that will identify success (or failure). The
  purpose statement will also capture language that expresses what benefits are to be derived
  from implementation of this initiative.
2. Commander’s Intent and Responsibilities.
3. Description of the Organizational Structure
Section III. Command Relationships. A narrative description of the major ―players‖
involved in the execution of this particular I-Plan. (May include an OV-4 graphic.)
Section IV. Identify the supporting documents needed to implement this specific
integration initiative, the sequence of document development, the supporting activities
needed to develop each document, and the projected completion dates for each of the
documents. (i.e. these documents could include: SATAFs, PPlans, OCRs, PADs, MOAs,
MOUs, SAs, etc.)
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                               73


Section V. JA Review. Identify the JA review requirements
Section VI. Addresses Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) and
Manpower Requirements
     1. Near term budget requirements
     2. Near term manpower requirements
     3. Long term POM impact
Section VII. Address any AEF implications – to include AEF implications, HHQ
expectations of how the equipment/aircraft will be utilized to meet day-to-day training or
state mission requirements, and changes to the unit’s AEF UTC
Section VIII. Describe Agile (and/or Expeditionary) Combat Support concepts for the
impacted weapon systems and capabilities.
NOTE:
For Associations that involve Air National Guard units, as a part of the description of the
initiative and the unit’s mission, a description of the state mission for the Air Guard unit must be
stated so that proper equipage (as coordinated with NGB/A4) includes the ability of the unit to
meet validated Homeland Defense mission requirements. Association I-Plans, Support
Agreements, MOUs and MOAs will provide for the capability and identify the resources
required for the ANG unit to respond to Federal Homeland Defense taskings in conjunction with
DOC taskings in the new association. I-Plans, Support Agreements, MOUs and MOAs will also
include language to recognize the ANG unit's responsibility to the Governor of the state in
responding to domestic emergencies and contingencies
Section IX. Identify source directives and publications that support this integration
initiative.
Section X. Content – Individually list each Objective and each objective’s Measure(s) of
Merit
Note 4. Capture each objective individually and enumerate as many objectives as may be needed
to successfully support attainment of the desired outcome.
Note 5. For each objective, identify data that needs to be captured either through existing
processes/procedures, or, if need be – develop the guidance that will allow for the function(s) to
easily capture the data. DRRS/SORTS data should also be included in this data matrix. However,
SORTS data will be reported using the existing DRRS/SORTS reporting procedures.
Note 6. Measures other than those enumerated in the standard reporting set described in Note 2
of this template may be added for reporting purposes dependent on the unique requirements of
each Integration initiative.
Example:
Objective 1. state the objective and time horizon for achieving the objective
     - Measure of Merit 1.
     - Measure of Merit 2(or however many process measures as may be needed to track the
     progress (or lack thereof).
 74                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


Assumptions. Self-explanatory.
Risks. Self-explanatory.
Objective 2. state the objective and time horizon for achieving the objective
      - Measure of Merit 1.
      - Measure of Merit 2
      - Measure of Merit 3 (or however many process measures as may be needed to track the
      progress (or lack thereof).
Assumptions. Self-explanatory.
Risks. Self-explanatory.
Section XI – Summary.
Include signature blocks for I-Plan participants (MAJCOM/CC, or NGB/CF level).
Appendices as required
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                              75


                                 Attachment 6 (Added-ACC)
                                      ACC TFI PROCESS

A6.1. (Added-ACC) Background. TFI is part of the USAF’s Total Force (TF) Culture and
Organization Transformation Plan. Other parts of the TF plan include Augmentation units and
New/Emerging Stand-Alone units. The goal of TFI is to provide the Air Force and the
Combatant Commanders (CCDR) the best possible capabilities to meet their requirements by
leveraging the combined resources of the Regular, Guard, and Reserve members, Air Force
civilian employees, and Air Force contractors. This ACC supplement provides guidance and
direction for submitting integration proposals in support of AF and ACC TF goals, strategic
visions, objectives, and measures of merit. ACC/A5 is COMACC’s facilitator for developing
and processing TFI initiatives that effect ACC units. ACC/A5, as OPR for proposed ACC
Classic Associations, in collaboration with the National Guard Bureau (NGB) and/or the AFRC,
will forward ACC supported initiatives to HAF/A8X for consideration and final CSAF approval
to be added to the AF TFI List and compete for Air Force Corporate Structure funding as TFI
initiatives. ACC/A5, as OCR for ACC participating Active Associations, will coordinate these
TFI initiatives with their NGB and AFRC counterparts for similar HAF/A8X and CSAF actions.
A6.2. (ACC) Applicability. This publication applies to the Regular Air Force (RegAF), the
Air Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard. Commanders at all levels are expected to seek
ways to gain benefits from synergizing Air Force component capabilities.
A6.3. (ACC) Strategic Vision. While the specific strategic goals for TFI may be somewhat
different for each ACC air and ground weapon system and other support organizational TFI
initiatives, the AF and ACC strategic vision remains focused on an expeditionary mindset and
the desire to maintain the highest levels of force readiness while sustaining the maximum
capability to the war fighter. Toward this end, ACC developed long range positions for the TF
that will be integrated into the Combat Air Force Strategic Plan and will clearly articulate future
TF goals and objectives for the Air Force. In doing so, ACC will strive to retain a desired
balance in Combat Air Forces (CAF) asset utilization for training, combat capability needs for
War Mobilization Planning-5 (WMP-5), Major Combat Operations, Cost Mitigation/Strategic
Reserve and Sustained Operations for Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) and the
Consolidated Planning Schedule (CPS).
A6.4. (ACC) ACC Goals, Objectives, and Measures of Merit (MoM). ACC’s primary goal
is to provide an overall CAF fighter; Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance; C2 and
enabler force structure that provides the capability to support CCDR requirements driven by
current DoD and AF Strategy. ACC has two overarching guidelines to shape its TFI process and
support its goal: (1) TFI initiatives must preserve access to combat power for today’s fight and
(2) TFI initiatives must improve or maintain the long term stability of the mission capability.
Each ACC TFI initiative must generally support ACC’s goals, objectives and accompanying
Measures of Merit (MoMs), although each initiative will have specific objectives and MoMs that
will support the enterprise wide vision.
OBJECTIVE 1.0: Balance aircrew/operators and maintenance experience levels across the
Total Force.
Measure 1.1: Decrease in time to experience and upgrade of aircrew/operator. The intent is to
measure the time (in months) that it takes for a new aircrew/operator to become experienced (e.g.
 76                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


500 flight hours for a fighter pilot) or to upgrade to flight lead. By using TFI, we expect to have
a better balance of experience levels and sortie distribution across the enterprise. This, in turn,
should lower the amount of time (in months) that it takes to reach the 500-flight hour mark or to
complete upgrade to flight lead status.
Measure 1.2: Achieve/sustain 80% of task-qualified maintainers by increasing access to training
opportunities.
Measure 1.3: Maintain desired maintenance experience on assigned Mission Design Series
(MDS) emphasizing Special Experience Identifier (SEI). When the SEI was de-emphasized in
the assignment shred, it left the RegAF maintenance assignment system broken to the point
where a crew chief (Fighter-Fighter; Heavy-Heavy), regardless of MDS experience, could be
assigned to an unfamiliar MDS crew chief billet. As this has an impact on the type of RegAF
maintenance personnel assigned to Active Associations, emphasis on successful SEI tracking and
familiar MDS assignments are critical to fixing this for the TF. With successful SEI data
collection, this is an item that will be tracked and maintained in Status of Training reports at an
Active Association in order to help stabilize the RegAF assignment system.
Measure 1.4: Achieve desired balance in CAF aircraft utilization. This measure is designed to
look at overall aircraft utilization in AEF, CPS and home station training to see how the fleet is
being utilized. The intent is to measure utilization more broadly than just Utilization (UTE)
rates, because there are multiple factors, besides TFI and UTE rates, that impact overall aircraft
utilization.
OBJECTIVE 2.0: Increase capacity for absorption of RegAF aircrew/operators for a given
total-force (RegAF/ANG/AFRC) force structure.
Measure 2.1: Total absorption rate of RegAF aircrew/operators for a given total-force
(RegAF/ANG/AFRC) force structure increases over total absorption rate using RegAF-only
force structure.
OBJECTIVE 3.0: Increase availability of forces to support CPS, combat (AEF rotational,
WMP-5) and training requirements.
Measure 3.1: Sustain 97% reporting of Unit Type Code (UTC) availability and readiness in AEF
Reporting Tool (ART).
Measure 3.2: Sustain desired RegAF dwell time by MDS/UTC.
Measure 3.3: Compare TFI assumptions regarding manpower, manning, participation,
equipment and Operations and Maintenance (O&M) funding against RegAF/ARC resourcing. In
order to properly analyze a TFI association, both ARC and RegAF resources in the Program
Objective Memorandum (POM) and the year-of-execution should be evaluated in terms how
they are supporting the association. If the resources (manpower, manning, participation,
equipment and O&M funding) are deemed insufficient, then changes should be made to the
resource models and assumptions.
Measure 3.4: Aircrew/operators maintain Combat Mission Ready Status or Basic Mission
Capable status, as appropriate.
Measure 3.5: Sustain CAF standard in repeat/recur and ground abort rates. Repeat/recur is a key
measure of quality of maintenance for both RegAF and ARC. Chargeable deviations, such as
ground aborts, cause the most maintenance deviations from the planned flying schedule.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                               77


Correcting this type of deviation is within the control of the association and should result in
improved Flying Schedule Effectiveness rates. Components will continue to utilize
MAJCOM/NGB-approved Maintenance Performance Indicators, as appropriate, to help measure
maintenance quality.
A6.5. (Added-ACC) Core Guidance. ACC TFI initiatives must be requirements driven and
support the TF objective of meeting CCDR steady state and surge requirements. Figure A6.1.,
ACC TFI Process Road Map, describes the process by which ACC integration initiative ideas are
vetted for approval. Each integration initiative will have an ACC lead proponent OPR who will
be responsible for the development of all ACC required initiative products. Acting on behalf of
COMACC, ACC/A5 will designate an HQ ACC lead proponent for each TFI initiative involving
an ACC unit. ACC lead proponents or OPRs are normally the program Functional Area
Managers and/or Program Element Monitors responsible for program management and
resourcing.
A6.6. (ACC) Concept of Operation. Integration is achieved when two units, from different
components, provide a combat capability through shared resources (manpower and equipment).
Associate units normally provide manpower only that will co-locate and work with host unit
manpower in the functions to be integrated. Host and associate unit personnel train together on a
daily basis for the assigned mission on host equipment. The end-state is to allow, when tasked,
for an expeditionary unit seamlessly consisting of members from both the host and associate unit
personnel to deploy under the Combatant Command/Operational Control (OPCON) of a CCDR.
Host and associate units share the responsibility to support tasked missions.
   A6.6.1. (Added-ACC) TFI UTCs. (OPR: AF/A5XW) For posturing and tasking, TFI
   UTCs exist in two types of packages; equipment and personnel. The equipment package will
   be postured and tasked by the host to support the mission. The personnel UTCs are postured
   exclusively by each component. At execution the deployed package will consist of both host
   and associate personnel to the maximum extent possible.
   A6.6.2. (Added-ACC) Designated Operational Capability (DOC) Statement.                   (OPR:
   ACC/A3) Both host and associate unit DOC statements must be modified to reflect the
   association and roles being played by the host (primary support with weapons system) and
   associate unit (personnel only support to host weapons system). It is the synergistic effect of
   the functional integration that enables the association, as a whole, to provide its capability to
   support AEF, WMP-5 contingencies, and required training.
   A6.6.3. (Added-ACC) Unit Manning Document (UMD). (OPR: ACC/A3T) Host and
   associate units will maintain separate UMDs. UMDs will be based on UTC package position
   requirements as much as possible. This requires that separate UMDs be based on an agreed
   upon mix of RegAF-ARC manpower required to fill an overall association UMD. Together,
   these UMDs support not only UTC WMP-5 requirements, but also AEF
   tasking/contingencies and training. This will require planners to take a balanced approach to
   the manning requirements in order to achieve the association’s manning end-state required to
   meet all three supported areas.
   A6.6.4. (Added-ACC) Status of Resources and Training System/ART Reporting/Posturing.
   Although host and associate units are required to report their status separately, these separate
   reports must be considered as part of an overall association.
 78                                                AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


   A6.6.5. (Added-ACC) AEF Tasking. At execution, the host unit will be tasked to support
   the AEF commitment or contingency. Lead package (positions) should, at execution, be
   filled by both RegAF and ARC personnel. The host unit commander must collaborate with
   the associate unit commander to identify associate personnel who are available through
   voluntary participation to fill lead UTC positions. The agreed upon lead package is then
   completed as a mixed package through fragging the necessary associate personnel to fill
   these positions. Package leadership positions will be filled based on association command
   collaboration as well. If required, follow-on UTC packages will be built/filled based on
   availability, voluntary participation or non-voluntary mobilization if necessary (DoD level
   authorization required). Non-voluntary mobilization can only be initiated through the Office
   of the President IAW Title 10 U.S. Code 12301/12302/12304.
A6.7. (Added-ACC) ACC TFI Process. This supplement, including the figure and
attachment, establishes ACC’s TFI process. The attachment, along with instructions and
procedures contained in AFI 90-1001, defines roles and responsibilities for submitting and
staffing ARC integration requests. This process does not limit initiatives to within ACC. All
originators/ requestors from sources outside ACC are encouraged to submit integration requests
affecting ACC units IAW this supplement.
A6.8. (ACC) TFI Utilization Worksheet. Initiative requests should be submitted using
Attachment 7, TFI Utilization Worksheet. This worksheet should describe the concept and
identify the TF requirements driving the initiative. This worksheet does not replace the Initiative
Review Worksheet (IRW) referenced in AFI 90-1001; instead it serves to frame concepts and to
provide basic information that will be used to validate the requirement. Submit requirements
through the chain of command. Figure A6.1 defines ACC’s TFI process, as referenced in the
second block of Figure A2.2, Integration Initiative Road Map, of the basic AFI. Staffing and
approval of requirements will be IAW Figure A6.1 and the instructions below.
   A6.8.1. (Added-ACC) IRW may require programming action through the POM process.
   Timelines for POM submittals vary within DoD and requestors are encouraged to submit
   requests at the earliest opportunity.
   A6.8.2. (Added-ACC) The ACC Staff, in particular A1 and A5, will work to assure TFI
   initiatives involving unit moves/stand-ups are appropriately prioritized to achieve the greatest
   return for the resources invested. Prioritization will be ratified by corporate process events
   timed appropriately for the processes involved.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010               79


Figure A6.1. (Added) ACC TFI Process Road Map.
 80                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


A6.9. (Added-ACC) Integration Requirements/Constructs. Use the following instructions
for submitting integration requirements/constructs. Initiatives must be sponsored to continue in
the process. If not, the package will be returned to the last major stakeholder as required.
   A6.9.1. (Added-ACC) Step 1. The Originator/Requestor:
       A6.9.1.1. (Added-ACC) The originator/requestor identifies the need for an association
       that fulfills capabilities to support unit/combat commander requirements using
       Attachment 7. The key element for the worksheet is to identify the association’s support
       of the strategic vision and objectives for TFI.
           A6.9.1.1.1. (Added-ACC) TFI, within ACC, is currently limited to two distinct
           integration types: Classic Association and Active Association.
           A6.9.1.1.2. (Added-ACC) May require research to develop the substantiating
           documentation, as well as close coordination with the ACC/A1.
           A6.9.1.1.3. (ACC) Supplementary documentation may be included as needed.
           A6.9.1.1.4. (ACC) Forward the proposal through the appropriate chain of command
           to the respective wing or organizational commander.
       A6.9.1.2. (Added-ACC) Wing/organizational commanders submit requests to their
       respective Numbered Air Force (NAF) commander for staffing.
   A6.9.2. (Added-ACC) Step 2. NAFs:
       A6.9.2.1. (Added-ACC) NAF functional proponents will review/staff worksheets for
       completeness, validity, and NAF/CC approval. Incomplete and non-validated requests
       will be returned to the originating organization. NAF review will determine if the request
       supports the strategic vision and objectives for TFI.
       A6.9.2.2. (Added-ACC) Validated requests will be reviewed to determine if they meet
       TFI (long-term, unit-sized), Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA), or Military
       Personnel Appropriations (MPA) Program (short-term, less than unit size, execution
       year) criteria. Normally, TFI is defined as two co-located units, sharing host-assigned
       equipment, facilities and other resources to efficiently and effectively train for each unit’s
       supporting DOC or Mission Directives. Non-co-located augmentation type agreements
       are usually not considered TFI associations.
       A6.9.2.3. (Added-ACC) MPA and IMA requests will be forwarded to the HQ OPR,
       ACC/A1, for approval.
       A6.9.2.4. (Added-ACC) Valid TFI requests will be forwarded to ACC/A5.
   A6.9.3. (Added-ACC) Step 3. ACC/A5 Review and Coordination:
       A6.9.3.1. (Added-ACC) TFI requests will be reviewed for completeness and validity.
       Incomplete and non-validated requests will be returned to the originating organization
       through the appropriate NAF commander.
       A6.9.3.2. (Added-ACC) Determine ACC functional proponent and facilitate follow-on
       coordination.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                         81


     A6.9.3.3. (Added-ACC) Forward request to the applicable HQ ACC functional (s) for
     an initial assessment to include executability, benefits, impacts to training and a Rough
     Order of Magnitude of implementation costs.
        A6.9.3.3.1. (Added-ACC) Facilitate ACC proponent coordination with AFRC/NGB
        to obtain initial ARC assessment of capability, implementation timeline and
        manpower requirements.
        A6.9.3.3.2. (Added-ACC) With the ACC proponent, assist in forming an ACC,
        ARC, and NAF working group to refine planning factors, objectives and capability
        requirements as required. Following the objectives of AFI 90-1001, association
        proposals will be developed to ensure the Air Force maintains the capability to meet
        CCDR requirements for both surge and sustained operations. The working group will
        review and establish planning factors that address operational availability, sustained
        and surge capability referenced to AEF dwell, and measures of merit to quantify
        objective attainment. ACC or HAF validated analytical tools should also be used to
        evaluate the initiative as required.
        A6.9.3.3.3. (Added-ACC) Executable requests that are within ARC capabilities will
        be considered as potential initiatives for ACC/CV consideration and direction.
        Requests deemed not executable or not supportable from the ARC or ACC
        perspective will be returned to the originating organization through the appropriate
        NAF commander.
        A6.9.3.3.4. (Added-ACC) Assist ACC proponent in                  building    a   staff
        package/briefing for obtaining ACC/CV support and approval.
  A6.9.4. (Added-ACC) Step 4. ACC/Directors Approval:
     A6.9.4.1. (Added-ACC) Review the proposed initiative and determine if it meets
     functional requirements and goals. ACC/A5 will coordinate ACC/CV review if
     approved.
     A6.9.4.2. (Added-ACC) Proposed initiatives not approved for further evaluation will be
     returned to the originating organization and ACC/A5 will be informed of decision.
  A6.9.5. (Added-ACC) Step 5. ACC/CV Approval:
     A6.9.5.1. (Added-ACC) Review the proposed initiative and determine if it meets
     command objectives/ requirements. At ACC/A5’s discretion, this may be accomplished
     by a formal briefing or staff package.
     A6.9.5.2. (Added-ACC) Proposed initiatives not approved for further evaluation will be
     returned to the originating organization through the appropriate NAF commander.
     A6.9.5.3. (Added-ACC) Upon ACC/CV approval, the IRW will be accomplished. The
     functional proponent (s), with ACC/A5 assistance, will draft the IRW with support
     functionals assisting by providing manpower, communication, legal, and financial
     expertise to ensure all aspects of the IRW are completed.
        A6.9.5.3.1. (Added-ACC) See Attachment 3 in the basic AFI for IRW instructions.
 82                                             AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


          A6.9.5.3.2. (Added-ACC) Proponent expertise, current organizational structure
          knowledge and working relationship with the beneficiary organization is crucial for
          determining how best to integrate ARC resources.
       A6.9.5.4. (Added-ACC) Prepare staffing package and obtain HQ ACC and ARC 3-
       letter/2-letter coordination of the IRW.
          A6.9.5.4.1. (Added-ACC) In concert with functional directorates/proponents,
          incorporate recommendations/changes into the IRW. If significant IRW changes are
          incorporated, the IRW will be re-coordinated for concurrence.
          A6.9.5.4.2. (Added-ACC) Through ACC/JA, obtain required legal review.
       A6.9.5.5. (Added-ACC) Forward ACC sponsored IRW to AF/A8.
   A6.9.6. (Added-ACC) Step 6. AF/A8:
       A6.9.6.1. (Added-ACC) IAW AF/A8 procedures, obtain AF/JAA legal approval and
       introduce the initiative to the AF TFI corporate process. NOTE: the TFI corporate
       process, as currently outlined in AFI 90-1001, consists of the TFI Working Group,
       Integrated Process Team (IPT) and General Officer Steering Group. These process
       elements may be transformed into another process, such as the TF Enterprise (TFE).
       A6.9.6.2. (Added-ACC) If changes or additional evaluation is required, the proposed
       IRW will be returned to ACC/A5 for action and completion of required actions.
       A6.9.6.3. (Added-ACC) IRWs not approved will be returned to the originating
       organization through ACC/A5 to the appropriate NAF commander.
   A6.9.7. (Added-ACC) Step 7. SECAF Approval: IAW established procedures, SECAF
   will approve the association and publish on the TFI list or, if disapproved, return request
   back to AF/A8.
   A6.9.8. (Added-ACC) Step 8. ACC/A5 Basing Actions:
       A6.9.8.1. (Added-ACC) Assist incorporating TFI initiatives into the POM and
       programming process to include obtaining initiative’s priority ranking from ACC
       Corporate Structure for placement on the command’s Initiative Priority List.
       A6.9.8.2. (Added-ACC) Establish/chair an IPT for in-depth planning and completion of
       the Integration Plan (I-Plan).
          A6.9.8.2.1. (Added-ACC) IPT composition will be the functional proponent(s), A1,
          A2/3/10, A4/7, A6,
FM, JA and others as required.
          A6.9.8.2.2. (Added-ACC) See Attachment 5 in the basic AFI for I-Plan
          instructions.
       A6.9.8.3. (Added-ACC) Submit basing action request.
       A6.9.8.4. (Added-ACC) Establish and lead Site Survey team.
       A6.9.8.5. (Added-ACC) Establish and lead Site Activation Task Force (SATAF).
       A6.9.8.6. (Added-ACC) Through the SATAF, monitor the beddown process.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                       83


     A6.9.8.7. (Added-ACC) Completion of the beddown process signals the beginning of
     the operational phase. Responsibility shifts from A5 to operational unit and functional
     proponent.
 84                                                 AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


                                  Attachment 7 (Added-ACC)
                              TFI UTILIZATION WORKSHEET

A7.1. (Added-ACC) Instructions: Use this worksheet to describe the proposed concept.
Define the requirement(s) by explaining the need and how the integration idea supports TFI
strategic vision and objectives. The concept may suggest: (1) to increase or decrease an existing
support to a mission, (2) a realignment of ARC positions from one mission to another, or (3) the
establishment of a new ARC integration program within ACC. This worksheet provides the
initial information to help frame the concept and the basic information that will be used to
validate the requirement.
Originator Name/rank/organization/contact information: (If known, provide the same
information of your component (NGB/ANG, AFRC) counterpart under sub-title OCR)

                                              Concept:
 (Describe here the purpose of the initiative, units, and what requirement it is intended to fulfill.
 Example: F-22A Classic Associate operations and maintenance at Langley AFB, VA. Host unit
  is the 1 FW (unit-equipped) and the associate unit is the 192 FW ANG. Requirements are…)



  How does the association support the TFI strategic vision and objectives and what are the
                        unit specific objectives and Measures of Merit?
 (Describe here how it follows the strategic vision and objectives. Additionally list tentative unit
                               objectives and measures of merit.)



 Are the two units physically at the same location sharing the host equipment and facilities?
 (Also indicate whether ARC members will be funded by their components or the RegAF; how the
  experience of each component’s members will be leveraged or improved by the initiative; and
       whether ARC and RegAF members will be working with each other on a daily basis.)



  What planning factors are used to determine operational availability, sustained and surge
  capability referenced to AEF dwell, and what measures of merit will be used to quantify
                                     objective attainment?
  - Planning Factors: (voluntary participation, mobilization, etc)
  - Sustained and surge capability: (UTC availability or other measurements)
  - Measures of merit: (specific and measurable)

  At a minimum, describe the Chain of command and organizational structure. Provide a
    wiring diagram with separate host/associate unit organizational chains side-by-side.
AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010                                                          85




  Identify manpower that is additive or realigned, and explain reasons. For RegAF billets
 that will be replaced by ARC billets, what is the desired full-time equivalent (FTE) ratio?
       What is the number of part-time support billets desired to replace each billet?




 What is the desired mix of full-time support personnel (AGRs, ART not TRs) to part-time
             support personnel? Will RegAF funded MPA days be required?
(The primary duty of AGRs and ARTs is to administer, instruct, and train reservists or TRs. The
                        normal is an average 35% FT/65% PT mix.)


   How many days of participation per month will be required for each part-time ARC
   member to maintain proficiency, currency, readiness and/or safety in their position?
     (TRs are limited to approx 60 RPA training days/year (one weekend per month and 14
   days/summer) and also require RegAF funded Man-Days and their concurrence to work in
                              excess of these RPA training days.)


 Aside from manpower billets, identify all other costs involved and which organization(s)
 will fund the requirement? (e.g., flying hours, travel/per diem, MILCON, O&M, initial
                                    beddown costs, etc.)




    Provide a brief statement on how RegAF and ARC organizations will keep funding
            streams and tracking of expenditures separate, as required by law.




  Does the ARC associate unit ever support federal missions within CONUS or OCONUS
  missions in support of Combatant Commanders either by deployment or reach-back? If
 so, how are the tasked, and how are they ordered to active duty and placed under OPCON
                                       to that CCDR.




  Will ARC associate unit members provide training to RegAF personnel while in Title 32
86                                         AFI90-1001_ACCSUP_I 27 AUGUST 2010


                             or AFR Title 10 status?
     (If supporting an FTU, FTD, how will this activity be funded and by whom?)
