BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-104
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  23 APRIL 2013
                                                                     AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                 Supplement
                                                                             6 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                            Safety

                                                    NUCLEAR SURETY TAMPER CONTROL
                                                          AND DETECTION PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFSEC/SEWN                                                            Certified by: AF/SE
                                                               (Maj Gen Margaret H. Woodward)
                                                                                       Pages: 9
Supersedes:    AFI 91-104, 10 September
               2010
                                             (ACC)
OPR: HQ ACC/SEW                                                         Certified by: HQ ACC/SE
                                                                          (Michael K. Lawhorne)
                                                                                          Pages:3
Supersedes:    AFI 91-104_ACCSUP, 28
               November 2006


This Instruction implements AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety. This publication
is consistent with AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. It provides guidance on setting up
procedures for nuclear surety tamper control through the Two-Person Concept and for tamper
detection through approved nuclear component sealing methods. It applies to all Air Force units
with a mission involving operations, maintenance, security, or logistics movement of nuclear
weapons or certified critical components. It also applies to all Air Force units responsible for
sealing requirements according to applicable safety rules for nuclear weapon systems or the
handling and storage procedures for certified critical components. This Instruction also applies to
the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard of the United States performing nuclear duties.
This Instruction sets forth guidance regarding nuclear surety tamper control and detection
programs managed by Air Force civilian and military personnel, including the Air Force Reserve
and Air National Guard. Failure to observe prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this
 2                                               AFI91-104_ACCSUP_I 6 DECEMBER 2013


directive in paragraphs 1.2., 1.3., 1.4., 3.4. and associated sub-paragraphs of those stated, by
military personnel is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
Violations may result in administrative disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable
criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm. This
Instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013. The applicable Privacy Act System Notice, Serious Incident
Reports      (June    11,     1997,     62      FR     31793),     is   available    online    at:
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf.          Send major command (MAJCOM)
supplements to this instruction to AFSEC/SEW, 9700 G Avenue, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670
for coordination before publication. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

(ACC) AFI 91-104, Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs, is supplemented
to provide command unique requirements as follows. This supplement applies to members of the
Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) who are serving on Title 10
active duty orders performing an ACC mission. The authority to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication is identified as a Tier-1. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Contact supporting records managers as required. Send NAF/Wing supplements to this
instruction to OPR for coordination before publication. Send comments and suggested changes
on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the Air Combat Command
(ACC) Weapons Safety Branch, HQ ACC/SEW, 220 Sweeney Blvd, Joint Base Langley-Eustis,
VA 23665-2714.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised to make administrative changes and to reflect organizational
changes since the last publication of this Instruction. This publication must be completely
reviewed.

(ACC) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
revision deletes redundant requirement for nonqualified Two-Person Concept team members and
also proficiency training requirements for loading and unloading war reserved and non-war
reserved assets. This supplement aligns with the Air Combat Command Headquarters
restructuring.
1. Requirements and Procedures.
     1.1. Tamper Control Program. The Two-Person Concept (TPC) is central to nuclear surety
     tamper control measures in the Air Force. It is designed to make sure that a lone individual
AFI91-104_ACCSUP_I 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                               3


   cannot perform an incorrect act or unauthorized procedure on a nuclear weapon, nuclear
   weapon system, or certified critical component.
   1.2. Concept Enforcement. Each organization with a mission or function involving nuclear
   weapons, nuclear weapon systems, or certified critical components:
       1.2.1. Identifies no-lone zones (where at least two authorized persons must be present
       during any operation or task).
           1.2.1.1. (Added-ACC) Before entering a no-lone zone, brief personnel that the
           Two-Person Concept applies. Supervisors must ensure that individuals are aware of
           the location of all no-lone zones, location of critical components (as defined in AFI
           91-105) within the no-lone zone where they will perform their duties, emergency
           procedures, and methods for reporting violations and hazards. (T-1)
       1.2.2. Enforces the Two-Person Concept.
       1.2.3. Develops procedures to limit entry to authorized persons who meet the
       requirements of paragraph 1.3.
       1.2.3. (ACC) The Sole Vouching Authority (SVA) identifies individuals wishing to gain
       entry to a no-lone zone, verifies authorization for entry to the no-lone zone, and validates
       need for entry into the no-lone zone. The team must be knowledgeable of the task the
       individual will perform and is capable of monitoring performance, or the individual is to
       assist the team in the task they are performing. (T-1)
Note: SVA is the maintenance or operations representative identified to the entry controller as
having responsibility of deciding who will enter the no-lone zone. Normally, this is the senior
member of the first team entering the area. SVA may transfer between individuals, provided the
two individuals jointly identify the change to the entry controller. There will be only one SVA at
a time in any exclusion area.
   1.3. Team Requirements. (Refer to paragraph 1.6.1 for criteria on foreign nationals.) A Two-
   Person Concept team consists of at least two individuals who:
   1.3. (ACC) Unit inspectors or evaluators who meet the requirements of this paragraph may
   form their own Two-Person Concept team in the performance of their duties.
       1.3.1. Are certified under the Personnel Reliability Program (PRP), as specified in DoD
       5210.42-R_AFMAN 10-3902, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program.
       1.3.2. Know the nuclear surety requirements of the task they perform.
       1.3.3. Can promptly detect an incorrect act or unauthorized procedure.
       1.3.4. Have successfully completed nuclear surety training according to AFI 91-101, Air
       Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program.
       1.3.5. Are designated to perform the required task.
   1.4. Two Person Concept Violations. Report a Two-Person Concept violation when a lone
   individual in a no-lone zone has the opportunity to tamper with or damage a nuclear weapon,
   nuclear weapon system, or certified critical component. Refer to AFMAN 91- 221, Weapons
   Safety Investigations and Reports, for reporting guidance.
 4                                                AFI91-104_ACCSUP_I 6 DECEMBER 2013


NOTE: If TPC is maintained by more than two persons, a lone individual may be temporarily
obscured from sight or not directly observed by the remaining TPC team if the lone individual is
in a location that would preclude the ability to perform an incorrect act or unauthorized
procedure that could affect the nuclear weapons, the weapon system, or critical components (i.e.
There is no violation of the two-person concept). However, the TPC team must maintain
awareness of the location and justification for the lone individual to be temporarily out of sight
(e.g., an individual whether on PRP or non-PRP under escort, may enter a lavatory or other
sealed compartment within a no-lone zone without continuous direct observation by the
remaining TPC team as long as that compartment does not afford access as previously
described).

A momentary breach of the no-lone zone is not a violation if no individual had the opportunity to
perform an incorrect act or unauthorized procedure. In performing certain tasks, team members
may lose sight of each other or be far apart. One team member may be briefly out of sight to
perform a specific task if it is unsafe or physically impossible to maintain constant observation.
     1.4. (ACC) Report violations of the Two-Person Concept, including emergency response
     through the unit command post to the commander. A Two-Person Concept team will
     ascertain if unauthorized acts were performed, inspect involved certified critical components,
     verify their status, and reestablish the integrity of the system. Accomplish applicable visual
     and functional checks for components that have such procedures established. (T-1)
     1.5. Authorized Deviations. You may deviate from the Two-Person Concept when:
        1.5.1. The nuclear Weapon System Safety Rules (WSSR) specifically authorize a
        deviation.
        1.5.2. An emergency presents an immediate threat to the safety of personnel or the
        security of a nuclear weapon, nuclear weapon system, or certified critical component.
        War plan exercises are not considered emergencies.
     1.6. Additional Conditions:
        1.6.1. Non-US Personnel. Per AFI 91-112, Safety Rules For US/NATO Strike Fighters,
        for US custodial units at allied installations, foreign nationals may be part of a Two-
        Person Concept, and host nations will implement equivalent personnel reliability
        programs.
        1.6.2. Entry Control Personnel. The Two-Person Concept applies to individuals who
        control entry into a no-lone zone. Entry controllers may not form a Two-Person Concept
        team with personnel inside the no-lone zone.
        1.6.2. (ACC) Entry controllers will not be the SVA. (T-1)
        1.6.3. Couriers. Couriers ensure that the host installation meets Two-Person Concept
        requirements and no-lone zones are delineated around nuclear logistics aircraft.
        1.6.4. PRP Interim-Certified Personnel Restrictions. Two interim-certified individuals
        may not form a Two-Person Concept team. Also, an interim-certified member may not
        pilot a single-seat aircraft loaded with nuclear weapons.
        1.6.5. Nonqualified Personnel. An individual who does not qualify as a member of a
        Two-Person Concept team may enter a no-lone zone to perform a specific task only if
AFI91-104_ACCSUP_I 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   5


       escorted by a Two-Person Concept team. Escorts should be capable of detecting incorrect
       acts or unauthorized procedures. Escort procedures will be accomplished in accordance
       with the applicable directive(s) governing the nuclear weapon system or critical
       component defining the no-lone zone.
       1.6.6. (Added-ACC) After entry into a no-lone zone, the supervisor of each authorized
       team controls individual team members within the no-lone zone.
2. Tamper Detection Program.
   2.1. Sealing Requirements. Certain items must be sealed because either:
   2.1. (ACC) OPLAN tasked units will comply with any additional sealing requirements of
   the augmented-MAJCOM supplements to this instruction.
       2.1.1. Air Force nuclear WSSRs require it, or,
       2.1.2. In the case of some certified critical components, seals protect their certification
       status while in storage or during transportation, as specified in AFI 91-105, Critical
       Components
   2.2. Sealing Methods. Authorized sealing methods include:
       2.2.1. Safety Wiring and Sealing. Two types of seals are authorized using this method.
       The first method consists of seals composed of a malleable material installed with a
       crimping device and controlled die to form an impressed distinctive mark or unique
       identifier. The second method consists of seals applied with self-locking, non-reversible
       feature with a singularly unique serial number/alpha, color control system. Both types of
       seals are used with safety wire connected to certain switches, covers, handles, or levers.
       Breakage or alteration of the wire or seal provides evidence/detection of possible
       unauthorized acts, access or tampering. Use this method only in no-lone zones.
       2.2.2. Tamper Detection Indicators (TDI). In this method, an approved TDI is placed so
       it will indicate if someone has activated, or had access to the interior of a certified critical
       component. Once the TDI is installed, evidence of tampering is visible to the naked eye
       or can be detected using special equipment.
           2.2.2.1. TDI and other authorized sealing methods proposed for use in nuclear
           weapons systems will be properly certified prior to use according to AFI 63-125,
           Nuclear Certification Program.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) oversees the Air Force Nuclear Surety Tamper
   Control and Detection Programs. Acting for AF/SE, the Chief of the Weapons Safety
   Division manages the programs and certifies the design safety features of sealing methods
   proposed for use in nuclear weapon systems according to AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear
   Safety Design Certification Program.
   3.2. Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group (NWSSG) recommends sealing requirements in
   operational nuclear weapon systems and proposes specific nuclear weapon system safety
   rules, if necessary. (See AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational
   Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules.)
6                                               AFI91-104_ACCSUP_I 6 DECEMBER 2013


    3.3. Major Commands:
       3.3.1. Develop and publish Field publications, as needed, to implement and enforce the
       Air Force Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs throughout their
       commands.
       3.3.1. (ACC) Where ACC directives do not cover a particular local situation, wings will
       develop local standard publications or checklists to ensure adequate control of certified
       critical components or nuclear weapon systems and application of the Tamper Control
       and Detection Programs.
       3.3.2. Develop and distribute procedures for sealing, where appropriate. At a minimum,
       the procedural publication will:
          3.3.2.1. State when and by whom seals can be applied and removed.
          3.3.2.2. Establish controls for the handling, receipt, storage, issue, inventory, and
          disposal of TDIs (including all residue), controlled dies and self-locking, non-
          reversible seals (example: roto-seals).
          3.3.2.3. Direct that TDIs, controlled dies and self-locking, non-reversible seals are
          stored and accounted for by individuals not responsible for their installation.
          3.3.2.4. Direct personnel to comply with the following steps for malleable seals only:
              3.3.2.4.1. Place a distinctive marking (determined locally) on malleable seals
              using a crimping device and die.
              3.3.2.4.2. Be sure to destroy any distinctive markings on malleable seals after you
              remove them.
          3.3.2.5. Direct personnel to verify seal integrity immediately following installation.
          Note: For aircraft only, verify seals before and after any task or operation performed
          in the immediate area of the seal. Do not verify aircraft seals before an operation or
          task during alert crew member exercises or actual responses, but do verify the seals
          after the exercise or alert.
          3.3.2.6. Require periodic inspections of seals on nuclear weapon-loaded aircraft,
          missile systems, and certified critical components in storage or transport.
          3.3.2.7. Require that only Two-Person Concept teams install seals and verify they
          remain intact.
          3.3.2.8. Direct training of maintenance personnel, aircrews, missile combat crews,
          and other involved personnel to recognize distinctive marking or serial numbers of
          the seals.
          3.3.2.9. Prescribe a course of action when an installed seal is found broken or shows
          evidence of tampering. At a minimum:
              3.3.2.9.1. Investigate the event and send a mishap report according to AFMAN
              91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports.
              3.3.2.9.2. Establish procedures to maintain control of the system until situation is
              resolved.
AFI91-104_ACCSUP_I 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                            7


             3.3.2.9.3. Check the integrity of the weapon system and reseal if integrity is
             assured.
             3.3.2.9.4. Prescribe a course of action when a seal is accidentally broken during
             authorized operations.
             3.3.2.9.5. Ensure training seals can be easily distinguished from, and are not used
             as, operational seals.
  3.4. Two-Person Concept Team Responsibilities.
  3.4. (ACC) It may be necessary to withdraw the Two-Person Concept team or change the
  original composition to meet the requirements of new or additional tasks. Coordinate changes
  with the team chief. Note: Keep the number of personnel authorized in a no-lone zone to a
  minimum consistent with the tasks.
     3.4.1. Enforce the Two-Person Concept while performing a task or operation and
     continue to enforce it until you are either relieved by authorized personnel or you have
     secured the nuclear weapon, nuclear weapon system, or certified critical component.
     3.4.2. Take immediate, positive steps to prevent or stop an incorrect procedure or
     unauthorized act.
     3.4.3. Report deviations immediately to the appropriate supervisor.




                                           MARGARET H. WOODWARD
                                           Major General, USAF
                                           Chief of Safety

                                           (ACC)

                                           JAMES A. MARSHALL, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director of Safety (ACC)
 8                                            AFI91-104_ACCSUP_I 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-ACC) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
(Added-ACC) AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 15 February 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 8 August 2012
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 13 October 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety
Rules, 24 June 2010
AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program, 17 November 2010
AFI 91-105, Critical Components, 7 January 2011
AFI 91-112, Safety Rules for US/NATO Strike Fighters, 9 September 2009
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
DoD S-5210.41M_AFMAN 31-108, Nuclear Weapons Security Manual, 13 July 2009
DoD 5210.42_ AFMAN 10-3902, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program, 13
November 2006
AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports, 8 November 2010
AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 December 2010
FF-S-2738A, Tamper Seals
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-ACC) ACC—Air Combat Command
AF—- Air Force
AFI—- Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—- Air Force Manual
(Added-ACC) AFOSI—Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—- Air Force Policy Directive
AFSEC/SEW—- Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division
AFI91-104_ACCSUP_I 6 DECEMBER 2013                             9


AFSEC/SEWN—- AFSEC/SEW, Nuclear Weapons Safety Branch
AFSEC—- Air Force Safety Center
AF/SE—- Air Force Chief of Safety
(Added-ACC) MAJCOM—Major Command
NWSSG—- Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group
(Added-ACC) OPLAN—Operational Plan
(Added-ACC) SVA—Sole Vouching Authority
(Added-ACC) UCNI—Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information
WSSR—Weapons System Safety Rule
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PRP—- Personnel Reliability Program
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
TDI—- Tamper Detection Indicators
(ACC) TDI—Tamper Detection Indicator
TPC—Two Person Concept
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
