BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-801
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                25 MARCH 2005

                                                          UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
                                                                                  Supplement 1
                                                                                      7 FEBRUARY 2006
                                                                       Certified Current 27 December 2011
                                                                                          Command Policy

                                                                    ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY, AND
                                                               OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH COUNCILS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/IEE (Col Richard Ashworth)                        Certified by: SAF/IEE (Ms Maureen T. Koetz)
                                                                                            Pages: 11
                                                                                       Distribution: F

                                                 (USAFE)
OPR: HQ USAFE/A7CVP                                                       Certified by: HQ USAFE/A7CV
     (Ms Steffanie K Metzger)                                                          (Mr Dennis J. Scott)
                                                                                                  Pages: 3
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupa-
tional Health (ESOH), dated 1 September 2004, by establishing Environment, Safety, and Occupational
Health Councils (ESOHC) at HQ USAF, HQ MAJCOMs and at installations to ensure a systematic, inter-
disciplinary approach to achieve ESOH goals throughout the Air Force. This instruction supersedes AFI
32-7005, Environmental Protection Committees. It applies to all Air Force personnel, Air Force Reserve,
the Air National Guard and all Air Force installations with more than 300 assigned personnel. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Dis-
position Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and con-
flicts between this and other publications to SAF/IEE, 1665 AF Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1665,
on an Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. MAJCOMs may supple-
ment this instruction to include command-unique requirements.
This is the initial publication of AFI 90-801 and must be completely reviewed.

(USAFE) AFI 90-801, 25 March 2005, is supplemented as follows: This supplement applies to all
United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) units. It does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes pre-
scribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
2                                                     AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006


and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https:/
/afrims.amc.af.mil.

Section A—How To Use This Instruction

1. Background. The Air Force will provide safe and healthful workplaces and conduct operations in a
manner that minimizes risk to mission accomplishment while preserving resources, protecting the envi-
ronment, and safeguarding Air Force personnel and the public both on and off the installation. As the
senior Air Force environment, safety, and occupational health steering group at each level of command,
the ESOHC reviews policies and programs, establishes goals, monitors progress, and advises leadership.
ESOHCs oversee implementation of AFPD 90-8 and all related guidance. ESOHCs are an integral part of
the Air Force ESOH Management System (ESOHMS).

2. Concept.
    2.1. This instruction provides HQ USAF, major commands (MAJCOMs), MAJCOM equivalents and
    installations with a framework to oversee the Core Mission Areas’ integration of Air Force environ-
    ment, safety, and occupational health programs as defined by AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and
    Occupational Health, AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, AFPD 91-2, Safety Program,
    AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health, AFPD 32-70 Environmental Quality, AFPD 40-2,
    Radioactive Materials, and AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program.
    2.2. The ESOHC should ensure the appropriate level of ESOH assets are sustained, restored, and
    modernized to achieve the desired mission capability using a risk-based decision making process.

3. Purpose. The ESOHC is the cornerstone of the ESOH program and provides senior leadership
involvement and direction at all levels of command; annually establishes goals, measures, objectives, and
targets; and provides additional ESOH guidance to subordinate organizations as required.

4. ESOHC Membership. ESOHC members ensure their areas of responsibility participate in the inter-
disciplinary, integrated approach to environment, safety, and occupational health issues. All ESOHCs
must comply with the ESOHC responsibilities outlined in Section B.
    4.1. HQ US Air Force (HQ USAF): The ESOHC will be co-chaired by SAF/IE and the Vice Chief of
    Staff of the Air Force. The membership will include representatives from the Secretariat and HQ
    USAF two-letter offices. SAF/IEE will serve as executive secretary. Each staff office designates a
    primary and an alternate member with decision-making authority to serve on the ESOHC. The mem-
    bers must be a General Officer or a member of the Senior Executive Service. The ESOHC chairper-
    sons designate other members to serve on the ESOHC as required. HQ USAF will ensure ESOHCs
    are established at MAJCOMs and will monitor their compliance with this AFI and other directives as
    applicable to ESOH management and oversight.
    4.2. MAJCOMs: The ESOHC membership will include representatives of all two-letter offices. The
    commander will serve as the chairperson, but may delegate to the vice commander. The chairperson
    will select the executive secretary. Each directorate/staff office designates a primary and an alternate
    member with decision-making authority to serve on the ESOHC. The ESOHC chairperson designates
    other members to serve on the ESOHC as required. MAJCOMs will ensure ESOHCs are established
    at all installations within the operational control of the MAJCOMs and monitor their compliance with
AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                     3


   this AFI and other directives as applicable to ESOH management and oversight. The ESOHC moni-
   tors progress toward achieving higher headquarters goals, and reports progress and issues to higher
   headquarters for assistance/resolution.
   4.2. (USAFE) HQ Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC) Membership.
   The HQ USAFE ESOHC membership is as follows: Vice Commander (USAFE/CV), Host Nation
   Advisor (HQ USAFE/CCH), HQ USAFE/Personnel Directorate (A1)/ Directorate of Air and Space
   Operations (A3)/ Directorate of Logistics (A4)/ Plans and Programs Directorate (A5/8)/ Communica-
   tions and Information Directorate (A6)/ Installation and Mission Support Directorate (A7)/ Financial
   Management (FM)/ Inspector General (IG)/ Judge Advocate (JA)/ Public Affairs (PA)/ Safety (SE)/
   Surgeon General (SG), Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service International (DRMSI) Europe,
   Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) Europe and Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA)
   Europe. USAFE/CV will serve as the Chair. The ESOHC Chair can establish an executive secretariat.
   The executive secretariat is comprised of representatives from Civil Engineer Division (HQ USAFE/
   A7C), SE and SG. The executive secretariat pre-briefs the ESOHC Chair in preparation for ESOHC
   meetings as required and maintains the schedule for all major command (MAJCOM) ESOHC activi-
   ties. One member of the executive secretariat, selected on a rotating basis, will be responsible for
   scheduling and facilitating meetings, preparing minutes, keeping records, publishing decisions and
   tracking status of action items.
   4.3. Installations: The wing commander will serve as the chairperson, but may delegate to the vice
   wing commander. The chairperson will select the executive secretary. In addition, the ESOHC mem-
   bership will include group commanders, representatives from each 2-letter office, and all tenant orga-
   nizations as a minimum. The Designated Employee Representative will be invited to participate
   unless representation is otherwise covered under management-labor contracts. The ESOHC monitors
   progress toward achieving higher headquarters goals, and reports progress and issues to higher head-
   quarters for assistance/resolution.
   4.3. (USAFE) Installation ESOHCs. The ESOHC Chair can establish an executive secretariat. The
   executive secretariat is comprised of representatives from Environmental, Safety and Occupational
   Health (ESOH). The executive secretariat pre-briefs the ESOHC Chair in preparation for ESOHC
   meetings as required and maintains the schedule for all installation ESOHC activities. One member of
   the executive secretariat, on a rotating basis, will be responsible for scheduling and facilitating meet-
   ings, preparing minutes, keeping records, publishing decisions and tracking status of action items.

Section B—Requirements and Records

5. Responsibilities:
   5.1. All ESOHCs will:
       5.1.1. Meet at least semi-annually.
       5.1.2. Ensure a systematic, interdisciplinary approach to environment, safety, and occupational
       health and ensure Core Mission Areas integrate this approach into planning, budgeting and deci-
       sion-making.
       5.1.3. Establish sub-groups and working groups as necessary to support local initiatives and
       emphasis. (i.e. cross-functional team). The ESOHCs will exercise their independent judgment in
       determining what action to take upon the recommendations of such groups.
4                                                    AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006


       5.1.4. Act as the primary executive steering group to ensure ESOH management decisions
       enhance mission capability.
       5.1.5. Oversee ESOHMS implementation and ESOH performance to ensure continual improve-
       ment consistent with Air Force ESOH goals and objectives.
       5.1.6. Report and track instances where a mission or operation has been, or is expected to be, neg-
       atively impacted because of ESOH restrictions; and actions taken to affect, change, or eliminate
       the impact.
       5.1.7. Appoint an executive secretary who will be responsible for all committee arrangements,
       establish the meeting schedule, develop and distribute the agenda in advance, serve as the meeting
       facilitator, record, and publish committee minutes.
       5.1.7. (USAFE) ESOHCs can establish an executive secretariat as described in 4.2. and 4.3. The
       secretariat will be responsible for making all council arrangements, establishing the meeting
       schedule, developing and distributing the agenda in advance. One member of the executive secre-
       tariat will serve as the meeting facilitator, record and publish council minutes.
    5.2. HQ USAF ESOHC will:
       5.2.1. Identify to the Air Force Corporate Structure ESOH issues critical to mission capability and
       advise on ESOH significance of resource allocation decisions.
       5.2.2. Review adequacy of policies, resources, and performance in meeting goals and make rec-
       ommendations to Chief of Staff on changes required.
       5.2.3. Develop implementing policy for emerging legislation and regulations.
       5.2.4. Develop policy and guidance for implementing, maintaining, and improving the Air Force
       ESOHMS and provide an annual management system assessment to SECAF and Chief of Staff.
       5.2.5. Develop, approve, and monitor ESOH risk-based performance goals, measures, objectives,
       and targets.
       5.2.6. Develop a standardized Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance
       Assessment and Management Program (ESOHCAMP).
       5.2.7. Champion inclusion of Air Force-unique ESOH needs in the Capabilities Review and Risk
       Assessment (CRRA) process and in the development of the Initial Capabilities Documents
       (ICDs), Capability Development Documents (CDDs), and Capability Production Documents
       (CPDs).
    5.3. MAJCOM and Installation ESOHCs will
       5.3.1. Review policy, resource requirements, ESOH performance, and make recommendations on
       changes required.
       5.3.2. Ensure appropriate training and manpower exist to meet responsibilities outlined in this
       AFI.
       5.3.3. Provide guidance and oversight for implementing, maintaining, and improving the Air
       Force ESOHMS.
       5.3.4. Report progress on ESOH goals as defined by next higher level ESOHC.
AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                   5


      5.3.5. Implement ESOHCAMPs as a tool to assess implementation and status of the ESOHMS,
      evaluate ESOHCAMP findings and track progress to correct validated deficiencies.
      5.3.6. Develop, approve, and monitor ESOH risk-based performance goals, measures, objectives,
      and targets.
      5.3.7. Use risk assessment methodology to identify and prioritize requirements that maximize
      mission performance and minimize ESOH risk and cost.
      5.3.8. Champion inclusion of ESOH in Program Action Directives, Operational Plans, ICDs,
      CDDs, CPDs, Program Objective Memorandums (POM) and Budget Execution Submissions
      (BES), where applicable.
      5.3.9. Address appropriate topics to meet 5.3.1. – 5.3.8. responsibilities. Consider additional top-
      ics in Attachment 2. The chairperson may also add additional topics as appropriate.

6. Records.
   6.1. Preparation: Within 30 days following an ESOHC meeting, the executive secretary prepares and
   coordinates minutes. The minutes will summarize the substance and outcome of all discussions.
   6.1. (USAFE) Preparation: Within 30 days following the ESOHC meeting, the executive secretariat
   prepares and coordinates minutes. The minutes will summarize the substance and outcome of all dis-
   cussions.
   6.2. Privileged Information. If privileged information is discussed and included in the minutes, the
   preparing organization must comply with instructions for handling and release of privileged informa-
   tion in accordance with AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
   6.3. Distribution: Executive secretary will forward ESOH minutes to all council members. Secretar-
   ies shall forward copies of subordinate ESOHC minutes to all primary council members. Distribution
   will comply with Section 6.2. In addition,
   6.3. (USAFE) Distribution: The executive secretariat will forward ESOH minutes to all council
   members.
      6.3.1. HQ USAF ESOHC: Distribute minutes to Direct Reporting Units and Field Operating
      Agency commanders and MAJCOM ESOHC executive secretaries.
      6.3.2. MAJCOM and Installation ESOHC: Distribute minutes to next higher level ESOHC exec-
      utive secretary.
   6.4. Executive secretaries keep the ESOHC minutes and related documents per AFI 37-138, Records
   Disposition Procedures and Responsibilities and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records.
6                                               AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006


    6.4. (USAFE) The executive secretariat will keep the ESOHC minutes and related documents per
    AFI-37-138, Records Disposition Procedures and Responsibilities and AFMAN 37-123, Management
    of Records.



                                           NELSON F. GIBBS, EX-IV
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                           Installations, Environment and Logistics

                                           (USAFE)

                                           DANNY K. GARDNER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Director, Installation and Mission Support
AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006                                                            7


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR 1960, Basic Program Elements for Federal Employees OSHA
32 CFR 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP)
40 CFR, Protection of Environment
40 CFR Parts 1500 - 1508, President's Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing
The National Environmental Policy Act
42 USC 4321 - 4347, The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
DoDD 1000.3, Safety and Occupational Health Policy for DoD
DoDD 4715.1, Environmental Security
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health Program
DoDI 6055.5, Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health
DoDI 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality
AFPD 40-2, Radioactive Materials (Non-Nuclear Weapons)
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management
AFPD 91-2, Safety Program
AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition Procedures and Responsibilities
AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Management System
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
AFI 91-301, AF Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH) Program
AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health Standards
(AFOSH)
MIL STD 882-D, Standard Practice for System Safety
8                                                    AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006


Abbreviations and Acronyms
CFT—Cross-Functional Team
CRAA—Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
ESOH—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health
ESOHC—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
ESOHCAMP—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment Management
Program
ESOHMS—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS)
HQ USAF—Headquarters US Air Force

Terms
Core Mission Areas—For the purposes of this AFI and Air Force Environment, Safety, and
Occupational Health (ESOH) programs, the term “Core Mission Areas” refers to the following
organizations at every level of command (where they exist): Operations, Maintenance, Mission Support,
Medical, and Acquisition.
Cross-Functional Team(CFT)—Group of people representing key organizations to include operations,
maintenance, safety, environment, occupational health, transportation, ranges, and any others deemed
critical for development and execution of ESOH initiatives. Typically it also includes military, civilian
and contractor personnel from all levels of the organizations. The ESOHMS coordinator usually chairs
the team. He or she may wish to contact facility tenants, non-AF entities, and other units to serve on the
CFT. The team is given broad objectives, but not specific directives. Decision-making within the team is
usually based on consensus.
Designated Employee Representative—An individual selected by civilian employees, either directly or
through an exclusive representation bargaining agreement, to represent them as a member of the ESOHC.
Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP)—The Air Force’s process that defines a systematic,
interdisciplinary approach to making environmentally informed decisions, consistent with the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the President's Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for
implementing NEPA.
Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH)—ESOH includes environmental programs
(pollution prevention, conservation, clean-up, etc.), environmental health, fire protection, safety, and
occupational health disciplines.
Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Assets—The workforce and natural infrastructure
necessary to support operational capability over perpetual useful life.
Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Councils (ESOHC)—The ESOH steering group that
reviews policies and programs, establishes goals, monitors progress, and advises leadership.
Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and Management Program
(ESOHCAMP)—An integrated environment, safety, and health process designed to help commanders
assess their installation’s environment, safety, and occupational health risk and cost reduction programs
and to identify and track solutions to ESOH problems.
AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                    9


Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS)—The Air Force’s
management system designed to continually improve mission performance by systematically identifying
and reducing ESOH risks and costs.
Environmental Health—The discipline and program concerned with identifying and preventing illness
and injury due to exposure to hazardous chemical, physical, and biological agents that may be
encountered in the ambient environment – air, water, or soil at in-garrison and deployed locations.
Occupational Health—The discipline and program concerned with identifying potential hazards in the
workplace and preventing illness resulting from work-related factors. It includes the prevention of illness
during deployments to reduce disease and nonbattle injury - (DNBI) rates.
Operational Risk Management (ORM)—The systematic process of identifying hazards, assessing risk,
analyzing risk control options and measures, making control decisions, implementing control decisions,
formally accepting residual risks, and supervising/reviewing the activity for effectiveness.
Risk—A combination of the probability and severity of a loss or an adverse impact resulting from
exposure to hazards. The greater the risk, the more likely it will cause a drain on resource capability and
negatively affect the mission.
Safety—The discipline and program concerned with the prevention of any active or latent condition that
can cause mission degradation, injury or death to personnel, or damage to, or loss of, systems, equipment,
facilities, or property.
Sustain, Restore & Modernize (SRM)—Principle used to ensure a calculated level of investment
targeted to preserve and improve all infrastructure, including natural (previously applied only to built
infrastructure).
System Safety—The term used to describe the application of the ORM principles and practices to the
Systems Engineering ESOH risk management process during the developing, sustaining, modifying, and
disposing of a weapon system.
Workforce—Assigned personnel allotment needed to accomplish the mission.
10                                          AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006


                                  Attachment 1 (USAFE)

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CV—Vice Commander
SE—Safety
SG—Surgeon General
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
AFI90-801_USAFESUP1_I 7 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                   11


                                           Attachment 2

                          DISCUSSION TOPICS AS APPROPRIATE
     1. Review changes in ESOH program guidelines
     2. Analysis of hazard reports
     3. Analysis of mishap experience
     4. Summary of inspection and evaluation results
     5. Review of the installation master hazard abatement program
     6. Briefing on compensation program charge-back costs and continuation of pay (COP) costs
     7. Summary of Federal Employee Compensation Act Working Group report
     8. Status of Occupational Health Medical Examination Program and occupational illnesses
     9. Review of Air Force annual occupational safety, fire protection, and occupational health goals
     and objectives
     10. Progress on Department of Defense Measures of Merit
     11. Unfulfilled compliance agreements
     12. Administrative orders
     13. Letters from regulatory agencies (such as inspection reports)
     14. Summary of environmental standards exceeded
     15. Status of compliance schedules which indicate progress in meeting schedules
     16. Status of Respiratory Protection Program
     17. Status of Confined Space Program
     18. Status of Industrial Hygiene Program
     19. Review accident and incident trends, safety initiatives and private sector and other govern-
     mental agency best practices
     20. Review of base radiation protection program
     21. Review Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) undertakings for consideration early
     in the planning process. Characterize the interrelationship between planning; programming;
     resource requirements; potential impacts; and subsequent issues being faced by the Air Force Cor-
     porate Structure (AFCS).
