BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 99-151
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             10 AUGUST 2005

                                                                                    Test and Evaluation

                                                            AIR LAUNCHED MUNITION ANALYSIS
                                                                            GROUP (ALMAG)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ ACC/DRP (Mr. Diamontopolous)                       Certified by: HQ USAF/TEP (Lt Col White)
Supersedes AFI 99-151,1 Jul 99                                                            Pages: 11
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 99-1, Test and Evalua-
tion. It establishes policies, procedures, and responsibilities for using the Air-Launched Munition Analy-
sis Group (ALMAG) to investigate air-launched guided munition, missile, and subscale aerial target
mishaps and incidents occurring during force development evaluation (FDE). This AFI applies only to
units, organizations, and members of the Combat Air Forces (CAF) who are involved in major command
(MAJCOM)-conducted FDE of guided weapons and subscale aerial targets. For purposes of this AFI, the
definition of CAF in Attachment 1 applies. This instruction is not applicable if the convening authority
mandates a safety investigation in accordance with AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports. CAF test centers may
supplement this instruction; however, draft supplements must be submitted to HQ ACC/DRP for coordi-
nation and HQ USAF/TEP approval. Send proposed supplements or changes (using AF Form 847) to this
publication to HQ ACC/DRP, 204 Dodd Blvd, Suite 226, Langley AFB VA 23665-2777, or
acc.drp@langley.af.mil. Ensure all records created as a result of this AFI are according to AFPD 37-1,
Information Management, and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of according to
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
AFI 99-151 was revised to mesh with revisions to AFI 91-204 and AFMAN 91-221. AFMAN 91-221
now authorizes use of ALMAG investigation procedures. The scope of ALMAG investigation and
reporting was expanded to include mishaps with all guided munitions, missiles, and subscale aerial tar-
gets. Additionally, at the convening authority’s discretion, ALMAG investigation and reporting may be
used for other incidents not classified as mishaps. The term “MAJCOM Program Manager” was changed
to “MAJCOM representative” for clarity. The ALMAG final report timeline was extended to 90 days,
and recommended reporting formats were added at Attachment 2, Reporting Formats, for ready refer-
ence. Formal reporting was clarified.
2                                                                        AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005


                                               Chapter 1

                             GENERAL POLICY AND PROCEDURES

1.1. General Policy. This AFI outlines Air Force policy on investigating in-flight guided munition, mis-
sile, and subscale aerial target mishaps and incidents that occur during force development evaluation
(FDE) activities conducted during the sustainment portion of the system life cycle. The Air-Launched
Munition Analysis Group (ALMAG) will conduct appropriate investigations to determine the cause(s) of
failure. ALMAGs are not conducted under the umbrella of privileged safety information, and promises of
confidentiality will not be given.

1.2. Purpose of the ALMAG. The ALMAG is a mechanism for performing timely and thorough failure
analysis and investigations when a formal safety investigation is not required. It is an ad hoc group con-
vened at the direction of the appropriate test center commander or appropriate MAJCOM Director of
Operations (DO) or Director of Requirements (DR). The ALMAG investigates specific types of in-flight
mishaps to determine system deficiencies and report results.

1.3. Requirements for an ALMAG. The requirement for convening an ALMAG is dependent on the
circumstances of each particular in-flight mishap or incident. The convening authority will determine if
an ALMAG is appropriate according to Figure 1.1., ALMAG Decision Tree. Generally, an ALMAG
investigation will be convened when a safety investigation would otherwise be required, but the mishap
occurred within test range boundaries, no debris impacted outside of range boundaries, and no collateral
damage or personal injury was involved.


Figure 1.1. ALMAG Decision Tree.
AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005                                                                                  3


                                               Chapter 2

                       ALMAG MEMBERSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. ALMAG Membership. Each ALMAG is composed of experts chosen by the ALMAG chairperson
to conduct each specific investigation. Exact ALMAG membership will be determined on a case-by-case
basis. ALMAG members are responsible for their own travel, lodging, and per diem costs. ALMAG
membership ends upon completion of each investigation.

2.2. ALMAG Convening Authority. The lead test center commander or higher MAJCOM authority
will convene an ALMAG when required. The convening authority will appoint the ALMAG chairperson
in writing. Initial ALMAG appointments must be made within 24 hours after the mishap is discovered or
verified.

2.3. ALMAG Chairperson. The chairperson must be a major or above whose selection is based on
experience, expertise, maturity, and impartiality. In certain cases, the chairperson should be chosen from
an outside organization to ensure a more independent investigation is accomplished. The ALMAG chair-
person will:
   2.3.1. Nominate members from critical support agencies and functional areas to serve on the
   ALMAG.
   2.3.2. Add technical experts and supplemental members to the ALMAG as required for the particular
   investigation.
   2.3.3. Advise the convening authority of the final ALMAG membership, and provide an estimated
   time frame for completing the investigation.
   2.3.4. Convene and chair the ALMAG.
   2.3.5. Assume all responsibilities for successful conduct of the ALMAG.
   2.3.6. Arrange for facilities, transportation, communications, equipment, and other support for the
   investigation.
   2.3.7. Secure all test data and technical information for the investigation.
   2.3.8. Coordinate through the FDE point of contact (POC) in obtaining any additional or outside tech-
   nical expertise.
   2.3.9. Submit reports and briefings as described in Chapter 3 of this AFI.
   2.3.10. Submit an extension waiver request to the convening authority, and provide an information
   copy to the Air Force Safety Center (AFSC), if sufficient data is not available to allow for the investi-
   gation and report to be completed as required (i.e., within 90 days).
   2.3.11. Disband the ALMAG after all analysis and recommendations for further investigations or
   fixes, if any, have been reported. Convening authority concurrence is required.

2.4. Primary ALMAG Members. The following specialists will normally be present on each ALMAG
convened:
4                                                                         AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005


    2.4.1. Operations, Analytical, Engineering, or Maintenance Specialists. The munition/aerial tar-
    get launch unit, MAJCOM, and the weapon system program manager provide government representa-
    tive(s) who are operations, analytical, engineering, and maintenance expert(s) as required by the
    ALMAG chairperson. These personnel should be drawn from system program offices and system
    item manager offices, test and evaluation organizations, analytical agencies, and operational organiza-
    tions. Other fields or disciplines may be selected for the ALMAG as needed.
    2.4.2. Safety Specialist. A qualified flight safety officer or weapons safety non-commissioned
    officer. The safety specialist will advise the ALMAG chairperson on safety issues and guidelines
    according to AFI 91-204 after the ALMAG is convened, and will advise the adjournment of the
    ALMAG if the incident falls under the purview of the 91-series safety instructions.
    2.4.3. Appropriate Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Specialists. Government specialists
    from AFMC will be selected for the ALMAG as required. These specialists will:
       2.4.3.1. Provide the ALMAG with technical and historical data about the system under investiga-
       tion.
       2.4.3.2. Arrange for or acquire technical data or laboratory analysis from the system contractor.
    2.4.4. FDE POC. The test center FDE POC responsible for the overall management of the specific
    weapon system evaluation will:
       2.4.4.1. Coordinate the tasking of other USAF agencies, functional areas, military services, or
       contractors for technical support, as required, at the direction of the ALMAG chairperson.
       2.4.4.2. Ensure all relevant test and instrumentation data is made available to the ALMAG.
       2.4.4.3. Advise the ALMAG about all FDE and test matters.
    2.4.5. MAJCOM Representative. The MAJCOM representative will provide any coordination
    required between the ALMAG and the MAJCOM headquarters.

2.5. Optional ALMAG Members. The following optional experts should be considered for ALMAG
participation as required:
    2.5.1. Operations expert(s).
    2.5.2. Weapon or aircraft maintenance expert(s).
    2.5.3. Weapons or aircraft safety expert(s).
    2.5.4. Continental United States (CONUS) test range safety expert(s).
    2.5.5. Non-CONUS test range representative(s).
    2.5.6. Test instrumentation expert(s).
    2.5.7. Recovery specialist(s).
    2.5.8. Mission software expert(s).
    2.5.9. Mission planning expert(s).
    2.5.10. System contractor engineering specialist(s) for the weapon system being investigated.
AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005                                                                                 5


                                               Chapter 3

                                       ALMAG PROCEDURES

3.1. Convening the ALMAG. The convening authority determines if an ALMAG is necessary based on
the advice of the lead test center and this instruction. If an ALMAG is appropriate (see Figure 1.1.), the
convening authority appoints an ALMAG chairperson in writing. If any conflicts of interest are identi-
fied, the convening authority should appoint an ALMAG chairperson from outside the test center.

3.2. Reporting Requirements. All ALMAG members will participate in preparing required reports and
messages to ensure clarity and technical accuracy. All reports are restricted to agencies on a "need to
know" basis. The reporting requirements in this AFI are exempt from licensing according to AFI 33-324,
The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Inter-
agency Air Force Information Collections, paragraph 2.11.4. The ALMAG chairperson will be the final
approval authority for all reports and messages which will be submitted according to the following guide-
lines:
   3.2.1. Message Reports. For standardization, see Attachment 2, Reporting Formats, for recom-
   mended ALMAG message report formats.
       3.2.1.1. Preliminary Message. A preliminary message will be sent to the testing MAJCOM and
       HQ AFSC within 8 hours (when possible, but no later than 24 hours), and will provide the time of
       the occurrence and a brief factual narrative of the incident.
       3.2.1.2. Progress Report Message. Provide periodic progress reports by message to the conven-
       ing authority on the investigation's status as additional information becomes available, or no later
       than 30 days following the incident. Provide information copies to the FDE POC, HQ AFMC/
       DO, and appropriate Air Force safety agencies.
       3.2.1.3. Final Report Message. A final report message will be sent no later than 90 days after the
       convening of the ALMAG, unless an extension has been requested and approved.
   3.2.2. Final Report Briefing. A final report briefing to the ALMAG convening authority will sum-
   marize the information in the final report message. The convening authority may waive the briefing
   when appropriate.
   3.2.3. Written Formal Report. If directed by the convening authority, the ALMAG chairperson will
   submit a written formal report documenting evidence, engineering analysis, and findings. For the for-
   mal report format, use AFMAN 91-221, paragraphs 6.10 through 6.12 as a guide, but tailor the tabs
   as appropriate. No items in the ALMAG formal report are privileged safety information, but the types
   of information listed in AFMAN 91-221 privileged information tabs should be considered for inclu-
   sion. As a minimum, the formal report will cover findings, causes, a summary of the engineering
   analysis, and recommended corrective actions. If sufficient data is not available to complete the
6                                                                    AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005


    investigation and formal report within 90 days, the ALMAG chairperson will request an extension
    from the convening authority.



                                            JOHN T. MANCLARK
                                            Director, Test and Evaluation
AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005                                                                        7


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling Internal, Pub-
lic, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections
AFPD 37-1, Information Management
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ALMAG—Air-Launched Missile Analysis Group
ANG—Air National Guard
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CBU—Cluster Bomb Unit
CONUS—Continental United States
DO—Director of Operations
DOD—Department of Defense
DR—Director of Requirements
EOA—Early Operational Assessment
FDE—Force Development Evaluation
GPS—Global Positioning System
8                                                                        AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005


HQ—Headquarters
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission-Design-Series
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OA—Operational Assessment
OUE—Operational Utility Evaluation
PACAF—Pacific Air Force
POC—Point of Contact
TD&E—Tactics Development and Evaluation
USAFE—United States Air Force Europe
WSEP—Weapon System Evaluation Program
www—World-Wide Web

Terms
Combat Air Forces (CAF)—The CAF is a grouping of MAJCOMs comprised of ACC, ANG, AFRC,
USAFE, and PACAF.
Force Development Evaluation (FDE)—The operational test and evaluation of fielded, operational
systems during the sustainment portion of the system life cycle after acceptance for operational use. The
focus is on maintaining or upgrading operational systems after the initial acquisition process is complete.
An FDE also supports acquisition of MAJCOM-managed systems. FDE includes Tactics Development
and Evaluation (TD&E), Weapon System Evaluation Program (WSEP), and MAJCOM-conducted
Operational Utility Evaluation (OUE), Operational Assessment (OA), and Early Operational Assessment
(EOA). (AFI 99-103)
MAJCOM Representative—A member of the ALMAG appointed by the MAJCOM division chief that
is the staff point of contact for the system involved in the mishap. The MAJCOM representative is
normally the system’s MAJCOM program element monitor.
Mishap—An unplanned occurrence, or series of occurrences, that results in damage or injury and meets
Class A, B, C, or D mishap reporting criteria according to AFI 91-204, paragraph 1.8. Damage or injury
includes: damage to DOD property; occupational illness to DOD military or civilian personnel; injury to
DOD military personnel on- or off-duty; injury to on-duty DOD civilian personnel; damage to public or
private property, or injury or illness to non-DOD personnel caused by Air Force operations.
AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005                                                                                     9


                                               Attachment 2

                                        REPORTING FORMATS

A2.1. Format for Preliminary Message Reports. The message report format in Figure A2.1. will be
used for reporting guided munition, missile, and aerial target mishaps within 8 hours, but not later than 24
hours after the incident according to paragraph 3.2.1.1..

Figure A2.1. Format for Preliminary Message Reports.


FROM: Originator.
TO: Mandatory addressees include HQ AFSC, HQ ACC/SE/DR/DO, HQ PACAF/SE, HQ USAFE/SE,
HQ ANG/XOSW, HQ AFRC/SE, and HQ ACC/DRP. For subscale targets, add HQ ACC/PMS. Include
appropriate addressees from AFMAN 91-221, Table 6.3.
CLASSIFICATION: Use the proper security markings prescribed by AFI 31-401, Information Security
Program Management, for classified messages.
SUBJECT: Report type and system type (e.g., PRELIMINARY, ALMAG, BQM-167A).
Special Markings, if applicable (e.g., FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY).

NOTE: For classified messages, omit the quotation “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.”
1. Nature of mishap (e.g., damage, loss of system).
2. Nomenclature and name, weapon carrier mission-design-series (MDS), serial number, building num-
ber and purpose, national stock number, part number, manufacturer’s name, as applicable.
3. Date (DD MMM YYYY), time (HHMM), and weather conditions (if pertinent) of mishap (e.g., 03
MAR 2005/1900/FOGGY, NIGHT).
4. Clear text name of base submitting report.
5. Location of the mishap. If on a military installation, give the name of the installation, specific location
on base, and general function of the location or facility. If the event occurred on the range, use street and
highway references as well as the distance and compass direction from the nearest US military installa-
tion. GPS coordinates (DDD-MM.MM) may be used in place of street and highway references for remote
locations.
6. Owning MAJCOM, Numbered Air Force (NAF), Center/Wing (wing-equivalent Groups), and Squad-
ron/Unit.
7. NARRATIVE. Give brief description of mishap. Provide strictly abbreviated, factual information.
Do not include information implying cause or containing material gained through testimony from crew-
members or other witnesses. Describe extent of damage (e.g., “MISSILE DESTROYED”). Include mis-
sion information.
8. ADDITIONAL DETAILS. Include an initial cost estimate, status of on-going recovery operations,
hazard containment and security, and information on the level of media interest.
9. Interim cognizant official, telephone numbers (DSN and commercial), and e-mail address.
10                                                                          AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005


A2.2. Format for Progress and Final Message Reports. The message report format in Figure A2.2.
will be used for reporting guided munition, missile, and aerial target mishaps according to paragraphs
3.2.1.2. and 3.2.1.3.

Figure A2.2. Format for Message Reports.


FROM: Originator.
TO: Mandatory addressees include HQ AFSC, HQ ACC/SE/DR/DO, HQ PACAF/SE, HQ USAFE/SE,
HQ ANG/XOSW, HQ AFRC/SE, and HQ ACC/DRP. For subscale targets, add HQ ACC/PMS. Include
appropriate addressees from AFMAN 91-221, Table 6.3.
CLASSIFICATION: Use the proper security markings prescribed by AFI 31-401 for classified
messages.
SUBJECT: Report type and system type (e.g., FINAL, ALMAG, BQM-167A).
Special Markings, if applicable (e.g., FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY).

NOTE: For classified messages, omit the quotation “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.”
1. LOCATION OF MISHAP:
1.1. Name of base or military property (such as Utah Test and Training Range) on which mishap
occurred.
1.2. State and country of mishap.
1.3. Location of the mishap. If on a military installation, give the name of the installation, specific loca-
tion on base, and general function of the location or facility. If the event occurred on the range, use street
and highway references as well as the distance and compass direction from the nearest US military instal-
lation. GPS coordinates (DDD-MM.MM) may be used in place of street and highway references for
remote locations.
1.4. Date (DD MMM YYYY) of mishap (e.g., 3 MAR 2005).
1.5. Local time (HHMM) of mishap (e.g., 1900).
2. Owning MAJCOM, NAF, Center/Wing (wing-equivalent Groups), and Squadron/Unit.
3. Environmental factors:
3.1. If weather was a factor, describe pertinent conditions. Otherwise state, “WEATHER WAS NOT A
FACTOR.”
3.2. Day or night.
3.3. If the mishap involved fire or explosion, describe pertinent details. Otherwise state, “NO EXPLO-
SION OR FIRE.”
4. Damage and cost estimates:
4.1. Mishap cost NONAF: Estimate of damage to non-Air Force property, including other DOD and
non-DOD property.
4.2. Air Force cost damage: Cost of damage to Air Force property, including labor and material.
AFI99-151 10 AUGUST 2005                                                                                  11


4.3. Total mishap cost (sum of costs in items 4.1. and 4.2.).
5. PROPERTY DATA.
5.X.1. Item name. Give the following data on each piece of property (munition or other equipment)
involved. Number as 5.1.1 through 5.X.8.
5.X.1.1. Vehicle or equipment serial number.
5.X.1.2. Object or vehicle activity at time of mishap.
5.X.1.3. Was object destroyed (Y or N)?
5.X.1.4. Mission-design-series (MDS).
5.X.1.5 Mishap within 10 miles of base (Y or N)?
5.X.1.6. Major system failing.
5.X.1.7. FAILED PART INFORMATION. Repeat entries 5.X.1.7.1 through 5.X.1.7.5 as required for all
failed parts. Number as 5.X.1.7.1 through 5.X.1.7.Y.
5.X.1.7.Y. Failed part description.
5.X.1.7.Y.1. Failed part number.
5.X.1.7.Y.2. Failed part manufacturer.
5.X.1.7.Y.3. Mishap event number from deficiency report.
5.X.1.7.Y.4. Lot number (if applicable).
6. NARRATIVE. Give a concise, chronological description of the facts and circumstances leading to the
mishap. For areas not factors in the mishap, give details in narrative not included elsewhere in the report.
Include enough information in final reports to show investigating officer reasoning in reaching findings
and recommendations. In all cases, continue the sequence through point of occurrence (or discovery) for
all damage and/or until the end of the mishap. For technical assistance on this item, contact HQ AFSC/
SEW, DSN 246-6059, commercial (505) 846-6059. Specify in the narrative if an accident investigation
was or was not convened and is being conducted.
7. FINDINGS AND CAUSES. Repeat entries 7.1 through 7.X for the required number of findings and
causes. Findings must not address new information that was not previously discussed in the narrative.
Identify and document hazards that played a role in the mishap sequence. Hazards are defined as “any
real or potential condition that can cause injury or occupational illness to personnel; damage to or loss of
a system, equipment or property; or damage to the environment.” Determine whether individuals or man-
agement addressed these hazards during preparation and execution of the mishap sequence. Assess the
risk based upon the tables of probability and severity from AFI 91-204.
8. Preventive action(s) recommended or taken. Repeat entries 8.1 through 8.X as necessary.
9. Cognizant official, unit, office symbol, telephone number (DSN and commercial) and e-mail address.
