BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-204
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                 AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                               Supplement

                                                                            8 OCTOBER 2009

                                                                                         Safety

                                               SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/SEF                                        Certified by: HQ AMC/SEF (Lt Col Tom
                                                                                 Griesbaum)
Supersedes:   AFI91-204_AMCSUP, 1 October                                          Pages: 5
              2005



AFI 91-204, dated 24 Sep 2008 is supplemented as follows: This supplement applies to flight,
ground, explosives, and nuclear weapon system mishap investigation and reporting and is
affected by the Privacy Act of 1974 under Titles 5 U.S.C. 301, 5 U.S.C. 7902, 29 U.S.C. 651 et
seq, and 29CFR1960. Each form, subject to provisions of AFI 37-132 and required by this
supplement, contains a Privacy Act statement incorporated in the body of the form. All reporting
requirements in this supplement are exempt from licensing in accordance with paragraph 2.11.4
of AFI 7-124, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program--Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections. It does not apply to AMC-
gained Air Force Reserve Command units or to Air National Guard units, but may be used if
desired. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                                    AFI91-204_AMCSUP 8 OCTOBER 2009




SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Recommendation guidance for HAPs and Pubs changes, FDR and CVR evidence
preservation, guidance for CRM conractor instructors, OSHA investigations, and updating
AFSAS for ongoing investigation status reports.
1.4.2. Intentional jettison of air refueling hoses because of a malfunction of the hose or damage
due to contact/attempted contact with a receiver will be reported as a Class E at a minimum.
1.10.5.2. High Accident Potential (HAP) Events. All HAP reports should have at least one
recommendation to mitigate the high risk of a potential accident.
2.7.4. Units will forward the ISB president name, at a minimum, and contact information to
AMC/SEF or SEG as appropriate within 24 hrs of a Class A or B mishap.
2.7.5.1. Military Members.Commanders will ensure toxicology testing is conducted on all
military members for aviation mishaps that have the potential of meeting the Class B threshold
(this includes crewmembers, maintenance and ground personnel who were involved).
2.8.1. Ensure both the Flight Data Recorder and the Cockpit Voice Recorder is depowered via
circuit breaker or other means immediately upon arrival at the aircraft following any potential
aviation Class A or B mishap.
2.9.4. (Added) Ensure 618 TACC/XOZ (“Senior”) and AMC Command Center are notified of
any Class A or B mishap involving AMC assets.
2.10.2. Units will submit rosters of trained personnel annually by Oct 1 to HQ AMC/SE
(amc.see@scott.af.mil).
2.10.4. (Added) The unit safety office will immediately notify HQ AMC/SE of any Class A or
B mishap (including mishaps that have the potential of meeting the Class B threshold) involving
AMC assets and ensure the normal OPREP report is sent by the Command Post. An initial
OPREP-3 is normally the first indication to senior authority that an incident has occurred. After
duty hours, contact the on-call safety representative at (618) 570-8161 for any Class A or B
mishap.
2.13. SIO/SIB members assigned by AMC/CC/CV or 18 AF/CC to investigate a mishap will
coordinate with AMC/SE prior to conducting any duty (including leave) other than what would
be associated with the investigation.
3.3.3. Units storing privileged safety information in word processor systems or computers will
ensure the information is secured to prevent unauthorized personnel access. It is the
responsibility of the local unit safety staff to ensure individuals working with or having access to
safety reports, messages, or cockpit voice recordings are knowledgeable of the limitations placed
on the use of safety related materials and documents and the required privilege protection
requirements of the materials. These personnel must receive annual safety privilege training
IAW 91-202 requirements.
AFI91-204_AMCSUP 8 OCTOBER 2009                                                               3


3.7.3.5.9. (Added) CRM Contractors. Wing safety offices will ensure that contracted simulator
instructors, who require access to privileged safety information:
3.7.3.5.9.1. (Added) Are trained annually on privileged information protection.
3.7.3.5.9.2. (Added) Sign a non-disclosure agreement (Figure A3.2) annually (wing safety
office will maintain these agreements).
4.1.1. (Added) HQ AMC/SE will notify HQ AMC/JA when a Class A safety investigation is
convened. The base Staff Judge Advocate's claims office and the safety staff will exchange non-
privileged mishap information as soon as they become aware of property damage or personal
injury involving Air Force operations.
4.2.5. (Added) AMC/CC has delegated convening authority for all Class B (Aviation,
Explosives, and on-duty Ground) mishap investigations to 18 AF/CC, unless specifically
retained by AMC/CC.
4.2.6. (Added) AMC/CC has delegated convening authority for all off-duty ground mishaps
and Class C (Aviation, Explosives, and/or on-duty Ground) and below mishap investigations to
the Wing/CC, the independent Group/CC (i.e., 317 AG,) and the DRU/CC, unless specifically
retained by AMC/CC or 18 AF/CC.
4.5. Mishaps Involving Air Reserve Component Assets. AMC will provide board members,
as required, for any AFRC and ANG Class B and below mishaps involving AMC assets.
4.5.1. (Added) Active Duty wings are allowed to accept board member nominations from
associate reserve and guard units for all mishaps, however AMC will not automatically pay man
days or TDY pay for these members without prior coordination through AMC/SE.
4.10.1. If OSHA elects to conduct a separate investigation provide a complete in-brief; however,
do not grant access to or release copies of the report without AF/SE 's approval. Notify AMC/SE
immediately of the investigation and comply with AFI 91-301, Air Force occupational and
Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program; or AFI 91-202, The US
AF Mishap Prevention Program, guidance for notification of OSHA visit/investigations.
5.2. Investigation Timeline. Investigating Officers (IO) unable to meet safety investigation
timelines will contact the appropriate HQ AMC/SE office and/or follow AFSAS guidance to
obtain an extension. The IO will report reasons and difficulties encountered resulting in the
delay. In addition, the IO will provide an estimated completion date in a message or in the
AFSAS narrative section. If granted an extension, submit a Status Message at the Final Message
due date and every 30 days thereafter until release of the Final Message. Transmit the Status
Message on the scheduled Final Message due date. Once all investigative information is
compiled and completed, forward Final Message to command for review.
5.2.1. (Added) When updating status of the mishap in AFSAS the IO will annotate updates in
chronological order following the below example. These updates will be deleted in the Final
Message version.
       Example:
       Reason for Status Message: (Place above General Information)
 4                                                  AFI91-204_AMCSUP 8 OCTOBER 2009


       5 Dec 08: Engine induction and teardown took place at the Kelly Aviation Center 1 Dec
       08 - 4 Dec 08. The Center identified the point of failure as xxxxx. Flight Data Recorder
       will ship to Kirtland this week. Maintenance records are being complied for review.
       4 Jan 09: Place next update here.
5.3.1. Local Support. Occasionally, SIBs are required to work in areas where military support is
not available. When civilian services are required, the finance officer at the AMC wing
supporting the SIB should appoint imprest and contracting officers. The imprest officer will have
authority and funds to pay for all support requirements (DoD Financial Management Regulation
7000.14-R, Volume 5, Disbursing Policy & Procedure, Chapter 2, Section 0209, Imprest Funds).
The contracting officer must have a warrant (authority) to purchase equipment and services for
the board.
5.3.2. TDY Travel. AMC/SE will obtain an Emergency and Special Program (ESP) code for
AMC-convened Class A or B aircraft mishap investigation costs. Individuals performing SIB
duties will travel on local unit orders/fund cite with ESP code.
5.3.2. 1 (Added) AMC/CC/CV or 18 AF/CC investigators are authorized travel via
commercial means, authorized rental car in the performance of investigation duties, and
variations are authorized. Home station units will include these remarks when making travel
orders.
5.5.1. Class A and B SIBs do not have to coordinate with AMC/SE when contacting AFSC for
technical assistance, but shall courtesy copy AMC/SEF/SEG/SEW, as appropriate, on all such
requests.
5.7.3.2. SIBs will coordinate with AMC/SE before contacting AMC/JA.
5.7.4. Disposing of Evidence. For cases involving potential claims against the Air Force or
litigation, all reasonable efforts will be made to properly document or preserve evidence at a
mishap scene for later non-safety privileged use in litigation or other legal processes. HQ
AMC/SE will coordinate with HQ AMC/JAA or the host base Staff Judge Advocate in these
cases. SIB presidents will provide AMC/SE with the memorandums documenting transferal of
evidence and wreckage to the AIB president.
5.11.16.4. (Added) The SIB and/or investigator is responsible for filling out and submitting AF
Forms 847 and/or AFTO Forms 22 and ensuring AMC/A3V or AMC/A4M has received the
required documentation with a tracking number.
5.11.17.8.1. Include the OPR Email Organizational Box for each recommendation.
6.2.2. Preliminary Message. For Class C aviation mishaps, if an OPREP was not sent (or the
investigator is unable to determine if an OPREP was sent), a Preliminary Report will be sent
and/or a phone call/email to HQ AMC/SEF (DSN 779-0930, amc.sef@scott.af.mil) will be
accomplished within 2 working days of incident date.
6.3.4.1. Use registered mail when sending formal reports. Send a digital copy to the appropriate
HQ AMC/SE division, 510 POW-MIA Drive, Blg. P-40E, Room E-115, Scott AFB IL 62225-
5020.
AFI91-204_AMCSUP 8 OCTOBER 2009                                                                  5


6.4. Briefing Investigation Results. HQ AMC/SE will provide the SIB with the HQ AMC
PowerPoint template for briefings to the AMC/CC and/or NAF/CC. All briefings will be
scripted.

Table 6.2. Reporting Schedule

NOTE: (Added) Aviation Class C Mishap, Preliminary Report requirement: If an OPREP has
been sent by the Command Post, a Preliminary Report is not required. If an OPREP was not sent
(or if the investigator is unable to determine if an OPREP was sent), a Preliminary Report will be
sent and/or a phone call/email to HQ AMC/SEF (DSN 779-0930, amc.sef@scott.af.mil) will be
accomplished within 2 working days of incident date.
7.3.8. AMC will follow AMC HOI 90-101, Mishap Review Panel.
7.3.9. (Added) AMC/SE will track to closure all Recommendations and Other
Recommendations of Significance (ORS) for which the AMC staff is an OPR/OCR. AMC units
will track recommendations for which they are the OPR/OCR and report status to AMC/SE
semi-annually (15 Apr and 15 Oct). Report will include SAS #, Rec #, action taken, OPR/OCR
and projected close out date. AMC Units with no recommendations will submit a “negative”
report.
7.4.2.4. (Added) AMC Form 97, AMC In-Flight Emergency and Unusual Occurrence
Worksheet




                                             DONALD HALPIN, Colonel, USAF
                                             Director of Safety
