BY ORDER OF THE                                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-107
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              26 JANUARY 2011
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 11 October 2011

                                                   UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                   30 MARCH 2012
                                                              Certified Current on 22 February 2013
                                                                                             Safety

                                                                 DESIGN, EVALUATION,
                                                              TROUBLESHOOTING, AND
                                                   MAINTENANCE CRITERIA FOR NUCLEAR
                                                                    WEAPON SYSTEMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFSC/SEWN                                                                  Certified by: AF/SE
                                                                         (Maj Gen Gregory A. Feest)
                                                                                           Pages: 13
Supersedes:    AFI 91-107, 6 April 1994
                                              (USAFE)
OPR: HQ USAFE/SEW                                                    Certified by: HQ USAFE/SEW
                                                                 (Lt Col Richard M. Vroegindewey)
                                                                                           Pages:3
Supersedes:    AFI91-107_USAFESUP,
               1 March 2007


This Instruction implements AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety. This publication is
consistent with AFPD 13-5, Nuclear Enterprise. It specifies the criteria for maintaining and
troubleshooting loaded nuclear weapon systems (that is, a combat delivery-capable system with one
or more nuclear weapons mechanically and electrically connected in a normal operational
configuration). It directs Air Force activities to comply with the minimum Air Force safety criteria to
develop and evaluate nuclear weapon systems for nuclear safety design certification. It applies to
individuals at all levels, including Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG), that
design, develop, modify, evaluate, , support, or operate a nuclear weapon system. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
 2                                                 AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012


Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Send major
command      (MAJCOM)        supplements   to    this   Instruction    to  AFSC/SEW      at
HQAFSCSEW@kirtland.af.milor 9700 G Avenue, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670 for
review/coordination before publication.

(USAFE) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) AFI
91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria For Nuclear Weapon
Systems. This supplement applies to all United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) units. It applies
to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units or members when
performing nuclear missions within USAFE. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) on
the AF Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.                 Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change (IC) adds new language in the introductory paragraph, specifically the
second sentence, to make this publication consistent with AFPD 13-5, Nuclear Enterprise. This
IC also adds AFPD 13-5 in the reference section of Attachment 1.

(USAFE) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Extensive
changes in policies and procedures required a complete revision of this publication.

Section A—Scope and Responsibilities

1. Application of Safety Criteria. Air Force activities shall apply Department of Defense and
Air Force safety criteria to design, develop, evaluate, troubleshoot, certify, and maintain nuclear
weapon systems. Weapons systems designers should constantly seek to design systems that
significantly exceed minimum safety standards.
     1.1. Department of Defense (DoD) Safety Standards. The DoD Nuclear Weapon System
     Safety Standards form the basis for the Air Force nuclear weapon system safety design
     certification program IAW DOD 3150.2M Nuclear Weapons System Safety Program
     Manual.
     1.2. Nuclear Safety Design Certification. AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation
     Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, and AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation
     Criteria for Nuclear Weapons Systems Software, contain the minimum design and evaluation
     criteria required to safety design certify nuclear weapon systems according to AFI 91-103,
     Air Force Nuclear Safety Certification Program.
AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012                                                           3


       1.2.1. The criteria in AFMAN 91-118 and AFMAN 91-119 do not invalidate the safety
       requirements in other DoD publications. Air Force activities must apply whichever
       criteria are most stringent.
       1.2.2. Because the Air Force goal is to design a system that significantly exceeds the
       basic safety criteria, the weapon system designer may add reasonable safety features to
       improve safety yet meet operational design requirements.
       1.2.3. The Air Force or the Department of Defense may prohibit or restrict operational
       use of a nuclear weapon system if the minimum safety criteria are not satisfied.
   1.3. Definition of Requirements. Design agencies implement safety criteria from the start
   of weapon system development by including them in appropriate formal source documents.
   These documents include the Program Management Directive, Initial Capabilities Document,
   Capability Development Document, Operational Plan Data Document, Stockpile-to-Target
   Sequence, Military Characteristics, and Weapon System Specifications.
   1.4. Modifications to Existing Systems. This Instruction does not require modifications of
   an existing operational system solely to meet enhanced safety criteria implemented after the
   system became operational. However, when modifying an existing system apply these
   criteria to at least the part of the system being modified.
   1.5. Troubleshooting and Maintenance. Weapon system designers must apply safety
   criteria established by the DoD and Air Force when developing technical orders (TO) or
   other certified procedures for troubleshooting and maintaining loaded nuclear weapon
   systems. Field-level maintenance personnel must use these criteria to perform
   troubleshooting and maintenance operations.
       1.5.1. (Added-USAFE) Wings and field units will train personnel who load, monitor,
       maintain nuclear weapons, perform maintenance on nuclear loaded aircraft, or have
       supervisory or management responsibility over the mission and personnel, on the fault
       troubleshooting and maintenance operation policies contained in this publication.
       Responsible commanders will be briefed on the basic requirements of this instruction.
       Training will be documented.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division (AFSC/SEW).
       2.1.1. Develops Air Force safety design and evaluation criteria.
       2.1.2. Approves waiver and deviation requests.
       2.1.3. Identifies criteria for, and approves troubleshooting and maintenance procedures
       and operations on loaded nuclear weapon systems.
   2.2. Major Commands (MAJCOM).
       2.2.1. Ensure troubleshooting and maintenance procedures and operations on loaded
       nuclear weapon systems comply with the criteria outlined in this AFI.
       2.2.2. Ensure new weapon system developments and modifications to existing weapon
       systems comply with the minimum Air Force safety design and evaluation criteria
       specified in AFMAN 91-118 and AFMAN 91-119.
 4                                               AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012


        2.2.3. Request any necessary deviations and provide supporting engineering analyses
        (see ).
            2.2.3.1. (Added-USAFE) Forward North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
            deviation requests made by non-U.S. countries to the Air Force Nuclear Weapons
            Center (AFNWC), Operating Location-Engineering Liaison Office (OL-ELO),
            Ramstein (RAM) and with the Headquarters USAFE Weapons Safety Division (HQ
            USAFE/SEW) listed as an information addressee. All requests for deviations should
            provide a clear and complete explanation of all pertinent known facts. Include
            photographs when appropriate. Identify and document existing methods of operation,
            system support and shortfalls to minimum design criteria to AFMAN 91-118, Safety
            Design and Evaluation for Nuclear Weapon Systems, and how the changes to
            operation and system support meet AFMAN 91-118 minimum design criteria.
            2.2.3.2. (Added-USAFE) Forward deviation requests made by U.S. units to HQ
            USAFE/SEW, usafesew.dmsv3@ramstein.af.mil who will forward to the
            engineering MAJCOM. All requests for deviations should provide a clear and
            complete explanation of all pertinent known facts. Include photographs when
            appropriate. Identify and document existing methods of operation, system support
            and shortfalls to minimum design criteria to AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and
            Evaluation for Nuclear Weapon Systems, and how the changes required to operation
            and system support meet AFMAN 91-118 minimum design criteria.

Section B—Deviations and Recommendations

3. Deviations to Air Force Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria:
     3.1. Requests for Deviations. Some innovative designs or advances in technology, while
     conflicting with the specific criteria in AFMAN 91-118 and AFMAN 91-119, may appear to
     meet the objectives of the DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Standards or may provide
     significant safety advancements. In these cases, the engineering MAJCOM must send a
     deviation request to AFSC/SEW. Send the request and supporting documents early enough
     in the system development to allow for an adequate analysis and to minimize the impact on
     system development if AFSC/SEW does not approve the deviation.
     3.2. Supporting Documents. A deviation request must include an engineering analysis that
     shows how the proposed design meets or exceeds the intent of the design criteria.

Section C—General Design Philosophy and Numerical Requirements

4. Nuclear Weapon System Safety Design Philosophy. The Air Force is responsible for
protecting against the premature detonation of a nuclear weapon in both normal and credible
abnormal environments. Nuclear weapon system designs provide such protection by controlling
the system’s critical functions in the sequence that leads to weapon detonation. To a significant
extent, nuclear safety depends on the primary safety devices and the features that control the
critical functions of Authorization, Prearming, Launching, Releasing, Arming, and Targeting.
5. Critical Function Numerical Requirements. To demonstrate adequate control of critical
functions, nuclear weapon system designs must meet Air Force-established numerical probability
requirements.
AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012                                                              5


    5.1. For normal environments, the weapon system designer must show within the calculated
    probability of occurrence that inadvertent prearming, launching, releasing or jettisoning,
    arming, or erroneous targeting are highly unlikely during the system's lifetime.
    5.2. For credible abnormal environments, the weapon system designer must incorporate
    safety features that serve as positive measures into the design of combat delivery vehicles to
    protect against inadvertent critical function activation.
    5.3. Consult Tables 1 and 2 for the Air Force-established numerical probability
    requirements. Table 1 gives the probability requirements for obtaining an unintentional
    significant nuclear yield (greater than 4 pounds TNT equivalent) from nuclear bombs,
    warheads, and other nuclear devices because of faults and failures in the nuclear weapon
    system. Table 2 gives the probability requirements for preventing an inadvertent critical
    function activation because of system faults and failures.

Table 1. Unintentional Significant Nuclear Yield Numerical Requirements for Nuclear
Bombs, Warheads, and Other Nuclear Devices.
R   A                                                   B
U   The probability of obtaining a nuclear yield is     in the absence of
L   less than
E
1   10 -9 per weapon over the stockpile lifetime        bomb or warhead-unique prearming,
                                                        environment, or trajectory stimuli.
2   10 -4 per event (see note)                          the arming signal.
3   10 -6 per weapon during exposure to abnormal        unique prearming or environmental stimuli.
    environments
NOTE: The Air Force defines an "event" as the application of a prearm command and deliberate
deployment (weapon launch or release).

Table 2. Inadvertent Critical Function Activation Numerical Requirements.
R                 A                           B                                      C
U     For the critical           The probability of faults      will be less than…
L     function of…               and failures in the nuclear
E                                weapon system will result
                                 in…
1     Authorization              Not applicable                 (See note 1)

2     Prearming                  inadvertent transmission of    1 x 10 -6 per combat delivery vehicle
                                 the prearm command signals     over the system’s lifetime in normal
                                                                environments.
                                                                 (See note 2).
3     Arming                     an A&F system failure in a     1 x 10 -4 per prearmed weapon
                                 normal environment after the
                                 A&F system has been
 6                                                 AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012


                               prearmed but before launch
                               or release
4    Launching                 accidental propulsion system      1 x 10 -7per missile over the system’s
                               ignition                          lifetime in normal environments.
                                                                 (See note 3)

                               an inadvertent programmed         1 x 10 -12 per missile over the
                               launch of a ground-launched       system’s lifetime in normal
                               missile during a fully            environments
                               assembled weapon system
                               operation
5    Releasing                 an inadvertent release or         1 x 10 -6 per weapon station over the
                               jettison of a bomb or missile     system’s lifetime in normal
                               when the release system is        environments.
                               locked                             (See note 4)
                               an inadvertent release or         1 x 10 -3 per unlocking event normal
                               jettison of a bomb or missile     environments.
                               when the release system is         (See note 4)
                               unlocked
6    Targeting                 the erroneous issuance of the     1 x 10 -3 per missile.
                               good guidance signal (for
                               ground-launched missiles)
7    (See note 5)              an inadvertent application of     1 x 10 -4 per combat delivery vehicle
                               power signals (other than the     over the system’s lifetime in normal
                               prearm command) to the            environments
                               warhead/bomb interface
NOTES:


1. Safety evaluations of combat delivery aircraft systems must consider the authorization device
is part of the command and control function and assume the authorization device has been
activated. Safety criteria must be met with the authorization device activated. For ground-
launched missile systems (for which the user accepts the restriction that the authorization device
will not be activated until immediately before intended use of the missile), safety studies and
calculations may recognize and take credit for any safety enhancements the authorization device
provides.
2. Designers must include positive safety features to prevent inadvertent prearming in credible
abnormal environments.
3. "Accidental ignition" does not include non-propulsive burning or explosion in the propulsion
system.
AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012                                                                 7


4. "Inadvertent release or jettison" doesn’t include cases when weapons separate from the
aircraft because of catastrophic structural failure of the aircraft rather than operation of the
release system.
5. Although not a critical function, weapon system designers must apply this numerical
requirement as an additional positive safety measure.

Section D—Troubleshooting and Maintenance Operations

6. General Criteria. When a fault occurs on a loaded nuclear weapon system, the primary
consideration is to ensure the system is safe and weapons are not subjected to inadvertent power
application or control signals.
   6.1. Weapon system designers must define allowable troubleshooting and maintenance
   operations for loaded nuclear weapon systems in applicable weapon system TOs or other
   certified procedures. Troubleshooting and maintenance operations must:
       6.1.1. Prohibit using any nuclear weapon as a troubleshooting tool.
       6.1.2. Only use equipment listed in the Master Nuclear Certification Listing (MNCL)
       and published technical procedures.
       6.1.3. Be consistent with applicable nuclear weapon system safety rules and approved
       technical data.
       6.1.4. Require nuclear weapons be immediately and safely isolated from potential danger
       while maintaining appropriate physical security when a malfunction occurs.
   6.2. If the authorized procedures do not adequately address the specific fault, the MAJCOM
   using the procedures must consult with the engineering MAJCOM, the 498 Nuclear Safety
   Wing (NSW) under the Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center and the Air Force Safety Center
   Weapons Safety Division (AFSC/SEW).
       6.2.1. (Added-USAFE) F-15E or F-16C/D units contact HQ USAFE/A10N,
       usafe.a10nnuclearoperations@ramstein.af.mil. Additionally, coordinate request with
       HQ USAFE/A4M and HQ USAFE/SEW.
       6.2.2. (Added-USAFE) F-16A/B or PA-200 units contact OL-ELO RAM,
       498nsg.elo@ramstein.af.mil. Additionally, coordinate the request with HQ
       USAFE/A10N, HQ USAFE/A4M and HQ USAFE/SEW.
   6.3. Field-level maintenance personnel must not perform maintenance operations that affect
   the nuclear weapon system's primary structural, propulsion, or electrical and hydraulic power
   systems unless the Air Force has established specific procedures for these operations. The
   purpose of this restriction is to protect against the possibility of exposing nuclear weapons to
   an adverse environment, particularly if a safety-related incident occurs.
   6.4. To conduct other maintenance operations prohibited by these criteria but have a valid
   operational requirement, the operating MAJCOM must request approval from AFSC/SEW.
 8                                                  AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012


7. Criteria Unique to Aircraft Systems
     7.1. Nuclear System Faults. When a nuclear system fault occurs on a loaded nuclear
     combat aircraft, cease current operation and take appropriate actions to identify, locate, and
     correct the fault if permitted in accordance with technical guidance. The engineering
     MAJCOM determines whether the system fault is critical by conducting a technical
     assessment of its potential impact on the nuclear weapons or the weapon system's primary
     nuclear safety features and the possible hazards associated with troubleshooting the fault.
     The MAJCOM's determination is the basis for any TO procedure that permits
     troubleshooting. Troubleshooting procedures must adhere to the following criteria: Use
     built-in test (BIT) system capabilities, rather than determinations by field-level personnel, to
     identify faults. Use only initial fault detection data to identify the fault, and prohibit
     diagnostic testing to identify the fault while nuclear weapons are electrically mated.
        7.1.1. Critical Faults. For critical faults, isolate the affected nuclear weapons from the
        fault before initiating troubleshooting. The manner in which weapons are isolated
        depends on the type of fault and the potential for inadvertent application of power or
        control signals to the weapon interface. Ways to isolate weapons include downloading
        the weapons; demating the electrical signal lines to the weapons and mechanically safing
        the release system; and demating the electrical signal lines to both the weapons and the
        release system.
            7.1.1.1. If authorized procedures are insufficient or inappropriate or if uncertainty
            exists about nuclear weapon impacts or the proper maintenance response, the
            operating MAJCOM must consult with 498 NSW of the AFNWC to determine the
            appropriate course of action; declare weapons nonoperational that could have been
            affected by the fault; keep weapons in nonoperational status and do not load them on
            a combat delivery aircraft until authorized by AFNWC (498 NSW); and prohibit
            performance of electrical checks on these weapons unless directed by AFNWC (498
            NSW) or until the original fault is resolved and the weapons have been returned to
            operational status.
                7.1.1.1.1. (Added-USAFE) Prohibit Permissive Action Link (PAL) operations
                on a weapon declared non-operational due to critical faults until released by
                appropriate authority. Refer to Emergency Action Procedures (EAP) Volume IV,
                for additional information.
            7.1.1.2. Nuclear weapons must remain isolated until the fault is identified, located,
            and corrected or the fault is isolated to a launcher assembly/nuclear weapon. Only
            then can the aircraft be operationally certified (that is, tested to verify system
            operability and safety) as being mission capable. When personnel can't identify the
            cause of the fault, the operating MAJCOM must authorize the aircraft operational
            certification. However, upon receipt of proper command authority, the aircraft may
            be declared operationally certified if each of these conditions are met:
            7.1.1.2. (USAFE) Coordinate requests for MAJCOM operational certification with
            HQ USAFE/A10N, HQ USAFE/A4M, and HQ USAFE/SEW. Nuclear Operations
            HQ USAFE/A10N (usafe.a10nnuclearoperations@ramstein.af.mil) is the USAFE
            office that can authorize F-15E or F-16C/D aircraft to be operationally certifiable and
            mission capable. The OL-ELO, RAM 498nsg.elo@ramstein.af.mil. is the USAFE
AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012                                                               9


         office that can authorize F-16A/B or PA-200 to be operationally certifiable and
         mission capable.
             7.1.1.2.1. A substitute aircraft is not available.
             7.1.1.2.2. Nuclear weapon system safety rules and TO restrictions are not
             violated.
             7.1.1.2.3. The fault is isolated to either specific weapon stations or a component
             associated only with those stations and the faulty stations are not loaded.
             7.1.1.2.4. The fault cannot cause or contribute to a critical fault on any loaded
             station. Note: As used here, "station" refers to an individual weapon location
             rather than a carriage store or launcher connection.
             7.1.1.2.5. Competent authority (not lower than the maintenance group
             commander or equivalent) approves the loading.
     7.1.2. Noncritical Faults. For faults that the engineering MAJCOM has determined to
     be noncritical, the nuclear weapons may remain electrically mated during troubleshooting
     operations. However, every attempt should be made to isolate the weapons unless
     isolating the weapons causes a severe operational impact.
         7.1.2.1. Identify faults unmistakably before declaring them noncritical. If the BIT
         system's fault identification is ambiguous or inconclusive or if personnel cannot
         confidently assess the potential hazards associated with corrective actions, treat the
         fault as critical and apply the requirements of paragraph 9.1.1
         7.1.2.2. Treat as critical any nuclear system fault that prevents electrical monitoring
         of the nuclear weapon's status. This condition includes hardware and software
         failures that prevent execution of the monitoring function and failures that prevent
         proper display of the results of a monitoring function.
         7.1.2.3. Before developing troubleshooting procedures, the engineering MAJCOM
         will delineate specific instructions for each BIT system fault that verify the reliability
         and accuracy of BIT data, assess the potential consequences of the actions for each
         fault to assure troubleshooting will not adversely impact nuclear safety, and request
         evaluation and approval from AFSC/SEW before troubleshooting noncritical faults.
  7.2. Mechanical Mating Problems. When a mechanical mating problem occurs that
  prevents load completion, visually verify no obvious damage exists to electrical connections
  with the aircraft nuclear system before proceeding with the loading operation.
     7.2.1. If resolving the mechanical problem doesn't involve the aircraft nuclear system
     (for example, an out-of-adjustment bomb rack rigging or a physically incompatible
     pullout cable), proceed with the loading operation after correcting the mechanical
     problem. The aircraft remains operationally certified.
     7.2.2. If resolving the mechanical problem requires removing and replacing or
     reinstalling a component in the aircraft nuclear system, operationally certify the aircraft
     after correcting the mechanical problem.
     7.2.3. If mechanical mating problems led to potential aircraft or weapon damage,
     complete applicable technical order inspection procedures prior to subsequent mating.
 10                                              AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012


   7.3. Electrical Power Application. Keep application of electrical power to a loaded nuclear
   combat aircraft to a minimum.
   7.4. Minor Maintenance. Perform only minor maintenance and operational checks not
   related to the nuclear weapon interface according to approved technical data and the nuclear
   weapon system safety rules. Examples of these operations include preflight checks, aircraft
   servicing, fuel management actions, operational checks of lighting, navigation, radar, and
   communications systems, and load software into aircraft control processors prior to
   application of monitor power.
   7.5. Nonnuclear System Faults. When a fault occurs outside the nuclear system on a
   loaded nuclear combat aircraft, perform corrective actions according to specific aircraft TOs.
   When corrective actions for a nonnuclear fault require personnel to de-mate weapons,
   perform all postload electrical and mechanical checks after mating the weapons. The aircraft
   remains operationally certified.
   7.6. Prohibited Maintenance. Observe the restrictions described in TO 11A-1-33,
   Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft. In addition, personnel must not
   conduct these specific maintenance actions on loaded nuclear combat aircraft as well as
   noncombat delivery vehicles (cargo aircraft) with nuclear weapons aboard:
       7.6.1. Aircraft engine and Alternate Power Unit changes.
       7.6.2. Landing gear maintenance requiring fuselage jacking.
       7.6.3. Major structural repair.
       7.6.4. Disruptions to fuel system, with the exception of fuel management ops (ie.
       "topping-off") associated with keeping an aircraft mission ready.
       7.6.5. Repairing the launcher primary structure or any other structure that directly
       supports the loaded nuclear weapon or nuclear weapon system.
8. Criteria Unique to Ground-Launched Missile Systems. Use only approved procedures to
perform troubleshooting and maintenance operations while a warhead or reentry system is mated
to the missile. If maintenance personnel cannot identify the fault by using approved procedures,
remove the warhead or reentry system before proceeding.
   8.1. Prohibit procedures that could send signals to a warhead or reentry system, jeopardize
   the safety of the warhead, reentry system, launch system, or launch control system, or arm or
   bypass safety interlocks.
   8.2. Only use equipment listed in the MNCL and published technical orders to troubleshoot
   any fault or failure in the missile, its associated equipment, or any component that is part of
   the command and control of the missile. Note: Troubleshooting does not include replacing
   the "most likely to fail" item when personnel replace the item using approved technical data.
   8.3. When faults occur that personnel cannot identify by using approved procedures, the
   operating MAJCOM must provide guidance after consulting with the engineering MAJCOM.
   8.4. Do not conduct these maintenance operations on a loaded nuclear missile system:
       8.4.1. Welding operations in or on the launcher (unless specifically authorized by the
       engineering MAJCOM).
AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012                                                11


        8.4.1.1. System-level testing that could inject critical commands.
        8.4.1.2. Use of uncertified test equipment.
        8.4.1.3. Suspension system work (except minor servicing or repair).
        8.4.1.4. Ordnance testing or activation.




                                          GREGORY A. FEEST, Major General, USAF
                                          Chief of Safety

                                          (USAFE)

                                          KENNETH D. MADURA, Colonel, USAF
                                          USAFE Director of Safety
 12                                            AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 63-103, Joint Air Force-National Nuclear Security Administration (AF-NNSA) Nuclear
Weapons Life Cycle Management, 24 September 2008
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 15 March 2004
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 19 December 2005.
AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Certification Program, 16 September 2005.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, 4 August
2010
AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapons Systems Software,
1 February 1999
AFPD 13-5, Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 February 2007
TO 11A-1-33, Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft, 27 May 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFR—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
BIT—Built-In Test
DoD—Department of Defense
AFSC/SEW—Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division
AFSC/SEWN—Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division, Nuclear Weapons Branch
USAF/SE—US Air Force, Chief of Safety
MAJCOM—Major Command
MNCL—Master Nuclear Certification Listing
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
TO—Technical Order
AFI91-107_USAFESUP_I 30 MARCH 2012                                   13


                               Attachment 1 (USAFE)
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
European Command Emergency Action Procedures (EAP) Volume IV,
Abbreviations and Acronyms
EAP—Emergency Action Procedures
NSG—Nuclear Systems Group
OL-ELO RAM—Operating Location-Engineering Liaison Office, Ramstein
U.S.—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
