BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-821
65TH AIR BASE WING (USAFE)
                                                                                  LAJES FIELD
                                                                                    Supplement

                                                                          26 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                            Special Management

                                                                HAZARD COMMUNICATION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the E-Publication site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 65 MDOS/SGOJ                                                      Certified by: 65 MDG/CC
                                                                         (Colonel Brian K. Witt)
                                                                                        Pages: 11


AFI 90-821, 30 March 2005, is supplemented as follows. This publication and AFI 90-821,
Hazard Communication, describes the Air Force Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program
that puts into effect the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) Hazard Communication Standard 29 CFR 1910.1200. This supplement applies to all
U.S. Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard Units. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publications; route AF Form 847s from the field through the Lajes Field
publications/forms manager. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.            This instruction requires
collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, authorized by 10
U.S.C. 8013 and E.O. 9397.

1.8.2.11. (Added) Supervisors will complete the AF IMT 3952, Chemical/Hazardous Material
Request Authorization, and follow the requirements in AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Material
Management prior to a new chemical being introduced into the work area. Any chemicals not
currently in the hazardous materials management system (EMIS, EESOH-MIS, etc) will be
added via the AF Form 3952 process immediately to maintain system currency.
2.3.7. (Added) This written program provides information specific to the implementation of Air
Force Instruction 90-821, Hazard Communication, at Lajes Field. Each work area's workplace
written Hazard Communication Program will be maintained in a binder. Workplace's have the
 2                                     AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


option to maintain this binder in electronic format also, but it must be organized and identified
appropriately and contain current information. The binder will include the following:
2.3.7.1. (Added) Tab A: A copy of Air Force Instruction 90-821, Hazard Communication and
AFI 90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP.
2.3.7.2. (Added) Tab B: A copy of the written workplace plan. An example is provided in
Attachment 4 (Added).
2.3.7.3. (Added) Tab C: Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Survey(s) for the previous 10 years
IAW AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and
Health (AFOSH) Program.
2.3.7.4. (Added) Tab D: Training Documentation. AF IMT 55, Employee Health and Safety
Record, must be on file for each employee or a DD Form 2861, Cross Reference, referencing the
location of AF IMT 55s.
2.3.7.5. (Added) Tab E: The work area hazardous chemical inventory IAW section 2.8.
2.3.7.6. (Added) Tab F: A list of the non-routine tasks involving hazardous material. A template
is provided in Attachment 5 (Added).
2.3.7.7. (Added) Tab G: Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) in English and Portuguese.
Chemicals listed on the work area’s chemical inventory must have a respective hard copy
manufacturer specific MSDS as part of the program binder or a DD Form 2861, Cross
Reference, referencing the location of the MSDS. Work centers may also maintain MSDSs
electronically, as long as "no barriers to immediate employee access are created" and a back-up
system is in place in case primary computer access is disrupted (hard copy binder).
2.3.7.8. (Added) Tab H: The work area HAZCOM POC appointment letter.
2.5.1.1. (Added) Each workplace’s Hazard Communication written program must maintain hard
copies of their respective MSDSs as specified in 2.3.7.7. (Added)
2.5.3.7. (Added) IAW AFI 32-7086, BE will maintain access to the MSDS master file via the
Hazardous Material Information and Resource System. The HMIRS may be accessed on line at
https://hmirsmsds.dlis.dla.mil/HMIRS/login.asp. MSDSs from this master file include
proprietary information and are protected from unauthorized access. No hard copies of MSDSs
will be maintained by BE since all current MSDSs for chemicals on Lajes Field will be
maintained in the current hazardous materials management system (EMIS, EESOH-MIS, etc).
2.5.3.7.1. (Added) Workers desiring MSDS information can contact BE, ext 535-6206, during
the hours of 0800-1700, to establish a mutually acceptable time during the current work shift to
review the MSDS at Bldg T-425. If needed, BE personnel will review the MSDS with the
employee and provide an explanation of the MSDS information.
2.5.3.8. (Added) According to the Final Governing Standards for Portugal (FGS-P) and
Dangerous Goods, all shops will have MSDSs in both English and Portuguese. MSDSs must
contain the information as outlined in FGS-P, Appendix C5.A2 and will be maintained on hand
as specified in 2.3.7.7. (Added)
2.7.1.1. (Added) An example workplace HAZCOM Training Plan is given in Attachment 4
(Added). This is the format that will be used by all workplaces to ensure consistency across the
wing. The supervisor will ensure the following appropriate agencies review and coordinate on
AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                     3


the workplace HAZCOM Training Plan for technical accuracy: Bioenvironmental Engineering
Flight (65 MDOS/SGOJ), Public Health Flight (65 MDOS/SGOL), Fire Department (65
CES/CEF) and Ground Safety (65 ABW/SE). The supervisor will review the training plan
annually for currency to ensure new processes and/or chemical hazards are included. If there are
no updates, the supervisor can mark the plan as "Current and correct", date and sign it. If any
updates are made, the supervisor will route through the above agencies for approval.
2.7.2.1.9. (Added) If the work area is utilizing chemicals covered by OSHA or AF substance-
specific standards (29 CFR 1910.10XX and 29 CFR 1926.11XX series of federal regulations),
the supervisor must document this chemical specific training IAW the specific standard
separately on each individual’s AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
2.8.1.1. (Added) The hazardous chemical inventory for each area will be developed by the work
area supervisor. The supervisors will maintain the hazardous chemicals inventory in the work
area (Tab E of the HAZCOM binder) and update it as new chemicals are introduced into the
work area. Before new chemicals are introduced into the work area, the supervisor will consult
Lajes Field's HAZMART (65 LRS/LGRMSH, ext 535-1317) to determine if the chemical should
be added to the inventory and obtain authorization to obtain the new material IAW AFI 32-7086,
Hazardous Material Management.
2.8.3. (Added) The inventory must include, at a minimum, the national stock number (NSN), the
identity of each hazardous chemical used in the work area as it appears on the MSDS, the part
number and/or trade name and the manufacturer's name.
2.9.3.3. (Added) The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter to the worker’s formal
supervisor describing the training conducted so the individual’s AF IMT 55, Employee Safety
and Health Record, can be updated.
2.9.4. (Added) The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks (reference Attachment 5
(Added)) performed in the work area which involve hazardous materials and file in Tab F of the
workplace HAZCOM binder.
2.10.1. (Added) If requested, BE with assistance from the Administrative Contracting Officer
(ACO) or the Contracting Officer Representative and work area supervisor will advise
contractors of hazardous chemicals they may encounter and protective measures needed in the
normal course of their work in this work area. All contractors must comply with Portuguese
legal requirements regarding Hazard Communication for their workers.
2.10.2. (Added) At the pre-performance conference, and subsequently during the contract
performance period, the requiring activity quality assurance evaluator will advise work area
supervisors and AF employees monitoring the performance of contractors of hazardous
chemicals introduced by the contractor. The contractor is required to submit information on the
use of hazardous materials according to FAR clause 52.223-3, Hazardous Material Identification
and Material Safety Data.
 4                                    AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


2.10.3. (Added) The contractor will submit information on the use of all hazardous materials to
the ACO. The ACO will advise industrial work-center supervisors or facility managers and BE
prior to contractors using hazardous materials on Lajes Field.




                                           JOSE A. RIVERA, Col, USAF
                                           Commander, 65th Air Base Wing
AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                    5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005
OSHA 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed
Adopted Forms
DD Form 2861, Cross Reference, June 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FGS—P - Final Governing Standards for Portugal
NSN— National Stock Number
ACO— Administrative Contracting Officer
 6                                      AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                      Attachment 4 (Added)
       HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM WORKPLACE TRAINING PLAN

Table A4.1. (Added) Training Plan.
                                        (Insert Shop Name)

                         HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
                         WORKPLACE SPECIFIC TRAINING PLAN

1. The Hazard Communication Program is an Occupational Safety and Health Agency (OSHA)
mandated program. The purpose of the program is to:

     - Inform you, the worker, of hazardous materials in you workplace,
     - The potential health hazards associated with these materials
     - How to know when a hazard exists, and
     - The measures you can take to protect yourself

Your written Hazard Communication Program is your section’s binder set up as outlined in Lajes
Field's Supplement to AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, which can be obtained from the base
intranet.

2. Employee Information and Training:

     a. Your section Hazard Communication Trainer is (Name or Reference HAZCOM
     appointment letter in Tab H).

     b. You are required to have Workplace Specific Hazard Communication Training:

       (1) Workplace Specific Training. This training is required by 29 CFR 1910.1200 and AFI
       90-821, Hazard Communication. This training must be conducted upon assignment to
       the shop and whenever a new chemical or process is introduced and documented on
       the AF IMT 55 as ‘Workplace Specific Training’. The elements of this training program
       are:

       (a) How employees can obtain and use MSDSs.

       The shop’s MSDS are maintained in hard copy format at ______________ (specify
       location). This location provides you ready access to all MSDS on any shift. Material
       Safety Data Sheets are supplied by the manufacturer of a hazardous material and every
       hazardous material has an MSDS. The MSDS must be in English and Portuguese and
       include information such as what actions to take during an exposure emergency and the
       long-term health effects of the chemical as well as the following:
AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                    7


     - The chemical identity used on the label

     - The chemical’s common name

     - The chemical ingredients and common name of the ingredients

     - Physical and chemical characteristics of the chemical such as vapor pressure, flash
     point, etc.

     - The physical hazards of the chemical, including potential for fire, explosion, and
     reactivity

     - The health hazards of the chemical including signs and symptoms of exposure and any
     medical conditions which are generally recognized as being aggravated by exposure to
     the chemicals

     - The primary routes of entry of the chemical into the body e.g. inhalation, absorbed
     through the skin, or ingestion

     - The OSHA permissible air exposure limit or other recommended limit

     - Whether the hazardous chemical is listed in the National Toxicology Program Annual
     Report on Carcinogens or has been found to be a potential carcinogen in the
     International Agency for Research on Cancer Monographs, or by OSHA.

     - Any generally applicable precautions for safe handling and use which are known to the
     chemical manufacturer, including proper hygienic practices, protective measures during
     repair, maintenance of contaminated equipment and procedures for clean-up of spills
     and leaks

     - Emergency first aid procedures

     - Any generally applicable control measures such as appropriate engineering controls,
     work practices, or personal protective equipment

     - The date of preparation of the MSDS

     - The name, address and telephone number of the chemical manufacturer or other
     responsible party who can provide additional information on the hazardous chemical and
     emergency procedures, if necessary

   The MSDS file is maintained and kept current by ________________________(specify
   person or reference HAZCOM appointment letter in Tab H)

   [NOTE: Trainer should review hard copies of MSDS, preferably the most hazardous
   chemicals such as OSHA specific chemicals or carcinogens, with the individual during
8                                     AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


    training. Shop personnel need to be familiar with the information on an MSDS such as
    what to do during an exposure emergency]

    (b) Location and availability of the hazardous chemical inventory and MSDS master file.

    [NOTE: Trainer should show worker the hazardous chemical inventory located at Tab E
    and explain the following] The hazardous chemical inventory is the table of contents for
    the MSDS file. You can reference MSDS quickly such as during an emergency by cross-
    referencing to the MSDS file. [NOTE: Trainer should demonstrate how to cross-
    reference]. This hazardous chemical inventory is maintained current
    by__________________(specify person or reference HAZCOM appointment letter in TAB
    H)

    (c) Explanation of the labeling system.

    Container of hazardous material brought into or used in a shop will be labeled, tagged, or
    marked with the following information:

         - Identity of the hazardous material

         - Appropriate hazard warnings

         - Name, address and phone number of the manufacturer or other responsible party

    Labels must be used when:

         - Label is lost or defaced

         - Placed in another container for storage

         - Hazardous materials manufactured within the AF (such as a waste product or if an
         chemicals are mixed producing another chemical)

    When replacing labels, use a DD Form 2522 or a DD Form 2521 (when available) or other
    forms when appropriate. Labels can be ordered through AFPDO or from safety supply.
AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                                       9


Enter appropriate data into table.

    Any      Hazardous Methods and     Health      Physical      The measures
  process in  Material observations   hazards       hazards    employees can take
  the work (Chemical) that may be    associated   associated       to protect
 area where               used to       with          with      themselves from
 hazardous               detect the   potential    potential     hazards (PPE
  materials             presence or exposure to    exposure    Admin/Engineering
 are present             release of  work area      to work      Controls, etc.)
   (Task)               hazardous    hazardous        area
                       materials in  materials    hazardous
                        workplace    (Acute &     materials
                                      Chronic
                                       effects)




Shop Chief Signature and Date


Approved                        Date




Commander or Designated Rep Signature
 10                                 AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011




65 ABW Ground Safety (Concur/Non-concur) Date




Signature Ground Safety Rep


Public Health (Concur/Non-concur) Date




Signature Public Health Rep


Fire Department (Concur/Non-concur) Date




Signature Fire Department Rep


Bioenvironmental Engineering (Concur/Non-concur) Date




Signature Bioenvironmental Engineering Rep
AFI90-821_LAJESFIELDSUP 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                        11


                                    Attachment 5 (Added)
                                NON-ROUTINE TASK LIST

Table A5.1. Task List.
1. Task Name

 a. Frequency

 b. Task Description (include shop O.I. or T.O. if applicable)

 c. Associated Hazards

 d. Controls

2. Task Name

 a. Frequency

 b. Task Description

 c. Associated Hazards

 d. Controls
