BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-202
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                         AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                  9 JULY 2013
                                                           Certified Current 16 September 2013
                                                                                        Safety

                                                                THE US AIR FORCE MISHAP
                                                                  PREVENTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFMC/SES                                                    Certified by: HQ AFMC/SES
                                                                          (Harvey C. Dorney, Jr.)
Supersedes:    AFI91-202_AFMCSUP1,                                                    Pages: 40
               11 November 2005


AFI 91-202, 5 August 2011, Incorporating Change 1, 20 March 2012 is supplemented as
follows:

This supplement applies to all AFMC units. It does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG)
or US Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major rewrite
includes updated office symbols to accurately reflect units under AFMC’s 5 Center Construct.
Specifies roles/responsibilities of the installation Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health
(ESOH) council and the requirements for job safety training. Includes test and range safety
 2                                                          AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


guidelines for safe operation of new/unproven unmanned drones on ranges and near
people/buildings and provides generic list of range safety officer’s duties. In addition, requires
weapon safety managers to attend laser safety and directed energy weapon training and support
appropriate safety review boards. Also, provides new system safety procedures for risk
acceptance, safety releases, discrepant parts and certification process for directed energy
weapons. NOTE: The term “installation/center” will be used throughout this supplement and is
defined as: 1) “Installation” refers to bases where the safety office resides at the wing level and
has responsibilities as the host and 2) “Center” also refers to those safety office functions that are
located at the Center/NAF level and have intermediary command responsibilities without
installation responsibilities. HQ Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) will have intermediary
command responsibilities of assigned detachments.
1.5.11. MAJCOM and/or Center/NAF Safety Staffs:
1.5.11.8.1. (Added) All Center/Wing 91 series supplements will receive HQ AFMC/SE
coordination and approval prior to publishing.
1.5.11.14.1.1. (Added) HQ level SAVs will be conducted within six months following any
program evaluation rated less than Satisfactory. SAVs may also be accomplished at unit
invitation and with unit funding.
1.5.11.14.3.1. (Added) HQ AFMC Director of Safety will be briefed on the status of all Class
A and B recommendations where AFMC is listed as either the OCR or OPR. Each Center/Wing
Chief of Safety, or Ground Safety Manager will obtain, quarterly, a listing of their organization
(and below) open recommendations using AFSAS. A status report of all open recommendations,
with corrective actions plans, will be forwarded to HQ AFMC/SE quarterly for review. The
status of all significant or hard to close recommendations will briefed to the AFMC Commander
at the semi-annual ESOH Council.
1.5.11.14.4.1. (Added) All HQ AFMC/SE branches will review alert messages and forward
messages to their counterparts at all AFMC installations for their review and action. Installations
will forward any action taken back to the respective HQ AFMC/SE branch.
1.5.11.14.5.1. (Added) Submit nominations to HQ AFMC/SE as prescribed in AFI 36-
2833_AFMCSUP_I, Safety Awards.
1.5.11.14.6.1. (Added) N/A.
1.5.11.14.7.1. (Added) HQ AFMC/SE Functional Area Managers will monitor AEF Reporting
Tool and other Air Expeditionary Force tools for pending deployments.
1.5.11.14.8.1. (Added) N/A.
1.5.11.14.9. (Added) In addition, Center Safety staffs will inform and advise Center CC
concerning all safety matters, oversee and standardize Center-wide safety processes, coordinate
Class B mishap investigations, and coordinate Center-level risk assessments.
1.5.14.10.1. (Added) Additional duties or other assigned roles outside primary safety function
must not present a conflict of interest.
1.5.15.4.1. (Added) Additionally, installation safety offices, through HTSA or MOA, may use
the safety office nearest the GSU to conduct their program assessments and inspections,
regardless of the MAJCOM affiliation. (see paragraph 3.3)
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                   3


1.5.15.22. (Added) Center/Installation Safety offices will develop a trend analysis program.
This program will identify mishap activity and should consider category trends, root causes,
common factors, deviations from compliance requirements in order to measure program
effectiveness, and insofar as possible, identify successes. This analysis should include review of
mishap reports, spot inspections, annual inspections, and employee reported hazards. The metric
developed from this trend analysis program will be forwarded to the appropriate commanders
and briefed at the ESOH/AFOSH councils. These metrics will be uploaded to the AFMC/SE
public EIM page.
1.5.18.11. (Added) Submits both contract and in-house developed projects to Safety,
Bioenvironmental Engineering, and fire technical services for review, coordination, and
processing. This is done early in the conceptual stage of the engineering and planning phase. Use
AFMC Form 299 to perform the review. Engineering Section completes all sections of AFMC
Form 299 prior to sending it for safety, fire, and health review.
1.5.20.1.1. (Added) Squadron commanders with explosives or missile mission will assign a
primary and alternate additional duty weapons safety representative (ADWSR) within 30 days of
projected ADWSR vacancy.
1.5.21.15.1. (Added) Supervisors will inspect their work areas monthly using checklists
prepared with the help of the local safety, bioenvironmental and fire prevention organizations.
AFMC Form 315, Supervisor Safety Inspection Record, or equivalent form/electronic system,
is used to document the inspection and will be kept in the organization for one year. This
inspection will qualify as the required Tier 1 level ESOH shop inspection.
1.5.21.20. (Added) All supervisors conduct, at least quarterly, occupational safety and health
meetings. These meetings may be conducted separately or in conjunction with other regular unit
meetings. Document the meeting on AFMC Form 316, Supervisor Safety Meeting Minutes or
equivalent form/electronic system, and maintain for one year.
1.5.23. (Added) System Program Managers/Directors:
1.5.23.1. (Added) Designate design, acquisition, product and commodity directors and related
staff office directors to:
1.5.23.1.1. (Added) Ensure EOSH requirements and recommendations from safety, fire
protection, and bioenvironmental engineering staffs are included in engineering/design projects
of Air Force systems or system modifications, industrial or support equipment, and industrial
process changes.
1.5.23.1.2. (Added) Ensure that safety, bioenvironmental engineering and fire protection staffs
are involved early in the conceptual stages of all contract or organic projects mentioned above.
Use AFMC Form 299, Safety Fire and Health Review, or locally developed equivalent to
document safety, bioenvironmental engineering and fire technical services review. AFMC Form
299 is completed by the initiating organization before sending it for safety, bioenvironmental and
fire technical services review..
1.5.23.1.3. (Added) Ensure commercial off-the-shelf equipment and SPO managed
acquisitions are evaluated by safety, bioenvironmental engineering and fire protection staffs for
compliance with appropriate safety and health standards.
 4                                                         AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


1.5.23.1.4. (Added) AFLCMC is responsible for Air Force plants and should ensure
requirements of this instruction are met through plant visits, assigning qualified personnel at
plants and/or through an Inter-service Support Agreement or Memorandum of Agreement with
the Defense Logistics Agency or Defense Contract Management Agency.
1.5.23.2. (Added) Acquisition program managers will involve system safety, flight safety,
space safety, ground safety and weapons/explosive safety experts, as applicable, at the beginning
of the acquisition life cycles of their programs.
2.1. Safety Staff. The center or installation chief of safety must report directly to the center or
installation commander. Safety leads of other subordinate wings will report directly to their
respective command chain (i.e. ALC/CC/CV/CA). The individuals assigned to the
Center/Installation/Air Base Wing, Test Wings, Complex safety offices should have safety as
their primary duty and be in a safety AFSC or safety civilian job series. Civilian safety personnel
must not have additional job series as part of their position description. Civilian system safety
personnel may be in the 801 or 803 position series. Safety cannot be an additional duty for
members of the center/ installation or complex safety offices. Where AFRL is a tenant of an
installation they will adhere to the installation safety requirements as specified in the host-tenant
(or similar) support agreement unless AFRL/SE has levied more stringent requirements.
Designated Chiefs of Safety (including Complex Safety Managers/Leads) will develop a
Memorandum of Understanding/Agreement with their installation safety office to further define
responsibilities for the implementation of safety programs. Installation safety responsibilities will
continue to reside with the host installation safety office.
2.1.1. The center/installation COS will be qualified in the mission of the center/installation if it
does not have a primary mission weapons system. A Complex safety lead is not an installation
Chief of Safety but will be responsible for the implementation of installation safety programs
within the complex. They will not be a subordinate branch or division of the Quality Assurance
staff.
2.1.1.4. (Added) Chiefs of Safety will send HQ AFMC/SE an updated personnel roster as
changes warrant. Also include the safety office's fax number. This information will be uploaded
to AFMC/SE public EIM page.
2.1.2.4. (Added) Full Time Safety Personnel. Safety managers will plan and budget for all
foreseeable training needs during the annual training forecasts. See Attachment 19 (Added) for
safety training requirements. An annual review of employee development plans, both military
and civilian, should be accomplished to ensure proper tracking of the employees training
requirements. The training plans should be tailored so each employee is afforded the opportunity
annually to attend upgrade, developmental or refresher training. Ground Safety personnel in
AFMC will obtain 30 hours of professional development training (or three continuing education
units) annually as part if or in addition to the requirements in this paragraph.
2.1.2.4.1. (Added) These can be advanced safety courses or professional management
development courses such as those offered through the Federal Executive Institute or
Management Development Centers run by the Office of Personnel Management. No member
will allow their development to languish by not seeking to accomplish the necessary training
help ensure a current and professional ground safety staff. No shows at training courses are not
acceptable.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                   5


2.1.2.4.2. (Added) The courses in paragraph 2.1.2.4.1 (Added) can be obtained from the
OSHA Training Institute (OTI), OTI Education Centers or the National Safety Council or the Air
Force Safety Center. If sources other than these are used, the organization obtaining the training
shall coordinate with HQ AFMC/SEG prior to setting up training dates to ensure that the
vendor’s course is equivalent to the course in paragraph 2.1.2.4.1 (Added).
2.1.3.1. (Added) The Maintenance or Air Logistics Complex Safety Manager manages the
Ground/Industrial safety program for the Maintenance Wing or Air Logistics Complex
Commander.
2.1.4.5. (Added) Use the following guidance in selecting an FSO:
2.1.4.5.1. (Added) Previous FSO qualification.
2.1.4.5.2. (Added) Current qualification in one of the aircraft flown at the location.
2.1.4.5.3. (Added) Previous qualification in one of the aircraft flown at that center.
2.1.4.5.4. (Added) Previous AFMC experience.
2.1.7.1. (Added) System Safety Managers (SSMs) will attend a system safety course that is
approved by HQ AFMC/SES. Individual with sufficient system safety experience may request
waiver to formal course requirements. Submit request to HQ AFMC/SES.
2.2.5. (Added) Product Directorate safety representatives will perform the following duties
relative to explosives/missile/space/directed energy weapon safety and nuclear surety:
2.2.5.1. (Added) Brief new system program managers, division chiefs, and center/wing
weapons safety managers on safety/nuclear surety requirements within 60 days of their
appointment. This briefing must be documented.
2.2.5.2. (Added) Develop with the installation safety office a self-inspection checklist
containing the primary elements of safety and nuclear surety.
2.2.5.3. (Added) Provide to the installation safety office for review and coordination all
explosives/missile/space/directed energy safety, nuclear surety requirements incorporated into
plans, TOs and changes involving safety, hazard analysis, etc.
2.2.5.4. (Added) Provide training outlines and lesson plans to installation safety office for
review and approval. In addition to basic program requirements, the training outlines/lesson
plans should include modifications/changes to existing weapons systems that could affect
product safety and safety review process for new acquisitions. Provide and document initial
training to subordinate safety/surety monitors within 60 days of appointment.
2.2.5.5. (Added) Ensure all changes to TOs are coordinated with appropriate engineering
authority before publication.
2.4.3. Safety offices can best determine mishap investigation kit items based on unit mission,
location, funding, and seasonal requirements. As a guide for kit contents use items recommended
in AFPAM 91-211 USAF Guide to Aviation Safety Investigations.
2.9.1. Installation safety offices and assigned RSOs shall develop a standardized risk
management process to identify, mitigate hazards and present residual risks for acceptance to an
appropriate authority prior to range events; the Safety Review Board (SRB) is the process
standard. After the initial SRB, approval authorities in coordination with the installation safety
 6                                                       AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


office may issue local Operating Instructions (OIs) for select or repetitious activities. OIs will
annotate SRB identified hazards, restrictions and mitigating measures and will be valid only
when conditions, procedures and hazards do not change. Use residual risk acceptance levels in
chapter 13 of this supplement for range risk acceptance.
2.9.2. Use the Surface Danger Zone (SDZ) or Weapons Danger Zone (WDZ) tool to determine
footprints when using inventory items for training. Consult Quantity Distance (QD) tables in
AFMAN 91-201 for explosive detonations. For non-inventory/test items, use all available
information (contractor data, like-type comparison, modeling, test footprint programs, etc.) to
determine footprints. For test missions only, when the use of a footprint would preclude the
accomplishment of test objectives, the ROA in conjunction with the Installation Safety Office
may authorize the use of the SRB risk management process in lieu of adhering to the footprint.
Use of the SRB in lieu of a footprint shall be case-by-case only (no blanket exclusions) with risk
acceptance documented prior to execution.
2.9.2.1. (Added) Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS). ROAs shall analyze the hazards of a UAS
and apply appropriate mitigating measures (e.g. a Flight Termination System [FTS]) prior to
employment on the range. Assess the need for a safety footprint as some systems impose hazards
similar to missiles and weapons. See Range Commanders Council publications RCC 323-99 and
RCC 321 for additional guidance. At a minimum consider:
2.9.2.1.1. (Added) Kinetic energy potential for lethality and property damage.
2.9.2.1.2. (Added)    Flight paths to avoid endangering concentrations of DoD and civil
assets/personnel.
2.9.2.1.3. (Added) System maturity and employment methodology.
2.9.2.1.4. (Added) Mid Air Collision Avoidance (MACA) through see/sense and avoid, spotter
or chase aircraft.
2.9.2.1.5. (Added) Airspace and ATC coordination. See FAA publications for flight
requirements in the National Airspace Structure (NAS).
2.9.2.1.6. (Added) Robustness and redundancy of vehicle control/telemetry.
2.9.2.1.7. (Added) Containment measures such as a FTS, lost link software (e.g. fly home) or
parachute.
2.9.2.2. (Added) Laser and directed energy systems. Ranges must be certified for these
operations IAW AFI 13-212. If certification is not possible/practical, research and test &
evaluation activities may utilize the SRB process on a case-by-case basis for events. In these
instances, the installation Laser Safety Officer (LSO) must be a member of the SRB and the
Installation/CC must be the approval authority. Coordinate directed energy activities with the
installation LSO for safety requirements.
2.9.2.2.1. (Added) An energy footprint (e.g. laser surface danger zone (LSDZ) or nominal
ocular hazard distance (NOHD) must be calculated and applied so that the hazard is terminated
within a controlled area. Terrain or a backstop should be utilized when practical.
2.9.2.2.2. (Added) In cases where there is no backstop, the LSDZ extends downrange to the
NOHD. Laser operations at targets on the horizon are permitted as long as airspace is controlled
to the NOHD. Intentional laser operations at targets above the horizon must comply with DoDI
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                     7


3100.11 and be approved by the Laser Clearinghouse (LCH) if the laser energy departing
controlled range airspace is sufficient to be harmful (damage/ disrupt/deny) to objects or humans
in space. Limiting laser energy emissions to the NOHD within range controlled airspace should
preclude satellite interference; coordinate with the LCH if uncertain or to obtain a
waiver/deconfliction procedure.
2.9.2.2.3. (Added) Laser operations near aerodromes require special precautions - see FAA
Order 7400.2 for restrictions.
2.9.2.3. (Added) Systems and environments with explosive potential. Certain systems, devices
and environments (e.g. pressure vessels, explosive vapors and arc-flash) contain the potential
energy sufficient to generate blast overpressure, fragmentation and other like-type explosive
hazards which would otherwise require a footprint/QD arc. Testers and operational users must
assess the potential explosive nature of such systems/environments and ensure that personnel and
property are kept at an appropriate distance and/or are properly shielded.
2.9.3. When it becomes necessary to destroy assets or terminate a test to protect public safety or
high value government assets, the installation safety office shall document the occurrence and
provide an info copy to the MAJCOM/SE.
2.9.4. (Added) Range safety duties vary from installation level program management (RSO
assigned to the Center/Wing) to on-site safety oversight performed by the RSO, Range Control
Officer (RCO) or Test Director/Manager during execution. See AFI 13-212, Range Planning and
Operations, for additional range safety duties.
2.9.4.1. (Added) Installation RSO duties include but are not limited to:
2.9.4.1.1. (Added) Assist the ROA with the development and publication of range safety
programs and procedures.
2.9.4.1.2. (Added) Periodically monitor range activities to ensure compliance with safety
standards and ensure appropriate range access restriction and warning signs are posted; see AFI
13-212 for details.
2.9.4.1.3. (Added) Analyze proposed test plans and attend SRBs relating to range activities.
Coordinate with the ROA to ensure that proposed events by all range users undergo review.
2.9.4.1.4. (Added) Assist the ROA with development, analysis and implementation of non-
inventory item footprints.
2.9.4.1.5. (Added) Obtain and maintain analysis tools (e.g. latest version of Weapons Danger
Zone [WDZ]) and range safety equipment (e.g. radio equipped, off-road vehicle) required to
meet mission needs and capabilities as outlined in local range capabilities documents.
2.9.4.1.6. (Added) Obtain training as outlined in Attachment 19 of this supplement. In
conjunction with the ROA, establish local training and certification requirements for on-site
RSOs.
2.9.4.1.7. (Added) Analyze and document the occurrence when it becomes necessary to
destroy test assets or terminate a test to protect public safety or government assets (e.g. employ a
Flight Termination System (FTS) to keep an errant test article on range) for potential mishap
reporting and near-miss trend analysis.
2.9.4.1.8. (Added) Inform HQ AFMC/SES of high risk activities prior to execution.
 8                                                        AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


2.9.4.2. (Added) The safety responsibilities of the RSO on-site or in direct, real-time
monitoring of range operations may vary by the type of operation. For Class A operations
(manned, ground-scoring capable range with a Range Control Officer present on range and
controlling aircraft) the RSO duties are typically performed by the RCO. For tests requiring the
monitoring of a system or operation from a mission control facility (e.g. a weapon flight test with
a FTS installed) the safety function is usually performed by an RSO on a console. For small test
operations (e.g. a munitions/explosives test) the on-site safety function may be performed by a
designated RSO or the Test Director/Manager. Regardless of the personnel or event, some basic
on-site RSO responsibilities are:
2.9.4.2.1. (Added) Be on-site at the operation or in a position to have real-time situational
awareness of events, personnel and assets.
2.9.4.2.2. (Added) Receive a briefing from (coordinate with) range control/SE on hazards and
mitigating measure as associated with the activity. This may vary from the standard range safety
SOPs to the restrictions and mitigating measures established by the SRB.
2.9.4.2.3. (Added) Ensure an applicable footprint/hazard area has been applied to the activity.
2.9.4.2.4. (Added) Obtain status of the range and authorization to conduct activity/fire from
range control.
2.9.4.2.5. (Added) Ensure the hazard area is clear.
2.9.4.2.6. (Added) Ensure proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is worn and applicable
safety measures (e.g. as required by SRB) are in place.
2.9.4.2.7. (Added) Monitor flight path and status of weapon/asset, range boundaries and areas
of concern; execute FTS as required.
2.9.4.2.8. (Added) Suspend activity in event of mishap or significant unforeseen hazard.
Contact Center/Installation SE as resumption of activity may require Test Execution Authority
(TEA) authorization and a mishap investigation.
2.9.4.2.9. (Added) Obtain training and certification as required by the ROA.
2.9.5. (Added) Some unanticipated range and test events such as off range impacts and
unintentional/untimely destruction of test assets and property are reportable mishaps; contact the
applicable center/installation safety office. Follow the procedures for intentional or expected
damage to DoD equipment or property incurred during authorized testing in AFI 91-204, the
Reportable Mishap Flow Chart in AFMAN 91-221 and chapter 13 of this supplement to
determine exceptions to reporting.
3.1. General. For facilities, organizations (to include GSU’s) or work areas, determined to be
low risk by completion of the AFMC Risk Based Assessment Worksheet, available at the HQ
AFMC/SEG                                                                              web-site
https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/Safety/Ground%20safety/Risk%20Based%20Assessment%2
0Checklist/RISKINSP.XLS, this annual facility inspection may be conducted by a qualified
safety/task certified personnel and documented
3.1.1. (Added) The program assessments requirement can be met by uploading required
information to the installation/complex safety office’s EIM page.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                   9


3.1.2. (Added) Annually, the installation/complex safety office will initiate the AFMC
worksheet and verify that work center conditions have not changed and still meet the criteria of a
“low risk” inspection.
3.2.3. (Added) Safety Program Management Evaluations(SPMEs) should be synchronized
and/or integrated with other AFMC inspection or assessment teams Environmental, Safety, and
Occupational Health Compliance Assessment Management Programs (ESOHCAMPs), or
Inspector General activities.
3.2.4. (Added) HQ AFMC/SE will evaluate Center, Installation, and Complex safety offices
and direct reporting units (DRU’s).
3.2.5. (Added) A five-tier rating system IAW AFI 90-201 consists of the ratings: Outstanding,
Excellent, Satisfactory, Marginal, and Unsatisfactory.
3.2.6. (Added) Safety staffs must have Inspector General Evaluation Management System
(IGEMS) accounts. All findings will be tracked to closure in IGEMS.
3.5.2.1. (Added) Squadron commander will designate operational area and frequency of spot
inspection for ADWSR’s. ADWSR’s will document “Open” findings until closed and report
systemic issues to Center or Installation/Wing WSM.
7.1.3. (Added) HQ AFMC flight safety program management:
7.1.3.1. (Added) Coordinates and provides guidance on AFMC directives involving aviation
safety.
7.1.3.2. (Added) Coordinates with appropriate AFMC agencies on logistic corrective actions.
7.1.3.3. (Added) Prepares the command’s endorsement to AFMC flight mishap reports.
7.1.3.4. (Added) Takes part in selected mishap investigations.
7.1.3.5. (Added) Prepares flight safety memorandums to command section on issues affecting
AFMC.
7.1.3.6. (Added) Provides support to system safety groups (SSG) and configuration control
boards (CCB) when required.
7.1.3.7. (Added) Coordinates between HQ Air Force Safety Center (AFSEC), other
MAJCOMS, and AFMC units as required.
7.1.3.8. (Added) Monitors status of AFMC mishap investigations and reporting responsibilities
involving AFMC possessed aircraft at contractor owned and operated facilities (COCO),
government owned contractor operated facilities (GOCO), and contractor field team facilities.
7.1.3.9. (Added) Augments AFMC Inspector General Activities.
7.1.3.10. (Added) Monitors contract airfield pre-award survey program.
7.1.3.11. (Added) Evaluates airfield and airspace criteria request for waivers concerning both
AFMC and contractor airfields.
7.1.3.12. (Added) Reviews environmental impact statements involving flight operations/safety.
7.1.4. (Added) Center/ABW flight safety program management:
 10                                                      AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


7.1.4.1. (Added) Reviews incoming flight mishap reports involving base/center MDS aircraft
and major management items (ensures thorough review of all mishap messages on all Air Force
Aircraft for potential applications to AFMC managed systems).
7.1.4.2. (Added) Ensures establishment of an active deficiency review process, if applicable.
Monitors status of the program and ensures that the appropriate agencies take required action.
Safety offices will coordinate with action agencies on selected items of high flight safety
emphasis.
7.1.4.3. (Added) Ensures high and serious risks are reviewed with the using MAJCOM, when
appropriate, and are accepted at the senior level (CAE/PEO).
7.1.4.4. (Added) Takes part in Materiel Safety Tasks Group (MSTG) and CCB meetings as
required.
7.1.4.5. (Added) Ensures the following topics are briefed to all assigned/attached aircrew
members annually: BASH program, MACA program, Promise of Confidentiality during safety
investigations, handling of Privileged Safety Information, Hazardous Air Traffic Reporting
(HATR), and the Hazard Program.
7.1.4.6. (Added) Conducts training for unit FSOs and maintains documentation of training, in
the flight safety continuity book.
7.1.4.7. (Added) Maintains liaison with system manager, technical services, combined test
forces and service engineering staff to keep current on immediate and more demanding weapon
system problems involving flight safety.
7.1.4.8. (Added) Distributes safety educational materials and publications to assigned and
attached aircrew.
7.1.4.9. (Added) Coordinates on contracts for aircraft maintenance ensuring proper flight
safety provisions are included in accordance with AFI 10-220, Contractor’s Flight and Ground
Operations, and National Aerospace Standard (NAS) 3306, Facility Requirements for Aircraft
Operations.
7.1.4.10. (Added) Coordinates on operations plans/Memoranda of Agreements involving use
of aircraft.
7.1.4.11. (Added) Furnishes technical assistance to center and wing agencies as required.
7.1.4.12. (Added) Establishes procedures to coordinate on all planned internal or contractual
flight tests to determine the need for test review or Safety Review Board (SRB) action.
Schedules and conducts test safety reviews according to AFI 91-202 AFMC Supplement 1
Chapter 13.
7.1.4.13. (Added) Participate in the acquisition process by attending meetings with relevant
parties. Conducts dialogue with contracting officers ensuring flight safety concerns are
addressed.
7.1.4.14. (Added) Coordinates with base Public Affairs (PA) and Command Post to ensure
press releases and OPREPS regarding flight mishaps do not contain privileged information.
7.3.3.1. Use of Aero Club aircraft is encouraged as part of the outreach program.
7.3.5.1.6.1. (Added) Ensure a current copy of AFI 10-220 is maintained by the unit.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                   11


7.3.5.1.9. (Added) Be fully trained in mishap investigation and reporting by obtaining the S-
prefix Air Force Specialty code. If not previously qualified as an FSO, attendance at the Aircraft
Mishap Investigation Course (AMIC), or Jet Engine Mishap Investigation course (JEMIC)
fulfills the intent of this instruction provided the individual is scheduled to attend training
required for the S-prefix.
7.3.5.1.10. (Added) Report directly to the flight test squadron commander on flight safety
issues.
7.3.5.1.11. (Added) Conduct monthly flight safety meetings. Coordinate with center FSO for
topics.
7.3.5.1.12. (Added) Attend MSTG meetings as required.
7.3.5.2. (Added) AFMC Units will have a flight safety continuity book. It will include as a
minimum:
7.3.5.2.1. (Added) Letters of appointment (center individuals, unit additional duty personnel).
7.3.5.2.2. (Added) Records of Training.
7.3.5.2.3. (Added) Responsibilities and duties of the appointees.
7.3.5.2.4. (Added) Safety Mishap Response Plan and or checklist.
7.3.5.2.5. (Added) Self-Inspection/annual inspection checklists.
7.3.5.2.6. (Added)       Programs,   processes,   and   activities   involved   with.   Roles   and
responsibilities will be outlined.
7.3.6. (Added)    Test Squadron commanders will follow paragraph 7.3.5
8.3.19. (Added) Implements a Technical Order (TO) review program consistent with the
requirements of AFMCMAN 21-1, paragraph 1.6
8.3.20. (Added) Conduct meetings with installation USR’s on at least a semi-annual basis.
8.10.4. (Added) Each AFMC installation will develop and formalize specific procedures for
handling DoL and state inspection of all activities on its installation. Procedures at a minimum
will cover entry, exclusive federal jurisdiction, escorts, security clearances, photographs, mishap
investigations, and telephonic notification to HQ AFMC/SEG, SGB, or CE Environmental as
applicable.
9.1.1. See paragraph 9.5 for program requirements. Examples are explosives site planning and
licensing, explosives storage, operations, transportation and handling, DULL SWORD reporting,
testing, research, development, risk management, mishap reporting, investigations, compliance,
and trending, etc. Each program manager is also responsible for weapons safety designed,
manufactured, and maintained in weapons systems, support equipment, launch/delivery vehicles,
and related facilities which exists throughout the weapon system’s life cycle.
9.1.1.1. (Added) Product directorates whose operations, management, maintenance or
engineering functions contribute to the safety of weapons systems will establish a product safety
program and will appoint explosives, missiles, space, directed energy weapons safety or nuclear
surety safety representatives in their functional areas. See paragraph 2.2.5 (Added).
 12                                                        AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


9.1.2. The center/host Wing Weapons Safety office will be the "center of expertise" for weapons
related issues and processes occurring throughout the installation.. The HQ AFRL Safety office
will be the “center of expertise” for weapons related issues and processes throughout its
directorates and units. 88 ABW/SEW will be the “center of expertise” for weapons related issues
and processes at the system program management organizations and the Government Owned-
Contractor Operated facilities (GOCOs). Wing Weapons Safety offices designated as the Center
level authority must be documented.
9.1.2.1. (Added) Center weapons safety offices are required to review and coordinate on
command level correspondence, review and approval of associated request (e.g., AFTO Form 22,
Site Plans, Commercial-Off-the-Shelf requests, Waivers, variances, etc.).
9.1.3. (Added) Each center/installation safety office will effectively administer a product
safety program by performing at a minimum the following:
9.1.3.1. (Added) Be knowledgeable of the portions of the systems or items (aircraft, test or
support equipment, containers, etc.) used directly with munitions or explosives. This knowledge
will include the quality and reliability programs for these products.
9.1.3.2. (Added) Attend CCB, MSTG, SSG, Program Objective Memorandum meetings and
other meetings as required supporting the safety, quality or reliability of managed munitions or
weapons systems.
9.1.3.3. (Added) As applicable, support the Nonnuclear Munitions Safety Board according to
AFI 91-205, Nonnuclear Munitions Safety Board or Nuclear Weapons System Safety Group
according to AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews
and Safety Rules.
9.1.3.4. (Added) Monitor the timelines and adequacy of directorate support for taskings
(studies, reports, evaluations, etc.) requested by outside agencies involving weapons safety.
9.1.3.5. (Added) Review all safety analyses, operating instructions, test directives, plans, and
programs which involve weapons safety.
9.1.3.6. (Added) Participate in design, development, modification meetings, conferences,
groups, etc., as necessary to ensure safety requirements are incorporated for systems or items
which the center has or will gain engineering management responsibility.
9.1.3.7. (Added) Review applicable Requests for Proposals and coordinate on all acquisition
contracts or services contracts involving explosives weapons or weapons systems to ensure
adequate contractual safety requirements are included.
9.2.1. AFI Refer to paragraph 2.2.4 for specific unit safety representative responsibilities.
9.2.2.1. (Added) For units subordinate to the host; develop conventional weapons and directed
energy weapons lesson plans. Lesson plans will have a documented initial and annual review by
the host weapons safety office.
9.2.5.1. (Added) See table at Attachment 19 for mandatory and recommended training.
9.2.6. (Added) Weapons safety personnel will develop policy, procedures and programs for
safety duties/positions not defined within Air Force safety publications.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                13


9.3.1. (Added) Explosives Safety Standards. See AFMAN 91-201, AFMC Sup_1 for
additional MAJCOM unique explosives safety guidance.
9.4.1.1. (Added) Explosive waivers, exemptions, deviations and compensatory measures will
be approved/disapproved IAW AFMAN 91-201 and ensure that compensatory measures are
integrated into local written procedures according to paragraph 9.4.5 below. Center Commanders
have equivalent Numbered Air Forces approval and management responsibilities.
9.4.2.1. (Added) Submit commander’s acceptance of risk to HQ AFMC/SEW for explosives
operations that do not conform to established explosives safety standards.
9.4.3.1. (Added) Research, Test, Development, and Evaluation (RDT&E): The importance of
effective risk management of all explosives use in the RDT&E environment is critical. AFMAN
91-201_AFMC supplement contains guidance on the issue of Interim Hazard Classifications
(IHCs), locally developed Technical Data Packages (TDPs) and on licensing explosives
operations.
9.4.3.1.1. (Added) The Installation Weapons Safety Manager will be part of associated
Weapons System Acquisition and RDT&E Safety Review Boards, or equivalent planning
processes. (NOTE: It is the intent of this paragraph to ensure Weapons Safety considerations are
included in the test planning and safety review processes.) The installation explosives facility
licensing process is not a substitute for test planning and safety reviews.
9.4.4. Compensatory measures will be reviewed and revalidated by responsible commander
every three years. Commander’s revalidation must be documented and indicate the compensatory
measures are mission essential.
9.4.7.1. (Added) Refer to paragraphs 2.2.4.1-2.2.4.7 for a specific list of items unit safety
representatives will brief to commander. This list is not all inclusive and may need to be
modified to meet commander or units needs.
9.4.7.2. (Added) ADWSR’s will document when squadron commanders were briefed and what
the briefing contained.
9.4.8.17. (Added) Ensure explosives, missile, nuclear, space, and directed energy mishaps are
properly investigated and reported according to AFI 91-204 and AFMAN 91-221 and applicable
AFMC Supplements.
9.4.8.17.1. (Added) Track and resolve all mishap recommendations, to include DULL
SWORD recommendations until closed. Provide status update every 30 days in AFSAS until
closed.
9.4.8.17.2. (Added) Review all Air Force Accident/Incident/Deficiency Reports for explosives,
missile, directed energy, and nuclear involvement, identify negative trends, and monitor actions
and replies to correct deficiencies.
9.4.8.18. (Added) Review of environmental impact statements involving weapons safety.
9.4.8.19. (Added) Coordination, exchange, and retransmission of sanitized weapons mishap
prevention/crossfeed information to assigned military and civilian agencies.
9.4.8.20. (Added) Establish a format for unit ADWSR’s Continuity Books.
 14                                                    AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


9.4.8.21. (Added) Formulate, review, and coordinate on specifications, standards, acquisition
packages (contracts, etc.), design criteria, etc., which involve weapons system safety.
9.4.8.22. (Added) Center weapons safety offices are required to review and coordinate on
command level correspondence, review and approval of associated request (e.g., AFTO Form 22,
Site Plans, Commercial-Off-the-Shelf requests, Waivers, variances, etc.).
9.4.11. (Added) Track and report status quarterly (fiscal) to HQ AFMC/SEW on “Open”
findings from DDESB Explosives Safety Management Evaluation Program, higher headquarters
inspections and self-inspections until closed.
9.5.2.1. (Added) Within the RDT&E community, host SEW will determine explosive license
or siting requirements as part of a Laboratory and Test Safety Review process, except where
dictated by Host/Tenant Support Agreement.
9.5.4. (Added) Provide support at selected weapons system safety groups meetings, design
reviews, TO reviews, or other conferences or meetings in support of developmental or inventory
weapons systems.
9.5.5. (Added) Formulate, review, and coordinate on specifications, standards, acquisition
packages (contracts, etc.), design criteria, etc., which involve weapons system safety.
9.5.6. (Added) Act as focal point for DULL SWORD reporting.
9.5.7. (Added) Perform glass breakage assessment.
9.5.8. (Added) Review construction design drawings for required safety designs and minimum
requirements.
9.5.9. (Added) Review installed lightning protection systems and design drawings.
9.5.10. (Added) Submit explosives site plans to HQ AFMC/SEW for review and approval
according to AFMAN 91-201 and AFMC guidance.
9.5.11. (Added) Forward all potential explosives sites involving new construction or designs
not already approved in Technical Paper 15 or quantity distance reduction requests not already
approved to HQ AFMC/SEW.
9.5.12. (Added) The following documentation will be maintained, either electronically or hard
copy, by the wing weapons safety office:
9.5.12.1. (Added) WSM Training Certificates (i.e. WSM Course, LSO, Nuclear Surety, LPS,
ASHS)
9.5.12.2. (Added) Copies of site plans
9.5.12.3. (Added) List of waivers, exceptions, deviations, and compensatory measures
9.5.12.4. (Added) Electromagnetic Radiation Survey
9.5.12.5. (Added) List of local written procedures affecting explosive operations, include
initial approval date and annual review date
9.5.12.6. (Added) Annual, spot and high interest inspections
9.5.12.7. (Added) Original AF Form 2047 for each licensed location
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                 15


9.5.12.8. (Added) Additional Duty Weapons Safety Representatives appointment letter.
Include initial and annual training date.
9.5.12.9. (Added) Listing of dates commander’s briefings were conducted (e.g. Center,
Installation/Wing and Group). Also include briefing content (i.e. Deviations, Compensatory
Measures. License/Sited Locations).
9.7.1. (Added) Refer to AFI 91-101 Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, AFMC
Supplement 1 for specific AFMC program requirements.
9.8.4. (Added) Full-time weapons safety personnel are required to attend laser safety training
and training appropriate to the DEW systems supported. Exception: Those WSM positions
without lasers or directed energy weapons are not required to attend laser safety training.
9.11. Weapons Safety Training. HQ AFMC/SEW provides WSMs MAJCOM unique training
via DCO, PowerPoint products, and/or training elements. Weapons safety training will be
tailored to cover specific duties and weapon systems at the Center, Installation/Wing or
Squadron.
9.11.1.1. (Added) All ADWSRs will receive annual training from date of when initial training
was conducted. Center, Installation/Wing WSM will maintain proof of training and training
outline.
9.11.2. For units subordinate to the host; explosives safety training will be provided by the
subordinate unit, unless host tenant agreement specifies otherwise.
10.7. Space Safety Council (SSC). AFRL is the AFMC representative to the SSC.
11.1.1.1. (Added) System Program Managers (SPMs), regardless of the Acquisition Category
(ACAT) or sustainment status of their programs, shall integrate system safety risk management
into their overall systems engineering and risk management processes. System safety programs
shall meet the requirements of MIL-STD-882E. Acquisition program offices will use their
system safety efforts to comply with the Risk Management (RM) process (AFI 90-802). System
Safety assessments will be performed for commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) and non-
developmental items (NDI) to be used in new, safety critical applications.
11.1.1.2. (Added) AF program offices will have a trained System Safety Manager (SSM) to
implement this program.
11.1.2.8.1. (Added) Tracking of hazards and residual risks is only necessary for those that are
inside the design/spec/requirement envelope.
11.1.3.4. (Added) A low risk hazard having been accepted by the appropriate risk acceptance
authority does not require subsequent review by the program manager unless the hazard is
related to a mishap.
11.1.5.1. (Added) System Program Managers (SPMs) will ensure that as a minimum at least
one system-level hazard analysis or safety assessment report (MIL-STD-882E) is accomplished
for all programs and projects, including temporary and permanent modifications, with unknown
effects on system safety. Facilities and industrial processes which incorporate new technology or
areas not covered by existing codes and standards will have tailored system safety programs
applied.
 16                                                       AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


11.1.6.1. (Added) Program risk acceptance packages and tracking are only necessary for those
risks that are inside the design/spec/requirement envelope. Those outside the envelope are
handled by using the user’s/operator’s RM process.
11.1.6.2. (Added) Program safety offices shall clearly define and document mishap risk
acceptance authority during life-cycle system decisions. Mishap risk shall be the risk that
personnel are exposed to during the mission to include ground, air, and space operations. Risk
packages will use the risk matrix defined in MIL-STD-882E and associated probabilities in
TABLE A-II. Contracts using previous versions of MIL-STD-882 may continue using those
versions for contract purposes, however new risk acceptance packages must be converted to the
MIL-STD-882E matrix and definitions. When applicable, mishap risk probabilities shall be
expressed in terms of individual weapon system exposure over the remaining projected life-time
of the weapon system. A consistent manner of extending risk on a per-use, or expected
operational events shall be clearly identified and documented. Mishap risk severities shall be
expressed in credible worst case scenarios. “High” interim and residual mishap risks (as defined
by DODI 5000.02 and MIL-STD-882E) can only be accepted by the Component Acquisition
Executive (CAE). “Serious” interim and residual mishap risks (same references) can only be
accepted by the program executive officer (PEO). All High and Serious risk acceptance packages
shall be sent to the CAE or PEO for acceptance within six months of risk validation. All other
interim and residual mishap risks can be accepted by the SPM. If no unresolved hazards are
found, a document will be transmitted to the same distribution prior to appropriate program
milestones notifying upper management and staff that the mishap risk acceptance process has
been (or is being) performed and is complete. If the High or Serious hazard is corrected prior to
the completion of the 180 day period, simply notify the PEO/CAE of the new hazard level and
corrective/mitigating actions taken. Attachment 15 will be used for High and Serious risk
acceptance packages.
11.1.6.2.1. (Added) The SPM will prepare the High and Serious risk acceptance packages and
obtain coordination from HQ AFSEC/SEF (aircraft high and serious risks only), AFLCMC
Director of Engineering, HQ AFMC/SES, and the lead MAJCOM prior to submittal for
acceptance by the risk acceptance authority. Serious risk acceptance packages will be
coordinated with the lead MAJCOM, while High risk acceptance packages will be coordinated
with AF/SE and the lead MAJCOM. Serious risk acceptance packages will be accepted by the
PEO. High risk acceptance packages will be coordinated with the PEO prior to submission to the
CAE for acceptance.
11.1.6.2.2. (Added) Program offices will coordinate Serious and High mishap risk acceptance
packages within the program office to include Chief Engineer/Director of Engineering,
appropriate division chiefs, the System Program Manager, the center Director of Engineering,
and, if applicable, the appropriate wing commander and Airworthiness Board. Coordinate Test
Risk acceptance and mishap accountability per Chapter 13. Program offices will coordinate
mishap risk acceptance packages through the center or laboratory safety office and HQ
AFMC/SES. HQ AFMC/SE will inform AFMC/CC on new High risk acceptance packages.
11.1.6.2.3. (Added) In the case of a program having an imbedded sub-program (e.g., aircraft
engine) which involves a high or serious mishap risk at the system (e.g., aircraft) level, the sub-
program manager will provide a risk assessment package to the system-level program manager,
who will assess the risk to the system and forward the system-level package to the appropriate
risk acceptance authority.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                  17


11.1.6.2.4. (Added) Changes in risk acceptance authority. When a new risk acceptance
authority assumes their assignment, that person is immediately responsible for all safety risks in
their portfolio and must be notified of safety risks that were accepted by their predecessors
within 60 days of assumption of duties. Risks previously coordinated and accepted need not be
fully re-coordinated when hazards and conditions have not changed. This notification can be
used to “start the clock” for the two year re-acceptance described in the next paragraph.
11.1.6.2.5. (Added) Every two years, the SPM will review the accepted high and serious
mishap risks with the applicable risk acceptance authority. If the risk level is changed, full
coordination/acceptance shall be accomplished, otherwise can be accepted by proper risk
authority and information only notification to all that were in involved in the previous
coordination.
11.2.3.5. (Added) The PM shall provide safety releases on all identified hazards, implemented
mitigation measures, and accepted residual risks to developmental and operational testers,
operators, trainers, and maintainers as part of testing and fielding new or modified systems or
end items prior to any test using personnel. See the Defense Acquisition Guidebook and
AFMAN 63-119 for details. At a minimum the safety release will contain:
11.2.3.5.1. (Added) Known hazards and mitigation actions/measures identified and tracked by
the program office (e.g. master hazard list, Safety Assessment Report, SSG tracked hazards,
previous test identified hazards).
11.2.3.5.2. (Added) A cover letter or equivalent statement by the PM stating the item/system is
safe to test given known hazards and mitigating measures.
11.2.5.7.1. (Added) Aircraft Program Offices will not later than the end of the fiscal year
provide HQ AFMC/SES an annual update to the Navigation and Safety equipment spreadsheet
managed by HQ AFSEC/SEFE.
11.2.7.1.2.1. (Added) Those SSMs developing or integrating munitions/explosives on weapon
systems shall receive weapon/explosive safety training. Introductory weapons safety course
training can be obtained from center level weapon safety office and is sufficient.
11.2.7.1.19. (Added) Similar to USR responsibilities defined in paragraph 2.2.4, SSMs will
have direct lines of communication to Program Managers to advise them on system safety
matters.
11.2.7.2. CSSM refers to Center System Safety Managers at AFLCMC, AFTC and to the
System Safety Offices at 72nd, 75th and 78th ABWs.
11.2.7.2.8. (Added) CSSMs will establish a system safety program.            At a minimum, the
following program elements must be documented and tracked:
11.2.7.2.8.1. (Added) Identify all programs and coordinate with program managers to ensure
that they establish a system safety program per directives and assign an SSM to that program.
11.2.7.2.8.2. (Added) Coordinate training for assigned SSMs, and track training status.
11.2.7.2.8.3. (Added) Monitor programs and conduct annual assessments using approved
checklists to ensure that programs contain required elements. Report summary of assessment
findings to the respective Chief Engineer. Spot inspections are not required for system safety
programs.
 18                                                     AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


11.2.7.2.8.4. (Added) Promote standardization through the cross flow of best practices (e.g.
share examples of best SSG charts and methodologies.)
11.2.7.2.8.5. (Added) CSSMs will be responsible for tracking and monitoring all Serious and
High risk acceptance packages. SSMs should prepare local center policies to ensure that risk
packages are coordinated and accepted by the proper organizations.
11.2.8.3.1. (Added) A trained full-time SSM in the AFMC Safety Directorate will manage the
AFMC system safety program. This SSM will arrange for training for system safety personnel at
AFMC field units and will establish policies and guidance for AFMC system safety procedures,
personnel, and organizations.
11.2.10.1. (Added) SSMs shall work with the test community and AFOTEC to identify those
tests that will verify the residual risks of specific hazards. SSMs shall provide access to the
program hazard analyses for the test community and AFOTEC.
11.3.1. All ACAT 1 non-aircraft programs are required to conduct SSGs.
11.3.1.1. (Added) Prior to each SSG meeting, the SPM will poll SSG members for agenda
items.
11.3.4.1. (Added) The SPM will ensure SSG minutes are prepared and distributed to HQ
AFMC/SES, SSG members and attendees 30 days after the meeting.
11.5.2.5. (Added) Changes to the following aircraft servicing procedures shall be coordinated
with the SSEA team chief prior to publication:
11.5.2.5.1. (Added) Hot refueling and defueling.
11.5.2.5.2. (Added) Integrated combat turnaround (ICT)/hot ICT.
11.5.2.5.3. (Added) Aircraft-to-aircraft servicing operations.
11.5.2.5.4. (Added) Wet wing/rapid defueling.
11.5.2.5.5. (Added) Sortie generation operations.
11.5.2.5.6. (Added) Forward Area Refueling Point (FARP) operations.
11.5.2.6. (Added) The SSEA Team acts as the SRB for those items they are reviewing.
11.6. (Added) Discrepant Parts. Discrepant parts and materials, also known as defective or
non-conforming parts, are those that have been mis-manufactured, mis-designed, counterfeit,
fraudulently manufactured, or underwent some other means that they are not suitable for their
intended mission. Sources of information can be deficiency reports (DR), legal investigations,
‘whistle-blowers,’ OSI, GIDEP, and other means. In many cases, these parts or materials can
create adverse safety risks for Air Force systems.
11.6.1. (Added) When a program office or HQ AFMC/SES receives such a notification from
any source, they will notify the AFLCMC Airworthiness office, the AFLCMC Flight Safety
office, the HQ AFMC/A4 deficiency reporting office, AFSEC/SEF, the AFSC/406 SCMS at
Tinker AFB (SASPO). (The 406 SCMS has standard procedures for handling these notices for
risk assessment and mitigation.) If the impact is known on a particular system, HQ AFMC/SES
will forward the notification to the system safety office of the affected system and the
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                19


appropriate CSSM. If the affected system is not known, HQ AFMC/SES will forward the notice
to all CSSMs for forwarding to all of the systems managed at their respective centers.
11.6.2. (Added) The AFLCMC Airworthiness Office will evaluate these notices with the
affected SPOs and publish an Airworthiness Advisory, if necessary, using their local procedures.
11.6.3. (Added) SPO system safety offices will report their findings back to HQ AFMC/SES
who will then obtain closure from the originating office.
11.7. (Added) Directed Energy Weapon Programs. Programs developing and acquiring
Directed Energy Weapons (DEW) must obtain safety certification from the Directed Energy
Weapon Safety Board (DEWSB) prior to operational and training use by USAF personnel.
Safety certification efforts should begin as early as possible in the acquisition timeline and
require a formal certification plan. Program Managers will include the certification in their
program’s ESOH documentation. See AFI 91-401, Directed Energy Weapon Safety, for details.
 20                                                      AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


                                      Chapter 13 (Added)

                            TEST SAFETY REVIEW PROCESS

13.1. (Added) Applicability, Purpose, and Waivers.
13.1.1. (Added) Applicability. This process applies to all AFMC organizations that plan,
support, and conduct ground, weapons, flight, or space test and evaluation (T&E) activities,
research and development (R&D) and laboratory experiments.
13.1.2. (Added) Purpose. All programs will have a safety plan with an independent,
government led safety review to ensure the protection of the public, personnel, and assets
(including software, networks and computer systems) prior to test activities when government
resources are involved. The Safety Review Board (SRB) is the process standard.
13.1.3. (Added) Waivers. Submit requests for waivers to HQ AFMC/SE/A3.
13.2. (Added) Policy.
13.2.1. (Added) Risk management must be integrated and documented into all stages of T&E
activities to identify test hazards, mitigating measures and acceptance/rejection of the residual
risk by an appropriate Test Execution Authority (TEA).
13.2.2. (Added) Safety planning is accomplished concurrently with test planning; early
involvement is essential. The final safety review should occur after the Technical Review Board
(TRB) to ensure that all hazards are identified per planned execution.
13.2.3. (Added) Tests planned and reviewed by other government safety organizations may be
accepted by the AFMC TEA. Acceptance requires the participation of AFMC safety personnel in
that review process to ensure adequate SRB rigor and hazard management for AFMC assets.
13.2.4. (Added) Testing organizations including R&D laboratories will develop local
procedures tailored to fit the command and structure of their organization to implement this
process. Forward supplements and instructions to HQ AFMC/SE for review.
13.3. (Added) Responsibilities.
13.3.1. (Added) HQ AFMC/SE will:
13.3.1.1. (Added) Establish test safety review policy.
13.3.1.2. (Added) Review local publications or supplements.
13.3.1.3. (Added) Act as the SRB for those items under SSEA team review (paragraph 11.5).
13.3.2. (Added) HQ AFMC/A3 will:
13.3.2.1. (Added) Ensure that this test safety review process is made an integral part of all test
and evaluation activities.
13.3.2.2. (Added) Ensure that this process is included or referenced in other test publications,
as applicable.
13.3.3. (Added) Test Organization Commander or Director will:
13.3.3.1. (Added) Comply with this guidance.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                               21


13.3.3.2. (Added) Provide resources to support the test safety review process.
13.3.3.3. (Added) Coordinate with the Installation Safety Office for review prior to resumption
of testing after mishap/incident or test plan revisions.
13.3.4. (Added) Test Organization Safety Office will:
13.3.4.1. (Added) Be responsible for the test safety review process.
13.3.4.2. (Added) Supplement this publication or develop a separate document that establishes
local procedures.
13.3.4.3. (Added) Assist the test manager in developing the safety plan.
13.3.4.4. (Added) Designate or act as the SRB chairperson.
13.3.4.5. (Added) Develop and provide safety review process training /SRB training for test
personnel.
13.3.4.6. (Added) Inform HQ AFMC/SE/A3 and asset owner of high risk tests prior to the test
event.
13.3.4.7. (Added) If the Test Organization Safety Office is not the Installation/Host Safety
Office, coordinate safety requirements with the host. Include the host installation safety
representative in the SRB and coordination process when joint risk acceptance is required (e.g.
host assets are placed at risk or conducting a high visibility event).
13.3.5. (Added) Test Manager/ Director will:
13.3.5.1. (Added) Contact the safety office and provide information concerning test
requirements and data to support the test safety review process.
13.3.5.2. (Added) Develop the safety plan as a part of the test plan (see paragraph 13.5.4
[Added] for content).
13.3.5.3. (Added) Contact the Program Office to obtain safety release and technical data as
appropriate.
13.3.5.4. (Added) Identify and coordinate appropriate membership and provide technical
assistance to the SRB.
13.3.5.5. (Added) Control and supervise test execution to ensure that testing is conducted
according to the approved safety plan.
13.4. (Added) Test Safety Review Process. The test safety review process consists of these
main functions: planning, review, coordination and approval, execution, safety revisions,
feedback and test completion or termination. All test programs will follow this process through
the life of the program (see Figure 13.1. [Added]).
 22                                                        AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013




Figure 13.1. (Added) Test Safety Review Process




13.5. (Added) Test Safety Planning.
13.5.1. (Added) Safety planning and technical planning are an integral and interactive process.
Test managers/planners will ensure a test safety representative is involved in early test concept
development and Test Planning Working Group meetings as safety’s early and continuous
involvement may mitigate cost or schedule impacts to the program. If applicable, consult the
program’s Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP) for assigned Responsible Test Organization
(RTO) and SRB responsibilities.
13.5.2. (Added) All test unique hazards and routine hazards that are exacerbated by the test
event will be identified and considered. To facilitate the hazard identification process, the test
managers/ director should use all available resources. These include, but are not limited to:
13.5.2.1. (Added) System safety hazard analyses conducted on the test article, test facility, or a
similar article.
13.5.2.2. (Added) Safety Release/hazard assessment from the Program Office.
13.5.2.3. (Added) Nonnuclear Munitions Safety Board (NNMSB) review and approval of all
newly developed live, uncertified munitions, fuses and initiating devices prior to airborne
testing/release.
13.5.2.4. (Added) Directed Energy Weapon Safety Board (DEWSB) review and proximity
restrictions are required when the testing of DEW may involve /impact nuclear and conventional
munitions.
13.5.2.5. (Added) Analysis of risk assessments (required) for all new or modified explosives,
explosives operations, equipment and facilities to identify design and operations criteria (e.g.,
shielding, protective clothing). See AFMAN 91-201 for details.
13.5.2.6. (Added) Lessons learned from similar tests.
13.5.2.7. (Added) Inputs from other experienced or expert individuals, such as other test
program managers, engineers, operations personnel and test safety personnel.
13.5.2.8. (Added) Contractor supplied technical data and hazard analysis.
13.5.2.9. (Added) Air Force SEEK EAGLE Program reviews (internal/external stores).
13.5.3. (Added) Eliminate or control identified test hazards. Consideration should include:
13.5.3.1. (Added) Design of the test article or test facility.
13.5.3.2. (Added)    Incorporation of safety/warning devices into the test article or the test
facility.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                   23


13.5.3.3. (Added) Use modeling and simulation prior to or in lieu of hazardous test points.
13.5.3.4. (Added) Development of test procedures to include build-up, incremental testing and
proper training for the individuals conducting the test.
13.5.3.5. (Added) After establishing the hazard controls, identify the residual hazards.
13.5.4. (Added) Safety Plan Documentation. The safety plan records due diligence in risk
management, acceptance and communicates (provides a written copy of) hazards and mitigating
measures to test personnel; it shall be an annex to the test plan. The following documents
comprise the safety plan:
13.5.4.1. (Added) Test Hazard Analysis (THA). These are prepared during the test planning
phase and finalized during the safety review. Paragraph 13.12 describes the content of a THA;
see Attachment 17 for an example Test Hazard Analysis Worksheet (THAW).
13.5.4.2. (Added) Final Safety Review Documentation. This information provides a summary
of the safety review. The SRB minutes may suffice if a formal board was held. This information
will include, but is not limited to:
13.5.4.2.1. (Added) Date.
13.5.4.2.2. (Added) Test or project identifier.
13.5.4.2.3. (Added) SRB attendees or individuals who coordinated on the safety plan/solution
if an SRB was not convened.
13.5.4.2.4. (Added) Specific minimizing procedures, controls, restrictions, and go/no-go lists.
13.5.4.2.5. (Added) Special considerations.
13.5.4.2.6. (Added) Action items.
13.5.4.2.7. (Added) Overall risk assessment.
13.5.4.2.8. (Added) Other Supporting Documentation.
13.5.4.2.9. (Added) Test Execution Authority (TEA) coordination and acceptance of residual
risk.
13.5.4.3. (Added) Mishap accountability and reporting responsibility. This documentation is
essential for tests involving multiple MAJCOMs or services. Be specific and clear to eliminate
questions of mishap initiation; did the crew, test widget or test procedures initiate the mishap?
13.5.4.4. (Added) Mishap Quick Reaction Checklist (optional, see Attachment 18 (Added)).
13.6. (Added) Test Safety Review.
13.6.1. (Added) Each test plan is subject to separate government led technical and safety
reviews. Technical reviews are covered in AFMCI 99-103, Test Management. The final safety
review takes place after the technical adequacy of the test plan is approved.
13.6.2. (Added) When a test is ready for a safety review, the test safety office staff determines
if an SRB is required based on the scope, complexity, similarity to previous tests, and anticipated
risk level.
13.6.2.1. (Added) If an SRB is required:
 24                                                     AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


13.6.2.1.1. (Added) The Chief of the Test Safety Office or designee is the chairperson for the
SRB. Designee SRB chairpersons must be independent of the test program and government
employees. Minimal membership of the SRB includes independent technical, operations, and
maintenance (if appropriate) experts and government safety. The test manager/director and other
personnel directly involved must attend the SRB but are not voting members.
13.6.2.1.1.1. (Added) Unless otherwise specified by the TEMP, Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
(LCSP), or Integrated Test Team (ITT) charter, AFLCMC/SE (or designated representative) will
chair the SRB when a system Program Office acts as the RTO or does not use an approved RTO.
The CTA may be delegated to conduct SRBs and will assist AFLCMC/SE in monitoring
Program Office activities to ensure appropriate government TRB/SRB participation.
13.6.2.1.2. (Added) The SRB reviews the test to ensure all hazards are identified and controls
are developed. The SRB will certify the completeness of the safety plan, determines and
documents the overall risk level of the test.
13.6.2.1.3. (Added) The SRB chairperson recommends to the TEA whether or not to execute
the test based on the SRB results.
13.6.2.2. (Added) If no SRB is required, the test safety staff reviews the test and safety
planning to ensure all hazards have been identified, controls have been developed, determines
the overall risk level of the test and recommends to the TEA whether or not to execute the test.
The test organization must document and manage (e.g. provide to testers) the results of this
hazard analysis.
13.6.3. (Added) Risk Level. To help manage a test and its risk, the safety review establishes a
risk level for each individual hazard as well as the test as a whole based on severity vs.
probability. The risk management process and severity vs. probability definitions are more
thoroughly covered in MIL-STD-882, Standard Practice for System Safety. However, the MIL-
STD-882 risk acceptance model and approval levels are aimed at fleet-wide, acquisition lifecycle
risks, not single test events. For test events, AFMC recognizes three risk and approval levels
which are further defined below. The safety review will use these guidelines, expert opinions,
engineering analysis, and common sense to assign risk levels to each identified hazard and the
test as a whole. Use the following matrix and MIL-STD-882 definitions as a guide.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                                     25




Figure 13.2. (Added) Example Risk Assessment Matrix

                                            HAZARD SEVERITY CATEGORY
                                 Catastrophic          Critical             Marginal            Negligible


  HAZARD                        Death or system/   Severe injury, oc-   Minor injury, minor     Less than
                                facility loss      cupational           occupational illness,   minor injury
  PROBABILITY                                      illness, or major    or minor                occupational
                                                   system/ facility     system/facility         illness or sys-
                                                   damage               damage                  tem/facility
                                                                                                damage
  FREQUENT
  *Likely to occur frequently           1                  3                      7                   13
  **Continuously experienced
  PROBABLE
  *Will occur several times             2                  5                      9                   16
  **Will occur frequently
 OCCASIONAL
 *Likely to occur sometime              4                  6                     11                   18
 **Will occur several times
 REMOTE
 *Unlikely, but possible to             8                 10                     14                   19
 occur
 **Unlikely, but can be rea-
 sonably expected to occur
  IMPROBABLE
  *So unlikely, assume it may          12                 15                     17                   20
  not occur
  **Unlikely to occur but
  possible
  * Specific Individual Item. ** Fleet or Inventory.


13.6.3.1. (Added) AFMC risk levels are defined as:
13.6.3.1.1. (Added) Low Risk. Tests or activities which present no greater risk than normal
operations after appropriate controls have been applied. (For the example matrix above this
would be 11 thru 20.)
13.6.3.1.2. (Added) Medium Risk. Tests or activities which present a greater risk to personnel,
equipment, or property than normal operations even after the appropriate controls have been
applied. (For the example matrix above this would be 6 thru 10.)
 26                                                       AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


13.6.3.1.3. (Added) High Risk. Tests or activities which present a significant risk to personnel,
equipment, or property, even after all precautionary measures have been taken. (For the example
above this would be 1 thru 5.)
13.6.3.2. (Added) Compare initial risk to residual risk levels to evaluate adequacy of safety
measures and best “bang-for-the-buck” solutions.
13.7. (Added) Test Safety Coordination and Approval.
13.7.1. (Added) The Test Execution Authority (TEA) is the individual responsible for
accepting the SRB and Technical Review Board results and approving the test to proceed with
any residual risk. A test event can be a sortie, a specific test, or a test milestone. Minimum TEA
levels are:
13.7.1.1. (Added) High risk tests require final approval by the test Center Commander or
Director, but may be delegated no lower than the Test Wing or Complex Commander. In the case
of the AFRL, tests assigned a risk level of high will require final approval of the AFRL
Commander.
13.7.1.1.1. (Added) If non-AFMC assets/personnel are involved, notify the asset owner of the
high residual risk prior to test execution.
13.7.1.2. (Added) Medium risk tests require final approval of the test/range Operations Group
Commander or equivalent. AFRL tests assigned a Medium will require final approval by the
Director of the Technical Directorate.
13.7.1.3. (Added) Low risk tests may be approved by the test/range Squadron
Commander/equivalent or system Program Manager.
13.7.2. (Added) The test manager/director will certify the test and safety plans are complete
and forwarded to the TEA. The status of open action items from the technical or safety reviews
will be documented and included with the test plan and safety solution.
13.7.3. (Added) Non-concurrence by a coordinating official will be resolved before final
approval. If the issue cannot be resolved, it will be presented to the TEA for resolution.
13.8. (Added) Test Execution.
13.8.1. (Added) The test manager/director is responsible for reviewing the safety plan/solution
and ensuring all applicable requirements are incorporated into the test procedures. Test
personnel will review the hazards, minimizing procedures or controls, emergency procedures or
corrective actions, and go/no-go criteria before beginning the test.
13.8.2. (Added) The test will be conducted according to the approved test and safety plans.
Changes to either of these plans will require further safety review. Changes may occur because
of unexpected test results, overly restrictive controls, test program initiated changes, or hazards
not previously identified or adequately controlled.
13.8.3. (Added) Suspend testing in the event of a mishap. Testers may also suspend testing if
they encounter a significant hazard or unsafe event. Once suspended for safety, only the TEA (or
higher) can authorize resumption of testing. The TEA in conjunction with the test safety office
will determine if a supplemental SRB is required to resolve the unsafe condition. Document
supplemental corrective actions/mitigating measures in the test plan safety annex.
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                    27


13.9. (Added) Project or Safety Plan Revisions.
13.9.1. (Added) Test planner will contact test safety if changes to the test or safety plans are
required after approval has been granted to proceed with the test. Safety will evaluate the impact
of the proposed change and determine the action necessary. Resulting actions may vary from no
action, to amending the safety plan, to re-accomplishing the safety review (Figure 13.1).
13.10. (Added) Project Completion or Termination. The test manager notifies test safety
when the test is complete. Notification includes any safety lessons learned, effectiveness of
hazard controls or minimizing procedures, unexpected hazards, value added from the safety
review process, and suggestions for improving the safety review process. The notification can be
in several forms from a phone call to a formal report, as long as it is documented for future use
as a lessons learned.
13.11. (Added) Special Considerations.
13.11.1. (Added) The test organization commander/director may approve deviations when
required by special circumstances. Deviations affecting risks accepted by the TEA must be
approved by the TEA.
13.11.2. (Added) The test safety review process may be applied to operations other than
testing. Examples include range operations, training, exercises, support plans, air shows, or
contractor demonstrations, etc.
13.11.3. (Added) AFMC contractor test programs using Air Force resources (funding,
furnished equipment, or personnel) will comply with the AFMC test safety process. Test
authority is ultimately retained by the government.
13.11.4. (Added) Use of operational units to support developmental testing should be restricted
to low risk tests and with the concurrence of the unit’s MAJCOM. See AFI 99-103.
13.12. (Added) THA Format. The THA is used to document and identify the test hazards and
the actions necessary to minimize or control them - see Attachment 17 for an example Test
Hazard Analysis Worksheet (THAW). A THA includes the following information:
13.12.1. (Added) Test Title. Provide information concerning test identification to relate this
specific THA to a specific test or test series.
13.12.2. (Added) Hazard. This is the condition or situation that has the potential to result in a
mishap or an accident. It is that condition or situation that precedes or accompanies the
unplanned, uncontrolled release, transfer, or dissipation of energy (e.g., kinetic, potential,
chemical, laser, nuclear, electrical, etc.). The statement describes the condition or situation, not
the mishap itself.
13.12.3. (Added) Cause. A cause is the circumstance or action that leads to the hazard's
occurrence. It may be a failure mode, operator error, or out-of-limit condition. A hazard may
have multiple causes and each will be identified.
13.12.4. (Added) Effect. This is the mishap or accident to be avoided. It identifies who or what
resources will be injured, damaged, or destroyed if the hazard occurs.
13.12.5. (Added) Controls/Minimizing Procedures. Explain the actions to be taken (e.g.,
remove, mitigate, or warn of the existence of a hazard cause) to prevent the hazard from
occurring.
 28                                                       AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


13.12.6. (Added) Corrective Actions/Emergency Procedures. These are steps to be taken if the
hazard should occur. These are used to recover from a hazardous situation, or to limit the extent
of the injury or damage due to a hazard that is occurring. See Attachment 18 (Added) for an
example Quick Reaction Checklist.
13.12.7. (Added) Comments. Additional considerations may be recorded here.
13.12.8. (Added) Hazard Severity. Use the category definitions established by the Example
Risk Assessment Matrix (Figure 13.2) and MIL-STD-882 as a guide.
13.12.9. (Added) Hazard Probability. Use the probability definitions established in the
Example Risk Assessment Matrix (Figure 13.2) and MIL-STD-882 as a guide for the test events
and/or the test as a whole as appropriate. The probability will consider that the hazard may have
multiple dependent or independent causes.
13.12.10. (Added) Risk Level. Assigning a residual mishap risk level is a prime purpose of the
THA process and the THAW. The residual mishap risk level (high, medium, or low) is arrived at
by determining the hazard category and the hazard probability using the matrix in Figure 13.2.
The hazard category for a test-specific hazard is easily established; however, assignment of the
hazard probability can be highly subjective, and is at the very heart of risk assessment. It is here
that considerable insight, experience, and engineering judgment come into play. The highest of
the individual hazards is the overall test risk level.
13.13. (Added) Mishaps. Testing often requires the preplanned damage/destruction of test
assets to obtain data. Test plans should clearly identify the intent and manner (planned time and
anticipated reason) of the destruction of an asset; these events are generally not mishaps.
Unplanned events during test or range operations resulting in injury or loss/damage to DoD or
private property are typically mishaps when they exceed AFI 91-204 loss/reporting thresholds.
Test anomalies are unexpected results of a test, and most are simply data points. When an
“anomaly” or event results in damage or injury as defined by AFI 91-204 (e.g. crosses a value
threshold), a mishap has occurred. Articles or debris violating range boundaries shall be reported.
13.13.1. (Added) Exceptions to mishap reporting apply only if destruction/damage was
documented in the test plan as an expected or desired outcome of the test, it occurred at the
planned time, for anticipated reasons, and test objectives were met. Follow the procedures for
intentional or expected damage to DoD equipment or property incurred during authorized testing
in AFI 91-204 and the Reportable Mishap Flow Chart in AFMAN 91-221.




                                              EDWARD S. CONANT, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director of Safety
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                29


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-220, Contractor’s Flight and Ground Operations, 21 March 2011
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 23 March 2012
AFI 90-802, Special Management, 11 February 2013
AFMCMAN21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures, 15
January 2005, Incorporating Change 2, 14 November 2011
AFMC Supplement to AFI36-2833, Safety Awards, 2 February 2007
AFMCI 99-103, Test Management, 22 November 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 2047, Explosives Facility License, 31 May 2013
AFMC Form 228, Job Safety Analysis, 1 July 1992
AFMC Form 299, Safety Fire and Health Review, 1 March 1999
AFMC Form 315, Supervisor Safety Inspection Record, 1 July 1992
AFMC Form 316, Supervisor Safety Meeting Minutes, 1 July 1992
AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply, 15 May 2013

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added) IGEMS—Inspector General Evaluation Management System
(Added) SPME—Safety Program Management Evaluation
(Added) TEA—Test Execution Authority

Terms
(Added) Control/Safety Measure—An action taken to eliminate or reduce a potential test
hazard to an acceptable risk level.
(Added) Deviation—The intent of the requirement is to be met in another manner other than as
specified.
(Added) Independent Review—A review by an individual or group that does not have a
vested interest in the successful accomplishment of the test objectives and was not directly
responsible for the development of the safety plan.
(Added) Interim Mishap Risk—A mishap risk may take a period of time before all
recommended actions can be incorporated into the design and the hazard mitigated to the
residual mishap risk. During that time period the interim mishap risk will be the current mishap
risk with the current recommended actions accomplished to date.
 30                                                      AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


(Added) Laser Surface Danger Zone(LSDZ)—An LSDZ is the designated region or ground
area where laser radiation levels may exceed maximum permissible exposure levels, thereby
requiring control during laser operation. Unauthorized personnel are not permitted, and laser eye
protection is required for personnel who may potentially engage in intrabeam viewing within this
area.
(Added) Mishap Risk—The operational risk of a mishap to personnel and resources expressed
in terms of potential mishap severity and probability of occurrence.
(Added) Nominal Ocular Hazard Distance(NOHD)—NOHD is the distance from an
operating laser to the point where the laser is no longer an eye hazard.
(Added) Range—Designated land, water or airspace set aside, managed and used for DoD
range activities; includes firing lines and positions, firing lanes, maneuver areas, test pads,
detonation pads, impact areas, electronic scoring sites, buffer zones with restricted access and
exclusion areas.
(Added)     Range Activities—Research, development, testing, and evaluation of
munitions/ordnance, explosives, and weapon systems; and training in use of munitions and
weapons systems. Conduct of these activities on a range under DoD jurisdiction constitutes an
“Operational Range”.
(Added) Residual Mishap Risk—The remaining mishap risk that exists after all mitigation
techniques have been implemented or exhausted, in accordance with the system safety design
order of precedence.
(Added) Risk Level—An expression of the danger posed by a hazard in terms of the severity
of outcome and the probability of occurrence. Risk levels are assigned to both a test event and
the test as a whole.
(Added)       Risk     Management(RM)—The             systematic   process    of   identifying
threats/hazards/problems, assessing risk, analyzing risk control options and measures, making
control decisions, implementing control decisions, accepting residual risks, and
supervising/reviewing the activity for effectiveness.
(Added) Safety Review Board(SRB)—An independent group of subject knowledgeable
individuals convened to review the test plan to ensure test hazards are identified; eliminated,
minimized or controlled to an acceptable level; and to establish the overall risk level.
Spot Inspection—These inspections are no-notice inspections to check the day-to-day safety
(Added) Surface Danger Zone (SDZ)—The ground and airspace designated for vertical and
lateral containment of projectiles, fragments, debris, and components (e.g. noise, heat, blast,
etc…) resulting from the firing, launching, or detonation of weapon systems to include
explosives and demolitions.
(Added) Test Execution Authority(TEA)—The individual who approves the safety plan and
assumes the residual risk. This individual is typically within the RTO chain of command and
may range from the SQ/CC for low risks test to the Center Commander or Director for high risk
tests.
(Added) Test Hazard Analysis (THA)—A document that identifies test hazards, causes,
effects, and establishes hazard controls. It is used to determine risk level. See worksheet at
Attachment17
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                  31


(Added) Test Manager/Test Planner/Test Director—By whatever name, this is the
individual who is responsible for planning and managing the test and evaluation of a particular
product or item; provides test information to the safety office; ensures the test is conducted
according to plan; and provides feedback to safety after the test is completed. This individual is
the single point of contact to test safety for the test under consideration.
(Added) Test Organization/Responsible Test Organization(RTO)—The organization
responsible for planning, management, conduct and reporting of T&E activities; responsibility
may be designated by a Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP). The facilities used and
articles being tested may or may not be resources of the test organization.
(Added) Test Safety Office—The safety office responsible for oversight and support of the
Responsible Test Organization. This responsibility may reside in the test organization's safety
office or the Center/Installation safety office.
(Added) Test Unique Hazards—Hazards that are a result of the specific test being
accomplished and not present in the normal operational hazards associated with the system or
environment. These hazards include those inherent to the article being tested as well as those
hazards associated with the initial testing of any new system.
(Added) Waiver—Neither the intent nor the letter of the requirement is expected to be met.
(Added) Weapons Danger Zone(WDZ)—The ground and airspace for lateral and vertical
containment of projectiles, fragments, debris, and components (e.g. noise, heat, blast, etc…)
resulting from the firing, launching, and/or detonation of aviation delivered ordnance.
 32                                                AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


                                    Attachment 6
                           JOB SAFETY ANALYSIS (JSA)

A6.1. Figure A6.1 Job Safety Analysis (Worksheet) AFMC Form 228, Job Safety Analysis,
is a suitable substitute
 AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                               33


                                Attachment 17 (Added)
                     EXAMPLE TEST HAZARD ANALYSIS WORKSHEET

 Figure A17.1. Example Test Hazard Analysis Worksheet




                           TEST HAZARD ANALYSIS WORKSHEET
TEST TITLE                                              PROJECT NUMBER




1. HAZARD
                                              4. RISK     CATASTROPHIC   CRITICAL    MARGINAL   NEGLIGABLE

                                              LEVEL

                                            ASSESSMENT
                                                                            3
                                             FREQUENT          1                        7           13


                                                                         HIGH
                                                                                        9
                                             PROBABLE          2            5                       16


                                                                                    MEDIUM
                                                                                                    18
                                             OCCASIONAL        4            6           11


                                                                                                 LOW

                                              REMOTE           8           10           14          19



                                             IMPROBABLE        12          15           17          20




2. CAUSE




3. EFFECTS




5. MINIMIZING PROCEDURES
  34                                               AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


5. EMERGENCY PROCEDURES




6. COMMENTS




  INITIAL RISK LEVEL      MITIGATED RISK LEVEL   OVERALL TEST RISK LEVEL




  NAME                    ORGANIZATION           DATE
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                                  35


                                     Attachment 18 (Added)
                         MISHAP QUICK REACTION CHECKLIST

Figure A18.1. Mishap Quick Reaction Checklist

                     MISHAP QUICK REACTION CHECKLIST
This checklist provides action and procedural guidance following a mishap. Not all
items are applicable for all mishaps, nor is this checklist all inclusive; use sound
judgment. Asterisk* items are mandatory.
   STATUS                   STEPS TO BE TAKEN IN AN EMERGENCY
 Done    N/A                                  Item to be accomplished
                                   INITIAL RESPONSE
                       Obtain Crash/Fire/Rescue Support
                1.       Call base Fire Dept.        Local Phone # ___________________
                1.               Advise of HAZMAT
                2.       Call local Command Post Local Phone # ___________________
                3.       Call 911 if not on/near military installation
                     Treat injured until help arrives
                     *Suspend testing if mishap is test related
                                      NOTIFICATION
                     Local/Host safety office (The nearest military installation has initial
                     mishap support responsibility and jurisdiction)
                     * Home Installation/Center Safety Office
                     * HQ AFMC Safety (Required for Class A mishap/fatality)
           1.             DSN 787-1553, Comm 937-257-1553
           2.             DSN 787-6314, Comm 937-257-6314 (WPAFB CP After Hours)
                     Test Manager/Director
                     Unit Commander of persons/aircraft affected (consider having Chief of
                     Safety notify)
                                POST MISHAP ACTIONS
                     Avoid disturbing the mishap site
           1.             Do not move wreckage
           2.             Keep upwind
           3.             Keep spectators away (establish police cordon if needed)
36                                                    AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


                  Secure all test notes and material
                Provide witness statements and test notes/materials to USAF Safety
                  investigators upon request. Do not provide information to any agency
                  external to the USAF without express permission of HQ AFMC or
                  HQ USAF Safety
                  * Do not provide statements, opinions or photos to non-DOD personnel,
                  media or civil authorities
                Direct questions to Public Affairs or On Scene Commander (OSC).
                     (OSC is usually Fire Chief until Safety Board President arrives)
                   Provide Installation/Incident Commander with a POC
                  * Test Execution Authority approves resumption of testing
                Supplemental Safety Review Board may be required
HQAFMC/SE QRC, NOV 2010
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                                                  37


                                 Attachment 19 (Added)
      MANDATORY (M) AND RECOMMENDED (R) TRAINING COURSES BY
                           DISCIPLINE

Table A19.1. Mandatory (M) and Recommended (R) Training Courses

                                 Weapons Ground     Flight   System Range Test
 COURSE/SOURCE
 RM Fundamentals Course              M        M          M    M      M     M
 See Note 11
 RM A&I Course                       R        R          R     R     R     R
 See Note 11
 Aircraft Mishap Investigation                R          x
                                                         M
 Course AMIC (WCIP
 05A)/AFSEC
 See Note 7
 Aviation Safety Program                                 M
 Management ASPM
 (WCIP09B) /AFSEC
 See Note 7
 Safety and Accident                          R
 Investigation Board President
 Course (BPC) (AFSC
 810)/AFSEC
 FSO (WCIP 05C)/AFSEC                                    x
                                                         M
 See Note 7
 MINA (WCIP 059)/AFSEC               M        M
 Safety Managers Course                       *M
 (WCIP 05D)/AFSEC
 See Note 2
 Traffic Safety Program                       R
 Management Course/AFSEC
 Chief of Safety (WCIP                        R          M
 05B)/AFSEC
 OSHA 1249 – VPP                              R
 Requirements
 OSHA 521 – Guide to                          R
 Industrial Hygiene
 OSHA 3110 – Fall Arrest                      R
 Systems
 OSHA 1109 – Associate Safety                 R
 Professional (ASP)
38                                      AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


System Safety Management           R                M            R
See Note 1
System Safety Analysis             R                R
See Note 1
Software System Safety                              R
See Note 1
Safety Apprentice (AETC),          *M
L3ALR1S031 0S2A
SAFETY JOURNEYMAN                  *M
(1S051) CAREER FIELD
DEVELOPMENT COURSE
Safety Craftsman (AETC)            *M
L3ACR1S071 0S2A
OSHA 2045 – MACHINERY              M
AND MACHINE
GUARDING
OSHA 2080 – CRANES AND         R   R
MATERIAL HANDLING
FOR GENERAL INDUSTRY
OSHA 2250 – PERMIT                 M
REQUIRED CONFINED
SPACE ENTRY
OSHA 3095 – ELECTRICAL             M
STANDARDS
NATIONAL SAFETY                    M
COUNCIL (NSC)
LABORATORY SAFETY
COURSE (*AFRL UNITS
ONLY)
Aerospace Propulsion                        R
Craftsman, Jet Engine Mishap
Investigation Course (JEMIC)
J3AZR2A671A0M1A*
Weapons Safety Management      M
Course
L3AZR2W071 0C2A
See Note 3
AFMC Nuclear Management        R
Fundamentals Course
Air Force Nuclear              M
Certification Process Course
See Note 8
General Transportation for     R
Hazardous Material (AMMO-
37)
AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013                       39


 Lightning Protection for Air   M
 Force Facilities Course
 (AMMO-47)
 J5AZB3E051 00AA
 Automated Site Planning        M
 Range Safety                               R
 (C1060120CA)/USMC Online
 See Note 4
 Inter-Service Range Safety                 R
 Course Intermediate
 (M02KA7M)/USMC
 See Note 5
 Range Safety Operations                    R
 (SMASAFENSTC0097)/NASA
 See Note 6
 Laser Safety Officer (LSO)     M       R   R   R
 Multiple Course ID/Vendors
 See Note 9
 Fundamentals of Test and                       M
 Evaluation (TST102)/DAU
 WinGuard Course (Online)       M
 HAZMAT Familiarization         R
 Course (AMMO-67-DL) Sch
 Code 910
 J6AZA2W0XX 0H0A
 OSHA 2015 Hazardous            R
 Materials
 AF Nuclear Weapons             R
 Refresher Training (DOE)
 AF Inspection Agency           R
 Inspectors Course
 Fire Protection and Life           M
 Safety
 Occupational Safety and            M
 Health Standards for General
 Industry
 See Note 10
40                                                   AFI91-202_AFMCSUP 9 JULY 2013


NOTE 1: SSM, SSA, and Software System Safety courses are now COTS. Any course
SSM from the approved list is sufficient. See AFMC Safety CoP for current list of approved
commercial courses.
NOTE 2: (*M) Depicts course mandatory for military personnel.
NOTE 3: Course previously identified as L3AZR2W071-0C1A or L3AZR2W071-001.
Completion of any of the courses is considered acceptable training for award of SEI 375.
NOTE 4: Must register through MARINENET; see ETMS course catalog for details.
NOTE 5: See ETMS course catalog for details.
NOTE 6: Limited availability; see ETMS course catalog for details.
NOTE 7: AMIC and ASPM (together) are equal to FSO course (discontinued)
NOTE 8: Only mandatory for those SEW positions with certification responsibilities.
NOTE 9: Only mandatory for those SEW positions with DEW or laser safety.
NOTE 10: 1S051 Safety Journeyman Career Field Development Course is a suitable
substitute.
NOTE 11: See AFI 90-802, Risk Management, for course sources/availability; A&I Course
required for designated wing instructors/advisors.
