BY ORDER OF THE                                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 99-106
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  26 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                Test and Evaluation

                                                 JOINT TEST AND EVALUATION PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/TEP                                                                     Certified by: AF/TE
                                                                          (Col Dexter M. Sapinoso)
Supersedes:    AFI99-106, 11 July 2001                                                   Pages: 24



This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 99-1, Test and
Evaluation, and Department of Defense Instruction, DODI 5010.41, Joint Test and Evaluation
(JT&E) Program. It provides instruction, guidance, and procedures for Air Force participation in and
support of the JT&E Program directed by the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD). This
publication applies to all Air Force active, reserve, and national guard components. To ensure
full understanding of the JT&E Program process and terminology, consult the JT&E web site at
http://www.jte.osd.mil for relevant documentation including the JT&E Program Handbook.
Submit recommended changes to the Air Force Joint Test and Evaluation Program Office (AFJO),
Bldg 585, 5930 Devlin Drive, Nellis AFB, NV 89191, (702) 652-7296; and to Headquarters, Air Force Test
and Evaluation, Policy and Programs Division (HQ USAF/TEP), 1530 Air Force Pentagon, Washington
DC 20330-1530, (703) 695-0900. Waivers and exceptions to the Air Force JT&E processes stated in
this AFI require formal AF/TE approval. Supplements to this publication must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Maintain all records
created as a result of this AFI according to Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of according to Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It updates Air Force
organization and responsibilities to complement to the Department of Defense (DOD)
restructuring of the JT&E Program and adds guidance and procedures for Quick Reaction Tests
(QRT).
2                                                                                            AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009



       1.      JT&E Program Description. ...................................................................................          2
       2.      JT Project Overview. .............................................................................................     3
Figure 1.      The JT Project Phases. ...........................................................................................     4
       3.      Quick Reaction Test (QRT). ..................................................................................          7
Figure 2.      The QRT Phases. ...................................................................................................    9
       4.      JT&E Program Management Responsibilities. ......................................................                      10
       5.      Joint Test and Evaluation Personnel Management. ...............................................                       16
       6.      Support Documents. ...............................................................................................    17
       7.      Command Relationships. .......................................................................................        17

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       19

Attachment 2—FORMAT FOR JT&E AND QRT NOMINATIONS                                                                                     23


1. JT&E Program Description.
    1.1. The JT&E Program involves two or more military Services, Combatant Commands
    (COCOM), Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), and other DOD agencies to solve joint problems with
    non-materiel solutions. The JT&E Program is used to assess Service interoperability,
    analyze joint military capabilities, develop potential options for increasing joint military
    effectiveness, and improve joint tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP).
    1.2. The JT&E Program consists of two levels of efforts: Joint Tests (JT) and QRTs. JT
    projects are longer efforts lasting up to 3-years and commonly known as JT&Es. QRTs
    respond to urgent or rapidly developing requirements that require a response to an
    operational commander within a short time (1-year or less).
    1.3. Purpose. The JT&E Program purpose is to:
       1.3.1. Assess Service system interoperability in joint operations and explore potential
       solutions to identified problems.
       1.3.2. Evaluate joint technical and operational concepts and recommend improvements.
       1.3.3. Validate testing methodologies that have joint application.
       1.3.4. Improve modeling and simulation (M&S) validity with field exercise data.
       1.3.5. Increase joint mission capability using quantitative and qualitative data for
       analysis.
       1.3.6. Provide feedback to the acquisition and joint operations communities.
       1.3.7. Improve joint and multi-Service TTPs. Note: The seven items listed above also serve
       as criteria for assessing the merits of JT&E nominations.
    1.4. JT&E Program Sponsorship and Leadership.
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                     3


      1.4.1. OSD sponsors and funds the JT&E Program. The OSD, Deputy Director
      Operational Test and Evaluation, Air Warfare (OSD/DOT&E-AW) directs, manages, and
      administers the JT&E Program under the authority of DODI 5010.41. Within
      OSD/DOT&E-AW, the Joint Test & Evaluation Program Office (JPO) executes the JT&E
      Program under the direction the JT&E program manager.
      1.4.2. Service Leadership. The Director, Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) establishes
      instruction and guidance on Air Force participation in the JT&E Program. The Air Force
      Joint Test and Evaluation Program Office (AFJO), a function under AF/TE, manages and
      executes that guidance and Air Force participation.
          1.4.2.1. The AFJO mission is to generate, develop, and support JT&E activities that
          enhance Air Force capabilities and mission effectiveness in joint operations. AFJO is
          located at Nellis AFB, NV and aligned with the United States Air Force Warfare
          Center (USAFWC) to maintain warfighter focus, test planning, and test execution
          support capability.
2. JT Project Overview. JT projects are composed of three sequential but related phases as
shown in Figure 1.
   2.1. JT Nomination Phase; Joint Feasibility Study (JFS) Phase; and JT Execution Phase.
   Functions and membership of the OSD JT Planning Committee (PC), Senior Advisory
   Council (SAC), and Technical Advisory Board (TAB) are detailed in the OSD JT&E
   Program Handbook, available on the OSD JT&E web site, http://www.jte.osd.mil.
   2.2. The Air Force JT&E Advisory Council (AFJAC) is the Air Force body that approves
   and ranks Air Force nominations before being submitted to OSD. The AFJAC is comprised
   of Division Chief/O-6 level voting representatives from the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF)
   and Headquarters Air Force (HAF) staffs. AF/TE Deputy Director and USAFWC/CV co-
   chair the AFJAC. Observers from major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies
   (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU) may attend.
   2.3. Air Force JT nominations selected by the SAC for the Execution Phase are supported
   with AF/TE manpower billets and other resources listed within this instruction.
4                                                                      AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


Figure 1. The JT Project Phases.




    2.4. JT Project Nomination Phase. Organizations prepare JT nomination packages each year
    in the format specified by OSD. A well-defined purpose and problem statement with joint
    implications is critical since it is the basis for prioritizing need, relevancy, and determining basic
    test feasibility. Successful nominations secure two or more general officer advocates with
    endorsements from the Services and Combatant Commands (COCOMS).
        2.4.1. The Air Force JT project timeline begins with AF/TE issuing a call for nominations
        in March or April each year. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs have until early August to
        forward draft nomination packages or intent to nominate to AF/TE (see Attachment 2).
        AF/TEP will review nominations for basic content. AF/TEP will forward nominations to
        AFJO for refinement.
        2.4.2. Nominating organizations are required to work with AFJO to refine their
        nomination packages. Package content is outlined in the OSD JT&E Program Handbook
        and must include draft resource development and planning requirements identifying
        manpower, financial, and facility estimates. Refined nominations packages may require
        nominating organizations to reobtain MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU endorsement. Note:
        Nomination organizations are required to consult with owning MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU to
        make this determination. AFJO will submit refined Air Force nominations to AF/TEP
        prior to AFJAC review.
        2.4.3. AF/TEP convenes the AFJAC mid-September each year to rank nominations and
        provide inputs to the nominating organizations. AF/TE forwards AFJAC selected
        nomination packages NLT 1 November to OSD/DOT&E-AW. Note: Based on the number
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                         5


     of Air Force nominations, AF/TE may elect not to convene the AFJAC. If the AFJAC does
     not convene, then AFJO, with USAFWC/CC endorsement, will submit a nomination priority
     list to AF/TE for submission to OSD. Nominations pertaining to Special Access
     Programs/Special Access Required (SAP/SAR) or containing Special Compartmented
     Information (SCI) will include AF/TEZ coordination and follow guidance in AFI 16-701,
     Special Access Programs, and Joint Air Force-Army-Navy (JAFAN) and Director of
     Central Intelligence directives (DCID).
     2.4.4. JPO convenes the PC early November each year. The JT&E Program Manager
     chairs the PC. The PC is composed of OSD, COCOM, Joint Staff, the Services, and other
     defense agency representatives. The PC screens and prioritizes (by vote) nominations that
     meet the criteria in paragraph 1.3. Nominations low in PC priority or not meeting criteria are
     returned to the nominating organization for revision. Acceptable nominations are forwarded
     to the SAC.
     2.4.5. OSD convenes the SAC in early January chaired by OSD/DOT&E-AW and composed
     of general officers and senior executive service members from organizations identified in JT&E
     Program Handbook. AF/TE is the primary Air Force SAC voting member. AF/TE may
     delegate this role as needed.        The SAC, prioritizes (by vote), and recommends to
     OSD/DOT&E-AW which nominations should proceed as a JFSs.                      Based on SAC
     recommendation, funding, and operational relevancy, the OSD/DOT&E-AW will direct
     those nominations to proceed to a JFS phase.
  2.5. JFS Phase. The JFS determines whether a JT project nomination is operationally and
  technically feasible to resolve a joint problem. JFS duration is short (7-months or less). The
  JFS begins upon OSD/DOT&E-AW direction after the SAC convenes. OSD supports this
  phase with a small staff of experts from the Joint Test Support Cell (JTSC) further defined in
  the JT&E Program Handbook. However, OSD funding is limited during the initial start of
  the JFS phase. During the JFS relies on Service sponsor resources (e.g., facilities,
  equipment, and administrative support). AFJO will support an Air Force-led JFS as stated in
  paragraph 4.10.12.
     2.5.1. The JFS staff typically consists of two military or government civilians from the lead
     Service plus two or three support contractors (OSD funded). The lead Service nominates
     a Lt Colonel or Colonel or Government Civilian equivalent as the Feasibility Study
     Director (FSD). Note: If subsequently chartered as a JT&E project, the FSD will likely
     become the Joint Test Director (JTD). The JTD must be a Colonel or Colonel-select.
     2.5.2. The FSD continues to secure general officer advocates and endorsements across
     the Services for the program. This requires tailored briefings and travel (OSD funded) to and
     among the Services and COCOMs.
     2.5.3. The FSD will convene one or more Joint Warfighters Advisory Group (JWAG)
     meetings to validate the JFS scope, issues, and focus. The JWAG is not a standing group
     or body within the Services, but is comprised of subject matter experts (SME) from each
     Service (typically O-5 or O-6 level) invited from operational units, Service staffs and
     COCOMs to participate. Each JFS will have a JWAG and each JWAG may have
     different SME contingent depending on the JFS subject.
6                                                                   AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


       2.5.4. The FSD will develop and coordinate a draft TRP with AFJO and the nominating
       MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU for program funding and allocation of non-test specific resources
       supporting the JT project. In addition, the JFS staff will produce a draft Project Master
       Plan (PMP) prior to the next SAC meeting. The PMP will include the draft TRP and
       Consolidated Resource Estimate (CRE) annexes. See paragraph 5.3
       2.5.5. The JFS has three major reviews: TAB-1, TAB-2, and the SAC as shown on Figure 1.
       The FSD briefs the TABs and SAC. After TAB-2, the TAB Chair advises the SAC on
       technical feasibility.
       2.5.6. The SAC meets again in August each year to prioritize JFSs by vote, and
       recommends to OSD/DOT&E-AW, which JFSs should be chartered as JT projects. After 1
       October, those chartered receive funding and resources from OSD and the Services.
    2.6. JT Project Execution Phase. After OSD/DOT&E-AW issues a chartering document, a
    JT project is required to be completed within 3-years. Requests for extension of an Air Force
    JT project must be approved by AFJO and AF/TE prior to being submitted to the JT&E
    Program Manager.
       2.6.1. JT projects are conducted in realistic joint operational environments where possible. JT
       projects are frequently conducted in conjunction with joint exercises (subject to approval),
       and may be supplemented by M&S if field test and joint exercise data is not available.
       Timing of joint exercises during the JT&E execution phase may drive test planning
       significantly.
       2.6.2. OSD/DOT&E-AW delegates’ management responsibility for individual JT projects
       directly to one of the Services, or delegates through the Joint Staff to a COCOM or an
       established DOD organization. During the JT project execution phase, the lead Service or
       managing command will provide a Colonel or Colonel-select as the JTD who is responsible to
       OSD/DOT&E-AW for directing the JT&E project.
       2.6.3. The lead Service, COCOM, or DOD organization, along with other participating
       DOD components, furnishes resources stated in the PMP to support the JT project. AFJO
       will support Air Force-led JT projects as stated in paragraph 4.10.13
       2.6.4. Close-down is the last activity the JT project performs during the JT execution phase.
       As part of the closedown plan the JTD will coordinate the release of Air Force billets and
       resources with AFJO.
           2.6.4.1. The Deputy Test Director (DTD) will provide AFJO and AF/TEP a close out
           schedule NLT six months prior to closure. Typically, this will occur at the 30-month point
           of a JT&E project.
           2.6.4.2. The DTD, with support from AFJO, will notify the servicing Military
           Personnel Flight (MPF) one year prior to closure. The DTD will assist the servicing
           MPF in personnel reassignments locally or through the Air Force Personnel Center
           (AFPC).
           2.6.4.3. AFJO will assist the DTD in providing the servicing MPF with the JT Unit
           Manning Document positions and assignment end dates. AFJO will close the Personnel
           Accounting System (PAS) code when JT personnel have departed.
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                          7


          2.6.4.4. Six months prior to program closure, the DTD will coordinate with AFJO and
          owning MAJCOM on disposition of Air Force equipment.
   2.7. General resource and funding guidelines for Air Force-led JT projects and QRTs. The
   AFJO resource manager can provide additional guidance.
       2.7.1. OSD normally supplies test specific resources and funding to both JT projects and
       QRTs. Examples include special instrumentation, test article modification, travel costs, data
       collection, analysis, and reporting. An example of a cost not OSD funded would be aerial
       refueling costs associated with movement of test assets to and from an exercise location.
       2.7.2. The nominating MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU normally supplies non-test specific
       resources including Base Operating Support (BOS) and funding IAW an approved TRP.
       Examples include facilities, supplies, computers, and communications equipment. BOS
       will be IAW AFI 65-601 Volume 1, Chapter 7 for host tenant support. JT projects and
       QRTs conducted on a Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB) refer to AFI 65-601
       Volume 1, Chapter 7, Section 7.51.1. All test costs must be coordinated in advance with
       the host base.
       2.7.3. Air Force Element (AFELM) 3V government civilian pay is funded through the
       Air Force and managed by AF/TER for billets directly supporting JT projects. The civilian
       pay POC is AF/TER. For QRT government civilian manning support see para 3.3.1.
       2.7.4. OSD approves and funds direct contractor test support for both JT projects and QRTs
       through the JPO.
       2.7.5. AFJO provides Air Force led JT Program oversight and administration. AFJO also
       provides office equipment, supplies as available, and start up costs (e.g., building
       preparation).
       2.7.6. The AFJO facility is located at Nellis AFB, NV. Nominating MAJCOMs, FOAs, and
       DRUs may request and be provided use of AFJO facilities as available.
3. Quick Reaction Test (QRT). QRTs are 1-year test efforts also funded by OSD per
paragraphs 2.7. QRTs address specific and focused joint warfighter questions or issues within
the scope of the JT&E Program’s purpose listed in paragraph 1.3. Services, COCOMs, Joint
Staff, or other DOD agencies may sponsor QRTs. Sponsoring organizations, assisted by the
QRT team and AFJO, will define desired products from the QRT effort. QRTs nominations can
be submitted to AFJO anytime and are typically vetted by the Services, Joint Staff, SOCOM and
United States Joint Forces Command (JFCOM) at JPO sponsored working groups. Note: Urgent
QRTs typically require high level (4-star) sponsorship and endorsement.
   3.1. QRT nominations address:
       3.1.1. Joint military operational critical issues affecting combat operations and
       capabilities. These issues can be derived from on-going combat operations and recurring
       Joint Staff and COCOM issues and lessons learned conferences.
       3.1.2. Joint transformational issues raised through Joint Staff and USJFCOM.
       3.1.3. Joint issues identified from COCOM field assessments and tactical operations.
       3.1.4. Issues generated from other JT&E projects.
8                                                                AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


       3.1.5. Joint operational issues that are spin-offs from advanced joint concept technology
       demonstrations (JCTD) or joint experiments.
    3.2. The QRT nomination package (formal criteria in Attachment 2) must focus on the
    following:
       3.2.1. An operational description of the military limitation(s) that the QRT is intended to
       address.
       3.2.2. Purpose and expected operational benefits of the proposed QRT.
       3.2.3. Concise description and scope of the operational problem and a problem
       statement.
       3.2.4. An operational explanation of what requirements are not being completed.
       3.2.5. Expected improvements       to   operational   capabilities and expected QRT
       deliverables.
       3.2.6. A rough order of magnitude estimate of expected resources and associated costs.
       3.2.7. Endorsements of joint and multi-Service advocates.
       3.2.8. HQ Service test and evaluation organization letter of agreement to support QRT.
    3.3. The QRT is an accelerated review, approval, and execution process as shown in Figure
    2. QRTs generally last less than 12 months from approval to the final report.
    3.3.1.    Organizations sponsoring QRTs provide the required subject matter expertise,
    assistance, and government (military and civilian) billets as needed.
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                   9


Figure 2. The QRT Phases.




   3.4. QRT Nomination Phase. The nominating organization within a MAJCOM, FOA, or
   DRU will notify AFJO and AF/TEP of the intention to submit a QRT nomination. The
   nomination organization QRT will also provide resource requirement estimates to AFJO. AFJO
   and AF/TEP will determine if the proposed solution to the problem meets the criteria for a
   QRT.
      3.4.1. AFJO and AF/TEP will advise and assist the nominating organization in
      developing the nomination package in preparation for the Executive Steering Group
      (ESG). The nominating organization, with AFJO assistance, will develop a nomination
      package and briefing in the format provided by the JT&E JPO.
      3.4.2. The Director, Air Force Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) and the USAF Warfare
      Center Commander (USAFWC/CC) are the Air Force voting members of the ESG. The
      ESG recommends approval or disapproval of a QRT as described in the JT&E Program
      Handbook. The QRT will also provide resource requirements to AFJO. The ESG typically
      convenes 30 days after the JPO receives the QRT nomination package. The ESG may
      convene electronically.
      3.4.3. Working with AF/TEP and AFJO, the nominating organization will seek advocacy
      from one or more additional members of the ESG. To ensure jointness, advocacy from
      additional Services is required for submission of any nomination to the JT&E Program
      Manager.
      3.4.4. When Air Force members of the ESG have approved submission of the
      nomination, AFJO will submit the nomination package and briefing to the JPO.
10                                                                   AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


        3.4.5. The ESG will review and prioritize individual QRT nominations for the
        OSD/DOT&E-AW to approve and direct to execute.
        3.4.6. A designated lead Service test and evaluation organization will execute a directed
        QRT and provide answers to specific operational questions. For Air Force QRT
        execution, AFJO functions as the operational test and evaluation organization.
     3.5. QRT Execution Phase.
        3.5.1. Initial QRT planning starts with the nominating organization developing the
        Project Master Plan (PMP) with assistance from AFJO and the JTSC (as available). The
        nominating organization will prepare a Project Test Plan (PTP) within 60-days of being
        directed by the OSD/DOT&E-AW.
        3.5.2. AFJO will assist the QRT team in planning for the QRT as stated in paragraph
        4.11.15 The QRT PTP will be in the format prescribed by the JPO. AFJO,
        USAFWC/CC, AF/TE, and OSD/DOT&E-AW are the QRT Detailed Test Plan approval
        authorities. Note: AF/TE approval may be delegated.
        3.5.3. The QRT team (with assistance of AFJO) will execute and report on the QRT.
        AFJO will determine the format for the test report. AFJO, USAFWC/CC, AF/TE, and
        OSD/DOT&E-AW are the QRT test report approval authorities. Note: AF/TE approval
        may be delegated.
        3.5.4. The nominating organization will provide SMEs to assist the QRT team (with
        assistance of AFJO) throughout the planning, executing, analyzing, and reporting of the
        QRT.
4. JT&E Program Management Responsibilities.
     4.1. Office of the Under Secretary of Defense, Deputy Director Operational Test and Evaluation,
     Air Warfare (OSD/DOT&E-AW).
        4.1.1. Manages the overall JT&E Program.
        4.1.2. Determines final selection of JFSs from the JFS nominations. Directs new JFS
        starts.
        4.1.3. Determines final selection of JT projects from among the most promising JFSs.
        Writes and approves JT project charters.
        4.1.4. Chairs the SAC and appoints the TAB chair.
        4.1.5. Provides funding and direction for JFSs, JT projects, and QRTs.
        4.1.6. Forwards JT project and QRT final reports to requesting agencies.
        4.1.7. Delegates management responsibility for specific JTE projects and QRTs to one of
        the military Services, the JCS, or specified or unified commands.
     4.2. The JT&E Program Office (JPO) Program Manager (PM).
        4.2.1. Executes the JT&E Program and develops the means to carry out the JT&E Program,
        JTs, and QRTs per OSD/DOT&E-AW guidance and direction.
        4.2.2. Chairs the Planning Committee (PC)
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                          11


  4.3. Headquarters, Air Force Directorate of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE).
     4.3.1. Serves as the Air Force office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the OSD JT&E
     Program.
     4.3.2. Sets Air Force policy and establishes Air Force positions on all JT&E Program matters.
     4.3.3. Serves as the primary Air Force voting member at the SAC and coordinates
     additional Air Force representation to the SAC as necessary. Note: AF/TE may delegate
     Air Force primary vote.
     4.3.4. Serves as a voting member to the ESG.
  4.4. Policy and Programs Division, Headquarters Air Force Directorate of Test and Evaluation
  (AF/TEP).
     4.4.1. Coordinates with DOT&E and JPO on JT&E Program matters.
     4.4.2. Determines Air Force representation on the PC.
     4.4.3. Advises DOT&E about individual JT and QRT projects the Air Force proposes to lead.
     4.4.4. Releases the call for Air Force JT project and QRT nominations. Forwards Air
     Force JT project nominations to AFJAC members for review, comment, and
     recommendation.
     4.4.5. Convenes the AFJAC to review and rank JT project nominations. Forwards JT
     nominations approved and ranked by the AFJAC to OSD/DOT&E-AW for presentation to
     the PC. Note: Based on the number of Air Force JT&E nominations, the AFJAC may not
     convene. If the AFJAC does not convene then AFJO, with USAFWC/CC endorsement, will
     submit a priority list to AF/TE for submission to DOT&E.
     4.4.6. Publishes test directives (TD) which have been coordinated with the nominating
     organization for chartered Air Force-led JT&E projects.
     4.4.7. Reviews and forwards nominations for FSD and JTD to OSD/DOT&E-AW when the
     Air Force is the lead Service.
     4.4.8. Reviews and forwards an Air Force precedence rating for each JT under the
     procedures in AFI 16-301, US Air Force Priority System for Resources Management.
     4.4.9. Reviews draft and final PMP and other JT&E documents and comments forwarded
     to OSD by AFJO, MAJCOMs, and FOAs. Establishes the Air Force position on these
     documents as needed.
     4.4.10. Reviews JT and QRT final reports and comments forwarded to OSD by AFJO,
     MAJCOMs, and FOAs. Establishes the Air Force position on these reports as needed.
  4.5. Resources Division, Headquarters, Air Force Directorate of Test and Evaluation (AF/TER).
     4.5.1. Advocates funding for the Air Force JT&E Program budget.
     4.5.2. Coordinates on test resource plans (TRP) and Consolidated Resource Estimates
     (CRE).
  4.6. Special Program, Headquarters, Air Force Directorate of Test and Evaluation (AF/TEZ).
12                                                                AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


        4.6.1. Provides assistance to AFJO security management to indoctrinate and debrief JT&E
        special access programs. Assists in the acquisition of security systems required to support
        those programs in collaboration with the appropriate Air Staff and MAJCOM Security
        Office.
     4.7. Headquarters, Air Force Directorate of Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A3/5).
     AF/A5R provides a division chief-level voting member to the AFJAC. When delegated by
     AF/TE, also provide a general officer-level voting representative to the SAC.
     4.8. Headquarters, Air Force Directorate of Manpower, Organization and Resources
     (AF/A1M).
        4.8.1. AF/A1M resolves resource manpower issues with 11WG/A1M or the nominating
        command equivalent functional A1Ms.
     4.9. 11th Mission Support Squadron (11 MSS).
        4.9.1. Assists AFJO in identifying manpower resources and preparing manpower
        requests.
        4.9.2. Approves or disapproves manpower change requests forwarded by AFJO.
        4.9.3. Handles Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) actions for Air Force 3V Command
        ID s via the 11WG/CC. Forwards UCMJ actions to the 11WG Judge Advocate General
        (JAG) as directed. AFJO will provide point of contact information to the 11th WG.
     4.10. Air Force Joint Test & Evaluation Program Office (AFJO).
        4.10.1. Manages and executes the Air Force JT&E Program under the oversight of
        AF/TE.
        4.10.2. Advises AF/TEP on policies and issues of Air Force interest for the JT&E
        Program.
        4.10.3. Attends AFJAC, PC, TAB, and SAC meetings as required, to represent Air Force
        interests.
        4.10.4. Follows the AF/TE program objective memorandum (POM) process and develops
        the Air Force JT&E budget through coordination with AF/TEP, AF/TER, and AF/A1MR
        for PE 91212.
        4.10.5. Coordinates on the sponsoring organizations’ nominations for FSD and JTD when
        the Air Force is the lead Service and forwards them to AF/TEP.
        4.10.6. Validates and forwards manpower requests to 11MSS/MOF with information
        copies to AF/TEP and AF/A1M.
        4.10.7. Forwards requests for Air Force precedence ratings for each JT&E to AF/TEP
        according to AFI 16-301.
        4.10.8. Reviews JT&E-related documents and forwards comments and recommendations to
        the JTD and AF/TEP.
        4.10.9. Reviews JT&E final reports and forwards comments and recommendations to the
        JTD and AF/TEP.
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                      13


     4.10.10. Initiates and provides input to OSD for the JT&E Lessons Learned database. This
     database will reside at the JPO JTSC.
     4.10.11. Provides staff assistance for Air Force-led JT project and QRT nominations as
     follows:
        4.10.11.1. Assists Air Force nominating organizations in the preparation of
        nominations.
        4.10.11.2. Reviews nominations and forwards analyses, comments, and rank-ordered
        recommendations to the nominating organization and AF/TEP.
     4.10.12. Provides staff assistance for Air Force-led JFSs as follows:
        4.10.12.1. Supports the FSD in determining personnel and resource requirements, JFS
        project coordination, and briefing and reporting requirements.
        4.10.12.2. Assists the FSD in obtaining Air Force SME support.
        4.10.12.3. Advises the JFS team on Air Force capabilities, doctrine, and TTPs.
        4.10.12.4. Provides a representative to JFS working groups.
        4.10.12.5. Assists FSDs in all resource matters, including preparation of CREs and
        TRPs.
        4.10.12.6. Assists FSDs in preparation and coordination of Memorandum of
        Agreement (MOAs) and Inter-Service Support Agreements (ISSAs).
        4.10.12.7. Keeps AF/TEP informed about JFS progress, significant actions, and
        potential problems.
     4.10.13. Provides staff assistance for Air Force-led chartered JT projects as follows:
        4.10.13.1. Advises and assists the JTD in identifying and obtaining facilities,
        equipment, and personnel. Coordinates scheduling of all Air Force assets available to
        support the JT.
        4.10.13.2. Assists in the preparation of the Air Force TD, Program Introduction Document
        (PID), and Statement of Capability (SOC) as needed.
        4.10.13.3. Provides the JTD with recommendations for the disposition of test assets of
        interest to the Air Force.
        4.10.13.4. Keeps AF/TEP informed about test progress, significant actions, and potential
        problems.
     4.10.14. Provides staff assistance for Air Force-led QRT nominations as follows:
        4.10.14.1. Assists Air Force QRT nominating organizations in preparation of
        nominations.
        4.10.14.2. Reviews nominations and forwards analyses, comments, and rank-ordered
        recommendations to the nominating organization and AF/TEP.
     4.10.15. Provides staff assistance for Air Force-led directed QRTs as follows:
14                                                                AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


           4.10.15.1. Advises and assists the QRT team in identifying and obtaining facilities,
           equipment, and personnel. Coordinates scheduling of all Air Force assets available to
           support the QRT.
           4.10.15.2. Supports the QRT team in determining personnel and resource
           requirements, QRT project coordination, and briefing and reporting requirements.
           4.10.15.3. Assists the QRT team in obtaining Air Force SME support.
           4.10.15.4. Advises the QRT team on Air Force capabilities, doctrine, and TTPs.
           4.10.15.5. Assists the QRT team in preparation and coordination of MOAs and
           ISSAs.
           4.10.15.6. Provides the QRT team with recommendations for the disposition of test
           assets of interest to the Air Force.
           4.10.15.7. Keeps AF/TEP informed about QRT progress, significant actions, and
           potential problems.
        4.10.16. Provides staff assistance for JFSs, JTs, and QRTs when the Air Force is a
        participating Service as follows:
           4.10.16.1. Assists in coordination of Air Force MOAs and ISSAs, and provides
           recommendations to the Air Force DTD and AF/TE for Air Force support.
           4.10.16.2. Assists FSDs and JTDs in preparing requests for Air Force resources and
           scheduling Air Force assets to support JT projects.
           4.10.16.3. Provides the JTD with recommendations for the disposition of test assets of
           interest to the Air Force.
           4.10.16.4. Keeps AF/TEP informed about JFS and JT progress, significant actions, and
           potential problems of concern to the Air Force.
           4.10.16.5. Forwards requests for USAF manning changes from the Air Force DTD to
           AF/A1M with a recommendation to support or deny the request.
        4.10.17. AFJO Security Manager (AFJO/SM) will develop, manage and implement
        security policies and procedures, providing security oversight and direction for all AF
        JT&E efforts.
           4.10.17.1. AFJO/SM will coordinate and develop policy with Joint and federal
           security and law enforcement agencies in collaboration with the MAJCOM/FOA
           Security POCs.
           4.10.17.2. AFJO/SM will conduct inspections along with the host installation where
           AF JTs are located and ensure program compliance.
     4.11. Nominating organizations within MAJCOMS, FOAs, and DRUs will:
        4.11.1. Establish an OPR for JT&E Program matters.
        4.11.2. Submit JT or QRT nomination packages through their respective MAJCOM, FOA,
        and DRU to AF/TE. AF/TEP will work with AFJO and forward refined packages to the PC.
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                      15


     4.11.3. When the Air Force is the lead Service, forward JTD nominations to AF/TE for
     review. AF/TE will review and forward to OSD/DOT&E-AW for approval.
     4.11.4. Provide personnel during the JFS and assign project officers to advise the FSD and
     JTD during the JFS and JT project respectively. Nominating organization if unable to
     support is responsible for securing personnel from the nominating MAJCOM.
     4.11.5. Provide facilities during the JFS and QRT. AF/TE support facilities located at Eglin
     AFB, FL and Nellis AFB, NV will be made available to JTs on a case-by-case basis.
     4.11.6. Nomination organizations will provide qualified personnel as required for QRT
     execution.
  4.12. Air Force Joint Test Director (JTD).
     4.12.1. Establishes, organizes, and supervises the JT&E team and all facets of the JT&E.
     4.12.2. Ensures current operational expertise is used in the JT&E project.
     4.12.3. Ensures the JT&E accomplishes its mission on schedule and within budget.
     4.12.4. Develops a JT&E work breakdown structure and schedule.
     4.12.5. Develops, maintains, updates requirements, and executes JT&E funding and Service
     support per PMP, TRP and CRE. Coordinates changes to requirements with AFJO,
     MAJCOM and the JPO.
     4.12.6. Controls funds designated for JT&E activities and accounts to the JT&E JPO for their
     use.
     4.12.7. Monitors Air Force and other Service expenditures related to the JT&E project.
     4.12.8. Prepares and submits reports as appropriate.
     4.12.9. Promotes the JT&E program and products as appropriate.
     4.12.10. Makes recommendations for disposition of JT&E assets to AF/TEP.
     Recommendations will be coordinated with AFJO, MAJCOMS, Services, and other agencies
     as appropriate.
     4.12.11. Keeps AFJO and AF/TEP informed about JFS, QRT, or JT&E progress, significant
     actions, and potential problems.
  4.13. Air Force Deputy Test Director (DTD).
     4.13.1. Supports the JTD during JT&E execution.
     4.13.2. Ensures the TD, PMP, TRP and CRE and other Air Force directives are followed.
     4.13.3. Advises the JTD on how to apply Air Force TTPs, doctrine, resources, and
     capabilities.
     4.13.4. Helps ensure the adequacy and availability of Air Force test support forces and
     resources. Coordinates scheduling with participating commands and FOAs.
     4.13.5. Keeps AF/TEP and AFJO informed of test progress, significant actions, and
     potential problems.
16                                                                      AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


         4.13.6. Sends formal comments, recommendations, and requests for determination or
         interpretation of policy to AF/TEP.
         4.13.7. Ensures JT planning, execution, and reporting fully address Air Force interests.
         4.13.8. Informs AFJO of test costs to be negotiated with OSD.
         4.13.9. Works with AFJO on all Air Force annual and supplemental administrative
         funding and budget requests.
         4.13.10. Provides AF/TEP, AFJO, participating MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs as
         requested with test project documentation, to include PMPs, Data Management and Analysis
         Plans (DMAP), PIDs, CREs, and final reports.
         4.13.11. Assists AFJO in reallocating Air Force-acquired assets at the conclusion of the JT
         project.
     4.14. United States Air Force Warfare Center (USAFWC)/A8.
         4.14.1. Advocates and promotes the JT&E Program with Air Force operational units,
         MAJCOMSs, FOAs, DRUs, and Air Force elements of COCOMs to identify viable JT&E
         candidates.
         4.14.2. Assists AFJO in the preparation of nominations from MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs and
         Air Force elements of COCOMs.
         4.14.3. Assists in identifying qualified operational personnel for staff nominations, JFSs,
         QRTs, and JT projects.
         4.14.4. Establishes a MOA with AF/TE for QRT test planning, reporting, and overall
         JT&E Program test reporting.
         4.14.5. Provides facilities and BOS services for AFJO.
5. Joint Test and Evaluation Personnel Management.
     5.1. JT projects usually consists of about one-third government (military and civilian) and
     two-thirds support contractor personnel and averages approximately 35 persons in total. The
     JT project is led by a JTD and DTD from the lead Service, and a DTD from each participating
     Service.
     5.2. AF/TE will provide Air Force originating JT project nominations the required manpower
     billets as available (military and civilian) once the JT project is chartered for execution. AF/TE will
     provide as available manpower billets to non Air Force originating JT project nominations
     chartered for execution.
     5.3. The CRE identifies the funding, personnel, and equipment required to execute the proposed
     JT. The Services fill the staff positions required in the CRE. AFJO works with the FSD to
     identify required Air Force personnel resources. 11WG/A1M validates Air Force Specialty
     Code change requirements and forwards an information copy to AF/A1MP. The JTD coordinates
     civilian position requirements with the servicing Civilian Personnel Office by providing
     position descriptions. AFJO requisitions both officer and enlisted positions through
     appropriate AF/A1 functional mangers.
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                         17


   5.4. The JT&E contractor support personnel are OSD funded and normally hired under authority
   of the JT&E Engineering, Analysis, and Test Support contract administered by JPO. Support
   contractors provide SMEs experienced in JT&E planning, execution, and reporting.
   5.5. The JPO provides JT projects early support from the JTSC as available. Personnel in
   the JTSC are senior analysts, scientists, and engineers with extensive JT project and QRT
   experience. OSD/DOT&E-AW may task federally funded research and development centers
   (FFRDC) to provide technical advice to JT&E projects and oversight for OSD.
   5.6. AFJO is staffed with permanent 3V manpower billets at Nellis AFB. SMEs from the
   nominating organization will be made available to the QRT director. QRTs are augmented
   by contractor support under an existing JPO support contract. OSD funds government travel
   and contractor support.
6. Support Documents.
   6.1. JFS support documents.
      6.1.1. During the JFS, the FSD and AFJO will jointly develop and coordinate with the
      nomination MAJCOM the draft TRP. The draft TRP becomes a binding document should
      the JFS be chartered as a JT project therefore coordination is critical.
      6.1.2. OSD/DOT&E-AW will issue a JFS directive document following the SAC
      recommendation to those nominations selected to proceed as a JFS. The JFS directive
      documents specify the lead Service and outline the duties, authorities, and reporting channels
      for the JTD.
   6.2. JT&E project support documents.
      6.2.1. OSD/DOT&E-AW will issue a JT&E project chartering document after the SAC’s
      chartering recommendation, specify the lead Service and outline the duties, authorities, and
      reporting channels for the JTD. The charter is a contract for test support among OSD, the
      JTD, and the Services.
      6.2.2. The PMP is the responsibility of the JTD. Finalizing the PMP is the immediate task
      of the JTD after chartering and will be coordinated through AF/TEP and AFJO.
      6.2.3. The JTD produces a PID after chartering that introduces and scopes the support
      needed for the JT from each supporting organization. Each of these organizations reviews
      the PID in-turn and sends the JTD a SOC that affirms the level of support that organization
      will provide to the JT&E.
      6.2.4. To meet schedules, the PMP (with TRP and CRE annexes) must be drafted during
      the JFS. AFJO provides assistance of these documents with the test team and the
      supporting organizations.
   6.3. QRT Support Documents.
      6.3.1. The Directive Document from OSD/DOT&E-AW initiates a QRT.
      6.3.2. The QRT Project Plan (PP) is the responsibility of AFJO and directed test team.
      The QRT PP will be in a format prescribed by the JPO and submitted to the
      OSD/DOT&E-AW for approval.
7. Command Relationships.
18                                                                    AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


     7.1. OSD/DOT&E-AW has overall responsibility for the JT&E program. The JTD reports
     directly to OSD/DOT&E-AW but must be sensitive to Service interests. The Air Force DTD
     reports to the JTD for test management and is the senior Air Force representative for Army
     and Navy led JTs. Army and Navy JTDs perform the same functions as the Air Force JTD when
     the Air Force is not the lead Service.
     7.2. Distinction must be made between the JT&E and the organizations and facilities (individuals,
     units, equipment, etc.) supporting the JT&E. The supporting organizations and facilities
     respond as requested in the previously coordinated LOE, TRP, MOAs, ISSAs, and other formal
     agreements.
     7.3. Air Force support and management matters will be directed to AFJO.
     7.4. QRT Command Relationships. AFJO will ensure QRTs are accomplished according to
     the Letter of Direction from OSD/DOT&E-AW.
     7.5. Air Force policy or doctrine conflicts with this AFI will be referred to AF/TE for resolution.
     Exceptions to the Air Force JT&E nomination or JFS processes stated in this AFI require
     formal AF/TE approval.




                                                JOHN T. MANCLARK
                                                Director, Test and Evaluation
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                            19


                                        Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 5010.41, Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) Program 12 September 2005
DoD 7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulation, Vol 2A
OSD Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) Program Handbook 29 June 2007
AFI 16-301, U.S. Air Force Priority System for Resources Management 11 April 1994
AFI 16-701, Special Access Program 1 November 1995
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records 1 March 2008
AFI 65-601, Budget Guidance and Procedures, Vol I, 3 March 2005
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process 22 July 1993
AFPD 33-3, Information Management 28 Mar 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFELM—Air Force Element
AFJAC—Air Force JT&E Advisory Council
AFJO—Air Force Joint Test and Evaluation Program Office
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BOS—Base Operations Support
COCOM—Combatant Commands
CRE—Consolidated Resource Estimate
DCID—Director of Central Intelligence Directive
OSD/DOT&E—AW —Deputy Director, Air Warfare
DMAP—Data Management and Analysis Plan
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOT&E—Director, Operational Test and Evaluation
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
20                                                       AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


DTD—Deputy Test DirectorESG—Executive Steering Group
FFRDC—Federally Funded Research and Development Center
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FSD—Feasibility Study Director
HQ—Headquarters
ISSA—Inter-Service Support Agreement
JAFAN—Joint Air Force-Army-Navy
JAG—Judge Advocate General
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
JCTD—Joint Concept Technology Demonstration
JFS—Joint Feasibility Study
JPO—Joint Test & Evaluation Program Office
JT—Joint Test
JTD—Joint Test Director
JTSC— Joint Test Support Cell
JT&E—Joint Test and Evaluation
JWAG—Joint Warfighters Advisory Group
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
NLT—Not Later Than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
QRT—Quick Reaction Test
PC—Planning Committee
PD—Position Description
PE—Program Element
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PID—Program Introduction Document
PMP— Project Master Plan
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                             21


PP—Project Plan
PTP—Program Test Plan
SAC—Senior Advisory Council
SOC—Statement of Capability
TAB—Technical Advisory Board
TD—Test Directive
TRP—Test Resource Plan
TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UJTL—Unified Joint Task List
USAFWC—United States Air Force Warfare Center
USJFCOM—United States Joint Forces Command

Terms
Air Force JT&E Advisory Council (AFJAC)—A group of Air Force leaders (at division
chief/0-6 level) that reviews and prioritizes Air Force JT&E nominations and recommends which will
be forwarded to the OSD JT&E Planning Committee. AF/TE Deputy and USAFWC/CV co-chair
the AFJAC that includes representatives from Headquarters Air Force.
Air Force JT&E Program Office (AFJO)—Facilitates Air Force participation in the JT&E
process. The AFJO mission is to generate, develop, and support Joint Test and Evaluation
(JT&E) activities that enhance Air Force capabilities and mission effectiveness in joint
operations
Consolidated Resource Estimate (CRE)—A detailed document that identifies the funding,
personnel, and equipment required to execute a proposed JT&E.
Data Management and Analysis Plan (DMAP)—A program level document that details what
data will be collected, how it will be cataloged, stored, controlled, analyzed, archived, and procedures
for these functions.
Executive Steering Group (ESG)—A senior advisory body that recommends conducting a
QRT to OSD/DOT&E-AW and recommends a lead QRT team.
Feasibility Study Director (FSD)—The person responsible to OSD for the conduct of the JFS.
Joint Feasibility Study (JFS)—A formal study undertaken to determine whether a proposed
JT&E should be chartered. When directed by OSD, the JFS determines the need for and
feasibility of the JT&E and provides an estimate of required resources.
Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) Program—OSD activities managed by OSD/DOT&E-AW
including all active and proposed JFSs, QRTs, and JTs. The JT&E Program includes all
supporting functions such as convening and supporting JT&E Planning Committees, SACs,
TABs, General Officer Steering Groups, and program and budget functions. The JT&E Program
22                                                                 AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


must not be confused with the actions of a JT which are test activities dealing with a specific issue
or concept. There are two types of efforts under the JT&E program: JT projects and QRTs.
Joint Test and Evaluation (JT) Project—Those activities dedicated to addressing an issue or
concept nominated by OSD, Joint Staff, a COCOM, or the Services and that has been chartered by
OSD. (Also known as a “JT&E” or a “joint test.”)
Joint Test Director (JTD)—The person responsible to OSD for executing a chartered JT.
Develops JT plans, conducts the JT, and writes required JT reports.
Joint Test Support Cell (JTSC)—A group of senior analysts under the direction of the JPO that
provides a quick start to conventional JTs and QRTs.
Lead Service—The Service responsible for providing the JT with facilities, including buildings,
furniture, and administrative equipment.
Multi—Service—Comprised of more than one military Service.
Nomination—The process used to bring joint issues and concepts to the attention of the
OSD/DOT&E-AW.
Planning Committee (PC)—A OSD working level group of representatives from each Service,
JCS, and selected OSD offices that reviews JT nominations, sets agendas, and reviews issues for the
SAC. The JPO Program Manager chairs the OSD JT&E PC.
Project Master Plan (PMP)—A plan that stipulates what actions a JT must accomplish in order
to collect and analyze sufficient data to resolve a JT issue or concept. The PMP specifies what
must be done in sufficient detail so the resources required to accomplish the JT&E can be
quantified. The JTD produces the plan, coordinates it with the participating Services, and OSD
approves it. (Also called the “Program Test Plan (PTP).”
Senior Advisory Council (SAC)—A senior advisory body that reviews selected nominations, the
results of JFSs and JT&Es, and recommends appropriate actions to OSD/DOT&E-AW. AF/TE is
the Air Force’s primary member.
Technical Advisory Board (TAB)—A group of senior scientists, engineers, and analysts who
advise OSD/DOT&E-AW, the SAC, the JT&E PC, FSDs, and JTDs on technical matters.
Test Directive (TD)—A document identifying the responsibilities of all Air Force participants,
and directing compliance with specific tasks specified in the TRP and PMP. AFJO drafts the TD and
AF/TE coordinates it.
Test Resource Plan (TRP)—A detailed document specifying Air Force resources committed to
support a JT&E. Joint test directors, MAJCOMs, and FOAs use the TRP to identify, plan for, and
commit Air Force resources.
Quick Reaction Test (QRT)—A test that responds rapidly to emerging or developing
requirements and requires a response to an operational commander within a very short time.
AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                               23


                                            Attachment 2
                      FORMAT FOR JT&E AND QRT NOMINATIONS


DOT&E uses this format design to help determine the viability of JT&E projects and QRT
nominations.

HEADING (program name)

1. Title
   1.a. Include the program name, acronym, and indicate sponsoring organization or agency.
    1.b. Identify briefer (with proposed Joint Study Director or QRT Director with contact
    information), briefer’s organization, e-mail address, and phone number.
2. Background. Indicate nature and origin of the problem (include examples of missions and
scenarios that demonstrate need).
3. Proposed Problem Statement. The proposed problem statement is one or two-sentences that tell what
problem the JT&E or QRT will solve. Indicate if the test will only solve a subset of the total problem.
Break down the problem areas to be addressed.
4. Problem Explanation.
    4.a. Specifically address what cannot be done now or inhibits the user from accomplishing
    the mission.
    4.b. Address for whom this is a problem.
    4.c. Address who says this is a problem.
    4.d. Discuss that this is a joint problem (reference applicable UJTL tasks, doctrine, and
    TTP).
    4.e. Identify extent and impact of the problem.
    4.f. Identify what has been done to solve the problem and what is planned.
5. Purpose of the Proposed Test. Evident and direct traceability between the purpose and the problem
statement.
    5.a. Explain expected results if this effort becomes a joint test.
    5.b. Identify expected benefit to warfighter customer.
6. Related Efforts.
    6.a. Address what other organizations are doing with related efforts.
    6.b. Address how the proposed joint test is not duplicative of any other efforts.
    6.c. Address any relevance to and synergy with other joint tests.
7. Preliminary Operational Concept.
    7.a. Include a graphic or figure showing an operational scenario.
24                                                                   AFI99-106 26 AUGUST 2009


     7.b. Identify where tests could be conducted.
     7.c. Identify anticipated resources (required to execute a test project).
     7.d. Discuss the scope and limitations of the effort.
8. Improved Operational Capability. Address what improved operational capability you expect
and who would benefit.
9. Endorsement Letters. Endorsements of joint and Service advocates.
