BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-901
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   1 APRIL 2000

                                                          PACIFIC AIR FORCES COMMAND
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                          28 SEPTEMBER 2001

                                                                                    15TH WING
                                                                                     Supplement
                                                                                   12 JULY 2011

                                                                                Command Policy

                                                       OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSC/SEPO                                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/SEP
                                                                           (Col Robert W. Scott)
Supersedes:    AFI91-213, 1 September                                                  Pages: 19
               1997
                                          PACAF
OPR: HQ PACAF/SEFH                                                  Certified by: HQ PACAF/SE
                                                                           (Col David G. Jowers)
                                                                                       Pages: 19
                                          15WG
OPR: 15 WG/SEG                                                           Certified by: 15 WG/SE
                                                                         (Lt Col Kevin Eastland)
Supersedes:    AFI90-901_15AWSUP1,                                                      Pages: 19
               20 July 2003


This instruction implements AFPD 90-901, Operational Risk Management. It establishes the
requirement to integrate and sustain operational risk management (ORM) throughout the Air
Force. It assigns responsibilities for program elements and contains program management
information. HQ Air Force staffs, major commands (MAJCOMs), direct reporting units (DRUs)
and field operating agencies (FOAs) are responsible for establishing and sustaining their
respective programs according to the program elements described in this instruction. It applies to
all Air Force personnel and functional areas, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National
 2                                                     AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


Guard. Do not supplement this instruction without prior review by the Air Force Chief of Safety
(AF/SE). Records Disposition. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition
Schedule.

(PACAF) This instruction implements AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, and AFI 90-
901, Operational Risk Management, which establish the requirements to integrate and sustain the
operational risk management (ORM) program. This instruction establishes requirements for
implementing an ORM program throughout Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) area of responsibility
(AOR). It assigns responsibilities for program elements and contains program management
information. PACAF Numbered Air Forces (NAF) and subordinate units are responsible for
establishing and sustaining their respective programs according to the program elements
described in this instruction and AFI 90-901. This supplement applies to commanders, functional
managers, supervisors and individual PACAF personnel. This publication does not apply to
PACAF-gained Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve (AFRES) units. It may be
supplemented as needed to support local ORM programs.

(PACAF) AFI 90-901, 1 April 2000, is supplemented as follows:

(15WG) This instruction implements and extends the guidance of AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk
Management, and AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, and AFI 90-901_PACAFSUP1,
Operational Risk Management, which establishes requirements to integrate and sustain the
operational risk management (ORM) program. It establishes requirements for implementing an
ORM program throughout the 15th Wing (15 WG), and assigns responsibilities for program
elements and contains program management information. Groups and squadrons assigned to the
15 WG are responsible for establishing and sustaining their respective ORM programs according
to the program elements described in this instruction, AFI 90-901, the Pacific Air Forces
(PACAF) Supplement, and the PACAF Operational Risk Management Integration and
Sustainment Plan. This supplement applies to 15 WG commanders, ORM advisors, functional
managers, supervisors, and individual personnel. Groups and squadrons may publish additional
ORM guidance to support their ORM programs. Copies of group and unit-level ORM guidance
should be forwarded to 15 WG Safety (15 WG/SE) to facilitate crosstell. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form
847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at ttps://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm



Section A—ORM Process Description                                                                                                            3
       1.     Definition, Purpose, and Scope. .............................................................................                  3
       2.     Goals: .....................................................................................................................   4
       3.     ORM Principles. ....................................................................................................           4
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                                                                                                3


       4.      ORM Fundamentals. ..............................................................................................           4

Section B—Program Management                                                                                                              5
       5.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................    5
       6.      (Added-PACAF) PACAF Policy. ..........................................................................                     8
       7.      (Added-PACAF) Training. ....................................................................................              10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           13

Attachment 1—(PACAF) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
                                                                     15

Attachment 2—(Added-PACAF) UNIT ADVISOR CHECKLIST                                                                                        17

Attachment 3—(Added-PACAF) HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES


Section A—ORM Process Description

1. Definition, Purpose, and Scope. Operational risk management is a decision-making process
to systematically evaluate possible courses of action, identify risks and benefits, and determine
the best course of action for any given situation. ORM enables commanders, functional
managers, supervisors, and individuals to maximize operational capabilities while limiting all
dimensions of risk by applying a simple, systematic process appropriate for all personnel and
functions both on- and off-duty. Appropriate use of ORM increases both an organization’s and
individual’s ability to accomplish their mission, whether it is flying an airplane in combat,
loading a truck with supplies, planning a joint service exercise, establishing a computer network,
or driving home at the end of the day. Application of the ORM process ensures more consistent
results, while ORM techniques and tools add rigor to the traditional approach to mission
accomplishment, thereby directly strengthening the Air Force's warfighting posture.
   1.1. (Added-PACAF) PACAF ORM Program Guidelines. All PACAF functional areas
   should follow these basic concepts for integrating ORM:
       1.1.1. (Added-PACAF) Comprise a comprehensive system for improving individual
       and organizational performance in all operations.
       1.1.2. (Added-PACAF) Be tailored to meet the unique mission needs and operational
       requirements of each organization.
       1.1.3. (Added-PACAF) Provide the process and tools to develop and enhance
       awareness and understanding of at-risk activities and behavior of personnel, both on- and
       off-duty.
       1.1.4. (Added-PACAF) Ensure the application of ORM process identifies those areas
       where regulatory guidance is overly restrictive or otherwise not consistent with mission
       requirements. In this event, the risk assessment may be used to support requests for
       appropriate level waivers, variances, or changes, but will not in itself constitute authority
       to violate any directive, policy, standard, or other regulatory guidance.
 4                                       AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


        1.1.5. (Added-PACAF) Incorporate a systematic decision-making tool, as explained in
        AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management Guidelines and Tools.
        1.1.6. (Added-PACAF) Ensure ORM applications are documented, where appropriate.
            1.1.6.1. (Added-15WG) 15 WG/SE will be the OPR for collecting and maintaining
            formal ORM guidance and successful ORM applications from across the 15 WG.
2. Goals:
     2.1. Enhance mission effectiveness at all levels, while preserving assets and safeguarding
     health and welfare.
     2.2. Integrate ORM into mission processes, ensuring decisions are based upon assessments
     of risk integral to the activity and mission.
     2.3. Create an Air Force in which every leader, airman, and employee is trained and
     motivated to manage risk in all their on- and off-duty activities.
     2.4. Identify opportunities to increase Air Force warfighting effectiveness on the battlefield
     and in the operational aerospace environment, helping to ensure decisive victory in any
     future conflict at the least possible cost.
3. ORM Principles. Four principles govern all actions associated with the management of risk.
These principles, continuously employed, are applicable before, during, and after all tasks and
operations.
     3.1. Accept no unnecessary risk. Unnecessary risk comes without a commensurate return
     in terms of real benefits or available opportunities. All Air Force missions and daily routines
     involve risk. The most logical choices for accomplishing a mission are those that meet all
     mission requirements while exposing personnel and resources to the lowest acceptable risk.
     3.2. Make risk decisions at the appropriate level. Making risk decisions at the appropriate
     level establishes clear accountability. Those accountable for the success or failure of the
     mission must be included in the risk decision process.
     3.3. Accept risk when benefits outweigh the costs . All potential benefits should be
     compared to all potential costs. The process of weighing risks against opportunities and
     benefits helps to maximize unit capability. Even high risk endeavors may be undertaken
     when there is a well founded basis to believe that the sum of the benefits exceeds the sum of
     the costs.
     3.4. Integrate ORM into operations and planning at all levels. To effectively apply risk
     management, commanders must dedicate time and resources to integrate ORM principles
     into planning and operational processes. Risk assessments of operations are most mission
     supportive when they are done as a normal way of conducting a mission, not an add-on
     process performed by people not otherwise involved.
4. ORM Fundamentals. The essential concepts of Air Force ORM are outlined below. ORM:
     4.1. Is a comprehensive system for improving individual and organizational performance in
     all functional areas and operations.
     4.2. Should be tailored to meet the unique mission needs and operational requirements of
     each organization.
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                                                         5


   4.3. Provides the process and tools to develop and enhance awareness and understanding of
   at-risk activities and behavior of personnel both on- and off-duty.
   4.4. Application may identify areas where regulatory guidance is overly restrictive or
   otherwise not consistent with mission requirements. In this event, the risk assessment may
   be used to support solicitation of appropriate level waiver, variance, or change, but will not in
   itself constitute authority to violate any directive, policy, standard, or other applicable
   regulatory guidance.
   4.5. Is a continuous, systematic decision-making tool consisting of six steps that define the
   process. The following is a description of the six-step process.
       4.5.1. Identify the Hazards . Step one of the process involves application of appropriate
       hazard identification techniques in order to identify hazards associated with the operation
       or activity. Hazard can be defined as any real or potential condition that can cause
       mission degradation.
       4.5.2. Assess the Risk . The assessment step involves the application of quantitative or
       qualitative measures to determine the probability and severity of ill effects potentially
       resulting from exposure to a hazard.
       4.5.3. Analyze Risk Control Measures . Step three involves the evaluation of specific
       strategies and controls that reduce or eliminate risk. Effective mitigation measures
       reduce one of the three components (probability, severity or exposure) of risk.
       4.5.4. Make Control Decisions . Decisions are made at the appropriate level and are
       based upon analysis of overall costs and benefits. Decision-makers choose the most
       mission supportive risk controls consistent with ORM principles.
       4.5.5. Implement Risk Controls . Once control measures have been selected, an
       implementation strategy must be developed and carried out.
       4.5.6. Supervise and Review. Risk management is a process that continues throughout
       the life cycle of the system, mission, or activity. Leaders at every level must fulfill their
       respective roles in ensuring controls are sustained over time. Once controls are in place,
       the process must be periodically reevaluated to ensure their effectiveness and mission
       supportiveness.

Section B—Program Management

5. Responsibilities. The following responsibilities are in addition to those defined by AFPD 90-
9, Operational Risk Management.
   5.1. Air Force ORM Steering Committee. An ORM steering committee will provide senior
   level cross-functional review and approval of Air Force ORM policy, requirements, and
   overall strategy. This committee will be co-chaired by the Air Force Assistant Vice Chief of
   Staff and the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health.
   Membership will include HQ USAF/DP/IL/JA/SC/SE/SG/ST/XO/XP, SAF/AQ/FM/IG/PA
   and the Air Force ORM Program Manager. Other HQ staff offices will serve as on-call
   members of the committee and will participate as required. The committee will meet at least
   annually.
6                                      AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


    5.2. Air Force ORM Integrated Process Team (IPT). An ORM IPT will develop the Air
    Force ORM policy, requirements, and overall strategy necessary to facilitate Air Force-wide
    integration and sustainment of ORM. The IPT will be chaired by the Air Force ORM
    Program Manager and is comprised of representatives from SAF/AQ/FM/IG/MI, HQ
    USAF/DP/IL/JA/SC/SE/SG/XO, and HQ AFDC. Other HQ USAF staffs will serve as on-call
    members of the IPT and will participate as required. The Air Force ORM IPT will report to
    the Air Force ORM Steering Committee. The IPT will meet at least semi-annually. Note:
    The IPT and any subgroups will be participant funded.
    5.3. Air Force ORM Working Group. An ORM Working Group will assist the Air Force
    ORM IPT in developing the Air Force ORM policy, requirements, and overall strategy by
    identifying line organization requirements. The working group will also facilitate the
    exchange of crosstell and lessons-learned information between the commands. The working
    group will be chaired by the Air Force ORM Program Manager and comprised of
    representatives from each MAJCOM (including ANG), USAFA, AFOTEC, AFSFC, and
    AFCIC. Other DRUs and FOAs will serve as on-call members of the group and will
    participate as required. The Air Force ORM Working Group will report to the Air Force
    ORM IPT. The working group will meet at least semi-annually. Note: The working group
    and any subgroups will be participant funded.
    5.4. SAF/AQ will ensure that acquisition guidance incorporates and links ORM; Operational
    Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness; and System Safety principles and practices, to the
    extent that it is both possible and mission supportive.
    5.5. SAF/FM will ensure fiscal guidance incorporates ORM principles, to the extent that it is
    both possible and mission supportive.
    5.6. HQ USAF/XP will ensure the Air Force strategic plan and fiscal guidance incorporate
    ORM principles, to the extent that it is both possible and mission supportive.
    5.7. HQ USAF/DP will provide guidance to integrate ORM process, principles, and
    techniques into training and educational programs to the extent that it is both possible and
    mission supportive to do so in consideration of the goals outlined in this instruction.
    5.8. HQ USAF/SE and HQ Air Force Safety Center will:
       5.8.1. Provide overall leadership and management of the Air Force ORM Program.
       5.8.2. Develop and field generic ORM tools, education and training, guidance, and other
       initiatives necessary to support the Air Force-wide integration and sustainment of ORM.
       Note: HQ USAF staffs, MAJCOMs, DRUs, and FOAs will provide ORM tools,
       education and training, guidance, and other initiatives necessary to support ORM
       integration and sustainment specific to their organization or functional area.
    5.9. HQ AFDC/CC will support the integration of ORM concepts and principles into new
    and existing doctrine, where mission supportive to do so, to induce and guide its application
    by warfighters.
    5.10. Air Education and Training Command will ensure ORM education and training begins
    at accession and continues throughout a member’s technical and professional development.
    ORM education and training will begin with initial awareness and progress in a building-
    block manner that is supportive of the goals outlined in this AFI.
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                                                    7


  5.11. MAJCOM (including ANG), DRU, and FOA commanders will:
     5.11.1. Serve as principal advocates for ORM and are key decision-makers in allocating
     assets to control risk and/or accept it when mission benefits dictate.
     5.11.2. Appoint an ORM Program Manager who will develop command specific ORM
     policy, requirements, and overall strategy necessary to facilitate integration and
     sustainment of ORM within the command. This individual will interact with the Air
     Force ORM program manager to ensure continuity with the overall Air Force ORM
     program.
     5.11.2. (PACAF) PACAF/SE will provide the PACAF ORM Program Manager.
     Additionally, the PACAF Program Manager will:
         5.11.2.1. (Added-PACAF) Develop command-specific ORM policy, requirements,
         and overall strategy necessary to facilitate integration and sustainment of ORM
         within the command.
         5.11.2.2. (Added-PACAF) Represent PACAF on the Air Force ORM Working
         Group.
         5.11.2.3. (Added-PACAF) Conduct staff assistance visits as necessary to ensure
         viable programs within all PACAF organizations.
         5.11.2.4. (Added-PACAF) Ensure changes are made to PACAF ORM program
         guidance as necessary to sustain the PACAF ORM program.
         5.11.2.5. (Added-PACAF) Provide ORM tools and education & training materials
         (primarily via the Internet), guidance, and other initiatives necessary to support ORM
         integration and sustainment. See Attachment 2 (Added) for the inspection checklist.
            5.11.2.5.1. (Added-15WG) 15 WG/SE will use AFI 90-901_PACAF Sup 1,
            Attachment 2, “Unit Advisor Checklist” to evaluate each unit’s ORM program
            during their normally scheduled Annual Ground Safety and Program Management
            Inspection. 15 WG/IG Exercise Evaluation Team members should also utilize
            this checklist during wing-level Compliance Inspections.
     5.11.3. Ensure that inputs are provided to AETC for ORM related course development
     and integration.
     5.11.4. Integrate ORM principles, concepts, and techniques into command level
     education and training programs (i.e., squadron commanders’ and supervisors’ courses).
     5.11.5. Ensure that supervisors and unit level ORM advisors are properly educated and
     trained in ORM principles, concepts, and techniques.
  5.12. Single Managers will:
     5.12.1. Apply ORM principles and practices in the development and sustainment of
     weapon systems as part of the acquisition systems engineering process. Note that
     systems engineering refers to the application of ORM principles and practices as System
     Safety.
8                                      AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


       5.12.2. Provide, as part of the testing and fielding of a new or modified weapon system,
       information to the testers, operators, and maintainers on all identified hazards,
       implemented mitigation measures, and accepted residual risks.
       5.12.3. Assist weapon system testers, operators, and maintainers in the application of
       ORM to those weapon systems, to include the assessment of hazards and potential
       mitigation measures.
6. (Added-PACAF) PACAF Policy.
    6.1. (Added-PACAF) HQ Staff Directors, NAFs, wing, group and squadron commanders
    will:
       6.1.1. (Added-PACAF) Consistent with Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF)
       direction on institutionalizing ORM processes, incorporate ORM, to the extent that it is
       possible and mission supportive, in strategic planning, fiscal guidance, and training and
       education programs.
       6.1.2. (Added-PACAF) Provide overall leadership and management of the PACAF
       ORM Program within their areas of responsibility.
       6.1.3. (Added-PACAF) Serve as principle advocates for ORM and as key decision-
       makers in allocating assets to control risk and/or accept it when mission benefits dictate.
       6.1.4. (Added-PACAF) Ensure visible command support for the ORM program.
       Commanders at all levels should ensure an ORM Advisor is appointed to oversee unit
       ORM activities (at a minimum, this is required at the wing and group level).
          6.1.4.1. (Added-15WG) The Chief of Wing Safety (15 WG/SE) will act as the
          primary ORM Advisor for the 15 WG. The Chief of Wing Safety may appoint a
          member of his staff to oversee management and execution of the ORM program.
          6.1.4.2. (Added-15WG) All group commanders will appoint ORM Advisors in
          writing and forward copies of the appointment letters to 15 WG/SE. Appointment
          letters should provide the advisor’s name, rank, unit, phone number, DEROS and the
          date the ORM Application and Integration Course were accomplished. The
          Application and Integration Course may be completed by any method (e.g., in-
          residence, web-based training (WBT), video teleconference [VTC], etc.). Groups
          with diverse missions and squadrons that routinely accomplish formal ORM
          assessments should appoint and train a sufficient number of ORM Advisors as needed
          by the unit.
          6.1.4.3. (Added-15WG) In addition to unit ORM Advisors, all personnel with a
          safety Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) who are assigned to the Wing Safety Office
          should complete the ORM Application and Integration Course. Those who complete
          the course may act as ORM facilitators to assist group and squadron advisors in
          developing ORM processes. The Application and Integration Course may be
          completed by any method (e.g., in-residence, WBT, VTC, etc.).
       6.1.5. (Added-PACAF) Know the high-risk activities their personnel participate in,
       both on- and off-duty. The intent is for commanders/supervisors to have the opportunity
       to intervene with risk mitigation tools (for example, PACAF Comprehensive Assessment
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                                                         9


     of Risk & Evaluation System (CARES)) where they see the need and if they think it is
     appropriate.
        6.1.5.1. (Added-PACAF) Wing commanders will determine the high risk activities
        for their base. See Attachment 3 (Added) for a partial list of high risk activities. This
        list is not definitive or all inclusive.
            6.1.5.1.1. (Added-15WG) As a minimum, 15 WG commanders and supervisors
            will use the following list of “high risk” activities when considering the need to
            counsel individuals about appropriate risk-mitigation methods: all-terrain
            vehicles (ATVs) riding, auto/motorcycle racing/riding, bungee jumping, civil
            helicopter flying, civil light aircraft flying, cliff diving, dirt biking, hang gliding,
            hunting, kayaking, kite surfing, mixed martial arts (MMA), motorcycle riding,
            mountain climbing/rappelling, parasailing, rodeo/bull-riding, scuba diving, snow
            skiing & boarding, snowmobile riding, soaring, surfing, and white water
            rafting/activities.
        6.1.5.2. (Added-15WG) 15 WG commanders and supervisors may use Air Combat
        Command (ACC) Form 167, ACC Operational Risk Management (ORM) Worksheet,
        to assist in determining the appropriate risk acceptance level.
  6.2. (Added-PACAF) ORM Advisors will:
     6.2.1. (Added-PACAF) Use this instruction to implement a unit’s ORM plan. This plan
     should consist of, as a minimum, the unit’s education and training plan, policy
     requirements, and an integration plan. The integration plan should detail how new
     members are trained and briefed on the ORM processes in the unit.
     6.2.2. (Added-PACAF) Ensure sufficient functional representation to assure all
     assigned personnel are included in the ORM program. (NOTE: The role of the advisor is
     one of instructor, facilitator, and champion supporting organizational ORM process
     implementation.)
     6.2.3. (Added-PACAF) Complete the Applications and Integration course training
     either through the AFSC sponsored class, via Video Tele-Conference (VTC), by
     accomplishing the Level 1 through Level 3 ORM Web Based Training (WBT).
     6.2.4. (Added-PACAF) Provide ORM tools, education & training, guidance, and other
     initiatives necessary to support ORM integration and sustainment specific to their
     organizations and functional areas.
     6.2.5. (Added-PACAF) Establish procedures to ensure all personnel receive ORM
     education and training tailored to their needs, with additional training when warranted by
     mission changes. Review all training programs periodically to ensure ORM training is
     tailored to the needs of unit personnel.
     6.2.6. (Added-PACAF) Monitor use of ORM process throughout the unit to ensure
     sustainment of active programs. Promote the use of ORM in conjunction with a unit
     safety or training days.
     6.2.7. (Added-PACAF) As appropriate, provide the HQ PACAF ORM Program
     Manager with successful ORM application stories to be used in crosstells.
 10                                   AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


          6.2.7.1. (Added-15WG) 15 WG/SE will serve as the facilitator in encouraging
          crosstell among wing units and the HQ PACAF ORM Manager. Units are
          encouraged to crosstell with their PACAF functional managers for additional ORM
          guidance and applications that may be unique to their functional areas and unit
          missions.
   6.3. (Added-PACAF) Section supervisors will:
      6.3.1. (Added-PACAF) Recommend each work center assess unique operations and
      make decisions based on the assessment. Other areas of consideration include
      development of a section hazard table identifying hazards associated with on-duty and
      contingency tasks; update the table as conditions change.
      6.3.2. (Added-PACAF) Apply ORM to all unique or one-time tasks (e.g., moving to a
      new building). Involve as many personnel as possible to participate in the task and add to
      the section hazard table.
      6.3.3. (Added-PACAF) When deemed appropriate by the commander/supervisor,
      ensure personnel, who are active in high-risk activities, are counseled about appropriate
      risk mitigation. A risk mitigation tool, such PACAF CARES ( https://www.
      hickam.af.mil /PACAF/SE/Limited/Ground/ PACAF%20CARES%202001.htm) or
      other risk mitigation resource, should be used.
   6.4. (Added-PACAF) All PACAF personnel will comply with the PACAF ORM
   Integration and Sustainment Plan.
7. (Added-PACAF) Training.
   7.1. (Added-PACAF) PACAF training is divided into four levels designed to ensure
   flexibility so units may tailor the training to meet the unique needs of their mission and
   personnel assigned. All courses listed below are available via WBT on the USAF Risk
   Management Information Site web page at: https://rmis.saia.af.mil. The following is a
   description of the training available to the command:
      7.1.1. (Added-PACAF) The Fundamentals Course is the basic level of training
      consisting of an overview of ORM processes and accompanied by simplified workplace
      examples applicable to the employee’s job. Typically provided via WBT, this training
      was developed and designed to provide non-supervisory personnel an exposure to ORM
      without the level of detail provided to supervisors. All PACAF personnel will complete
      the Fundamentals Course.
          7.1.1.1. (Added-PACAF) The Fundamentals Course will be completed within 60
          days of a member’s assignment to a unit and included as part of in-processing. The
          web-based training course available on the RMIS web page is specifically designed to
          meet this requirement.
      7.1.2. (Added-PACAF) The Essentials for Leaders Course includes a brief review of
      ORM fundamentals and provides intermediate-level training on ORM application.
          7.1.2.1. (Added-PACAF) All supervisors will complete the Essentials for Leaders
          Course within six months of in-processing.
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                                                   11


     7.1.3. (Added-PACAF) The Applications and Integration Course is the highest level of
     training and completion qualifies an individual to serve as an instructor, facilitator, or
     advisor for all organizational ORM activities and training. This course is taught by the
     Transportation Safety Institute (TSI) at Kirtland AFB, or locally using AFSC course
     materials and AFPAM 90-902. Additionally, individuals can become qualified by
     completing ORM WBT modules 1, ORM Fundamentals; 2, ORM Essentials for Leaders;
     and 3, ORM Application and Integration. The WBT courses are available through the
     RMIS web site (https://rmis.saia.af.mil) and clicking on the ORM University button.
     All unit ORM advisors will complete this course.
     7.1.4. (Added-PACAF) Executive Overview Training is provided to senior executives,
     typically commanders, deputies, and branch chiefs at O-6/GS-15 or above. This training
     provides an understanding of the processes in use within their organizations, the benefits
     and limitations of current processes, and the opportunities afforded by enhanced risk
     management processes. Senior leaders are not expected to train others in ORM processes;
     however, showing support for and encouraging ORM efforts is expected. This training is
     available from TSI or completing the Executive Overview ORM WBT.
  7.2. (Added-PACAF) Organizations may substitute locally conducted introductory training
  in place of the Air Force ORM WBT course, provided such training includes concepts
  covered in the WBT. This training may be combined with Awareness Training when
  feasible.
  7.3. (Added-PACAF) All ORM training should be documented to reduce duplication of
  training upon a permanent change of station (PCS) or permanent change of assignment
  (PCA). Traditional forms of documentation include, but are not limited to, members’ AF
  Form 623, Individual Training Record, Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS),
  AFORMS, or a computer-generated product. It is recommended individuals keep any
  training completion certificates. Before creating computer-generated forms, contact PACAF
  Forms Management (DSN 449-4677) for assistance with forms analysis, probable design in
  the current and approved Air Force forms software, and management in PACAF forms’
  inventory (see AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program).
12                              AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


     7.3.1. (Added-15WG) Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
     Publication, 22 September 2009; ACC Form 167, ACC Operational Risk Management
     (ORM) Worksheet, 1 May 1999




                                     FRANCIS C. GIDEON, JR., Major General, USAF
                                     Chief of Safety
                                     (PACAF)

                                     DAVID G. JOWERS, Colonel, USAF
                                     Director of Safety

                                     (15WG)

                                     SAM C. BARRETT, Colonel, USAF
                                     Commander
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                                     13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-15WG) AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 April 2000
(Added-15WG) AFI 90-901_PACAFSUP1, Operational Risk Management, 28 September 2001
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management
AFPD 91-2, Safety Program
AFI 91-202, USAF Mishap Prevention Program
Military Standard 882, System Safety Program Requirements.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-15WG) WBT—Web Base Training
(Added-15WG) 15 WG—15th Wing
(Added-15WG) 15 WG/SE—15th Wing Safety
(Added-15WG) ACC—Air Combat Command
(Added-15WG) AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
(Added-15WG) AFI—Air Force Instruction
(Added-15WG) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(Added-15WG) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
(Added-15WG) AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
(Added-15WG) ATV—All Terrain Vehicle
(Added-15WG) CC—Commander
(Added-15WG) DEROS—- Date Eligible for Return from Overseas
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HQ—Headquarters
(15WG) HQ—Headquarters
(Added-15WG) IAW—In Accordance With
IPT—Integrated Process Team
 14                                     AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


MAJCOM—Major Command
(Added-15WG) MMA—Mixed Martial Arts
(Added-15WG) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
(15WG) ORM—Operational Risk Management
(Added-15WG) PACAF—Pacific Air Force
PDO—Publications Distribution Office
(Added-15WG) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
(Added-15WG) SEG—Ground Safety
USAF—United States Air Force
(Added-15WG) USR—Unit Safety Representative
(Added-15WG) VTC—Video teleconference
WWW—World-wide Web

Terms
ORM Advisor—Organization level ORM focal point who serves as advisor to commanders,
managers, supervisors, and etc. on ORM policy, application, and training.
Operational Risk Management (ORM)—The systematic process of identifying hazards,
assessing risk, analyzing risk control options and measures, making control decisions,
implementing control decisions, accepting residual risks, and supervising/reviewing the activity
for effectiveness.
Risk—The probability and severity of loss or adverse impact from exposure to various hazards.
Risk Assessment—The process of detecting hazards and their causes, and systematically
assessing the associated risks.
System—A composite, at any level of complexity, of personnel, procedures, materials, tools,
equipment, facilities, and software. The elements of this composite entity are used together in the
intended operational or support environment to perform a given task or achieve a specific
mission requirement.
System Safety—The application of engineering and management principles, criteria, and
techniques to achieve acceptable mishap risk, within the constraints of operational effectiveness
and suitability, time, and cost, throughout all phases of the system life cycle. (Military Standard
882D)
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                              15


                                Attachment 1 (PACAF)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360 Volume 2, Forms Management Program

AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management

AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management

AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI——Air Force Instruction
AFPAM——Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD——Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC——Air Force Safety Center
AOR——Area of responsibility
CAMS——Core Automated Maintenance System
CBT——Computer Based Training
CSAF——Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoD——Department of Defense
HQ——Headquarters
MAJCOM——Major Command
NAF——Numbered Air Force
ORM——Operational Risk Management
PACAF——Pacific Air Forces
PCA——Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS——Permanent Change of Station
TSI——Transportation Safety Institute
USAF——United States Air Force
VTC——Video Tele-Conference
WBT——Web-based Training
WWW——World Wide Web
 16                                     AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


Terms
Hazard——A condition with the potential to cause negative impact in any situation. This impact
may be financial, public perception, personal injury or death, property damage, or mission
degradation.
High Risk Activities—Activities that include one or more of the following: Poses a great risk to
life or serious illness or injury. Poses a high degree of exposure to a significant number of
personnel. Significantly increased mishap potential due to nature of activity, physical conditions,
or type of equipment used. A significant negative trend in loss of life or resources.
Mishap——An unplanned event or series of events resulting in death, injury, occupational
illness, or damage to or loss of equipment or property.
Operational Risk Management (ORM)——The systematic process of identifying hazards,
assessing risk, analyzing risk control options and measures, making control decisions,
implementing control decisions, accepting residual risks, and supervising/reviewing the activity
for effectiveness. AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools,
provides the definitions, guidelines, procedures and tools for the integration and execution of
ORM. It has application and use for all US Air Force organizations and personnel.
ORM Advisor——Organization level ORM focal point that serves as advisor to commanders,
managers, supervisors, and other personnel on ORM policy, application, and training.
Risk——An expression of consequences in terms of the probability of an event occurring, the
severity of the event and the exposure of personnel or resources to potential loss or harm. A
general expression ofrisk as a function of probability, severity, and exposure can be written as:
Risk = ƒ(P, S, E).
Risk Assessment——The process of detecting hazards and their causes, and systematically
assessing the associated risks.
Section Supervisor——Person responsible for the day-to-day activities of an Air Force
organizational element.
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                                                     17


                               Attachment 2 (Added-PACAF)
                               UNIT ADVISOR CHECKLIST

A2.1. (Added-PACAF) Is there evidence the unit commander is an advocate for the unit
ORM program? {AFI 90-901, para 3.4.} Look for minutes of meetings, policy letters, and
evidence of unit ORM activities not possible without unit commander support.
A2.2. (Added-PACAF) Is integration of ORM into planning at all levels supported by the
Commander? {AFI 90-901, para 3.4.} Is ORM briefed and/or mandated for all plans,
exercises, deployments, etc? As a minimum, these should be evident in staff meeting minutes.
Copies of briefings containing ORM material should be available for review. Operational and
support plans should identify maximum-performance with minimum-risk options. Also, task
planning within functional areas should be accomplished using ORM principles.
A2.3. (Added-PACAF) Is implementation of ORM evident throughout the unit? {PACAF
Sup 1 para 6.2.6. (Added)}
   A2.3.1. (Added-PACAF) Can the ORM Advisor show ORM implementation for the
   organization in all functional areas down to shop level? Look for real-world applications
   data, risk control charts showing risk trends for mission-essential processes, and training
   data.
   A2.3.2. (Added-PACAF) If there are shortfalls in implementation, is there evidence the
   commander has been informed of these shortfalls? Look for items such as meeting
   minutes, policy letters, databases, and other records of activities.
A2.4. (Added-PACAF) Risk Decision-Making. {AFI 90-901, para 3.2}
   A2.4.1. (Added-PACAF) Are risk decisions made at the appropriate level? Look for
   trends of unreasonably elevated or delegated decision making.
   A2.4.2. (Added-PACAF) Is there a published unit policy for elevating risk decisions?
   Look in the commander’s ORM policy letter. Is the unit policy readily available to all
   assigned personnel? Look for ORM policy in operating instructions, local supplements, etc.
A2.5. (Added-PACAF) Has an ORM Advisor been appointed and properly trained?
{PACAF Sup 1, para 6.1.4. (Added) and 7.1.3. (Added)} As a minimum, documentation
should include a letter of appointment signed by the commander. The advisor should be at least a
SSgt with 12 months retainability at time of appointment. If retainability is less than 12 months
verify steps are being taken to train a replacement.
A2.6. (Added-PACAF) Has the ORM Advisor attended the ORM Applications and
Integration Course? {PACAF Sup 1, para 6.2.3. (Added)} A copy of the training certificate
from the Transportation Safety Institute (TSI), a certificate from the WBT, a certificate from
VTC training, or a locally developed course certificate is acceptable. A memorandum for record
(MFR) or e-mail identifying a request for training or a confirmed class date for an advisor who
has not yet completed training will also meet this requirement.
A2.7. (Added-PACAF) Are personnel completing the ORM Fundamentals Course within
60 days of assignment to a unit? {PACAF Sup 1, para 7.1.1 (Added)} Training may have
been provided as a briefing, classroom instruction, or web based.
 18                                     AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011


A2.8. (Added-PACAF) Have supervisory personnel completed the PACAF Essentials for
Leaders Course? {PACAF Sup 1, para 7.1.2.1. (Added)} Training may have been provided as
a briefing, classroom instruction, or web based.
A2.9. (Added-PACAF) Is implementation of ORM in all functional areas evident? {AFI
90-901, para 4.1.} Evidence of ORM implementation in all functional areas, such as risk control
charts showing risk trends for work center tasks.
A2.10. (Added-PACAF) Is involvement of all personnel in ORM activities evident? {AFI
90-901, para 2.3.} Look for personnel participation from all areas. ORM should not be centrally
managed; rather decentralization is important to allow unique work centers the flexibility to meet
their mission needs. Informal interviews with unit personnel should provide enough data to
indicate involvement. Review any documented ORM applications.
A2.11. (Added-PACAF) Do supervisors ensure individuals apply ORM to day-to-day
operations or tasks? {AFI 90-901, para 3.4.} Meeting minutes, checklists, job aids, training
outlines or plans, visual aids, or any other evidence supporting ORM activities.
A2.12. (Added-PACAF) Can personnel assigned identify the ORM 6-step process? {AFI
90-901, para 4.5.} Interview a random sampling to identify their familiarization with ORM.
Wallet-cards, posters or any other aid is acceptable. Conceptually accurate responses are
preferred over word-for-word recitations of text lacking in understanding of the process.
A2.13. (Added-PACAF) Is there evidence that all personnel are applying ORM principles,
concepts, and techniques to assess the risks associated with their daily activities, both on
and off duty? {AFPD 90-9, para 5.7.} A majority of personnel asked should provide anecdotal
information regarding personal application of ORM principles.
A2.14. (Added-PACAF) Do commanders/supervisors know the high-risk activities their
personnel participate in, both on- and off-duty? {PACAF Sup 1, para 6.1.5. (Added)} The
intent is for commanders/supervisors to have the opportunity to intervene with a risk mitigation
tools (for example, PACAF Comprehensive Assessment of Risk & Evaluation System (CARES))
where they see the need and if they think it is appropriate.
A2.15. (Added-PACAF) Has the wing commander determined the high risk activities for
their base? {PACAF Sup 1, para 6.1.5. (Added)} An example list is available in Attachment
3 (Added) of PACAF Sup 1.
AFI90-901_PACAFSUP_15WGSUP_I 12 JULY 2011                            19


                                 Attachment 3 (Added-PACAF)
                                   HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES

Examples of High-Risk Activities (This list is not all inclusive):


All Terrain Vehicles riding
Auto/Motorcycle Racing
Bungee Jumping
Civil Helicopter Flying
Civil Light Aircraft Flying
Cliff Diving
Dirt Biking
Hang Gliding
Hunting
Kayaking
Kite Jumping
Kite Surfing Mountain Climbing/Rappelling
Para-sailing
Rodeo/Bull-Riding
Scuba Diving
Sky Diving
Snow Skiing & Boarding
Snowmobile riding
Soaring
Surfing
White Water Rafting/Activities
