                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                       WASHINGTON, DC


                                                            AFI90-1001_AFGM2014-01

                                                                        23 January 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
           MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs
FROM: HQ USAF/A8
      1070 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington DC 20330-1070

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 90-1001

       By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Memorandum implements interim
guidance for AFI 90-1001, Responsibilities for Total Force Integration. Compliance with this
publication is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force
publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management.

       Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

      This Memorandum becomes void after one year, or upon publication of an Interim
Change or rewrite of the affected publication, whichever is earlier.



                                                         MICHAEL R. MOELLER
                                                         Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                         DCS, Strategic Plans and Programs

Attachments:
1. Interim Guidance
2. Association Plan (A-Plan) Template
3. TFI Proposal (TFIP) Worksheet
4. Air Force Guidelines for Multicomponent Organizations
5. Guidelines for Air Force Reserve Multicomponent Relationships
6. Guidelines for Air National Guard Multicomponent Relationships

References:
1. DoDD 1200.17, Managing the Reserve Components as an Operational Force, 29 October 2008
2. DoDD 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve Components (RC), 4 February 2010
3. DoDD 5105.77, National Guard Bureau (NGB), 21 May 2008
4. DoDI 1215.06, Uniform Reserve, Training and Retirement Categories, 24 December 2008
5. DoDI 1225.06, Equipping the Reserve Forces, 16 May 2012
6. DoDI 4000.19, Support Agreements, 25 April 2013
7. AFPD 38-1, Air Force Organization and Unit Designations, 24 August 2011
8. AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 13 March 2012
9. AFI 10-402, Mobilization Planning, 1 May 2012
10. AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012
11. AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 23 April 2012
12. AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 May 2005
13. AFI 38-101, Air Force Organizations, 16 March 2011
14. AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013
15. AFMAN 65-510, Business Case Analysis Procedures, 22 September 2008




                                                                             2
                                          Attachment 1

                                    INTERIM GUIDANCE

1. Overview. The Air Force utilizes its active and reserve components to generate forces and
combat power for the Nation and its joint warfighters. Together the components (AD, ANG,
AFR) form the Air Force’s Total Force. The Air Reserve Components (ARC) are integrated
across the spectrum of mission areas, train to the same standards as the active component, and
are integral in planning for and meeting Total Force commitments in Global Vigilance, Reach,
and Power. In order to provide efficient and effective combat capability with the resources
assigned to the Total Force, the components and MAJCOMs rely upon associated organizational
constructs. Associations provide surge and rotational capacity of combat power, enhanced
training, and more efficient operations. Components will associate to improve productivity,
increase or retain mission capabilities, and/or to achieve synergy in the use of Total Force
equipment, manpower and infrastructure.
Successfully managing the Total Force requires effective leadership and collaboration from all
Airmen. Commanders at all levels are responsible for attaining and maintaining mission
readiness to ensure the Total Force is best capable of leveraging their maximum collaborative
effects as they operate together. The Air Force depends on sustaining a strong and ready force,
and the Air Force must continue efficient and effective Total Force integration. This interim
guidance establishes Total Force processes to support Air Force planning and programming
functions, and for developing, evaluating, resourcing, executing, and managing Total Force
Integration (TFI) Associations.
2. TFI Management. TFI Management is the collaborative command-level process of planning,
organizing and aligning integrated and associated units to meet mission requirements and ensure
readiness while respecting force management statutes, policies, guidance, culture and
expectations. MAJCOM management of associated and integrated units will include planning,
resourcing, and managing issues related to interoperability, training, communication, installation
support, personnel support, and professional development. Note: For the purpose of this
guidance, MAJCOM references include FOAs, DRUs, and the National Guard Bureau;
references to MAJCOM/CV include the Director, Air National Guard.
2.1. TFI Roundtable. The TFI Roundtable is a consultative panel convened quarterly by the
AF/A8 to discuss critical TFI issues, initiatives, and projects, and to ensure the appropriate
organizations across the Air Force are addressing TFI concerns that cannot be resolved at the
MAJCOM level. Issues beyond the purview of the TFI Roundtable will be taken by AF/A8 to the
Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) for deliberation and decision, as appropriate. Chaired by
the Director of Strategic Plans (AF/A8X), TFI Roundtable membership consists of Brigadier
General-level representatives from the following:
2.1.1. HAF Members.. Chief, Information Dominance, and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO
A6); Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM);
The General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force (SAF/GC); Deputy Assistant Secretary
of the Air Force, Installations, Environment, and Logistics (SAF/IE); Deputy Assistant Secretary
of the Air Force, Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL); Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower
and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR); Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
(AF/A1); Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2);


                                                                                                  3
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5); Deputy Chief of Staff,
Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7); Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans
and Programs, Programs Directorate (AF/A8P); Director, Studies & Analyses, Assessments and
Lessons Learned (AF/A9); Assistant Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration
(AF/A10); Judge Advocate General (AF/JA); Chief, Air Force Reserve (AF/RE); Surgeon
General (AF/SG).
2.1.2. MAJCOM Members. Air Combat Command Plans, Programs, and Requirements
(ACC/A5/8/9); Air Education and Training Command Plans, Programs, Requirements and
Assessments (AETC/A5/8/9); Air Force Global Strike Command Plans, Programs and
Requirements (AFGSC/A5/8); Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency
(AFISRA); Air Force Materiel Command Strategic Plans, Programs and Analyses
(AFMC/A8/9); Air Force Reserve Command Strategic Plans, Programs and Requirements
(AFRC/A5/8); Air Mobility Command Strategic Plans, Requirements and Programs
(AMC/A5/8); Air Force Special Operations Command Plans, Programs, Requirements and
Assessments (AFSOC/A5/8/9); Air Force Space Command Strategic Plans, Programs and
Analyses (AFSPC/A8/9); Deputy Director, Air National Guard (NGB/DDANG); Pacific Air
Force Operations, Plans, Requirements and Programs (PACAF/A3/5/8); and United States Air
Forces in Europe Strategic Plans, Requirements and Programs (USAFE/A5/8/9).
2.2 Total Force Enterprise Evaluation Group (TFEEG). The TFEEG is the AF/A8X-led body
of representatives from across the Total Force convened to review TFI proposals (TFIPs) and
other TFI issues, to support senior leader decisions and the development of detailed TFI
guidance. The TFEEG supports the TFI Roundtable and meets semiannually or as required. The
TFEEG is chaired by AF/A8X(D) and consists of Colonel-level representatives from:
2.2.1 HAF Members: SAF/CIO A6, SAF/FM, SAF/GC, SAF/IE, SAF/LL, SAF/MR, AF/A1,
AF/A2, AF/A3/5, AF/A4/7, AF/A8P, AF/A9, AF/A10, AF/JA, AF/REX, AF/SG, NGB/A8
2.2.2. MAJCOM Members: ACC/A5/8/9, AETC/A5/8/9, AFGSC/A5/8, AFISRA/A5/8/9,
AFMC/A8/9, AMC/A5/8, AFRC/A5/8, AFSOC/A5/8/9, AFSPC/A8/9, PACAF/A3/5/8, and
USAFE/A5/8/9, and others designated by the Chair, as appropriate.
2.3. Total Force Working Group (TFWG). The TFWG supports the TFEEG by verifying the
assumptions and methodologies of TFIP Worksheets and business case analyses (BCAs), by
reviewing Association Plans (A-Plans) for operational and legal sufficiency, and by providing a
recommended TFIP rating. TFIP Worksheets, BCAs, and A-Plans are due to A8XF three weeks
prior to scheduled TFWGs. The TFWG is chaired by the AF/A8XF Division Chief and consists
of Action Officer level representatives from:
2.3.1. HAF Members: SAF/FM, SAF/MR, SAF/CIO A6, AF/A1, AF/A2 (as needed), AF/A3/5,
AF/A4/7, AF/A8PB, AF/A9, AF/A10 (as needed), AF/JA, AF/REX, AF/SG, NGB/A8, AFCS
panels, and others as designated the TFWG Chair.
2.3.2. MAJCOM Members: Representatives related to the TFIPs under consideration.
3. Force Mix Analyses and Guidance.
3.1. Overview. Force mix analyses inform senior leadership decisions regarding appropriate
Total Force missions and force structure alignment. This process culminates in Secretary of the
Air Force (SecAF)/Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) Force Mix Vectors (FMVs) and/or
Operational Vectors (OVs). FMVs provide Total Force planning and programming guidance,


                                                                                                  4
and influence strategic guidance and deliberate force structure development, while OVs direct
near-term, adaptive force structure changes.
3.2. Air Force Analytic Framework. The AF/A9 Analytic Framework is the foundation for
developing force mix analyses. The Framework consists of five major drivers (demand,
manpower inventory, weapon system inventory, cost, and deployment policies) that provide a
basis for evaluating feasible AC/RC options within each mission and shaping the future Total
Force mix.
3.2.1. Enhanced Decision Support Tool (EDST). The EDST utilizes the AF/A9 Analytical
Framework and qualitative factors to generate decision-quality Strategic Mix Options (SMOs)
within specific career fields or major weapons systems. SMOs graphically represent decision
space that senior leaders may utilize to provide Total Force OVs.
3.2.2. Force Composition Analysis (FCA). FCAs are in-depth analyses of weapon systems and/or
mission sets that consider the feasibility of a future, standardized force across a range of AC/RC
Force Mix Options (FMOs), based upon the related outputs, costs, benefits and risks. FCAs
inform leadership decisions regarding Total Force decisions, but do not explain how systems
should operate. FCAs also inform, but do not constrain, the Strategic Basing process. AF/A8X
conducts FCAs with the full participation of appropriate stakeholders to ensure the full range of
options is assessed.
3.2.2.1. Foundational Elements. AF/A8 collects foundational element inputs from system
enterprise stakeholders to define the system’s current and future concept of operations, mission
demand, and mission supply. SAF/FM uses this data to support creation of a detailed model
specific to the weapon system or mission set being assessed. AF/A8 uses the model outputs to
depict a range of FMOs representing possible future combinations of independent and associated
RegAF, AFR, and ANG organizations, standardized across the weapon system/career field
community. AF/A8 will develop FCA foundational elements in conjunction with the MAJCOMs
and components through site visits and discussions with representative organizations in the
mission being analyzed.
3.2.2.2. Force Mix Vectors (FMVs). Informed by the FMOs modeled within an FCA and
discussions with appropriate stakeholders, the SecAF and CSAF provide an FMV to distribute
and integrate the Total Force within the weapon system/career field community examined by the
FCA. System stakeholders may utilize FCA models to assist in FMV implementation, and
AF/A8 will re-accomplish FCAs as required by operational/strategic circumstances.
3.3. Operational Vector (OVs). In response to legislative direction, operational demands and in
the absence of a SMOs or FMVs, the SecAF and CSAF provide Total Force OVs to implement
near-term actions to distribute and integrate the Total Force within a weapon system/career field
community.
4. Developing TFI Associations.
4.1. Overview. Force mix analyses and guidance provides strategic context for all TFIPs
submitted by MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, and HAF organizations. Associations are developed and
governed by the TFI Management process, and resourced MAJCOMs in the AFCS.
4.2. Total Force Integration Associations (TFIAs). The Air Force formally integrates AC and
RC organizations with TFIAs of collocated and functionally integrated hosts and associates from
multiple components. TFIAs are CSAF-approved operational constructs, which organize, train,


                                                                                                5
and equip Air Force forces. Once a TFIA is approved and resourced, the Partnering MAJCOMs
are jointly responsible throughout the TFIA’s existence for ensuring organizational success.
4.2.1. Association Types. There are three types of TFIAs: Classic Associations (CAs), in which a
RegAF organization hosts one or more ARC organizations; Active Associations (AAs), in which
an ARC organization hosts one or more RegAF organizations; and Hybrid Associations (HAs),
in which one component host shares a mission with two or more associates from the other
components. The host organization is the organization with primary responsibility for mission
accomplishment and is normally assigned the preponderance of the primary physical resources
(e.g. aircraft, weapon system equipment, weapon system support, and production facilities).
TFIA host organization status does not imply ownership of an installation or physical resources.
The associate organization shares primary physical resources assigned to the host, and may
provide additional physical resources necessary to support the association mission. Associate
organizations can vary from full or tailored wings to groups, squadrons, detachments, flights, and
elements, depending on the scope of the assigned mission and in accordance with (IAW) the
intent of the sponsoring MAJCOM. AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, outlines appropriate
organizational structures and designs.
4.2.2. Administrative Control (ADCON). While associated organizations are by definition both
collocated and functionally integrated to accomplish a common or shared mission, RegAF and
ARC TFIA organizations will maintain separate ADCON over their respective forces, to include
distinct Unit Manpower Documents (UMDs), as well as distinct Designed Operational Capability
(DOC) statements for organizations above element size. When not activated by the RegAF, ANG
chains of command include the governors of their states or territories, consistent with provisions
of public law.
4.2.3. Operational Direction (OPDIR). TFIA commanders delegate the authorities necessary to
control, direct, and supervise functionally integrated personnel assigned, attached, or detailed to
TFIAs using OPDIR. OPDIR empowers supervisors to guide day-to-day operations by members
of associated organizations regardless of component. See Attachment 6 for a discussion of
OPDIR in the context of Title 10 and Title 32 Command Architecture. OPDIR is normally
exercised by host leadership, and TFIA Memoranda of Agreement (MOAs; see chapter 7) that
describe OPDIR relationships will be signed by the highest level of local leadership responsible
for TFIA ADCON. Note that an associate organization may be something other than a squadron,
which could move the primary OPDIR either up or down (e.g. an associate flight will receive
OPDIR from the host’s squadron commander, rather than from one of the host’s group
commanders). Subordinate OPDIR occurs within all functionally integrated work centers.
OPDIR does not apply to non-TFIA organizational constructs or relationships.
4.3. Collocated Organizations. In accordance with DoDI 4000.19, Support Agreements, and
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, RegAF, ANG, and AFR organizations should
collocate installation functions to achieve efficiencies while each maintains its organizational
mission. In this circumstance, establishing a TFIA is unnecessary because organizations
coordinate use of facilities, equipment, and/or resources, although they do not regularly share
duties or work tasks and do not exercise OPDIR authority. Collocated organizations generally do
not require TFIPs as described in this instruction. However, components should review DoDI
4000.19 and AFI 25-201 as well as this instruction to understand the guidance applicable to
multicomponent organizations. Attachments 4, 5, and 6 reflect requirements that apply to all
multicomponent relationships in CONUS.


                                                                                                  6
4.4. Sponsoring MAJCOMs. The sponsoring MAJCOM is the MAJCOM that develops a TFIP
to establish a new TFIA, or to change an existing one, including by relocation or disassociation.
The sponsoring MAJCOM is normally the MAJCOM of the host organization. Sponsoring
MAJCOMs will develop association documentation in accordance with this AFI and in
coordination with other MAJCOM stakeholders, including the MAJCOM that controls the
affected installation(s). See Figure 4.1 for the TFIP development process.
4.5. TFIP Content. For new associations or significant association changes other than by
disassociation, each TFIP consists of the following documentation to capture the resource
requirements and timelines required to support the proposed organizational construct: Business
Case Analysis (BCA); Association Plan (A-Plan; Attachment 2); and TFIP Worksheet
(Attachment 3). These documents must include planning and programming guidance for the
base operational support personnel and equipment required to ensure an effective/efficient TFIA.
Disassociation TFIPs will consist of a TFIP worksheet that includes a timeline with resourcing
adjustments and mission intent. Sponsoring MAJCOMs submit TFIPs to the TFEEG after
coordinating them through the MAJCOM/CV level. MAJCOM/JA review is an essential part of
this pre-TFEEG TFIP coordination process. Where MAJCOM/JA review uncovers legal
concerns, MAJCOM/JAs should contact AF/JAA for assistance.
                                Figure 4.1. TFIP Development.




4.5.1. Business Case Analysis (BCA). A TFIP BCA is a thorough cost-benefit analysis and risk
assessment of the TFIP, conducted in accordance with AFMAN 65-510, Business Case Analysis
Procedures. The sponsoring MAJCOM will be the BCA OPR, and the sponsor’s MAJCOM
partners will function as Office(s) of Collateral Responsibility (OCR). The Financial
Management Center of Expertise (FMCoE) can provide BCA support, if requested.
4.5.2. Association Plans (A-Plans). A-Plans provide guidance and direction on how to properly
structure the Association and conduct its operations. MAJCOMs/components will work together


                                                                                                7
to develop individual A-Plans to guide all proposed associations. See Attachment 2 for the A-
Plan template. A-Plans should explain how the proposed association will satisfy the requirements
of this instruction. If approved, the A-Plan will then provide guidance and direction to associated
unit personnel on how to properly structure the unit and conduct its operations. Thus, an A-Plan
will:
       4.5.2.1. Identify the host and associate organizations;
       4.5.2.2. Outline TFIA-unique issues, including association purpose, mission, objectives;
       4.5.2.3. Provide organizational structure;
       4.5.2.4. Define command relationships;
       4.5.2.5. Establish manpower categories and numbers (i.e. RegAF, Active Guard &
       Reserve (AGR), Technician, Traditional Reservist (TR), Drilling Guardsman, Civilian);
       4.5.2.6. Establish a plan for functional integration, including AGR and Technician duties;
       4.5.2.7. Establish resource laydown timelines;
       4.5.2.8. Establish aircraft/equipment availability commitments;
       4.5.2.9. Define budget requirements;
       4.5.2.10. Explain training and mission readiness implications (including organizational
       capability to support Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) commitments).
A-Plans will furthermore identify milestones each associated organization will attain prior to
Initial Operational Capability (IOC) and Full Operational Capability (FOC), and quantifiable
metrics for each associated organization beyond FOC. Within their A-Plans, sponsoring
MAJCOMs will also identify which MAJCOM is responsible for the laydown timeline and for
how it will comply with the following: (1) the requirements of AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing, as
well as installation host MAJCOM basing and beddown procedures; (2) 32 CFR 989,
Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP), and (3) successful negotiation of necessary
Host/Tenant Support Agreements. AF/A8 is the approval authority for A-Plans, on behalf of the
CSAF.
5. TFI Association Evaluation and Selection.
5.1. Overview. Evaluation commences when force structure changes affecting the AC/RC mix
require review, or a sponsoring MAJCOM submits a TFIP to the TFEEG to establish a new
TFIA, or to change an existing TFIA, including by relocation or disassociation. The TFEEG will
conduct the necessary review and provide a recommendation for total force guidance to the
AFCS.
5.2.1. Sponsoring MAJCOMs present TFIPs to the TFEEG during the cycle illustrated in Figure
4.1. The TFEEG meets each fall to vet TFIPs that require resourcing within the next Program
Objective Memorandum (POM) cycle. The TFEEG meets each spring to vet TFIPs that do not
require resourcing within the next POM cycle, as well as TFIPs for new TFIAs directed by the
POM/President’s Budget (PB). The TFEEG will also consider TFIPs on an as-required basis in
order to remain responsive to AFCS timelines. The TFEEG reviews all TFIPs with regard to
strategic guidance, benefits, and risk. The TFEEG then rates each TFIP, using TFIP Worksheet
criteria (see Attachment 3). TFIA Partnering MAJCOMs are those MAJCOMs to which
organizations in a TFIA belong. The Partnering MAJCOMs present TFEEG-rated TFIPs to the
AFCS for resourcing and execution approval of their portion of the TFIA and support their
component’s organization(s) throughout the duration of the TFIA’s existence.




                                                                                                  8
5.2.2. During TFIP development, sponsoring MAJCOMS will allow sufficient time to comply
with the requirements of AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing, and 32 CFR §989, Environmental Impact
Analysis Process.
5.2.3. TFIPs will comply with AFI 38-201, Management of Manpower Requirements and
Authorizations; AFI 36-2132, Volume 1, Air Reserve Technician (ART) Program; AFI 36-2132,
Volume 1, Air Reserve Technician (ART) Program; AFI 36-2132, Volume 2, Active
Guard/Reserve (AGR) Program; ANGI 36-101, Air National Guard Active Guard/Reserve
(AGR) Program; and ANGI 36-2001, Management of Training and Operational Support within
the Air National Guard.
5.2.4. TFIAs will use RC Full-Time Support (FTS) personnel consistent with readiness and
manpower requirements, and applicable laws. FTS manpower should normally be limited to no
more than 30% of total authorized RC manpower. FTS manpower that exceeds this percentage
will require coordination between the MAJCOM/JA and AF/JA.
5.3. Recommended Total Force Guidance. The TFEEG 1) informs Total Force guidance for
planning and programming integration, and AFCS consideration, and 2) provides TFIP ratings to
help ensure congruence with strategic guidance and with emerging operational force structure,
readiness and sustainability, infrastructure, and modernization/recapitalization factors.
6. Total Force Resourcing and Execution.
6.1. Overview. During TFI Resourcing and Execution, the AFCS utilizes TFEEG
recommendations to inform Total Force resourcing deliberations, and TFIP ratings to determine
TFIA suitability for approval and follow-on implementation.
6.2. TFIP Resourcing. MAJCOMs develop AFCS funding proposals in parallel with the
TFEEG. TFIP ratings reflect how well proposals meet strategic, operational, and/or legal
guidance. MAJCOMs are responsible for reporting TFEEG ratings for all TFIPs they submit
during the POM process. If a new TFIA or changes to an existing TFIA are directed by approved
program actions before TFEEG review, the sponsoring MAJCOM must have an approved A-
Plan prior to execution.
6.3. TFIP Approval. TFIPs 1) reviewed by the TFEEG, and 2) funded in the AF POM are
approved for A-Plan execution. AF/A8XF will maintain the current list of approved TFIAs. TFIP
approval is contingent upon compliance with these processes/procedures, and approval lapses if
A-Plan execution does not commence within 2-years. AF/A8 may approve an extension to this
deadline upon written request from all applicable stakeholders. An approved Organization
Change Request (OCR), Program Change Request (PCR), Program Action Directive (PAD) or
Programming Plan (P-Plan) does not constitute TFIA execution authority nor does it create an
exemption to this process.
6.4. TFIA Execution. Following TFIP approval and during TFIA execution, it is the Partnering
MAJCOMs’ responsibility to comply with programming guidance issued by OSD, HAF, and
with this AFI. MAJCOMs will accomplish beddown actions IAW applicable guidance in AFI
10-503, Strategic Basing, as well as applicable Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC)
guidance. Figure 6.1 demonstrates how TFI execution aligns with the CONUS Strategic Basing
Process.




                                                                                                9
                   Figure 6.1. TFI and CONUS Strategic Basing Process




6.4.1. TFIAs may be declared IOC only after an A-Plan and related MOAs have been completed.
TFIAs may be declared FOC only after each TFIA’s required DOC Statement(s) reflect the
association construct.
6.5. TFIA Changes. Sponsoring MAJCOMs will submit substantive TFIA changes for TFEEG
review. Substantive changes include: mission changes; structural adjustments to the RegAF or
ARC chains of command; OCRs and PCRs; and significant changes to manning/equipment
assignments. TFIA changes may require the sponsoring MAJCOM to submit a revised BCA, as
directed by AF/A8X.
7. Document Review and Reporting Requirements.
7.1. Biennial A-Plan Reviews. MAJCOMs will review TFIA A-Plans at IOC and FOC, and then
biennially thereafter or whenever required by changes that impact the nature of the TFIA in
question. If changes are made, the sponsoring MAJCOM will obtain JA review from each
Partnering MAJCOM, and then submit the revised A-Plan to AF/A8XF for TFEEG approval.
MAJCOMs must update legacy association Integration Plans (I-Plans) to A-Plan format as those
I-Plans come up for biennial review.
7.2. TFIA Commander/Supervisor Responsibilities. TFIA commanders will work together to
comply with the approved TFIA A-Plan. TFIA commanders are responsible for personnel
management, performance reviews, career development, and administrative support for members
of their respective components. Command and disciplinary authority over TFIA members rest
within component chains of command. Inspector General (IG) complaints resolution will be
conducted IAW AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, as outlined in the section
describing Installation/Wing IG Responsibilities and elsewhere. Associate organization
personnel may use the installation or parent wing IG for complaint analysis and assistance.



                                                                                           10
Commanders delegate the cross-component authorities necessary to control, direct, and supervise
all personnel assigned, attached, or detailed to TFIAs using OPDIR, which empowers
supervisors, regardless of component or status, to guide day-to-day operations. TFIA
commanders will utilize MOAs to document how these authorities will be executed and to
describe how mission essential equipment will be shared. Commanders will ensure that all TFIA
personnel are trained, tasked, inspected, and employed as a unified team, to the maximum extent
possible. IAW AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, TFIAs will be given a single inspection
grade wherever possible. Inspectors from each associated component should participate in all
unified inspections, to the maximum extent possible.
7.2.1. Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). TFIA MOAs are agreements between the host and
associate organizations signed by the organization commanders after Partnering MAJCOM
coordination. MOAs will supplement the A-Plan by providing details about chain of command,
missions, operational tasking authorities (to include Title 10 and Title 32 considerations, if
applicable), day-to-day functional roles and responsibilities, and facility and equipment use.
While developing functional roles and responsibilities, commanders must consider host and
associate organization home station training activities, including ARC Unit Training Assemblies
(UTAs), deployed training activities, continental United States (CONUS) and outside the
continental United States (OCONUS) operational activities, and, in the case of the ANG, state
missions. TFIAs must properly utilize ARC personnel and their various duty statuses IAW public
laws and related personnel and appropriation guidance. TFIAs must be structured to facilitate
applicable work rules during all training activities. Standard Support Agreements (SAs) should
supplement MOAs, as necessary.
7.2.2 Biennial Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) Reviews. Commanders will review TFIA
MOAs at IOC and FOC, and then biennially thereafter or whenever required by changes that
impact the nature of the TFIA in question. If changes are made or significant regulatory or
legislative changes have occurred since the previous review, the sponsoring command will
obtain MAJCOM/JA review from each Partnering MAJCOM.
7.2.3. Financial Management. Commanders will ensure that costs attributable to their respective
components are captured and paid in compliance with the Anti-Deficiency Act and Purpose
Statute, and in accordance with applicable AFIs and policies provided by SAF/FM, AFRC/FM
and NGB/FM, as appropriate. Individual TFIA organizations will budget for and manage the
financial resources needed for ADCON over assigned personnel.
7.2.4. Readiness/Training. Components will remain responsible for ensuring the operational
readiness of the organizations and personnel under their administrative control and for ensuring
that training conforms to established Air Force training standards. Commanders will coordinate
all processes that contribute to their combined ability to execute desired capabilities. ARC
personnel may not be able to participate in readiness exercises/training as often as RegAF
personnel, due to limited organizational fiscal resources, and limited availability, given
commitments to civilian employers. Commanders will therefore plan exercise and other training
schedules as far in advance as possible to facilitate ARC personnel participation, with special
consideration given for providing resources over Unit Training Assembly (UTA) weekends.
Organizations should maximize use of video- and computer-based training to enable ARC
members to complete missed training.




                                                                                              11
7.2.5. Readiness Reporting. Commanders will report their organizational status to their
respective MAJCOMs with standard Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS), Status of
Resources and Training System (SORTS) and the AEF Reporting Tool (ART) procedures, in
accordance with established guidance and current AFIs as supplemented.
7.2.6. Organizational Recall. In preparing organizational recall procedures, commanders will
give special consideration to the various ARC duty statuses, the different types of recall that
might be required (including ANG recall to state service), and required recall response times.
7.2.7. Mobility. Commanders will coordinate the processes necessary to mobilize and deploy
host and associate organizations. The host organization will ensure that mobilization plans and
exercises include both the host and the associate organizations’ assigned assets, consistent with
the training requirements of the associate organization. All personnel within a TFIA are eligible
to deploy with the host and associate organizations IAW AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air
& Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) and all other applicable instructions.
7.2.8. Facilities. The sponsoring MAJCOM is responsible for coordinating funding for new
construction and/or renovations required for TFIA beddown, as well as for coordinating funding
for the operation and sustainment of TFIA facilities with the installation host. Where an
associating unit requires sole use space that cannot be accommodated in preexisting facilities, it
is normally the responsibility of that unit’s MAJCOM to fund renovations or new construction.
Once beddown plans are established, host organization commanders will be responsible for
coordinating the operation and sustainment of TFIA facilities with the installation host. Host and
associate commanders will ensure integrated functions share workspaces to the maximum extent
practical, in order to work together seamlessly in support of the associated mission. When
facilities do not permit collocation at TFIA commencement, commanders will develop plans to
provide for appropriate adequate space for collocation in the future. Efficient space utilization
shall be maximized to reduce facility and infrastructure operating and maintenance costs, IAW
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, which mandates the minimum number of facilities at
the lowest lifecycle cost to support the Air Force mission. Organizations sharing facilities should
collaborate to allow for the display of each organization’s culture and heritage IAW Partnering
MAJCOM expectations. Specifics regarding the allocation, operations, and maintenance of all
Real Property (including facilities, infrastructure, and communications transmission items),
should be coordinated as specified in accordance with applicable AFIs, as supplemented, and
documented in the TFIA MOA and in appropriate SAs. MOAs and SAs should pay special
attention to GSU considerations for AAs.
7.2.9. Equipment Use. When one component’s mission essential equipment is shared in an
Association, TFIA commanders will ensure that use of that equipment occurs IAW the owning
component's guidance. MOAs should include standard availability guidance or tables for TFIA
aircraft/equipment utilization by each organization/component. At a minimum, this should
include aircraft available for deployment, Higher Headquarters (HHQ) taskings, proficiency
training, UTAs, and other training activities to support the association objectives of Partnering
MAJCOMs. Special consideration must be given for ensuring that equipment is available during
unit drill/training weekends.
7.2.10. Personnel Management. Applicable TFIA military personnel administration actions will
be accomplished by the Commander’s Support Staff (CSS), the servicing Force Support
Squadron(s), or HHQ personnel functions, to include reach back to the parent command.



                                                                                                  12
Responsibility for processing professional feedback, individual appraisals, and awards and
decorations will be retained by each associating organization’s ADCON chain, IAW applicable
AFIs and MAJCOM directives. Processes for documenting input from functional supervisors,
including designation of performance report raters, will be detailed in the TFIA MOA, IAW the
rules established by the member’s component and the parent MAJCOM.
7.3.10.1. Government civilian employees assigned to TFIAs will be serviced by the host base’s
Civilian Personnel Office IAW local policies and procedures. Administration of civilian
personnel management policies unique to ARC Technicians will be retained by the parent wing
commander.
7.3.10.2. Barring situations wherein ARC members are ordered to active duty and are subject to
courts martial convened by RegAF court-martial convening authorities, TFIA supervisors and
commanders will not take disciplinary action against members of another component, but will
instead notify the member’s component chain-of-command of disciplinary infractions requiring
redress, so that disciplinary action can be taken IAW laws and policy applicable to said
member’s component. The component chain of command should address any questions with
regard to disciplinary action to the component servicing legal office.
8.0 Adopted Forms.
AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                                                                            13
                                       Attachment 2
                           ASSOCIATION PLAN TEMPLATE

                              Association Plan (A-Plan)
                                         for
              [MDS/Mission Area Classic/Active/ARC Association at Base X]

1. Mission and Purpose [Describe the TFIA’s mission and purpose, identify the host
   MAJCOM, the associate MAJCOM, and the host and associate organizations.]

2. Command Structure, Relationships and Resourcing
   2.1.Organizational Structure [Insert Association Wiring Diagram here—reference
       Attachment 4, Guideline 2.] For example:




   2.2. Chains of Command [Describe the chains-of-command from MAJCOM to association
       organization level, including ADCON and OPDIR. Identify what MOAs are necessary to
       achieve cross-component unity of effort. Address Attachment 4, Guidelines 2 and 3. See
       also Attachments 5 and 6, as applicable.]

   2.3. Manpower Categories and Numbers
   2.3.1. [Identify the association’s AC manpower requirements to be included on the AC Unit
          Manpower Document (UMD), including AC civilians. Provide as much detail as
          possible, up to and including a strawman UMD. Identify the requirement for AC
          Special-Access Program/Special Access Required (SAP/SAR) billets.]
   2.3.2. [Identify the association’s RC manpower requirements to be included on the RC
          UMD. Provide as much detail as possible, up to and including a strawman UMD.


                                                                                           14
       Break out full-time authorizations (AGRs, technicians, and non-technician civilians)
       and part-time authorizations (non-technician traditional reservists/drill-status
       guardsmen). If the proportion of AGRs and technicians is greater than 30% of ARC
       unit total strength, provide justification consistent with Section 5.2.4 of this
       instruction. Identify any requirements for RC SAP/SAR billets. If Self-Executing
       Orders are necessary, provide guidance in the A-Plan and MOA for identifying
       trigger(s) that will start and end federal duty status and the means by which those
       transitions will be accomplished.]

2.4. Functional Integration and ARC Duty Assignments [Based on the draft UMDs,
    describe down to the flight level which organizational areas/duty sections will
    functionally integrated. Specify duties to be performed by full-time ARC personnel. See
    Attachment 4, Guidelines 4 and 5 and Attachments 5 and 6.]
2.4.1. [As applicable, specify duties, location, duty status, and guidance for ARC training of
        other components (for example, AGRs training RegAF personnel, ANG Technicians
        training AFR personnel, etc.). Provide the number of anticipated instructors and
        students from each component. Address Attachment 4, Guidelines 5 and 6.]
2.4.2. [As applicable, specify duties, duty status, and guidance for ARC personnel
        supporting federal operations or missions, addressing items in Attachment 4,
        Guideline 5.]
2.4.3. [As applicable, specify duties and guidance for RegAF and ARC who will be
        performing intelligence activities, addressing items in Attachment 4, Guideline 8.]

2.5. Aircraft/Equipment Availability Commitments [Attach table and/or narrative which
     explains coordinated agreement on how shared resources will be utilized for daily
     activities and prescribed training requirements, including unit training assemblies.]

2.6. Resource Laydown Timelines [Provide MAJCOM-level plans for effectively executing
     the association, including complying with the requirements of AFI 10-503, Strategic
     Basing, and 32 CFR §989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). Describe the
     timing for SATAFs and for arrival of manpower, aircraft/equipment and other
     resourcing. If GSU considerations are involved, describe plans for providing RegAF
     members with housing and other basic services, including transportation, medical,
     commissary and base exchange alternatives, gym facilities, chaplain/chapel, etc.]

2.7. Budget Requirements [Provide budget and funding requirements for the association,
     including MPA expectations by component and identify the organization responsible for
     programming for that requirement. Describe how the proposed unit will account for
     funds and man hours expended by each component and how reimbursement will occur,
     if necessary. Address items in Attachment 4, Guideline 7.]



                                                                                           15
3. Mission Readiness
   3.1 Initial Operational Capability (IOC) Milestones [With reference to the association
       purpose described in 1.0, define milestones the organization must reach in order to be
       declared IOC.]

   3.2 Full Operational Capability (FOC) Milestones [With reference to the association
       purpose described in 1.0, define milestones the organization must reach in order to be
       declared FOC.]

   3.3 Metrics [Describe metrics for each organization beyond FOC that reflect key aspects of
       the association’s purpose, and which will measure progress toward achieving those
       benefits. With reference to the resources described above, explain how/when the
       organization will meet DOC Statement requirements, WMP-5 requirements, AEF
       rotational commitments, and other expected taskings.]

   3.4 Sundown Plans [Describe MAJCOM long-term plans for the association/mission.]

4. Legal Reviews
   4.1. MAJCOM Certifications:
       4.1.1. I certify that I have reviewed this plan for legal sufficiency of the concepts
   described and that it is my opinion that they can be implemented in compliance with
   applicable law.
                        ___________________________________________________________
                       [Sponsoring MAJCOM SJA or authorized Representative], DATE


                        ___________________________________________________________
                       [Partnering MAJCOM SJA or authorized Representative], DATE

   4.2. Initial AF/JA Review: I certify that I have reviewed this plan for legal sufficiency of the
   concepts described and that it is my opinion that they can be implemented in compliance
   with applicable law.

                        ___________________________________________________________
                         [AF/JAA or authorized Representative], DATE

   4.3. Additional Legal Reviews [List additional legal reviews conducted throughout the
   TFIA’s existence, indicating date, final signatory authority, and scope of review.]

Ex:
       05.23.2014 - ACC/JAO (coord w/ AFRC/JAO) – TFIA MOA reviewed
       08.24.2014 - ACC/JAA (coord w/ AFRC/JAA) – TFIP for expansion to Ops/MX
       12.10.2014 - ACC/JAA (coord w/ AFRC/JAA) – TFIA biennial review



                                                                                                16
                                                                    Attachment 3

                                TOTAL FORCE INTEGRATION PROPOSAL (TFIP)
TO BE COMPLETED BY SPONSORING MAJCOM:
      Location:                                                                Host Org:                            Execution Year:
            Proposal Type:                                                    Assoc Org:
  Stakeholder Concurrence:                                                    Assoc Org:
        *Association Purpose:
                               *A-Pl ans musst i denti fy metri cs that wi l l measure the accompl i shment of associ ati on purpose.

                                                       TFIP EVALUATION FORM
TO BE COMPLETED BY TOTAL FORCE WORKING GROUP:
                                                                Proposed Manpower Plan
                                    Status Quo         Rec COA
                                                                     Status Quo Delta
                                    FYDP Total       FYDP Total                              **One Time Costs
                Milpers - MPA       $       -        $       -        $                -
        Milpers - Active Duty       $       -        $       -        $                -
       Milpers - ANG AGR/TR         $       -        $       -        $                -
       Milpers - AFRC AGR/TR        $       -        $       -        $                -
                   MILCON**         $       -        $       -        $                -
        O&M FH - Active Duty        $       -        $       -        $                -
               O&M FH - ANG         $       -        $       -        $                -
              O&M FH - AFRC         $       -        $       -        $                -
            O&M - ANG Tech          $       -        $       -        $                -
            O&M - AFRC Tech         $       -        $       -        $                -
                    AF CivPay       $       -        $       -        $                -
                 Retraining**       $       -        $       -        $                -
                    Total Cost      $       -        $       -        $                -
                 New Resources Requested?
                     Comments:
                                                                           Guidance
      5 Star - Definitely              4 Star - Highly Likely         3 Star - Probably               2 Star - Not Likely                 1 Star - Not At All

      APPG, Force Mix Vector
     Comments:
             CCDR Rqmts (IPL)
     Comments:
                            CFMP
     Comments:
                            Other
     Comments:
                                       Guidance Score
                                                                            Benefits
      5 Star - Definitely              4 Star - Highly Likely         3 Star - Probably               2 Star - Not Likely                 1 Star - Not At All

          Balances Experience
     Comments:
         Integration Synergies
     Comments:
          Effective Utilization
     Comments:
          Retention Capability
     Comments:
      Ability to Meet Purpose
     Comments:
     Other Benefits from BCA
     Comments:
                                        Benefits Score                                        Benefits Average:            3.00
                                                                               Risks
       5 Star - No Risk                   4 Star - Low Risk          3 Star - Moderate             2 Star - Significant Risk              1 Star - High Risk

Formal Training Requirements
     Comments:
       Component Suitability
     Comments:
                 ARC Recruiting
     Comments:
            MPA Requirement
     Comments:
         Other Risks from BCA
     Comments:
                                           Risks Score                                            Risks Average:           2.20


           OVERALL RATING                                                        Overall Raw Average Score:                2.58
    Comments:
   5 Star - Highly Recommend        4 Star-Strongly Recommend        3 Star - Recommend 2 Star - Recommend with Reservations            1 Star - Not Recommend




                                                                                                                                                                 17
                                         Attachment 4
      AIR FORCE GUIDELINES FOR MULTICOMPONENT ORGANIZATIONS

1. Purpose. Since 1968, the Air Force has developed and evolved unique organizational
   constructs to meet mission demands and evolve Total Force policy. However, the non-
   activated ARC remains bound by constitutional and statutory requirements, which constrain
   Air Force organizational architecture. See Table A3.1.

       1.1 Associations. TFIAs combine organizations from different components to
           accomplish a common or shared steady-state mission, through unity of effort. They
           are functionally integrated and collocated. All TFIA personnel will be trained, tasked,
           and employed as a unified team to be most efficiently organized, trained, and
           equipped for operational mission taskings.

       1.2 Collocated Organizations. Organizations from different components that share
           facilities, equipment, and other resources are collocated but not associated. Instead,
           these organizations coordinate authorities and efforts to achieve efficiencies in support
           of separate missions, i.e. there is no unity of effort. Collocated organizations share
           information and collaborate, but do not routinely share work tasks. Thus, OPDIR is
           unnecessary. ADCON remains with the commander from each Airman’s component.
           Collocated organizations must comply with DoDI 4000.19 and AFI 25-201.

       1.3 Unit and Non-unit Relationships. Units and non-units (as defined in AFI 38-101,
           Air Force Organizations) may align their training efforts, resources, or personnel to
           achieve efficiencies and/or improve Total Force relationships. These aligned efforts
           may involve one Airman in temporary duty status or a temporarily assigned
           detachment. Such alignments may occur once or may recur as outlined in an MOA.




                                                                                                 18
                          Table A3.1 – Total Force Organizational Constructs

                            Associations            Collocated Units            Non-Unit Relationships
     Functionally
                                 Yes                    Situational                     Situational
      Integrated
    Share Facilities
                                 Yes                       Yes                         As Necessary
     or Resources
        OPDIR                    Yes                        No                                  No
       Specified
       ADCON,
     Coordinating
                                 Yes                  As necessary                     As Necessary
     Authority, or
    Direct Liaison
      Authority i
    MOAs/Support
                                 Yes                       Yes                         As Necessary
     Agreements
      Association
                                 Yes                        No                                  No
         Plan


2. Chain of Command and Organizational Structure. There are separate chains-of-command
   for Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and federal active
   duty Air National Guard (ANG) (all of which are in Title 10 duty status) and Air National
   Guard (ANG) members (who are in Title 32 or State Active Duty (SAD)) status. The Title 10
   chain-of-command flows from the President of the United States and the Title 32/SAD ANG
   chain-of-command flows from the Governor of the State.

       2.1 TFIA A-Plans and memorandums of agreement (MOAs) must therefore address
           command relationships between federal and state authorities, including OPDIR (see
           paragraph 3.1 below), as well as the determination of appropriate duty statuses when
           ANG members are performing federal missions. Supervisors or commanders from one
           chain of command cannot take disciplinary action against a member of the other
           component chain of command, but shall notify the member’s chain-of-command of the
           disciplinary infraction or other matters requiring redress. This restriction is intended for
           the initial addressing of disciplinary issues and does not preclude an Installation
           Commander or Court Martial Convening Authority from taking appropriate actions as
           provided by law.

       2.2 AFRC and RegAF commanders, supervisors, and other persons in authority can issue
           letters of counseling, admonishment, and reprimand to personnel from either component


i
    See AFDD 1, Air Force Doctrine, Basic Organization, and Command, 14 October 2011, at 113.



                                                                                                      19
        when both the Airman issuing and the Airman receiving the action are in a military duty
        status, and the Airman receiving the action was in a military duty status at the time of the
        offending conduct. If a guardsman is in Title 10 status, the Title 10 chain has authority; if
        a guardsman is in Title 32 or SAD status, the state chain has authority. See Attachments
        5and 6 for more details.

     2.3 UCMJ actions; state military code actions against ANG personnel, as applicable; and/or
         initiation of Unfavorable Information Files (UIF) must generally be accomplished by the
         member’s own component chain-of-command (if a guardsman is in Title 10 status, the
         Title 10 chain has authority). See Attachments 5 and 6 for more details.

     2.4 Personnel actions must be accomplished by the member’s own component chain-of-
         command (with inputs from the member’s functional supervisor if a member of another
         component).

3. Unity of Effort. Coordinating Authority is the authority delegated to a commander or
   individual assigned responsibility for coordinating specific functions or activities involving
   forces of two or more Military Departments, two or more joint force components, or two or
   more forces of the same Service. Coordinating authority may be granted and modified
   through a MOA to provide unity of effort for operations involving Reserve Component and
   Active Component forces engaged in interagency activities. (AFDD 1). ii Authority to direct
   consultation and agreements among components provides the framework for TFIAs. At the
   operational level, TFIA commanders achieve unity of effort through OPDIR.

     3.1 Operational Direction (OPDIR). OPDIR describes a TFIA commander’s or
         supervisor’s operational authority over forces not administratively assigned to that
         commander/supervisor. It includes the authority to assign tasks, designate objectives,
         synchronize and integrate actions, and give authoritative direction necessary to
         accomplish the mission. OPDIR allows commanders to establish supervisory direction
         over all personnel assigned or detailed to work within functionally integrated elements.
         OPDIR is only exercised within a TFIA.

        3.1.1 While OPDIR is expressed in terms of overall responsibility of the host
              commander, it is also an expression of the relationship between individual
              supervisors in one component over personnel of another component based upon
              agreements entered into by their command. To achieve functional integration and
              unity of effort within a TFIA, RegAF, AFRC, and ANG (Title 10, Title 32, or SAD)
              members may be ordered by their respective chains of command to accept OPDIR


ii
 See also, Joint Publication 1-02 (JP 1-02), DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, as amended.
Available online at: http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/dod_dictionary



                                                                                                            20
            from members in another chain of command in accordance with an A-Plan/MOA
            between the host unit and the associated unit. MOAs define the scope of the
            direction, including any limitations.

       3.1.2 Although commanders may delegate authority to accomplish the operational or
             training missions, they cannot delegate the responsibility for the attainment of
             mission objectives. For this reason, the commander’s intent should specify the
             goals, priorities, acceptable risks, and limits associated with training or operations.

       3.1.3 Commanders, managers, and supervisors are responsible for personnel
             management, performance reviews, career development, and administrative support
             for members of their respective components and organizations, consistent with
             provisions agreed to in A-Plans/MOAs and consistent with public law.

       3.1.4 State technician and civilian job descriptions should be reviewed and modified as
             necessary to make those members subject to the OPDIR of functional supervisors,
             regardless of component. During the application of OPDIR, the associate
             organization’s parent component (RegAF/AFR/ANG) will continue to exercise
             command over and be responsible for administration and support of its own
             personnel.

4. ARC Member Full Time Support (FTS). The number (and proportion to other organization
   personnel) of FTS ARC personnel (AGRs and technicians) to other organization ARC
   personnel (drill-status guard (DSG) and traditional reservists (TRs)) must be consistent with
   these Guidelines, which apply to all ARC organizations.

   4.1 FTS positions must be based upon a need for full-time support of the ARC unit and
       members, not because those FTS personnel could be used in support of additional duties
       that benefit another component. Accordingly, use of FTS for a specific integration
       function should generally be in the same proportion as has historically been the case of
       similar functions performed by the ARC. Generally, this means FTS should be no more
       than 30% of the total ARC unit personnel. While initial standup of a particular function
       may require a higher proportion of full-time personnel, integration should be planned and
       executed to achieve the targeted proportions as soon as feasible.

   4.2 Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) forces. An AGR’s primary duties are to organize,
       administer, recruit, instruct, or train (OARIT) reserve components. AGRs may perform
       additional duties outlined in Attachments 5 and 6 to the extent they do not interfere
       with performance of the AGR’s primary duties listed above.

   4.3 ARC members activated as volunteers under 10 USC § 12301(d), not for the purpose
      of performing AGR duties specified in 10 USC § 12310(a), are not restricted in the
      duties that may be performed. These members are part of the active duty forces and may


                                                                                                   21
       or may not be counted against active duty end-strength. Consult MAJCOM/A1 or
       MAJCOM/JA for more details.

   4.4 Dual Status Military Technicians (MT). MT’s are civilians whose primary duties are to
       organize administer, instruct, or train (OAIT) reserve components and who have a
       requirement to also be TRs or DSGs. MTs may also maintain and repair supplies and
       equipment (including aircraft) issued to the armed forces as a primary duty. Finally, MTs
       may perform specified additional duties to the extent they do not interfere with
       performance of the MT's primary duties, as explained in the AFRC-Specific and ANG-
       Specific Guidelines at Attachments 5 and 6.

5. Support of Federal Operations or Missions. Generally, all ARC members performing an
   operational or RegAF mission must be in Title 10 status, (absent specific SECDEF
   authorization for federal nexus missions to be performed in Title 32 status.) (See
   Attachments 5 and 6 for more details.)

   5.1 All combatant commander (CCDR) operations and missions must be performed under the
       OPCON or TACON of the appropriate CCDR, Air Force Component Commander or
       Joint Task Force commander.

       5.1.1 All training outside the United States and its territories must be accomplished in
             Title 10 status (absent specific SECDEF authorization for them to be performed in
             Title 32 status).

       5.1.2 Accounting procedures must be established to properly account for duty performed
             in each status and to charge man-hours and related costs to the appropriate ARC or
             RegAF accounts.

       5.1.3 If an ARC unit, or members of an ARC unit, will perform or support federal
             operational missions on a routine basis (i.e., day-to-day, or as a regular part of their
             military activities -- other than unit mobilization) beyond their training
             requirements, then as a general rule, an AFRC member should be on active duty
             orders and an ANG member should be in Title 10 duty status.

6. Combined Training FTS ARC personnel may support training operations and training
   missions assigned in whole or in part to the ARC member's unit to the extent such training
   occurs in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions and is for RegAF military,
   foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian employees. FTS ARC personnel
   may only perform such duties to the extent they do not interfere with performance of their
   primary duties described in Section 4 of this attachment.

   6.1 Other circumstances that justify the use of AGRs and MTs to train personnel from
       outside their own components include:



                                                                                                   22
      6.1.1 The ARC unit DOC statement or mission essential tasking includes the formal
            training of other component members as a wartime tasking, and the training of other
            component personnel is necessary for the FTS personnel to maintain their own
            wartime skills.

      6.1.2 The training of other component personnel is incidental to other authorized
            activities (e.g., training provided in the course of, and incidental to, a scheduled
            proficiency or currency mission). Controls or safeguards should be implemented to
            ensure such training remains incidental.

      6.1.3 The training of other component personnel is incidental to the training of ARC
            personnel, and the numbers of other-component personnel trained are not
            disproportionate to numbers of ARC personnel trained. Controls or safeguards
            should be implemented to ensure such training remains incidental.

      6.1.4 DSGs or TRs may train other component personnel in conjunction with, or as part
            of, the DSG and TR’s own proficiency, currency, or qualification training, or in
            support of federal training operations and missions assigned in whole or in part to
            the DSG or TR's unit by the Secretary of the Air Force.

      6.1.5 To determine whether ARC personnel will be training non-ARC personnel and
            calculating ratios of instructors to students of each component, training of foreign
            students or DoD civilians and contractor personnel should be attributed to the
            component requesting the training.

7. Fiscal Considerations. Congress appropriates certain personnel and operations and
   maintenance (O&M) funds for a specified purpose (RegAF, ANG, and AFRC) and those
   funds must be used to support that specified purpose.

   7.1 Funding sources for activities must be consistent with the purpose of the activity.
       Generally, ARC funds should not be expended to support a RegAF mission; ANG funds
       should not be expended to support AFRC missions; and AFRC funds should not be
       expended in support of ANG missions. There is a limited exception, however, where
       performance of another component’s mission is incidental to training or is specified as a
       permissible task that does not interfere with the ARC member’s primary mission.

   7.2 Sufficient fiscal safeguards must exist to ensure appropriations are used to support
       authorized functions, and not diverted to augment another component’s operations and
       missions. Fiscal concerns may be raised by:

      7.2.1 The use of FTS personnel in Title 32 status to support federal operations and
            missions without proper justification;




                                                                                                   23
       7.2.2 The use of one component’s O&M funds to support another component’s
             operations and missions (unless properly accounted for and reimbursed from the
             supported component’s appropriations or the use was incidental to authorized
             activities).

   7.3 Procedures should be established to account for costs and charge costs to the proper
       appropriations, including:

            7.3.1 The number of man hours ARC members perform duty in title 10 status;

            7.3.2 The amount of ARC resources (flying hours/fuel/materials, etc.) expended in
                   support of other component operations and missions; and

            7.3.3 The incremental increase in ARC resources expended (man hours and other
                   costs) relating to training other component members or supporting other
                   component operations or missions (if not done incidental to training or
                   authorized ARC activities).

   7.4 When ARC members perform active, federal, duty in Title 10 status, adequate fiscal
       procedures must exist to account for the number of man-hours expended and ensure
       payment for those man-hours from Military Personnel Appropriations (i.e., RegAF
       appropriations). This can be accomplished through:

       7.4.1 Publication of individual Title 10 orders providing appropriate fund sites; or

       7.4.2 An aggregate reimbursement process (e.g. accounting for individual flying hours
             and periodic reconciliation/reimbursement of ARC funds from RegAF funds).

   7.5 Reimbursement between components is generally not required:

       7.5.1 When ARC and RegAF units participate together in activities that mutually benefit
             one another and the expenditure of funds by each unit is proportional to the
             respective benefits each organization receives, or

       7.5.2 The expenditure of ARC resources in support of other component operations or
             missions is incidental to ARC training or otherwise authorized to be performed in
             Title 32 or inactive reserve status.

       7.5.3 In either case, the A-Plan should explain whether reimbursement is required; if not,
             why not; and the safeguards and controls that are being implemented to ensure each
             component’s appropriations are properly obligated.

8. Intelligence Activities (applicable to foreign intelligence and counter intelligence activities,
   including training). This section only applies if the ARC organization will be involved in
   intelligence collection, analysis, storage, or distribution.


                                                                                                 24
8.1 Guidelines. All intelligence activities involving federal missions, including training for
    federal intelligence missions, and all personnel involved with such activities, are subject
    to federal intelligence oversight rules, regardless of the duty status of the individual or
    organization (e.g., Title 10 or Title 32). See DoDD 5240.01, DoD Intelligence Activities,
    27 Aug 2007, Incorporating Change 1 and Certified Current 27 Aug 2017; DoD 5240.1R,
    Procedures Governing the Activities of DOD Intelligence Components that Affect United
    States Persons, Dec 1972; and AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 23 Apr
    2012.

   8.1.1 Oversight rules apply to all aspects of acquisition, collection, retention, protection,
         and dissemination of intelligence information, and include information acquired
         during the course of ISR training activities, including intelligence analysis products
         resulting from training activities.

   8.1.2 Operational intelligence activities may be performed only in Title 10 status.

   8.1.3 Intelligence products developed for the purpose of Title 32 training may be used by
         the federal intelligence community generally.

   8.1.4 No information acquired through federal intelligence activities may move from
         federal to state activities by any means other than established federal procedures for
         information sharing between the federal government and state governments (i.e.,
         intelligence information acquired during the course of a federal mission, or used in
         the course of training in a Title 32 status, may not be accessed or used by
         individuals in a state active duty status unless such dissemination is authorized and
         conducted in the same manner required for dissemination from a federal activity to
         any other state organization).

   8.1.5 All intelligence activities involving federal missions, federally acquired
         intelligence, and all personnel involved with them, are subject to USAF (including
         NGB) and DoD inspection, regardless of duty status.




                                                                                              25
                                     Attachment 5
                                 GUIDELINES FOR
        AIR FORCE RESERVE MULTICOMPONENT RELATIONSHIPS

1. Chain of Command and Organizational Structures

   a.   All Air Force Reserve forces within the United States (except those assigned to
        SOCOM) must be assigned to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Upon full
        mobilization, AFRC units will be assigned to the gaining RegAF MAJCOM.

   b.   When AFRC personnel are attached to a RegAF unit, the RegAF unit to which they
        are attached will have specified ADCON, including, but not limited to, disciplinary
        and UCMJ authority. Specified ADCON responsibilities will be set forth in an
        MOA. The AFRC unit to which the personnel are assigned will have full ADCON,
        including concurrent disciplinary authority.

   c.   In situations where AFRC and RegAF units are associated with one another (not
        attached), each unit will maintain its separate AFRC or RegAF chain-of-command,
        respectively.

   d.   If AFRC personnel will be conducting combatant command operations and missions,
        the A-Plan should identify the RegAF organization to which they will be attached
        and the operational chain-of-command and when the attachment will be effective, or
        set out a methodology for determining these if operations or missions may shift
        between different combatant commands.

2. Support of Federal Operations or Missions

   a. The mission of the AFRC unit is to train for, support, and perform the federal
      operations and missions assigned to it. The proper source of funding (e.g., Reserve
      Personnel Appropriations (RPA) v. Military Personnel Appropriations (MPA)) may
      change depending upon whether the AFRC unit and its personnel are training for their
      operational mission or actually supporting or performing the operational mission.

   b. AFRC members may support or perform federal operations or missions without using
      RegAF appropriations if those activities are legitimately done for training purposes
      and consistent with the unit’s formalized training program.

3. Additional Duties of AFRC FTS Personnel

   a. A Reserve AGR may also perform the following additional duties to the extent that
      the performance of those duties does not interfere with the performance of the AGR’s
      primary OARIT duties:



                                                                                          26
    i. Supporting operations or missions assigned in whole or in part to the reserve
       components or to mixed-component units, including joint units;

   ii. Advising the SECDEF, military secretaries, Joint Chiefs of Staff and CCDRs
       regarding RC matters; and

   ii. Instructing or training military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD
        civilian employees in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions.

b. IAW 10 USC § 10216, AFRC dual status MTs (also called Air Reserve Technicians
   (ARTs)) are authorized to organize, administer, instruct and train (OAIT) the Selected
   Reserve and maintain and repair supplies and equipment (including aircraft) issued to
   the Selected Reserve or the armed forces.

c. ARTs may perform the following additional duties to the extent they do not interfere
   with the performance of the ART’s primary OAIT duties:

   i. Support operations or missions assigned in whole or in part to the to the
       technicians unit, or to mixed-component units, including joint units, that include
       the technicians unit; and

   ii. Instruct and train military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD
        civilian employees in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions.




                                                                                        27
                                      Attachment 6

                                   GUIDELINES FOR
        AIR NATIONAL GUARD MULTICOMPONENT RELATIONSHIPS
1. Chain of Command and Organizational Structures

   a.   Generally, ANG personnel perform federal missions under Title 10; train for federal
        missions under Title 32; and perform state missions (e.g., responding to natural
        disasters) in state status, funded by their state. While in Title 32 status or performing
        state missions, ANG members are subject to the command and control of their
        Governor. When the ANG is called upon by the State Governor for state-only
        missions, care must be taken to ensure RegAF personnel and equipment are not
        improperly used for these state-only missions (see the Stafford Act, 42 USC § 5121
        et seq.; DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), 29 Dec 2010,
        Incorporating Change 1, 21 Sep 2012; AFPD10-8, Defense Support of Civil
        Authorities (DSCA), 15 Feb 2012; AFI10-801, Defense Support of Civil Authorities
        (DSCA), 19 Sep 2012).

   b.   All ANGUS members in Title 10 status will be assigned to the Air National Guard
        Readiness Center (ANGRC), and attached to the appropriate RegAF unit.

   c.   When an entire ANG unit is performing in a Title 10 status, it must be attached to a
        gaining Air Force MAJCOM. Upon full mobilization, ANG personnel and units will
        be assigned to a gaining Air Force MAJCOM.

   d.   ANG members directly involved in the execution, command and control of Title 10
        operational missions will be in Title 10 status, and attached to a unit in the CCDR’s
        operational chain of command. Ordinarily, the chain-of-command runs from the
        CCDR, to the Joint Forces Commander (JFC), to the Commander Air Force Forces
        (COMAFFOR), to the unit Commander. (See Figure A5-1.)

             Figure A5-1. Title 10 USC Operational Chain-of-Command
                                          CCDR


                                            JFC

                                       COMAFFOR


                                         Unit CC




                                                                                               28
   e.   When not performing a federal operational mission, ANG personnel will usually be
        in Title 32 status. The chain-of-command runs from the State governor, to The
        Adjutant General (TAG), to the State’s Assistant Adjutant General for Air (ATAG),
        to the unit Commander. (See Figure A5-2).

                  Figure A5-2. Title 32 USC State Chain-of-Command
                                          Governor


                                             TAG

                                            ATAG


                                           Unit CC

   f. ANG members assigned to the organization will likely have both a Title 10 and Title
      32 chain of command, which will govern them depending upon their duty status. An
      A-Plan (or MOA for collocated units) should explain which chain will be responsible
      for which activities and when each chain will assume control.

   g. If ANG personnel will be supporting combatant command operations and missions,
      the A-Plan (or MOA for collocated units) should identify the RegAF organization to
      which they will be attached and the operational chain-of-command.

2. Support of Federal Operations or Missions

   a. The mission of the ANG unit in Title 32 status is to train for its federal mission, not
      to perform a federal mission. Title 32 activities must be consistent with this purpose.

   b. ANG members in Title 32 status may support federal operations or missions while
      training, but that support must be incidental to the purpose of training and consistent
      with the unit’s formalized training program.

   c. ANG members may support federal operations or missions undertaken by the
      members’ unit at the request of the President or SECDEF, as an additional duty.

   d. Change of status (into and out of Title 10 status) must be accomplished by federal
      direction, with the specific beginning and end points identified in the military orders.

   e. If the federal authority elects to use standing orders to place volunteers into Title 10
      status to accomplish a federal mission when specific events occur (relying upon 10
      USC § 12301(d), sometimes referred to as “self-executing orders), then:




                                                                                             29
        i. Authority to issue the standing activation orders must have been obtained from
           the SECAF and vested in the federal officer issuing the standing activation
           orders;

       ii. Events that “trigger” when active duty status begins and ends must be clearly
           defined in those orders by the federal authority;

      iii. ANG members must consent in writing, in advance, to being placed on active
           duty; and

       iv. The Governor (or his/her designee) must have agreed in advance to the activation
           (by MOU or otherwise).

3. Additional Duties of ANG FTS Personnel

   a. If placed on orders as an AGR under Title 10, ANG personnel may perform the
      additional duties specified in 10 USC § 12310, as outlined in Attach. 4, para. 4.

   b. If placed on orders as an AGR under Title 32 ANG personnel may perform the
      following additional duties to the extent they do not interfere with performance of the
      AGR’s primary OARIT duties:

        i.     Support federal operations or missions undertaken by the members’ unit at the
               request of the President or SECDEF (typically inauguration support or federal
               response to national emergencies); and

       ii.     Support of training operations and training missions assigned in whole or in part
               to the National Guard to the extent such training occurs in the United States,
               Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions and is only to instruct active duty military,
               foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian employees.

   c. IAW 32 USC § 709, ANG dual status MTs are authorized to organize, administer,
      instruct and train (OAIT) the National Guard and maintain and repair supplies and
      equipment (including aircraft) issued to the ANG or the armed forces.

       i.      MTs may perform the following additional duties to the extent they do not
               interfere with performance of the MT’s primary OAIT duties:

         1. Support federal operations or missions undertaken by the technician’s unit at the
            request of the President or SECDEF;

            2. Support of training operations and training missions assigned in whole or in part
               to the technician’s unit to the extent such training occurs in the United States,
               Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions and is for RegAF military, foreign military,
               DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian employees.


                                                                                             30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-1001
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   29 MAY 2007
                                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 25 April 2008

                                                                                      Special Management

                                                                      RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TOTAL
                                                                             FORCE INTEGRATION

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A8X                                           Certified by: AF/A8 (Lt Gen Raymond E. Johns Jr.)
                                                                                            Pages: 70

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-10, Total Force Integration Policy,
and applies to the Regular Air Force (RegAF) and the Air Reserve Components (ARC). All references to
the ARC throughout this instruction include the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve
(AFR). It also incorporates changes to the US Code as promulgated by the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act of 2007 (NDAA 2007). Total Force Integration (TFI) initiatives are Chief of Staff of the Air
Force (CSAF) approved operational constructs, defined in concepts of operation, Integration Plans, Air
Force Policy Directive (AFPDs), Air Force Instructions (AFIs), and other supporting documents, which
organize, train, and equip our forces in the same way we would present them to a Combatant Commander
(CCDR). This instruction provides personnel at all levels a single document to help them to understand
roles and responsibilities, craft an integration initiative Integration Plan document, and understand the dif-
ferent command relationships that will impact the mission accomplishment of integration initiatives. The
desired end state of Total Force Integration is a more capable and a more resource efficient Air Force that
leverages the unique strengths of each component and increases Air Force combat capabilities. For the
purpose of this instruction, the National Guard Bureau (NGB) functions as both a Headquarters Air Force
(HAF) 2-letter and as a major command (MAJCOM) equivalent organization.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT)
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropri-
ate functional’s chain of command. Requests for waiver to this instruction will be forwarded to AF/A8 for
consideration.
2                                                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This Interim Change is narrowly focused on mission-essential areas of the AFI in need of update or clari-
fication and are intended to address: policy revisions due to identified gaps in guidance as discovered in
the course of initiatives execution; incorporation of lessons learned (as captured in May 07); clarification
and/or consolidation of guidance from within the AFI. Specifically, this interim changes establishes guid-
ance that all integration initiatives be requirements based, reinforces process mechanisms that define mis-
sion assignment/direction approval authority, mandates Initiative Review Worksheets for all initiatives
(except for those with existing Integration Plans), and refines/clarifies the Integration Initiative Process
Road Map and its accompanying explanatory comments (Figure A2.2.). A margin bar indicates newly
revised material.

Chapter 1—INTEGRATION OBJECTIVE, GUIDANCE, AND CATEGORIES                                                                                        4
      1.1.    Background. ...............................................................................................................        4
      1.2.    Applicability. .............................................................................................................       4
      1.3.    Objective. ...................................................................................................................     4
      1.4.    Strategic Vision. .........................................................................................................       5
      1.5.    Core Guidance. ..........................................................................................................          5
      1.6.    Integration Initiative Organizational Constructs. .......................................................                          6

Chapter 2—TOTAL FORCE INTEGRATION COMMAND ARRANGEMENTS                                                                                           8
      2.1.    Purpose .......................................................................................................................    8
      2.2.    Command Arrangements. ............................................................................................                 8
      2.3.    Combatant Commander (CCDR) Command Arrangements. ....................................                                              9
      2.4.    NGB Command Arrangements. .................................................................................                       10
      2.5.    AFRC Command Arrangements. ...............................................................................                        10
      2.6.    Regular Air Force Command Arrangements. ............................................................                              10
      2.7.    Participating State, Commonwealth, Territory, or District Command
              Arrangements. ...........................................................................................................         10

Chapter 3—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                            11
      3.1.    Headquarters Air Force Responsibilities: ..................................................................                       11
      3.2.    MAJCOM Responsibilities: .......................................................................................                  13
      3.3.    TFI Component Unit Commander Responsibilities: .................................................                                  17
      3.4.    Deployment. ...............................................................................................................       20
      3.5.    Total Force Integration Plan Reporting and SORTS. ................................................                                20
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                                                        3


Chapter 4—INTEGRATION PLAN DOCUMENT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES                                                                                   21
    4.1.   Purpose. ......................................................................................................................   21
    4.2.   Background. ...............................................................................................................       21
    4.3.   Integration Plan Development. ..................................................................................                  21
    4.4.   Pre-Integration Plan Legal Review. ...........................................................................                    21
    4.5.   The Integration Plan Document – MAJCOM Responsibilities. ................................                                         22
    4.6.   The Integration Plan Document – Headquarters Air Force Responsibilities. ............                                             23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               25

Attachment 2—INTEGRATION INITIATIVE COORDINATION RELATIONSHIPS
           AND PROCESS ROAD MAPS                                                                                                             38

Attachment 3—TOTAL FORCE INTEGRATION INITIATIVE REVIEW
           WORKSHEETS FOR AIR FORCE RESERVE AND AIR NATIONAL
           GUARD INTEGRATION INITIATIVES                                                                                                     41

Attachment 4—AIR NATIONAL GUARD, TITLE 10, AND TITLE 32 COMMAND
           ARRANGEMENTS/ARCHITECTURE.                                                                                                        61

Attachment 5—REQUIRED INTEGRATION PLAN (I-PLAN) CONTENT                                                                                      68
4                                                                             AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


                                                Chapter 1

                 INTEGRATION OBJECTIVE, GUIDANCE, AND CATEGORIES

1.1. Background. The goal of Total Force Integration is to provide the Air Force and the Combatant
Commanders the best possible capabilities to meet their requirements by leveraging the combined human
resources of the Regular, Guard, and Reserve members, Air Force civilian employees, and Air Force con-
tractors. Recapitalizing our force structure and transforming our organizational constructs in this way
helps preserve combat capability to deter, defend against, and defeat every adversary in any future chal-
lenge to the American way of life. The Total Force Integration vision is the dynamic and effective integra-
tion of all Air Force components to provide unparalleled air, space, and cyberspace power for the joint
warfighter. This Air Force Instruction provides guidance and direction regarding the operation, support,
and management of units and personnel involved in the development and implementation of Total Force
Integration initiatives consistent with public law, Department of Defense (DOD) directives, and Air Force
policy.
The CSAF, on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), provides oversight for the Air Force’s
Total Force Integration initiatives and is the final approval authority for all integration initiatives. CSAF
approvals will occur after a recommendation for approval by the General Officer Steering Committee
(GOSC) described in the GOSC charter found in the library of documents at the TFI website. Once
approved, the initiative will then formally compete for funding through the Air Force Corporate Structure
Program Objective Memorandum (POM) processes. For initiatives that involve units of the Air National
Guard, the CSAF approval of integration initiatives should occur in collaboration with the applicable
Governors, Commanding General, or Territorial Governors of the 54 Air National Guard entities. The
Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) directs the Total Force Integration program
on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force and facilitates coordination of initiatives among major com-
mands and the National Guard Bureau. The Chief of Total Force Integration (AF/A8XF), by direction of
the Director of Strategic Plans (AF/A8X), will provide coordination and oversight on behalf of AF/A8.
The Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) is responsible for administering the Total Force Integration
program within the Air Force Reserve. The NGB is the primary channel of communication between the
SECAF and The Adjutants General (TAG) and is responsible for administering Total Force Integration
within the Air National Guard.

1.2. Applicability. This publication applies to the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, and the Air
National Guard. Commanders at all levels are expected to seek ways to integrate to gain benefits from
synergizing Air Force component capabilities. This publication also applies to all existing and future Total
Force Integration HAF, MAJCOM, NAF and unit associations or stand-alone initiatives to include Base
Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC)-directed actions/associations.

1.3. Objective. The objective of the Total Force Integration program is to meet Air Force operational
mission requirements by aligning equipment, missions, infrastructure, and manpower resources within
the Air Force to enable a more effective and efficient use of these assets. The key requirement is to ensure
that the Air Force maintains the capability to meet combatant commander (CCDR) requirements for both
surge and sustained operations. Current operations tempo, personnel tempo, dwell time, crew ratios, and
a shrinking pool of resources require that we seek ways to form more Regular Air Force, Air Force
Reserve, and Air National Guard partnerships. By realigning the Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve,
and/or Air National Guard resources and missions with a focus on combat efficiencies and the “greater
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                         5


good,” these new organizational constructs and missions with a focus on capability will allow Air Force
organizations to continue to meet their responsibilities and commitments. Air Force Reserve, Air National
Guard and Regular Air Force commanders must ensure that all personnel are familiar with these concepts
and objectives.

1.4. Strategic Vision. While the specific strategic goal for Total Force Integration will be somewhat dif-
ferent for each USAF air and ground weapon system, the strategic vision remains focused on an expedi-
tionary mindset and the desire to maintain the highest levels of force readiness while sustaining the
maximum capability to the warfighter. Toward this end, MAJCOM developed long range positions for the
Total Force will be integrated into the Air Force Strategic Plan and will clearly articulate future Total
Force goals and objectives for the Air Force.

1.5. Core Guidance. At the root of all TFI initiatives is the compelling premise that each integration ini-
tiative that comes forward for consideration is requirements driven and supports the Total Force objective
of meeting CCDR surge and steady state requirements. The Coordination Relationships and Process Road
Map figures at Attachment 2 depict the relationships and describe the process by which integration ini-
tiative ideas come to fruition. One product, the Initiative Review Worksheet (IRW), is required for all ini-
tiatives unless an existing Integration Plan either describes the initiative in question (in sufficient detail to
determine it is requirements-driven and legally sound) or is modified to do so and re-approved after that
modification. The other TFI-unique document, the Integration Plan, is necessary for stand-alone units
with new/emerging missions (e.g. CA ANG 163RW Predator Unit, DCGS, etc.) as well as new associate
units (e.g. Langley/Richmond F-22 Classic Associate Unit) who will integrate with other components or
organizations in the accomplishment of their assigned mission. The Associate Unit Integration Plans will
likely be more complex since it will be developed in partnership by both the Host Unit (primary respon-
sibility for the weapon system) and the Associate Unit (primary responsibility and C2 responsibilities for
the individuals in their respective unit). (The two units, associate and host, together form the overall asso-
ciation.) Each integration initiative will have a lead MAJCOM or NGB OPR who will be responsible for
the coordination and distribution of the Integration Plan document. The content for the required Integra-
tion Plan document can be found at Attachment 5.
NOTE: The term Integration Plan replaces the term CONOP previously used to describe the outcomes
and specific objectives of the initiative. If a CONOP is already complete and signed, there is no need to
re-accomplish this effort, but you must ensure that all fields of information contained in the new format
are addressed in the original CONOP. Any missing information must be collected and added to the origi-
nal CONOP by means of a revision or addendum. All future discussions of this information will be called
an Integration Plan. For the purposes of Total Force Integration organizational constructs, the following
definitions apply to integration initiatives:
Host Unit: (Defined by Initiative, NOT by Installation) The unit that is equipped/assigned with the phys-
ical resources (aircraft/weapon system equipment/weapon system support and/or production facilities).
For example, the 1st Fighter Wing at Langley is the host unit to the VAANG 192d Fighter Wing (The
Associate Unit) in the F-22. While 1st FW has primary responsibility for the F-22 aircraft and most of the
equipment/resources needed to accomplish the F-22 mission set, the 192d FW brings manpower, but may
also contribute other mission support resources for both this and their additional Title 10/State/Title 32
missions. There may also be other associate units on the installation as well that require their own Integra-
tion Plans. One such example where an installation has multiple host units can be found at Hickam AFB,
HI. At Hickam AFB, HI: RegAF unit is host for C-17 Unit – HIANG is the Associate Unit; HIANG is the
6                                                                               AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


host unit for the F-22A Active Associate – RegAF Unit is the Associate. Host unit status does not imply
ownership of an installation.
Associate Unit(s): The unit that has primary responsibility for its unit members but shares the aircraft or
weapon system assigned to the host. The associate unit could also provide other physical resources in sup-
port of the host unit mission.
Each of these units (host and associate) should optimize sharing of assigned equipment, facilities, and
other resources to efficiently and effectively train for each unit’s Designed Operations Capability (DOC)
or Mission Directives. While the host unit commander retains primary responsibility for assigned equip-
ment, ARC associate units can assume responsibility for that equipment when training separately such as
during Reserve Component Unit Training Assemblies. Specifics regarding availability of physical
resources will be included in each Integration Plan document.
Memoranda of Agreement (MOAs) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) signed by component
unit commanders will be crafted by both host and associate units with oversight and coordination pro-
vided by the host MAJCOMs to detail specifics regarding that integration initiative. Both the host and
associate units should strive to optimize day-to-day functional integration at all organizational levels
where facilities and manpower allow and efficiencies can be gained. Base installation and facilities plans
should be examined to determine the best way to first collocate like functions common to the associating
units and, most importantly, locate functionally integrated work centers in a common space within exist-
ing installation facilities; second - add on to existing installation facilities; or third and last – build new
facilities. Airmen from both host and associate units should strive to be physically collocated to the max-
imum extent possible to provide for seamless coordination and unity of effort.
Additionally, MAJCOMs will provide oversight for the development of specific Memoranda of Agree-
ment (MOAs) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs), as required, between the host and associate
units to outline specific guidance unique to their partnership IAW public law, this instruction, policy and
guidance and the Integration Plan document.

NOTES:
For Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) directed/associated TFI initiatives, the SAF/IEI BRAC Pro-
gram Management Office (PMO) is the headquarters Air Force lead agent on these initiatives and has
implementation oversight responsibility in coordination with AF/A8X. (see paragraph 3.1.4.)
This AFI and core guidance applies to existing TFI initiatives as well as any initiative action that occurs
through the documented and approved TFI processes in the future. Should any stakeholder - MAJCOM,
the NGB, or The Adjutants General through NGB - desire to remove an initiative from consideration or
implementation, the MAJCOM/NGB OPR will announce its intentions to do so to AF/A8 and closely
coordinate that action with Offices of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) and other stakeholders. Should this
request originate from The Adjutant General (TAG), the input will be coordinated through the NGB to the
HAF/A8. Any resultant resourcing changes will be implemented through normal Air Force Corporate
Structure (AFCS) POM/APOM, OCR, PCR or budgeting actions.

1.6. Integration Initiative Organizational Constructs. This AFI implements the following three dis-
tinct integration types: Classic Associate, Active Associate (includes the Community Basing variation),
and Air Reserve Components Associate. At present, these are the only integration types allowed by law.
However, should the law change to allow for a broader subset of organizational constructs, the MAJ-
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                     7


COMs (or equivalent) will periodically investigate additional integration types to optimize surge and
steady state capabilities. Associate unit(s) will vary from full or tailored wings to groups, squadrons, and
detachments, depending on the degree and scope of the defined mission. MAJCOMs (or equivalent) will
develop Integration Plan documents in accordance with these general categories. The following para-
graphs expand on the definitions found in AFPD 90-10 to provide additional clarity.
   1.6.1. Classic Associate. An integration model in which a Regular Air Force component unit retains
   principal responsibility for a weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more reserve
   component units. Regular and reserve component units retain command authority of their own forces,
   separate organizational structures (to include UMDs), and chains of command. ANG units may also
   be tasked by the governor of their state/territory and must be allowed to fulfill those taskings consis-
   tent with provisions of public law. Varying degrees of (day-to-day work or) functional integration will
   be based on the Integration Plan objectives and as further defined in MOUs/MOAs, or other appropri-
   ate functional documents.
   1.6.2. Active Associate. An integration model in which a reserve component (Air National Guard or
   Air Force Reserve) unit retains principal responsibility for a weapon system or systems, which it
   shares with one or more regular Air Force units. Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve and Regular
   Air Force units retain command of their own forces and separate organizational structures. Varying
   degrees of (day-to-day work or) functional integration will be based on the Integration Plan objectives
   and as further defined by MOUs/MOAs, or other appropriate functional documents. ANG units may
   also be tasked by the governor of their state/territory and must be allowed to fulfill those taskings con-
   sistent with provisions of public law. Community Basing. A variation on the Active Associate model
   in which Regular component forces are garrisoned at a Guard or Reserve unit location. (Example:
   Burlington, VT TFI Initiative) Support functions traditionally provided on a Regular component
   installation (e.g., housing, medical, commissary, BX, etc.) are secured through the local civilian com-
   munity.
   1.6.3. Air Reserve Components (ARC) Associate. An integration model where the ARC Compo-
   nent integrates two or more ARC units. A designated host unit will retain principal responsibility for
   a weapon system or systems, which are shared by all. Each unit retains command of its own forces and
   separate organizational structures. ANG units may also be tasked by the governor of their state/terri-
   tory and must be allowed to fulfill those taskings. Varying degrees of functional integration will be
   based on the Integration Plan objectives and as further defined in MOUs/MOAs, or other appropriate
   functional documents.
8                                                                               AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


                                                 Chapter 2

                TOTAL FORCE INTEGRATION COMMAND ARRANGEMENTS

2.1. Purpose : Unless federally activated, it is required that ANG and AFRC units have their own chains
of command, separate both from each other and the Regular Air Force. Unless allowed by law, the legal
framework for our Reserve Components (RC) does not permit an organization, in the U.S. or its territo-
ries, composed of personnel from two or more components, to have a single chain of command under one
commander. This guidance applies to those command arrangement issues impacting functions, actions,
and activities that must be addressed in developing integration initiatives, Integration Plan documents,
MOUs, MOAs, Support Agreements (SAs), Program Plans (PPlans), Program Action Directives (PADs),
Organizational Change Requests (OCRs), and other documents as may be required to implement and exe-
cute each integration initiative.
NOTE: The Integration Plan document (formerly known as the CONOPS or Enabling Concept docu-
ment) described in this instruction is not an Air Force level Capabilities CONOPS document. The confu-
sion generated about this lexicon is the reason for the name change to “Integration Plan.”

2.2. Command Arrangements. Host and associate unit commanders are jointly responsible for attaining
and maintaining operational readiness to ensure both units are capable of operating together to ensure
unity of effort, to fulfill their shared mission. While unit commanders exercise command within their
respective chains of command, the host unit commander will exercise control, direction, or supervision
for all operational matters over all personnel assigned, attached, or detailed to the host unit to include per-
sonnel of a different component as stipulated in implementing MOUs and/or MOAs. Through MOUs/
MOAs, the Associate unit commander may detail personnel to work within the combined functional orga-
nization. Since neither commander has authority over personnel in the other’s unit, operational tasks will
be accomplished through the exercise of a concept known as “Operational Direction (OPDIR).” OPDIR
will allow functional supervisors from any component to use the concept to direct personnel detailed
under their supervision.
“Operational Direction” is defined as “the authority to designate objectives, assign tasks, and provide the
direction necessary to accomplish the mission or operation and ensure unity of effort. Authority for oper-
ational direction of one component member over members of another component is obtained by agree-
ments between component unit commanders (most often between Title 10 and Title 32 commanders)
whereby these component commanders, in an associate organizational structure, issue orders to their sub-
ordinates to follow the operational direction of specified/designated senior members of the other compo-
nent for the purpose of accomplishing their associated mission.”
NOTE: “Operational Direction” is not a formally recognized command authority along the lines of
OPCON or TACON and should not be used outside the context of this AFI. See Attachment 4 for a more
complete discussion.
Within the framework of Operational Direction, commanders should rely on delegation of authorities, as
stipulated in governing MOUs/MOAs and commander’s intent, as methods to control, direct, or supervise
personnel. The use of the framework of OPDIR is necessary because the doctrinal concept of Coordinat-
ing Authority does not provide the necessary statutorily enforceable mechanism for command arrange-
ments within functionally integrated units. For this reason, Coordinating Authority should not be used
when describing command arrangements for integration initiatives. Also, just as in a discussion of com-
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                      9


mand, although commanders may delegate authority to accomplish operational or training missions, they
cannot delegate the responsibility for the attainment of mission objectives. For this reason, the com-
mander’s intent should specify the goals, priorities, acceptable risks, and limits associated with training or
operations. Further, commanders have the authority and responsibility to influence training and/or opera-
tions and ensure mission success through other means, such as MOAs, MOUs, and designation of an
executive agent for specific functions.
NOTE: A more detailed discussion of Title 10 and Title 32 (RegAF, AFRC, ANG) Command Arrange-
ments and Operational Direction can be found in Attachment 4 of this publication.
   2.2.1. Discipline. All personnel in Title 10 status are subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice
   (UCMJ) administered by their respective chains of command. All Air National Guard personnel in
   Title 32 or state status are subject to discipline based upon the military justice codes under the laws of
   their respective states, commonwealths, district, or territories. Federal civilians are subject to disci-
   pline in accordance with the provisions of Title 5, Title 32, and/or applicable collective bargaining
   agreements. Jurisdiction for disciplinary actions will vary depending upon an individual’s duty status
   and unit of assignment/attachment. It is possible for more than one commander to have disciplinary
   authority over an individual at the same time. See Attachment 4, paragraph 2.3, for discussion on sce-
   narios under which ANG personnel may fall under two different disciplinary systems at the same
   time.
   2.2.2. Operational Readiness. The host and associate unit’s parent MAJCOM commander and the
   Director of the Air National Guard, through the auspices of the Air National Guard Readiness Center
   and The Adjutants General, are responsible for ensuring the operational readiness of their host and
   associate units and for ensuring that the training of these units conforms to established Air Force train-
   ing standards. The parent component is responsible for its own unit’s administrative, personnel, logis-
   tical, and budgetary support. Guidance on support responsibilities can be found in DoDI 4000.19,
   Interservice and Intergovernmental Support, AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, AFI
   10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces (formerly AFR 45-1), AFPD 10-9,
   Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management, and AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Proce-
   dures.
   2.2.3. Communications. Host and associate units are authorized to communicate directly with sup-
   porting MAJCOMs, centers, or agencies by means of the concept of “direct liaison authorized”
   (DIRLAUTH) to assist with day-to-day management functions. The DIRLAUTH relationships may
   change once units are chopped to a gaining Combatant Commander (CCDR). Direct communication
   between an associate unit and the host unit is authorized and encouraged.

2.3. Combatant Commander (CCDR) Command Arrangements. In accordance with JP 1-02, Opera-
tional Control (OPCON) over forces assigned or attached to a joint force resides with the CCDR (or sub-
ordinate JFC, if a subordinate JTF has been established) and is normally exercised through subordinate
Service component commanders. Administrative Control (ADCON) over assigned or attached forces is
exercised by the Service component commander (i.e. Commander of Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR)).
   2.3.1. Short of full mobilization, ANG members are assigned to the ANG Readiness Center when
   activated. For these members, the Commander, ANG Readiness Center, will be responsible for admin-
   istration, support and discipline of assigned personnel. Concurrent disciplinary authority resides with
   the respective CCDR and the CCDR’s delegatees (e.g., the COMAFFOR) for conduct occurring while
   activated individuals are attached to that command for mission execution.
10                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


     2.3.2. Short of full mobilization, AFRC members remain assigned to their respective AFRC units
     when activated. For these members, the AFRC unit commanders will be responsible for administra-
     tion, support and discipline of assigned personnel. Concurrent disciplinary authority resides with the
     respective CCDR and the CCDR’s delegatees (e.g., the COMAFFOR) for conduct while individuals
     are attached to that command for mission execution.

2.4. NGB Command Arrangements. While the National Guard Bureau exercises no command author-
ity over National Guard units, the NGB, through the auspices of the ANG directorate, is the channel of
communication between the Secretary of the Air Force and The Adjutants General on all matters related
to the Total Force Integration program within the Air National Guard.

2.5. AFRC Command Arrangements. The Air Force Reserve Command reports directly to Headquar-
ters Air Force. Operational control of AFRC units is exercised by the RegAF-gaining MAJCOM during
federal mobilization in accordance with applicable directives.

2.6. Regular Air Force Command Arrangements. T h e R e g u l a r A i r F o r c e M A J C O M w i t h
ARC-gained units has command and control of all ARC-gained units during mobilization. While these
ARC-gained units are in inactive status, the RegAF MAJCOMs provide oversight of all assigned ARC
units to ensure RegAF MAJCOM standards are maintained. The RegAF MAJCOMs are responsible for
missions and ARC-gained units as directed by Headquarters Air Force.

2.7. Participating State, Commonwealth, Territory, or District Command Arrangements. T h e
Governor (or Commanding General for the District of Columbia), through The Adjutant General and
state/commonwealth/territorial Air Headquarter’s Staff, will continue to exercise command and control of
Air National Guard forces unless those forces have been mobilized or are voluntarily in Title 10 status.
TFI initiatives will not affect the requirement to maintain unbroken ANG chains-of-command, from the
most junior enlisted Guardsman through The Adjutant General.
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                   11


                                               Chapter 3

                                 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. Headquarters Air Force Responsibilities:
   3.1.1. Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF). CSAF, acting on behalf of the Secretary of the Air
   Force (SECAF), will be the final approval authority for all integration initiatives. When approved by
   CSAF in accordance with this AFI, any initiative that involves support for federal training missions
   will satisfy the SecAF approval requirement under 32 U.S.C. Section 502(f)(2)(B).
   3.1.2. The General Counsel for the Department of the Air Force (SAF/GC). SAF/GC will pro-
   vide advice and legal oversight for Total Force Integration initiatives and issues having significant
   policy, legislation, BRAC, cross-DOD or inter-agency implications. SAF/GCM will be the authority
   within SAF/GC to oversee the review of unique operating constructs or other legally significant issues
   in consultation with AF/JAA and provide a legal sufficiency opinion in the review of Initiative
   Review Worksheet (IRW) cases described in this paragraph.
   3.1.3. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR). S A F /
   MR will provide guidance, oversight and direction of all matters pertaining to manpower; military and
   civilian personnel; reserve components and readiness support for the Department of the Air Force.
   SAF/MR will review any manpower and legislative guidance on integration initiatives, and imple-
   mentation plans initiated by AF/A8.
   3.1.4. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment, & Logistics
   (SAF/IE). SAF/IE will provide guidance, oversight, and direction on all matters pertaining to instal-
   lation issues for the Total Force Integration initiatives. SAF/IEI will review and coordinate on integra-
   tion initiatives documents based upon the underlying real estate instrument and Joint Use Agreements
   and in accordance with the provisions of AFI 10-503, Base Unit Beddown Program. For Base
   Realignment and Closure (BRAC) directed/associated TFI initiatives, the SAF/IEI BRAC Program
   Management Office (PMO) is the headquarters Air Force lead agent on these initiatives and has
   implementation oversight responsibility in coordination with AF/A8X.
   3.1.5. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/
   FM). SAF/FM will provide guidance, oversight, and direction on all matters pertaining to funding
   issues associated with Total Force Integration initiatives. This guidance and oversight could include,
   but is not limited to, recommended approaches to Flying Hour Program funding as well as other issues
   pertaining to association funding and the process by which component funds will be used and tracked.
   3.1.6. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1). AF/A1, as the focal point for Air
   Force human capital management policy development, is responsible for developing, coordinating,
   and executing manpower and personnel legislation and policies necessary for Total Force Integration
   Implementation Plans. AF/A1 will review and coordinate on all Integration Plan documents within the
   HAF Integration Plan coordination process.
   3.1.7. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2). AF/A2 will
   provide guidance, oversight, and direction on all matters pertaining to intelligence, surveillance, and
   reconnaissance issues associated with Total Force Integration initiatives. AF/A2 will review and coor-
   dinate on all Integration Plan documents within the HAF Integration Plan coordination process to
12                                                                              AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


     ensure compliance with AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities and other intelligence related
     OSD/Joint directives.
     3.1.8. Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5). The AF/A3/5 will
     oversee air, space, command and control and information operations, plans and requirements issues
     for integration initiatives and coordinate on Total Force Integration initiative Integration Plan docu-
     ments and other implementation documents. AF/A3/5 will assess and communicate AEF policy,
     AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy (AEFPP), for
     sourcing and presentation of capabilities of TFI units during the approval process for Integration Plan
     or other implementation documents. Of critical importance will be the A3/5’s role of re-shaping the
     personnel and equipment UTCs through the efforts of A5XW. AF/A3/5 will also review and assess
     air, space, command and control, cyberspace, and information operations for the operational and capa-
     bility impacts of programmatic inputs that arise as a result of implementing an integration initiative.
     3.1.9. Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (AF/A4/7). T h e A F /
     A4/7 will oversee installation and logistics issues for integration initiatives and coordinate on Total
     Force Integration initiative Integration Plan documents and other implementation documents. AF/A4/
     7 will also take part in AFCS deliberations on installation and logistics programmatic inputs that arise
     as a result of implementing an integration initiative.
     3.1.10. Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8). AF/A8 will lead Total
     Force Integration on behalf of the SECAF and facilitate coordination of initiatives among major com-
     mands, the National Guard Bureau, the Air Force Reserve, and other air staff and secretariat entities.
     The Directorate for Strategic Plans (AF/A8X), on behalf of AF/A8, is the single entry point for the
     coordination of TFI initiatives through the Total Force Integration Division (A8XF). AF/A8X will
     integrate MAJCOM developed long range positions for the Total Force into the Air Force Strategic
     Plan. In addition, AF/A8P will assign Panel/Program Element Monitor (PEM) POCs from across the
     HAF to ensure resource and policy matters are addressed within the Air Force Corporate Structure
     (AFCS) processes. AF/A8 will ensure ARC representation on all steering groups and other teams nec-
     essary to implement policy. AF/A8X will coordinate integration initiatives at the HAF level and will
     include, the NGB, the Air Force Reserve, and other Headquarters Air Force (HAF) organizations, ele-
     ments of the secretariat, direct reporting units, and forward operating elements, as appropriate. In
     addition, AF/A8X will coordinate with SAF/IEI PMO to ensure the proper review of all issues relat-
     ing to BRAC actions also identified as TFI initiatives.
     3.1.11. Judge Advocate General (AF/JA). AF/JA will provide guidance, direction, and oversight
     on legal matters affecting Total Force Integration. AF/JAA will be the authority within AF/JA for
     review, referral, and resolution for all legal issues encountered during preparation of the Initiative
     Review Worksheet and Integration Plans. Should the IRW or I-Plan expose unique operating con-
     structs or other legally significant issues, AF/JAA will refer such products to SAF/GCM for additional
     review (see para 3.1.2.). AF/JAA will review all submitted Initiative Review Worksheets and Integra-
     tion Plans for legal sufficiency prior to implementation, and will be the last functional office to review
     the document before approval by the CSAF.
     3.1.12. Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE). The Chief of Air Force Reserve will provide guid-
     ance, oversight, and direction on all AFRC integration initiatives. AF/RE will also coordinate on Total
     Force Integration initiative Integration Plan documents and other implementation documents. AF/RE
     will take part in AF Corporate Structure deliberations on AFRC programmatic inputs that arise as a
     result of implementing an integration initiative.
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                  13


   3.1.13. NGB Responsibilities:
      3.1.13.1. The NGB ANG staff performs three distinct roles. First, it performs a Headquarters Air
      Force staff function similar to that performed by the AF/RE staff to ensure the ANG equities are
      properly included and vetted for all Air Force issues. Second, within the framework of Total Force
      Integration, it assumes a role equivalent to a MAJCOM so as to collaborate with the major com-
      mands in framing and implementing integration initiatives. Third, NGB will coordinate all inte-
      gration initiatives with the appropriate TAG of the state, territory, or District of Columbia and is
      the channel of communication to the State Adjutants General.
      3.1.13.2. Prescribe training requirements for ANG units and allocate funds for that training.
      3.1.13.3. In conjunction with each MAJCOM, evaluate the readiness of ANG host and associate
      units to effectively execute or support assigned missions.
      3.1.13.4. Provide oversight and assistance with required TFI Integration Plan, MOUs, MOAs and
      support agreements documents. NGB will coordinate on Total Force Integration initiative Integra-
      tion Plan documents and other implementation documents.
      3.1.13.5. Monitor and provide assistance and support to Air National Guard units to ensure that
      ANG host and associate units possess the capability to train personnel to an operational standard
      that meets gaining MAJCOM mission objectives.
      3.1.13.6. NGB/A8, through the PPBE process, and in coordination with the NGB/FM and NGB/
      A1 functionals for near-term budget and manpower requirements, will determine long-term pro-
      gramming actions necessary for implementation.
      3.1.13.7. When a TFI initiative involves the Air National Guard, the participating state, common-
      wealth, territory, or district is the primary stakeholder through which the Integration Plan is coor-
      dinated for approval by the Air Force. The Governor (or district equivalent), through The Adjutant
      General and state/commonwealth/territory/district Air Headquarters’ Staff, is the final authority
      for all TFI initiatives involving that state/territory/commonwealth or district. The participating
      state, commonwealth, territory, or district will primarily coordinate and communicate with the Air
      Force through the NGB, however, direct communication between the participating state/common-
      wealth/territory/district and the Air Force may also be required.

3.2. MAJCOM Responsibilities: (For the purposes of this discussion, the NGB is considered a MAJ-
COM equivalent). Each MAJCOM will develop a position for long range Total Force requirements to
guide integration efforts within its command.
   3.2.1. MAJCOM Director of Plans, Requirements, and Programs offices (or equivalent) (A5 or
   A8). The lead MAJCOM Director of Plans, Requirements, and Programs offices (or equivalent) will
   act as the integration initiative POC for all units under their command or those gained by the MAJ-
   COM. Unless otherwise agreed to by the associating commands, the lead MAJCOM is the parent
   command of the organization that possesses the physical resources in the association. These offices
   are responsible for Integration Plan development and the implementation of integration initiatives
   through the use of detailed plans that set forth policies and procedures. The lead MAJCOM will
   ensure that all documents developed in support of integration initiatives are reviewed and coordinated
   upon by all of the association’s stakeholders. CSAF approved TFI initiatives will accomplish bed-
   down coordination actions as directed by AFI 10-503, Base Unit Beddown Program. In addition,
   MAJCOMs/NGB impacted by BRAC directed initiatives must also follow BRAC PAD 06-01 guid-
14                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


     ance (as amended). The lead MAJCOM will use their existing beddown processes and procedures and
     ensure compliance by including requisite information within integration initiative supporting docu-
     ments. The overarching document for each integration initiative is the Integration Plan document.
        3.2.1.1. Prior to developing or tasking for development those documents necessary for implemen-
        tation of an integration initiative, the MAJCOM/A5 or A8 will obtain MAJCOM/JA legal review
        of the completed TFI Initiative Review Worksheet which covers the proposed mission, organiza-
        tional structure, utilization of National Guard and Reserve personnel by category, and fiscal
        requirements. MAJCOM/A5 or A8 will ensure the MAJCOM OPR completes the initial concept
        review IAW the Initiative Review Worksheets template(s) provided in Attachment 3 (using either
        Annex A and/or Annex B as required) and obtain MAJCOM-level JA reviews by all association
        stakeholders. Initiatives that are already performing the mission need not accomplish an Initiative
        Review Worksheet, however, the accountable MAJCOM or NGB OPR will ensure that an Integra-
        tion Plan is crafted and forwarded to the HAF (AF/A8XF) for functional coordination and legal
        sufficiency review.
        3.2.1.2. MAJCOM/A5 or A8 will develop, or task for development, the required implementing
        documentation such as Integration Plan, MAJCOM/Numbered Air Force (NAF) level MOAs or
        MOUs, Support Agreements (SAs)(as defined by AFI 25-201), and Programming Plans. As a part
        of this process, MAJCOMs will seek Air Staff functional approval review of the Integration Plan
        document. MAJCOM/Numbered Air Force (NAF)/Unit level MOUs, MOAs, and Support Agree-
        ment development requirements are captured in AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures.
        Development of an MOU/MOA will be based on the template found in AFI 25-201, Attachment 4
        (alternatively, a sample TFI oriented MOU/MOA can be found in the TFI web site documents
        library). MOU/MOAs may contain language that indicates support agreement areas, and/or other
        topics of interest to the commanders of the associating/supported/supporting units (e.g. command
        arrangements, local policy(ies), etc.). If MOU/MOAs address support agreement areas of interest,
        the support agreement issues must also be captured on a DD Form 1144. Support Agreements will
        continue to be developed IAW AFI 25-201 and be captured on DD Form 1144.
            3.2.1.2.1. DELETED
            3.2.1.2.2. DELETED
            3.2.1.2.3. MAJCOMs will ensure that all associated ARC host and associate units are aligned
            with gained/assigned Unified Combatant Command (UCC) OPLANs IAW the associated
            units’ respective DOC statements, or equivalent documents. Parent MAJCOMs must ensure
            that host and associate units train to meet CCDR stated mission requirements. MAJCOMs will
            ensure that procedures are in place to attach individuals and units to the appropriate CCDR
            unit structure when operating in Title 10 status to ensure an unbroken operational chain of
            command.
        3.2.1.3. MAJCOM/A5 or A8, with proponent/PEM input throughout the PPBE process, and in
        coordination with the MAJCOM/FM and MAJCOM/A1 functionals for near-term budget and
        manpower requirements, will determine long-term programming actions necessary for implemen-
        tation, and proposed offsets from other programs, if investment capital or manpower is required
        (inclusive of Total Force Integration initiatives).
        3.2.1.4. MAJCOMs/ A5 or A8 will ensure the appropriate metrics (existing or developed) are
        available to evaluate whether integration initiatives are creating the desired effects. The metrics
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                  15


     should address the overall objectives of the proposed integration as stated in the I-Plan and also
     should address the objectives of other implementation documentation such as MOAs, MOUs, and
     Support Agreements. As applicable, operational indicators, at a minimum, will include but not be
     limited to, crew ratio, dwell times, absorption rates, utilization (UTE) rates, Operations Tempo
     (OPSTEMPO), and Personnel Tempo (PERSTEMPO). A5 or A8 will ensure that the appropriate
     functionals begin collection of performance measures/data at IOC.
     3.2.1.5. MAJCOM/A1, A2, A3, A4, A5, A6, A7, A8, JA, and/or FM will coordinate and collabo-
     rate on the development of all directives, instructions, and regulations impacting its units with all
     components prior to publication.
  3.2.2. The MAJCOM Director of Manpower and Personnel (or equivalent) (A1). A1 is respon-
  sible for verifying and justifying manpower requirements within an approved organizational structure
  for integration initiative units. The A1 should ensure that the manpower requirement determination
  includes identification of force mix and types of component manpower categories (i.e., RegAF, AGR,
  technician, etc.) necessary for the new or existing organization to effectively accomplish the MAJ-
  COM mission. The A1 will also assist in the development and staffing of a proposed organizational
  structure using AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, as a guideline. A1 will work closely with RegAF,
  NGB A-staff and/or AFRC equivalent of A1, A2, A3/5, A4/7, A6, A8, JA, and FM. MAJCOM and/or
  NGB A1 will establish a process to collect Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) day forecasts
  from host and associate units and POM for the MPA day resources necessary to achieve short-term
  active force needs of TFI associations. Coordination with other functional areas may be necessary. In
  addition, the A1 will coordinate with its component’s personnel functions or the respective personnel
  centers to ensure impacts to personnel assignment and training actions have been properly taken into
  consideration.
     3.2.2.1. MAJCOM/A1 will coordinate with other MAJCOM functional organizations to help
     quantify and/or identify integration initiative training implications to include any production
     surges required for the initiative, as well as changes to production requirements and continuation
     training requirements in the post-integration environment. The MAJCOM/A1 will then coordinate
     with the various Air Education and Training Command (AETC) functional training organizations
     to determine the feasibility of meeting the training requirements deadlines. Refer to AFI 16-501,
     Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 August 2006, Attachment 9, Timeline for
     Development and Programming for Education and Training Framework.
  3.2.3. MAJCOM Director of Intelligence (or equivalent) (A2). MAJCOM/A2, or the designated
  agency, will lead Total Force Integration initiatives for all intelligence issues within the command.
  MAJCOM/A2, or the designated agency will provide guidance, oversight, and direction to ensure the
  successful integration of tasking, processing, analysis, evaluation, interpretation, and dissemination of
  intelligence. MAJCOM/A2, or the designated agency will ensure that all units having an intelligence
  function are trained and evaluated IAW AFI 14-202 Volume 1, Intelligence Training, and AFI 14-104,
  Oversight of Intelligence Activities, and meet all intelligence oversight requirements, including
  required reports.
  3.2.4. MAJCOM Director of Air, Space and Information Operations (or equivalent) (A3).
     3.2.4.1. Analyze AEF implications to include the changes to both host and associate units’ pro-
     posed capability, their ability to continue to support AEF commitments, and any changes required
     in each unit’s AEF Unit Type Code (UTC) libraries.
16                                                                             AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


        3.2.4.2. Ensure Designed Operations Capability (DOC) statements/mission directives for new or
        altered TFI efforts are developed so the proper unit end state is reached and reflected on the unit’s
        DOC statement/mission directives and in the UTC Availability to meet mission requirements. Of
        critical importance will be the A3’s role in re-shaping the personnel and equipment UTCs in col-
        laboration with AF/A5XW.
        3.2.4.3. Analyze combat capabilities in proposed TFI units and advocate changes to TFI unit com-
        position to ensure rotational and mobilized combat capabilities are enhanced and absorption and
        training concerns are addressed.
        3.2.4.4. Review/update operational policies and/or procedures to reflect the requirements of asso-
        ciations.
        3.2.4.5. Coordinate on appropriate sections of Integration Plan, MOAs, MOUs, or other imple-
        menting documents to ensure A3 concerns are addressed.
     3.2.5. MAJCOM Director of Logistics and Director of Installation and Mission Support (or
     equivalent) (A4 and/or A7). Describes the Agile Combat Support concepts and changes to existing
     UTCs to reflect host and associate unit capabilities. In addition, the A7 will ensure that any facilities
     requirements (either new construction or building modifications) reflect a sharing of common work-
     spaces. It is the intent of the Air Force Corporate Structure that requirements for additional workspace
     be satisfied first by modification/additions to existing facilities prior to considering requests for new
     construction. The host MAJCOM in the association will program resources to operate and maintain all
     facilities necessary for both host unit and associate unit to perform their respective association mis-
     sion(s). These facilities will be assigned the lead MAJCOM Command Code as appropriate.
     3.2.6. The MAJCOM Inspector General (IG) will direct the development of applicable guidelines,
     procedures, and criteria to assess unit efficiency, effectiveness, combat readiness and nuclear surety of
     all MAJCOM and/or MAJCOM gained forces. For ARC units, inspection dates will be forwarded to
     the appropriate ARC Gatekeeper with a minimum one year notice to ensure annual tours are sched-
     uled accordingly.
        3.2.6.1. Gaining command MAJCOM/IGs will administer comprehensive readiness and nuclear
        surety inspections for all units as specified in AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities. The
        RegAF MAJCOM/IG will take the lead in this development effort and will collaborate with the
        respective ARC component to ensure the combat readiness of all Total Force Integration units.
        Associated Total Force units will normally be inspected as one team with personnel from each of
        the inspected component's units participating in the inspection.
        3.2.6.2. MAJCOM IGs will administer compliance inspections as specified in AFI 90-201,
        Inspector General Activities. Compliance inspections will be conducted by the MAJCOM/IG; for
        NGB units, the gaining command MAJCOM/IG team will conduct the inspection.
        3.2.6.3. MAJCOM/NGB IG complaint resolution inspectors will have visibility on al1 complaints
        resolution and Fraud, Waste, and Abuse issues or items of interest as may impact inspected inte-
        grated or associated units in order to ensure good order and discipline throughout the Total Force
        organization consistent with the provisions of AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaint Resolu-
        tion.
     3.2.7. The MAJCOM/JA will provide integration initiative legal guidance consistent with existing
     public laws, DoD, and Air Force instructions. MAJCOM/JA will:
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                  17


       3.2.7.1. Accomplish a legal review during initial concept development of the integration initiative
       using the completed TFI Initiative Review Worksheet (Attachment 3). The completed worksheet
       will address, at a minimum, the proposed mission, organizational structure, utilization of National
       Guard and Reserve personnel by category, and fiscal requirements (see Attachment 3 Annex A
       and/or Annex B for review format and guidelines). The MAJCOM/JA will review the Initiative
       Review worksheet to ensure the proposed integration is legally sufficient. Legal issues encoun-
       tered during the review may be referred to AF/JAA, which will coordinate with SAF/GCM, as
       necessary. Note: this legal sufficiency review and approval is required prior to proceeding with the
       actual Integration Plan document development or implementation.
           3.2.7.1.1. After the coordinated MAJCOM/JA review of the initiative worksheet has been cer-
           tified by the OPR MAJCOM/JA, the MAJCOM A5/A8 TFI lead will forward the worksheet to
           A8XF. Upon receipt from A8XF, AF/JAA will coordinate with SAF/GCM as discussed in
           paragraphs 3.1.2. and 3.1.11. of this AFI. When SAF/GCM coordination is not required, AF/
           JAA will serve as the final legal approval for the initiative, after which the MAJCOM may
           proceed with the development of the Integration Plan.
       3.2.7.2. Monitor JA support at each location to ensure necessary services are being provided to
       the host and associate units.
       3.2.7.3. Maintain a liaison between the components to address legal support requirements of unit
       members.
       3.2.7.4. Prepare an annex to the Integration Plan document in cases where the integration initia-
       tive’s mission requirements are impacted by multiple statutes. This annex will provide command-
       ers with clear guidance to help them stay within the bounds of the law.
       3.2.7.5. Partner with the complementary component MAJCOM/JA to visit units when specific
       issues arise which require command attention. Provide staff assistance when requested.
   3.2.8. MAJCOM/SEs. The MAJCOM/SE will develop guidance to ensure all aspects of the Air
   Force Mishap Prevention Program as addressed in the 91-series instructions are adequately integrated
   at each installation where Regular Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve Command
   personnel are assigned. Associated Total Force units will normally be inspected as one team with per-
   sonnel from each of the inspected component’s units participating in the inspection.
   3.2.9. MAJCOM/FMs will provide guidance, oversight, and direction on all matters pertaining to
   funding issues associated with Total Force Integration initiatives. This guidance and oversight could
   include, but is not limited to, recommended approaches to Flying Hour Program funding as well as
   other issues pertaining to TFI initiatives funding, Execution Plans, and the process by which MAJ-
   COM funds will be used and tracked.

3.3. TFI Component Unit Commander Responsibilities: Each unit commander is responsible for per-
sonnel management, performance reviews, career development, and administrative support for members
of their respective units consistent with public law. Command and disciplinary authority over a member
rests with the member’s unit commander and the respective chain of command. Functional supervisors,
whether RegAF, Air Force Reserve, Traditional Reservist, Air National Guard technician, Air Reserve
technician, civilian, AGR (Title 10 or Title 32), or Drill Status Guardsmen, have the authority by way of
OPDIR to guide the day-to-day functional organizations toward mission readiness. All personnel in a host
18                                                                             AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


and associate unit should be trained, tasked, inspected, and employed as a unified team to the maximum
extent possible.
     3.3.1. Manpower: Each unit, host and associate, considering the integration initiative organizational
     construct described in the Integration Plan document, should coordinate a proposed Unit Manpower
     Document (UMD) that supports desired operational capabilities with its own MAJCOM/HHQ. With
     reference to the approved Integration Plan document and the finalized UMD, the participating units
     should determine optimum functional organizational structures for day-to-day integrated operations in
     coordination with their MAJCOM A1M. While developing the functional organizations, consider-
     ation must be given to both host and associate unit training activities, deployed training activities as
     well as CONUS and OCONUS operational activities and in the case of the Air National Guard -- state
     missions. TFI organizations must properly utilize ARC personnel in various duty statuses and must be
     structured to facilitate applicable work rules in all training activities.
     3.3.2. Memoranda of Agreement (MOA), Memoranda of Understanding (MOU), and Support
     Agreements: Host and associate units (with the assistance of the host and parent MAJCOMs) will
     develop appropriate MOAs and MOUs that describe specifics regarding the integration initiative.
     MOAs and MOUs are agreements between the host and associate units and are usually signed by par-
     allel unit commanders after proper HHQ coordination by the host MAJCOM. MOAs and MOUs
     should be revised and updated from time to time as deemed necessary by the units and will include
     guidance for accomplishing unit readiness reporting requirements for each component. Development
     of an MOU/MOA will be based on the template found in AFI 25-201, Attachment 4 (alternatively, a
     sample TFI oriented MOU/MOA can be found in the TFI web site documents library). MOU/MOAs
     may contain language that indicates support agreement areas, and/or other topics of interest to the
     commanders of the associating/ supported/ supporting units (e.g. command arrangements, local pol-
     icy(ies), etc.). If MOU/MOAs address support agreement areas of interest, the support agreement
     issues must also be captured on a DD Form 1144. Support Agreements will continue to be developed
     IAW AFI 25-201 and be captured on DD Form 1144.
     3.3.3. Readiness: Host and associate units should coordinate all processes that contribute to their
     combined ability to execute desired operational capabilities.
        3.3.3.1. Unit Recall: Units in each integration initiative should determine if an integrated or sep-
        arate recall process will best serve the partnered units. Consideration must be given to varied ARC
        duty statuses, required recall response times and the different types of recall that might be
        required, including ANG recall to state service. ANG associate units may also be tasked by the
        governor of their state/territory and will fulfill those taskings consistent with provisions of public
        law.
        3.3.3.2. Mobility: Processes necessary to efficiently mobilize and deploy host and associate units
        should be coordinated and specified in local plans, policies and procedures. The host unit will
        ensure that mobilization plans and exercises include both host and associate units’ assigned assets,
        consistent with the training requirements of the associate unit. The intent is to functionally inte-
        grate to the maximum extent possible and to require participation by all of the host and associate
        unit members.
        3.3.3.3. Readiness Exercises: Host and associate units should revise exercise plans and publica-
        tions considering each component’s requirements for readiness training. ARC personnel may not
        be able to participate in readiness exercises as often as RegAF personnel due to limited fiscal
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                   19


     resources, finite training opportunities and required time away from civilian employers. Associ-
     ated units should plan exercise schedules as far in advance as possible to facilitate ARC personnel
     absence from civilian employers.
  3.3.4. Training: Airmen in all host and associate units will receive equal priority for training oppor-
  tunities whether primary to operational capabilities or ancillary in nature. Units must ensure ARC
  members who are not available day-to-day are considered when developing and executing training
  plans. Units should maximize use of video recorded/CBT training sessions to enable ARC members to
  “make-up” missed training opportunities as conditions permit. Specifics regarding the tracking of
  individual training, including required events and currencies, should be coordinated and specified in
  appropriate MOAs and MOUs.
  3.3.5. Facilities: Host and associate units should ensure integrated functions share workspaces within
  the functional organization and work together seamlessly in support of the unit mission. Integrated
  activities/functions will be collocated within the same workspaces to the maximum extent possible.
  When facilities do not permit collocation, long-term planning should include adequate space for col-
  location. As space permits, units sharing a facility should collaborate with each other to allow for the
  display of each unit’s culture and heritage. The host unit in the association will be responsible for the
  control and operation of association mission facilities and coordinate funding with the lead MAJCOM
  for the operation and sustainment of these facilities. Specifics regarding the allocation, operations, and
  maintenance of all Real Property including facilities and infrastructure should be coordinated as spec-
  ified in accordance with applicable AFIs, as supplemented, and in appropriate MOAs and MOUs.
  3.3.6. Personnel Management: Applicable personnel administration will be accomplished by the
  Commander’s Support Staff (CSS), servicing Military Personnel Flight (MPF), higher headquarters
  personnel function, or through reach back to the parent command. Likewise, government civilian
  employees assigned to integration initiative units will be serviced by the host wing Civilian Personnel
  Flight using all local policies and procedures with the exception of performance management and
  awards. Administration of civilian personnel management policies unique to Air National Guard
  Technicians will be retained by the ANG wing commander, Senior ANG technician, or designee. Cer-
  tain key supervisory ANG technician positions must be designated in writing by the unit commander/
  senior ANG technicians to act as the commander's designee. Responsibility for individual ratings,
  appraisals and professional feedback as well as official and periodic awards or decorations will be in
  accordance with applicable AFIs and MAJCOM/NGB directives as supplemented and is retained by
  each associating unit. Processes describing input from functional supervisors should be detailed in
  appropriate MOAs and MOUs.
     3.3.6.1. Disciplinary actions, including letters of counseling, letters of admonishment, letters of
     reprimand, and UCMJ actions, must be accomplished by the member’s own component
     chain-of-command (if a guardsman in Title 10 status, the Title 10 chain has authority). Short of
     full mobilization, all ANGUS members in Title 10 status will be assigned to the Air National
     Guard Readiness Center (ANGRC), and attached to the appropriate RegAF unit.
     3.3.6.2. Supervisors or commanders from one chain-of-command cannot take disciplinary action
     against a member of the other component chain of command, but shall notify the member’s
     chain-of-command of the disciplinary infraction or other matters requiring redress.
     3.3.6.3. Personnel actions must be accomplished by the member’s own component chain-of-com-
     mand (with inputs from the member’s functional supervisor if a member of another component).
20                                                                             AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


        Designation of raters for performance reports must be IAW the rules established by the member’s
        component.
        3.3.6.4. When an entire ANG unit is performing in a Title 10 status, it must be assigned to a Title
        10 organizational structure. The ANG unit must be attached to a gaining Air Force MAJCOM.
     3.3.7. Financial Management: Host and associate units should ensure that costs attributable to
     respective components are captured and sourced from appropriate funds, consistent with respective
     appropriations purposes (in compliance with Anti-Deficiency Act and Purpose Statute language) and
     in accordance with applicable AFIs and policies provided by SAF/FM, MAJCOM/FM, and/or the
     NGB/FM. This includes identifying near-term financial requirements for wing execution plan inputs,
     requirement shortfalls, monitoring execution of funds, etc. Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and
     Air National Guard supporting units will budget and manage the financial resources needed for reten-
     tion of ADCON over assigned personnel. This is necessary due to the distinctly separate appropria-
     tions authorized to support each component.
     3.3.8. Directives: The host unit, in coordination with the associating unit, will publish or revise local
     directives, instructions, and/or operating procedures. These revised directives, instructions, or operat-
     ing procedures will apply to all assigned, attached, or detailed forces and include language that
     describes command arrangements.

3.4. Deployment. All personnel within associate unit(s) and those assigned, attached, or detailed to a
host unit are eligible to deploy with the host unit based on AFPD 10-4 and all other applicable instructions
and/or MOUs/MOAs.

3.5. Total Force Integration Plan Reporting and SORTS. In order to assess the benefits of Total Force
Integration, each TFI Initiative OPR must coordinate for the capture and reporting of both implementation
and performance measures in order to report these metrics to decision makers. The Total Force Integration
Tracking Tool tracks implementation measures while performance measures are largely captured in cur-
rent SORTS processes – with a few exceptions. This requirement is designed to capture those measures
that currently exist – not to generate an additional reporting requirement – except for those few measures
of merit that are very unique to an initiative. Designated OPRs at MAJCOMs/ NGB and units will provide
updates and other information on the progress of TFI initiatives by updating the TFITT database. Unit sta-
tus will be reported through SORTS. The measures of merit listed for each objective are required to be
reported either through SORTS or to the parent MAJCOM for capture in their database at least every
thirty days.
     3.5.1. SORTS. Units or designated OPRs will be responsible to report unit status to their respective
     MAJCOMs/NGB through standard DRRS/SORTS/ARTS reporting tools and in accordance with
     established guidance and current AFIs as supplemented. These metrics will include the DRRS mea-
     sures - personnel authorizations, equipment and supplies on hand, equipment condition, and training
     measurement. SORTS reporting is not normally required for TFI initiatives until IOC is reached or as
     directed by the commander.
     3.5.2. TFI Measures of Merit Reporting. TFI specific Measures of Merit will be reported to the par-
     ent MAJCOM for capture in their database. At a minimum, these metrics should include but not be
     limited to: crew ratio, dwell times, absorption rates, utilization (UTE) rates, OPSTEMPO (Operations
     Tempo), and PERSTEMPO (Personnel Tempo).
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                       21


                                                  Chapter 4

             INTEGRATION PLAN DOCUMENT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES

4.1. Purpose. This chapter addresses the development and content of the Integration Plan document (for
both existing and future units), and highlights issues impacting functions, actions, and activities that need
to be addressed in the course of developing the document. It is intended that the MAJCOM OPR for an
integration initiative be the responsible agent for the development of the Integration Plan and that this
duty not be delegated below the level of the MAJCOM. It also addresses MAJCOM and HAF responsibil-
ities in the development of the Integration Plan document. In those cases where the initiative results in
assignment of a new or emerging mission for an ARC organization and there is no integration of forces
between components, there will be a requirement for an Initiative Review Worksheet, however the devel-
opment of an Integration Plan will not be required.

4.2. Background. Integration initiatives come from all levels - not only from inside the Air Force but
also from external sources as well (for example, the Congress or states.) Proposed TFI initiative sponsors
should acquire concurrence from MAJCOM and ANG participants by following the TFI initiatives pro-
cess steps described in Figure A2.2. Usually, the first required step in the TFI initiative process is the
development and legal review of the Initiative Review Worksheet (IRW) prior to development of the TFI
Integration Plan. The Integration Plan document sets the strategic direction for the integration initiative,
serves as the basis for the development of the supporting implementing documents, and helps frame and
define the measures for success. Development of the Integration Plan document is the necessary second
step in the process of executing integration initiatives and sets the conditions for successful implementa-
tion. Since the Integration Plan is a foundational document, the proper and thoughtful crafting of this doc-
ument is critical to the overall implementation effort. While it is the intent of this instruction to direct the
development of the Integration Plan document and define its content, major commands who lead the inte-
gration implementation efforts should develop procedures that expand upon and support this instruction.
For example, major commands should publish guidance for the development of the supporting documents
and activities (e. g. Site Activation Task Force (SATAFs), PPlans, OCRs, MOUs, MOAs, SAs, etc.)
NOTE: A detailed description of the construct and content for the Integration Plan document can be
found in Attachment 5. A sample of a completed Integration Plan that meets all TFI requirements can be
found on the TFI web site within the library reference documents section at “https://www.totalforceinte-
gration.hq.af.mil/library". In addition, other sample documents such as, MOUs/MOAs, Initiative
Review Worksheets, and initiative synopsis documents can be found at the same web location.

4.3. Integration Plan Development. HAF/MAJCOM/NGB/NAF OPRs are required to develop an Inte-
gration Plan for all existing and future Total Force Integration initiatives, including BRAC-directed asso-
ciations. In situations where there is an existing CONOP, I-Plan, or Macro CONOP/I-Plan, the OPR will
only be required to complete an I-Plan addendum that “fills in the blanks” for missing required template
information. Once the I-Plan and/or I-Plan addendum review and coordination has been accomplished at
the MAJCOM/NGB level, the I-Plan (or Addendum) OPR will submit the I-Plan to AF/A8XF for a
required HAF functional level coordination which will culminate in JAA and/or GCM review for legal
sufficiency.

4.4. Pre-Integration Plan Legal Review. Obtain MAJCOM/NGB legal review during initial concept
development of an integration initiative. This preliminary legal review, as captured in the Initiative
22                                                                            AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


Review Worksheet (See Attachment 3, Annex A and/or Annex B as appropriate), will address at a mini-
mum the proposed mission, organizational structure, utilization of National Guard and Reserve personnel
by category, and fiscal requirements. The MAJCOM/NGB OPR will complete the Total Force Integration
Initiative Review Worksheet and forward it to the MAJCOM/NGB Staff Judge Advocate (JA). See para-
graphs 3.2.7.1. and 3.2.7.1.1.

4.5. The Integration Plan Document – MAJCOM Responsibilities. (For the purposes of this AFI, the
NGB is considered equivalent to a MAJCOM headquarters level organization.) Each potential TFI asso-
ciation initiative will have a lead MAJCOM or an NGB sponsor – an OPR who will accomplish the devel-
opment of the I-Plan document. The components affected by the initiative will agree on the designation of
the lead MAJCOM or NGB organization (an OPR) at the beginning of the integration initiative process.
Normally, the lead Integration Plan document development organization will be the component with the
Unit Equipped (UE) assets for the integration initiative and will collaborate with the other components/
commands participating in the initiative. In most cases, this would be the MAJCOM or component with
the host base, mission responsibility and mission assets which form the basis for the association. When
MAJCOM to MAJCOM (or NGB) level coordination is complete, to include a MAJCOM/NGB JA
review of the document for legal sufficiency, the lead MAJCOM (or NGB) will send the draft Integration
Plan to the Air Staff TFI Integration Plan action officer (AF/A8XF) for final coordination by Air Staff
functionals and for HAF final review by AF/JA and/or SAF/GC. Once the HAF review of the integration
initiative is completed, the AF/A8XF action officer will transmit the coordinated document back to the
respective component commanders (or their representatives) for their final approval and signatures. Fol-
lowing MAJCOM level stakeholder approval signatures to the HAF reviewed document, a review of this
document will be required biannually or whenever changes impact the nature of the association. These
changes include: mission changes for either associated unit; structural adjustments to the RegAF or ARC
chains of command; PCR-type changes of personnel composition for either associated unit; and,
OCR-type changes to units within either associated unit.
     4.5.1. Prior to sending the draft Integration Plan to the Air Staff, the lead MAJCOM/NGB OPR will
     ensure the document adequately addresses the following:
        4.5.1.1. Describes the category of the initiative, its overall purpose, the MAJCOM requirement it
        supports, how it supports the MAJCOM’s long range plan to integrate the force, and the benefits
        to be achieved by the proposed integration.
NOTE: For Associations that involve Air National Guard units, as a part of the description of the initia-
tive and the unit’s mission, a description of the state mission for the Air Guard unit must be stated so that
proper equipage (as coordinated with NGB/A4) includes the ability of the unit to meet validated Home-
land Defense mission requirements. Association I-Plans, Support Agreements, MOUs and MOAs will
provide for the capability and identify the resources required for the ANG unit to respond to Federal
Homeland Defense taskings in conjunction with DOC taskings in the new association. I-Plans, Support
Agreements, MOUs and MOAs will also include language to recognize the ANG unit's responsibility to
the Governor of the state in responding to domestic emergencies and contingencies
        4.5.1.2. Ensures integration initiatives align with Air Force Doctrine and support Air Force
        CONOPS. This will be accomplished through MAJCOM A3 with DOC statement alignment and/
        or development.
        4.5.1.3. Describes the organizational construct to be implemented, to include command relation-
        ships (e.g. operational direction, command and control, administrative command and control, etc.)
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                   23


       4.5.1.4. Develops the required implementation documentation such as Addendums, MOAs or
       MOUs, Support Agreements (as defined by AFI 25-201), and Programming Plans. For associa-
       tions that involve ANG units, the development of MOUs/MOAs will be accomplished in collabo-
       ration with the respective TAG/Governor. MOAs/MOUs should address chain of command, roles,
       missions, operational tasking authorities, and procedures to adjudicate differences with regard to
       Title 10 and Title 32 authorities.
       4.5.1.5. Explains the impacts on manpower and personnel of host and associate units that may be
       caused by relocation, realignment, changes in manpower requirements, and force mix. As a part of
       the personnel requirements description, the originator will detail the types of manpower catego-
       ries, by component (i.e. RegAF, active guard reserve (AGR), technician, etc.), that are envisioned
       in the manning of this new organizational construct.
       4.5.1.6. Clearly states training implications to include any production surges required to integrate,
       as well as changes to production requirements and continuation training requirements post-inte-
       gration.
       4.5.1.7. Determines near-term budget and manpower requirements, long-term programming
       actions necessary for implementation, and proposed offsets, if investment capital or manpower is
       required.
       4.5.1.8. Analyzes Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) implications (if applicable) to
       include the units’ proposed capability to continue to support their AEF commitments, and recom-
       mend any changes required in AEF Unit Type Code (UTC) libraries.
       4.5.1.9. Describes the Agile Combat Support, including the Expeditionary Combat Support
       (ECS), concepts for the affected weapon systems and capabilities.
       4.5.1.10. Develops/Identifies Measures of Merit (MoM) to evaluate whether integration initia-
       tives are creating the desired effects. MoMs should measure the specific objectives of the pro-
       posed integration as stated in the Integration Plan and also any objectives described in other
       implementing documents, such as, MOAs, MOUs and Support Agreements. At a minimum, these
       MoMs should contain operational indicators, and may include but not be limited to: crew ratio,
       dwell times, absorption rates, utilization (UTE) rates, OPSTEMPO, and PERSTEMPO.
       4.5.1.11. Ensures that all initiatives that deal with FOA/DRU issues or operating processes have
       been properly vetted through those agencies.

4.6. The Integration Plan Document – Headquarters Air Force Responsibilities. A F / A 8 X i s t h e
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) directorate responsible for the preparation and coordination of the staffing
package for each initiative’s Integration Plan. Once MAJCOM coordination is complete, the lead MAJ-
COM or NGB POC will send the draft Integration Plan (electronic copy desired) to the AF/A8XF TFI
Integration Plan OPR for functional review and final AF/JAA and/or SAF/GCM review. The process to
ensure the draft Integration Plan is properly reviewed at the HQ USAF level is as follows:
   4.6.1. Each potential TFI initiative will have an AF/A8XF POC. The AF/A8XF POC will:
       4.6.1.1. Monitor the staffing/approval progress of the Integration Plan document.
       4.6.1.2. Prepare the HQ USAF staff package. As required/applicable, the staffing package will
       include coordination with AF/A1, AF/A2, AF/A3/5, AF/A4/7, AF/A6, AF/A8, AF/RE, NGB/CF,
       SAF/XC, SAF/MR, and SAF/FM prior to final review by AF/JAA and/or SAF GCM. If required,
24                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


        the AF/A8XF OPR will re-coordinate the Integration Plan back through the lead MAJCOM/CV or
        NGB/CF.
        4.6.1.3. Ensure the Integration Plan is entered into the Total Force Integration Tracking Tool
        (TFITT) database (DB) and that the DB is kept current throughout the staffing process and reflects
        the status of the initiative.
        4.6.1.4. Work with the lead MAJCOM OPR and/or component partners as required to resolve any
        HAF comments or concerns. If required, the AF/A8XF OPR will re-coordinate the Integration
        Plan back through the lead MAJCOM/CV or NGB/CF.
     4.6.2. Legal Review. Each Integration Plan will be reviewed for content and legal sufficiency. AF/
     JAA is responsible for providing the final review for legal sufficiency during Air Staff coordination.
NOTE: Informal reviews by AF/JAA during the coordination process are permissible and recommended;
however, the “final draft” must be reviewed before it goes back to the respective component commanders/
representatives for signature/approval. AF/JAA will ensure the Integration Plan document contains the
following closing language, “This document has been reviewed by AF/JAA (or, SAF/GCM, if appropri-
ate) and is legally sufficient.”
     4.6.3. Once AF/JAA (or, SAF/GCM, if appropriate) has coordinated on the integration initiative, the
     AF/A8XF POC will transmit the completed package back to the respective component commanders/
     representatives for signature/approval.



                                                T. MICHAEL MOSELEY, General, USAF
                                                Chief of Staff
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                              25


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
RELATED STATUTES, POLICIES, DIRECTIVES AND INSTRUCTIONS
A1-1. This policy directive augments and complements AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces, 17
May 2006, and its implementing instruction, AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component
Forces 16 August 2006.
A1-2. Functional managers will, in addition to those issuances listed in paragraphs A2-3 and A2-4, con-
sider all relevant guidance documents as they become situationally applicable.
A1-3. Governing statutes policies and directives, to include those areas modified by the NDAA of 2007.
A1-3.1. 10 U.S.C. §101, §167(b), §8013(b) et seq., §8031(a), §10102, §10110, §10111, §10112, §10113,
§10174, §10202, §10216, §10305, §10501, §12301, 12310(b), §12406
A1-3.2. 31 U.S.C. §1301(a), §1535.
A1-3.3. 32 U.S.C. §102, §109(b), §314(d), §317, §325(a)(2), §328, §502, §709.
A1-3-4. Executive Order 12333.
A1-3.5. DoD Directives:
A1-3.5.1. DoD Directive 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve Components, 25 May 2000.
Implemented by AF/RE in AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel, 1
April 1998, and AFI 36-2132, Full-Time Support (FTS) Active Guard Reserve (AGR) Program, 19 April
2005.
A1-3.5.2. DoD Directive 1225.7, Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit Stationing, 6 Jun
2001. Implemented by SAF/IE in AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 27 March 1995, and AFI
32-1012, Reserve Component Facilities Program, 22 July 1994.
A1-3.5.3. DoD Directive 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces, 7 April 2005. Implemented by AF/A4/7
in AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces, 17 May 2006, and AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air
and Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy (AEFPP), 16 June 2004, as well as AFI 10-301, Respon-
sibilities of Air Reserve Component Forces 16 August 2006 and AFI 10-402, Mobilization Planning, 1
January 1997.
A1-3.5.4. DoD 5240.1-R, Activities of DoD Intelligence Components that Affect United States Persons,
December 1982.
A1-4. Additional guidance:
A1-4.1. AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapons Systems Management, 13 June 2000.
A1-4.2. AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 1 April 1997
A1-4.3. AFPD 90-10, Total Force Integration Policy, 16 June 2006.
A1-4.4. AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 14 April 2005.
A1-5. Authorities
26                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


A1-5.1. The Secretary of the Air Force. 10 U.S.C. §8013 et seq. enumerates the various authorities of
the Secretary of the Air Force, among other things, to conduct all affairs of the Department of the Air
Force, formulate policies and programs, and prescribe regulations.
A1-5.2. Adjutants General. 32 U.S.C. §314(d) stipulates that “The adjutant general of each State…shall
make such returns and reports as the…Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe….”
A1-5.3. National Guard Bureau. 10 U.S.C. §10501(b) states that, “The National Guard Bureau is the
channel of communications on all matters pertaining to the National Guard…between the…Department
of the Air Force, and the several States.” The Chief of the National Guard Bureau is the principal adviser
to the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force on matters relating to the National Guard, and for Air
Force matters is subject to their authority.
A1-5.4. Air Force Reserve Command. 10 USC Chapter 1006 Sec. 10174 states that, “The Secretary of
the Air Force, with the advice and assistance of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, shall establish an Air
Force Reserve Command. The Air Force Reserve Command shall be operated as a separate command of
the Air Force. (b) Commander. - The Chief of Air Force Reserve is the Commander of the Air Force
Reserve Command. The commander of the Air Force Reserve Command reports directly to the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force. (c) Assignment of Forces. - The Secretary of the Air Force - (1) shall assign to the
Air Force Reserve Command all forces of the Air Force Reserve stationed in the continental United States
other than forces assigned to the unified combatant command for special operations forces established
pursuant to section 167 of this title (see note); and (2) except as otherwise directed by the Secretary of
Defense in the case of forces assigned to carry out functions of the Secretary of the Air Force specified in
section 8013 of this title, shall assign to the combatant commands all such forces assigned to the Air Force
Reserve Command under paragraph (1) in the manner specified by the Secretary of Defense.”
Note: Reserve forces in support of US Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), a Unified Combatant
Command (UCC), will be managed by Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC).
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                          27


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AF/A3/5—Deputy Chief of Staff, Air, Space, and Information Operations, Plans and Requirements
AF/A4/7—Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support
AF/A8—Director of Strategic Plans and Programs
AC—Active Component
ACS—Agile Combat Support
AD—Active Duty
ADCON—Administrative Control
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AF/JA—The Judge Advocate General of the Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGR—Active Guard and Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ART—Air Reserve Technician
ART—Air and Space Expeditionary Force UTC Reporting Tool
BOS—Base Operating Support
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure
CCDR—Combatant Commander
COCOM—Combatant Command (Command Authority)
CONOP—Concept of Operations
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DIRLAUTH—Direct Liaison Authorized
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DOD—Department of Defense
DRRS—Defense Readiness Reporting System
ERI—Enroute Readiness Inspection
28                                                  AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


FTS—Full-Time Support
GOSC—General Officer Steering Committee
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
I-Plan—Integration Plan
IAW—In accordance with
IG—Inspector General
IRW—Initiative Review Worksheet
JA—Judge Advocate
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MoM—Measures of Merit
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NSI—Nuclear Surety Inspection
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OCR—Organizational Change Request
OPDIR—Operational Direction
OPSTEMPO—Operations Tempo
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
PAD—Program Action Directive
PCR—Program Change Request
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PERSTEMPO—Personnel Tempo
PMO—Program Management Office
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning Programming Budgeting and Execution
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                   29


PPlan—Program Plan
RCs—Reserve Components
RegAF—Regular Air Force
SA—Support Agreement
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/GC—The General Counsel for the Department of the Air Force
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
SATAF—Site Activation Task Force
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training Systems
TACON—Tactical Control
TAG—The Adjutant General
TFI—Total Force Integration
TFITT—Total Force Integration Tracking Tool
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UE—Unit Equipped
USAF—United States Air Force
UTC—Unit Type Code

Terms
Activation—Order to active duty (other than for training) in the Federal service. (DODD 1235.10)
Active Associate—An ARC unit has principle responsibility for a weapon system which it shares with
one or more regular units. Reserve and regular units retain separate organizational structures and chains of
command. (AFDD2)
Active Associate—An integration model where a reserve component unit has principal responsibility for
weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more regular units. Reserve and Regular
component units retain separate organizational structures and chains of command. Varying degrees of
functional integration based MOUs. (AFPD 90-10)
   Community Basing—A variation on the Active Associate model where Regular component forces
   are garrisoned at a reserve component unit location. Support functions traditionally provided on a
   Regular component installation (housing, medical, commissary, BX, etc) are instead available in the
   local community. (AFPD 90-10)
Active Component (AC)—That portion of the armed forces as identified in annual authorization acts as
“active forces,” and in 10 USC 115 as those active-duty personnel paid from funds appropriated for
active-duty personnel. (DODI 1215.06)
30                                                                            AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


Active Duty—Full-time duty in the active Military Service of the United States. It includes full-time
training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in active Military Service, at a school designated
as a Service school by law and the Secretary of the Military Department concerned. It does not include
full-time National Guard duty. At any time, an authority designated by the Secretary concerned may order
a member of the RC under his or her jurisdiction to AD or retain the member on AD with the consent of
the member under the authority of Sections 12301(d), 12301(h) and 12322 of reference (g). However, a
member of the Army National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS) or Air National Guard of the
United States (ANGUS) may not be ordered to AD under that authority without the consent of the
Governor or other appropriate authority of the State or territory, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the
District of Columbia. For the RC, AD is comprised of the categories ADT and ADOT. (DODI 1215.06)
Active Duty for Operations Support (formerly known as Active Duty for Special Work)—
Authorized voluntary AD for RC personnel funded through applicable military or Reserve personnel
appropriations (ADOS-AC funded or ADOS-RC funded) to support AC or RC programs, respectively.
The purpose of ADOS is to provide the necessary skilled manpower assets to support existing or
emerging requirements. (DODI 1215.06)
Active Duty for Training (ADT)—A category of AD that shall be used to provide structured individual
and/or unit training, including on-the-job-training, or educational courses to RC members. Included in the
ADT category are annual training (AT), initial ADT (IADT), and other training duty (OTD). The primary
purpose of ADT is to provide individual and/or unit readiness training. Support to mission requirements,
i.e., operational support, may occur as a consequence of performing ADT. (DODI 1215.06)
Active Duty Other than for Training (ADOT)—A category of AD used to provide RC support to either
AC or RC missions. It includes the categories of active duty for operational support (ADOS) (formerly
active duty for special work (ADSW)), Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) duty, and involuntary AD
pursuant to Sections 12301, 12302, and 12304 of reference (g) and Section 712 of reference (h). Training
may occur as a consequence of performing ADOT.
Active Guard and Reserve (AGR)—National Guard and Reserve members who are on voluntary active
duty providing full-time support to National Guard, Reserve, and Active Component organizations for the
purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the Reserve Components. (JP
1-02)
Administrative Control (ADCON)—Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other
organizations in respect to administration and support, including organization of Service forces, control of
resources and equipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and unit training, readiness,
mobilization, demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included in the operational missions of the
subordinate or other organizations. (JP 1-02)
Agile Combat Support CONOPS—ACS CONOPS details the capability to create, protect, and sustain
Air and Space Forces across the full range of military operations and provides the foundational,
cross-cutting, and distinctive capabilities that enable operational AF CONOPS. The ACS CONOPS
promotes highly mobile, technologically superior, robust, responsive, flexible, and fully integrated
support for all combat operations. (AFI 10-2801)
Air Force—“The Air Force consists of — (1) the Regular Air Force, the Air National Guard of the
United States, the Air National Guard while in the service of the United States, and the Air Force Reserve;
(2) all persons appointed or enlisted in, or conscripted into, the Air Force without component; and (3) all
Air Force units and other Air Force organizations, with their installations and supporting and auxiliary
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                       31


combat, training, administrative, and logistic elements; and all members of the Air Force, including those
not assigned to units; necessary to form the basis for a complete and immediate mobilization for the
national defense in the event of a national emergency.” (10 USC, Section 8062(d))
Air Force Reserve (AFR)—“The Air Force Reserve is a reserve component of the Air Force to provide
a reserve for active duty. It consists of the members of the officers' section of the Air Force Reserve and
of the enlisted section of the Air Force Reserve. It includes all Reserves of the Air Force who are not
members of the Air National Guard of the United States.” (10 USC 1003 sec 10110)
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)—“- (a) Establishment of Command. - The Secretary of the Air
Force, with the advice and assistance of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, shall establish an Air Force
Reserve Command. The Air Force Reserve Command shall be operated as a separate command of the Air
Force. (b) Commander. - The Chief of Air Force Reserve is the Commander of the Air Force Reserve
Command. The commander of the Air Force Reserve Command reports directly to the Chief of Staff of
the Air Force. (c) Assignment of Forces. - The Secretary of the Air Force - (1) shall assign to the Air Force
Reserve Command all forces of the Air Force Reserve stationed in the continental United States other
than forces assigned to the unified combatant command for special operations forces established pursuant
to section 167 of this title; and (2) except as otherwise directed by the Secretary of Defense in the case of
forces assigned to carry out functions of the Secretary of the Air Force specified in section 8013 of this
title, shall assign to the combatant commands all such forces assigned to the Air Force Reserve Command
under paragraph (1) in the manner specified by the Secretary of Defense. (10 USC Chapter 1006 Sec.
10174)”
Air National Guard (ANG)—"Air National Guard" means that part of the organized militia of the
several States and Territories, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, active and inactive, that - (A) is
an air force; (B) is trained, and has its officers appointed, under the sixteenth clause of section 8, article I
of the Constitution; (C) is organized, armed, and equipped wholly or partly at Federal expense; and (D) is
federally recognized. (US Code, Title 32, Section 101 (6) – also, US Code Title 10, section 101 (4)).
Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS)—The reserve component of the Air Force all of
whose members are members of the Air National Guard. (US Code, Title 32, Section 101 (7) – also, US
Code, Title 10, Section 101 (5)).
Air Reserve Component (ARC)—The forces of Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve
Command. Also called ARC. (HQ AFRC, HQ ANG) (AFDD 1-2)
Air Reserve Components (ARC) Associate—Two or more ARC units integrate with one retaining
principal responsibility for the weapon system. Each unit retains separate organizational structures and
chains of command. (AFDD2)
Air Reserve Components (ARC) Associate—An integration model where the ARC components
integrate two or more ARC units with one component’s unit retaining principal responsibility for weapon
system or systems, which are shared by all. Each unit retains separate organizational structures and chains
of commands. Varying degrees of functional integration are based on MOUs. (paragraph 1.6.3.)
Air Reserve Technician (ART) Also see Military Technician (Dual Status)—Air Reserve Technicians
(ARTs) are federal civil service employees who are hired to ensure stable, continuous management of the
part-time Ready Reserve. As a condition of employment, they must be Ready Reservists, training with the
units that employ them. ARTs are a nucleus of managers, planners and trainers who have knowledge and
expertise to smooth an Air Force Reserve Command unit's transition from a peacetime to a wartime
environment. They provide management continuity, equipment maintenance and training support to help
32                                                                              AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


keep their units combat ready. Aside from being tasked to perform these duties to include their wartime
skills, ARTs in various career fields also perform the unit's full-time mission (e.g., base operations support
functions). ARTs who lose their Reserve assignment may be subject to separation from their civil service
position. Numerous factors affect such a determination, including the reasons for the loss, the type of
position occupied, physical limitations, etc. Different factors apply to different situations and the potential
combinations are too numerous to mention here. (AF/REP)
Annual Training (AT)—The minimal period of training reserve members (Guard associated with their
Reserve (Guard) Component assignment per Joint Publication 1-02)(12 or 14 days for Ready Reserve
assignments per AFMAN 36-8001) must perform each year to satisfy the training requirements. Funding
for annual tours is obtained through the utilization of Reserve Personnel Appropriation (RPA)/National
Guard Personnel Appropriation (NGPA) Man-days for AFRC and ANG personnel respectively.
Reservists receive full military benefits during this period IAW AFI 36-8001. It is also called Annual
Field Training for Category A Reservists, which is a fifteen day training period in which Reservists are
placed on active duty for training purposes.
Assign—(DOD, NATO) 1. To place units or personnel in an organization where such placement is
relatively permanent, and/or where such organization controls and administers the units or personnel for
the primary function, or greater portion of the functions, of the unit or personnel. 2. To detail individuals
to specific duties or functions where such duties or functions are primary and/or relatively permanent. See
also attached forces. (JP 1-02)
Attach—(DOD) 1. The placement of units or personnel in an organization where such placement is
relatively temporary. 2. The detailing of individuals to specific functions where such functions are
secondary or relatively temporary, e.g., attached for quarters and rations; attached for flying duty. (JP
1-02)
Availability—(DOD) Availability shown in the apportionment tables is based on a unit’s capability to
start and sustain movement from its normal geographic location (installation or mobilization station).
Forward-deployed (in-place) forces are assumed to be available immediately for employment or
repositioning. Forces are listed with availability as it pertains to notification day for Active forces, and
PSRC and partial mobilization for Reserve forces. (CJCSM 3110.01A/JSCP)
Civil Service Employee (CIVs)—Personnel hired pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3101 to provide administrative
support to RC units. They are in the category of FTS to the RCs, but are not part of the Selected Reserve.
This category is exclusive of dual-status MTs and NDSTs. (DODI 1215.06)
Classic Associate—A regular Air Force unit retains principal responsibility for a weapon system that it
shares with one or more ARC units. Administrative control will remain with the respective components.
(AFDD2)
Classic Associate—An integration model where a Regular Air Force component unit retains principal
responsibility for weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more Reserve Component units.
Regular and Reserve component units retain separate organizational structures and chains of command.
Varying degrees of functional integration based on MOUs. (AFPD 90-10)
Command—1. The authority that a commander in the Armed Forces lawfully exercises over
subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and responsibility for
effectively using available resources and for planning the employment of, organizing, directing,
coordinating, and controlling military forces for the accomplishment of assigned missions. It also
includes responsibility for health, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned personnel. 2. An order given
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                  33


by a commander; that is, the will of the commander expressed for the purpose of bringing about a
particular action. 3. A unit or units, an organization, or an area under the command of one individual. See
also combatant command; combatant command (command authority). Also called CMD. (JP 1-02)
Command and Control (Also called C2)—The exercise of authority and direction by a properly
designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission.
Command and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment,
communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing,
coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission. (JP 1-02)
Command Relationships—The interrelated responsibilities between commanders, as well as the
operational authority exercised by commanders in the chain of command; defined further as combatant
command (command authority), operational control, tactical control, or support. (JP 1-02)
Control—Authority that may be less than full command exercised by a commander over part of the
activities of subordinate or other organizations. (JP 1-02)
Detailing—The placement of a member of one service component to another service component to allow
that individual to work day-to-day in a squadron commanded by another component commander (e.g.,
Title 10 working in a Title 32 squadron and vice versa).
Drill Status Guardsman (DSG)—Air National Guard officer or enlisted members of the Selected
Reserve required to assemble for drill and instruction, including indoor target practice, at least 48 times
each year; and participate in training at encampments, maneuvers, outdoor target practice, or other
exercises, at least 15 days each year (32 USC 502). DSGs can be activated (voluntarily or involuntarily)
to active duty.
Extended Active Duty (EAD)—An active duty status (normally for more than 90 days) other than active
duty for training or temporary tours of active duty. Personnel on EAD are assigned to an active duty unit,
and accountability is against active force strength. (AFMAN 36-8001)
Direct Liaison Authorized—That authority granted by a commander (any level) to a subordinate to
directly consult or coordinate an action with a command or agency within or outside of the granting
command. Direct liaison authorized is more applicable to planning than operations and always carries
with it the requirement of keeping the commander granting direct liaison authorized informed. Direct
liaison authorized is a coordination relationship, not an authority through which command may be
exercised. Also called DIRLAUTH. (JP 1-02)
Full-time National Guard Duty (FTNGD)—Training or other duty, other than inactive duty, performed
by a member of the ARNGUS or the ANGUS in a member's status as a member of the National Guard of
a state or territory, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia pursuant to Sections.
316, 502, 503, 504, or 505 of reference (i) for which the member is entitled to pay from the United States,
or for which the member has waived pay from the United States. FTNGD is active service. (DODI
1215.06)
Functional Component Command—(DOD) A command normally, but not necessarily, composed of
forces of two or more Military Departments which may be established across the range of military
operations to perform particular operational missions that may be of short duration or may extend over a
period of time. See also component; Service component command. (JP 1-02)
Inactive Duty Training (IDT)—Authorized training performed by members of an RC not on AD or
FTNGD, and performed in connection with the prescribed activities of the RC, of which they are a
34                                                                            AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


member. It consists of regularly scheduled unit training periods, ATPs, and equivalent training. (DODI
1215.06)
Integration—The process of harmonizing the organization of two or more Air Force component units
(including Regular Air Force, Guard, and Reserve Components, civilians and contractors) in order to
unify training, equipping, supply, recruiting, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing, administering,
maintaining, etc. (AFPD 90-10)
Lead Agency—(DOD) Designated among U.S. Government agencies to coordinate the interagency
oversight of the day-to-day conduct of an ongoing operation. The lead agency is to chair the interagency
working group established to coordinate policy related to a particular operation. The lead agency
determines the agenda, ensures cohesion among the agencies and is responsible for implementing
decisions. (JP 1-02)
MACRO Integration Plan—A MAJCOM to MAJCOM/NGB level plan, crafted and coordinated solely
at the MAJCOM level, that identifies a class of Total Force Integration initiatives and sets a strategic
direction for this class of initiative, serves both as a basis for the development of an association specific
I-Plan addendum and supporting implementation documents, and does not contain unit specific
implementation concepts or details.
Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) Man-Days [10 USC 12301(d)]—Support short-term needs
of the active force by authorizing mandays annually to non-Extended Active Duty (EAD) officers, NCOs
and airmen. These days are offered at the convenience of the government and when there is a temporary
need for ARC personnel with unique skills or resources that cannot be economically met in the active
force. Pay and allowances for personnel performing man-days is from the MPA account (an active duty
account) managed by AF/A1XX. ARC member must volunteer to perform MPA (AFI 36-2619).
Military Technician (Dual Status)—A Federal civilian employee who is (a) employed under section
3101 of title 5 or section 709 of title 32 ; (b) required as a condition of that employment to maintain
membership in the Selected Reserve; and (c) assigned to a civilian position as a technician in the
organizing, administering, instructing, or training of the Selected Reserve/National Guard or in the
maintenance and repair of supplies or equipment issued to the Selected Reserve/National Guard or the
armed forces. Air Reserve Technicians (ARTs) perform as Category A reservists when in Military Status.
All dual status military technicians must be in mobilization positions (excludes National Guard civilian or
contract “technicians” hired under 32 U.S.C. and personnel identified as Status Quo) per the Reserve
Component 101 Handbook (10 USC 10216, 5 USC 3101, 32 USC 709, ANGI 36-101 and the OASD
(RA) Reserve Component Primer).
Mobilization—The act of assembling and organizing national resources to support national objectives in
time of war or other emergencies; the process by which the Armed Forces or part of them are brought to a
state of readiness for war or other national emergency. This includes activating all or part of the RC and
assembling and organizing personnel, supplies, and materiel. Mobilization of the Armed Forces includes,
but is not limited to the following categories:
     Selective Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by the
     Congress and/or the President to mobilize RC units, the IRR, and the resources needed to meet the
     requirements of a military operational mission or specific domestic emergency as prescribed by
     statute.
     Partial Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by the Congress
     (up to full mobilization) or by the President (not more than 1,000,000 for not more than 24
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                  35


   consecutive months) to mobilize Ready RC units, individual Reservists, and the resources needed for
   their support to meet the requirements of a war or other national emergency involving an external
   threat to the national security.
   Presidential Reserve Call-up (PRC) [10 USC 12304]—If the President determines that it is
   necessary to augment the active forces for any operational mission, the Service secretary or his
   designate may order not more than 200,000 of the Select Reserve to active duty (other than for
   training) for the not more than 365 consecutive days. Up to 30,000 members of the Individual Ready
   Reserve may be part of the 200,000 Select Reserve total. The President does not have to declare a
   national emergency but does have to inform Congress. The PRC may be used to cover incidents
   involving Weapons of Mass Destruction.
   Full Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by the Congress and
   the President to mobilize all RC units in the existing approved force structure, all individual
   Reservists, retired military personnel, and the resources needed for their support to meet the
   requirements of a war or other national emergency involving an external threat to the national security.
   Reserve personnel can be placed on active duty for the duration of the emergency plus 6 months.
   Total Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by the Congress
   and the President to organize and/or generate additional units or personnel beyond the existing force
   structure, and the resources needed for their support, to meet the total requirements of a war or other
   national emergency involving an external threat to the national security. (DODD 1235.10 – consistent
   with JP 1-02)
   NOTE: Refer to current Department of Defense Mobilization/Demobilization policy for addi-
   tional guidance on mobilization issues.
“National Guard”—means the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard. (USC Title 32,
section 101 (3) also, USC Title 10, section 101 (c)(1))
Non-Dual Status Technicians—Civilian employees employed by the Department of Defense as
technicians but who are not required to maintain military membership in the Selected Reserve. The total
number of non-dual status technicians employed by the National Guard may not exceed 1,950. Effective
October 1, 2007, the total number of non-dual status technicians employed by the Army Reserve and Air
Force Reserve may not exceed 175 (10 USC 10217, 32 USC 709, Reserve Component 101 Handbook).
Operations Tempo—The rate at which units of the armed forces are involved in all military activities,
including contingency operations, exercises, and training deployments. (US Code Title 10, Chap 23,
section 487)
Operational Control—Command authority that may be exercised by commanders at any echelon at or
below the level of combatant command. Operational control is inherent in combatant command
(command authority) and may be delegated within the command. When forces are transferred between
combatant commands, the command relationship the gaining commander will exercise (and the losing
commander will relinquish) over these forces must be specified by the Secretary of Defense. Operational
control is the authority to perform those functions of command over subordinate forces involving
organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and giving
authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. Operational control includes authoritative
direction over all aspects of military operations and joint training necessary to accomplish missions
assigned to the command. Operational control should be exercised through the commanders of
subordinate organizations. Normally this authority is exercised through subordinate joint force
36                                                                             AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


commanders and Service and/or functional component commanders. Operational control normally
provides full authority to organize commands and forces and to employ those forces as the commander in
operational control considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions; it does not, in and of itself,
include authoritative direction for logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal organization,
or unit training. Also called OPCON. (JP 1-02)
Operational Direction—The authority to designate objectives, assign tasks, and provide the direction
necessary to accomplish the mission or operation and ensure unity of effort. Authority for operational
direction of one component member over members of another component is obtained by agreements
between unit commanders (most often between Title 10 and Title 32 commanders) whereby these
component commanders, in an associate organizational structure, issue orders to their subordinates to
follow the operational direction of specified/designated senior members of the other component for the
purpose of accomplishing their associated mission.
NOTE: “Operational Direction” is not a formally recognized command authority along the lines of
OPCON or TACON and should not be used outside the context of this AFI.
Personnel Tempo (PERSTEMPO)—Personnel Tempo is a quality of life measurement that measures
the amount of time an individual spends away from his or her home station for operational and training
purposes which includes TDY and designated dependent-restricted PCS assignments. Individuals serving
on designated unaccompanied tours are counted as “deployed” for PERSTEMPO purposes whether they
have dependents or not. The desired maximum number of days TDY per person in a 12-month period is
120. (AFPD 36-21)
PUSH-PULL—The system used by the Air Force to mobilize IRR, Standby, and Retired members. The
Air Force determines in advance the number of individuals, by skill, and tells the Air Force Personnel
Center to mobilize those individuals to a technical training location for the purpose of uniform reissue,
medical qualification testing, and skills training needs. Once completed, the individuals are reported as
available for assignment, and assigned where needed. (AFI 36-2633)
Regular Air Force (RegAF)—-The Regular Air Force is the component of the Air Force that consists of
persons whose continuous service on active duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of
retired members of the Regular Air Force. (b) The Regular Air Force includes -- (1) the officers and
enlisted members of the Regular Air Force; (2) the professors, registrar, and cadets at the United States
Air Force Academy; and (3) the retired officers and enlisted members of the Regular Air Force. (10 USC,
Section 8075)
Reserve Components (RCs)—The Reserve Components of the U.S. Armed Forces are: the Army
National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS), the U.S. Army Reserve (USAR), the U.S. Navy Reserve
(USNR), the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve (USMCR), the Air National Guard of the United States
(ANGUS), the U.S. Air Force Reserve (USAFR), and the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve (USCGR). (DODI
1215.06)
Stop Light Chart Definitions:—
     Red: the mission is in jeopardy and management action must be taken to correct the problem—
     Examples of this might be: the process is failed, the document has not been written/staffed, there is no
     known get well date, or cannot meet established milestones, lack of funding for support, etc.
     Yellow : the job is getting done but there are problems …however, there is a get well date plus
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                  37


   management is monitoring the situation—Examples might be: data points on a control chart might
   be headed in the wrong direction, the document is being staffed and is behind schedule, the numbers
   aren’t right, work-arounds are required, etc.
   NOTE: Any yellow or red indicator will require that the MAJCOM (or the responsible command/
   functional agency) provide an explanation of why things are not green and a get well plan.
   Green: Everything is up and running, no problems, progressing to meet deadlines—E x a m p l e s
   might be: time lines are being met, data is all coming back within limits, documents have completed
   the staffing process (or in the case where the timing is not an issue, documents are being produced and
   are projected to be ready in time for execution of activities). (AF/A8X)
The Adjutant General (TAG)—The officer in charge of the National Guard in one of the U.S. states,
territories, or District of Columbia. (AF/A8X)
Total Force—The US Air Force organizations, units, and individuals that provide the capabilities to
support the Department of Defense in implementing the national security strategy. Total Force includes
Regular Air Force, Air National Guard of the United States, and Air Force Reserve military personnel, US
Air Force military retired members, US Air Force civilian personnel (including foreign national direct-
and indirect-hire, as well as non-appropriated fund employees), contractor staff, and host-nation support
personnel. (AFDD 1-2)
Total Force Integration Tracking Tool (TFITT)—A database created for all TFI initiatives to monitor
implementation status of each using a “stop light” dashboard for critical implementation components.
This database provides the impetus for all stakeholders to engage in a collaborative process to ensure this
single source of initiative data is updated and accurate. (AF/A8X)
Traditional Reservist (TR)—A drilling unit member of the Selected Reserve who must participate in at
least 48 scheduled drills or training periods during each year and serve on active duty for training of not
less than 14 days during each year; or serve on active duty for training not more than 30 days during each
year (10 U.S.C. 10143, 10147). TRs can be mobilized (voluntarily or involuntarily) to active duty.
Unit Training Assembly (UTA)—An authorized and scheduled period of unit inactive duty training of a
prescribed length of time. (JP 1-02)
Unit Type Code—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of five characters that
uniquely identify a "type unit." (JP 1-02)
Volunteerism—The process by which the SECAF places on active duty those ARC members who have
volunteered for activation. The ARC structure retains ADCON except for forces attached to the
COMAFFOR; the COMAFFOR has specified ADCON over assigned and attached forces. OPCON
transfers in accordance with SecDef orders. Volunteerism is usually used as a bridge to expand regular
component force capabilities while awaiting legal authority for Presidential Reserve Callup authority.
Volunteerism is used to partially offset high regular component operational tempos in the overseas
theaters and in CONUS. (AFDD2)
38                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


                                              Attachment 2

  INTEGRATION INITIATIVE COORDINATION RELATIONSHIPS AND PROCESS ROAD
                                 MAPS
NOTE: This depiction is intended to show the inter-relationships between the various contributors in the
overall Total Force Integration effort. Nothing in this chart is intended to suggest any abrogation of func-
tional responsibilities by Secretariat, Air Staff, MAJCOM, state military department representatives, or
components of the units themselves.

Figure A2.1. Integration Initiative Coordination Relationships
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                 39


Figure A2.2. Integration Initiative Road Map




WG: Working Group
IPT: Integrated Process Team
GOSC: General Officer Steering Committee
Integration Initiatives to A8: Integration initiatives are likely to come from a variety of sources. Those
ideas originating from the units should find their way to the MAJCOM/NGB for submission by the MAJ-
COM/NGB to A8 and must be MAJCOM requirements based. Also, ideas from the Congress or other out-
side sources are most likely to come to A8 by way of either the SECAF or the CSAF.
Assign lead A8XF AO and Panel OCR: Once an Integration Initiative has been identified, an A8XF AO
will be assigned lead coordination responsibilities and a Panel OCR will be chosen. At this point, the
Panel OCR’s only responsibility is to be aware of the fact that there is an initiative that may come in to
play that may affect his Panel’s POM portfolio.
Vet Initiative – WG/IPT/GOSC: The “Vet Initiative” process step includes the transmission of the
results of the GOSC deliberations by means of a staff summary sheet with its accompanying background
information to the CSAF.
40                                                                          AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


CSAF Approval: CSAF approval of initiatives, may occur either by direct communication to A8 to direct
MAJCOM efforts required to implement an initiative, or by means of approval of recommendations for
initiatives that come to him for approval from the WG/IPT/GOSC vetting. Communication of approved
initiatives will be transmitted by A8XF to the originators of the initiative for further implementation
actions by the associating parties. CSAF initiative/mission approval is not a substitute for the usual Air
Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) process and actual implementation may depend on the outcomes of the
AFCS deliberative process.
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                    41


                                              Attachment 3

                        TOTAL FORCE INTEGRATION
                     INITIATIVE REVIEW WORKSHEETS
                                   FOR
    AIR FORCE RESERVE AND AIR NATIONAL GUARD INTEGRATION INITIATIVES


Purpose: This appendix provides the major commands, the Air National Guard, and the Air Force
Reserve with a comprehensive Initiative Review Worksheet (IRW) which must be accomplished for each
initiative. These Initiative Review Worksheets are designed to be completed by the MAJCOM OPR for an
initiative and coordinated through the associating components. They highlight the legally significant
aspects of mixed-component associations and require the MAJCOM OPR to address these aspects early
in the concept development effort.


References: The references for these checklists have already been defined within Attachment 1.


General: It is mandatory for one (or possibly both) of these worksheets to be accomplished for each ini-
tiative. The completed worksheet is then required to be sent to the MAJCOM OPR JA who will also seek
OCR JA(s) concurrence for legal sufficiency. The procedures for IRW JA review are set out in paragraphs
3.2.7.1. and 3.2.7.1.1. for processing. Each of these worksheets is designed to accomplish two distinct
actions. First, each of the worksheets is designed to solicit inputs that will frame and define each individ-
ual integration initiative’s Integration Plan. Second, each of the worksheets is also structured to provide
the users the background legal and regulatory guidance that will help them to successfully develop sup-
porting documentation (i.e. Integration Plan documents, MOUs, MOAs, SAs, PPlans, PADs, etc.). Should
you have any comments or recommendations for improvement of these worksheets, please forward your
inputs to AF/A8XF. The cognizant OPR within AF/A8XF will forward your inputs to AF/JAA and/or
SAF/GCM for consideration. Also, please keep in mind that changes to public law may require revision
of these worksheets.
42                                                                              AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


                                                Appendix A
                          Total Force Integration Initiative Review Worksheet
                                [Plans involving the Air National Guard]


Designation of this Initiative: [Specific ANG Unit and MAJCOM designation. (If a unit designation is
not yet available, use some unique identifier that will clearly refer back to the organization in the future.)]


Legal Review and Certification to be Accomplished by: [Specific MAJCOM/JA from the MAJCOM
designated by AF/A8XF as OPR for the initiative]
(Note: After the worksheet is forwarded to AF/A8XF in accord with paragraph 3.2.7.1.1., SAF/GCM or
AF/JAA will accomplish final HAF legal review for AF/A8XF.)


Due Date for Review Certification: [Date]


                                                Instructions:
1. The MAJCOM responsible for I-Plan completes Part 1, General Information, on this docu-
   ment.
2. Organization responsible for integration plan development completes the applicable sections of
   Part 2, Integration Plan Development, on this document. (Boxes will “expand” as needed to
   accommodate the text in each section.)
3. Legal review and certification are performed by the legal office indicated above, on this docu-
   ment. (That office obtains operational review at the same time.)
NOTE: The Guiding Principles outlined in this document are based on current law as of January
2007. If you have questions about these principles or how they apply to your particular Integration
Plan, please contact your staff judge advocate.


                                 PART 1. GENERAL INFORMATION
                              (To be completed by the responsible MAJCOM)


                                Description of Initiative: (Please describe)


               [Provide a short description of the Total Force Integration Initiative, here]
Describe, here, the purpose of the initiative and what/whose MAJCOM requirement it is intended to
fulfill. (i.e. Purpose of the initiative, background, organizational structure/make-up, desired end state or
outcome and who the gaining/beneficiary MAJCOM will be in the event of full mobilization)
                                      Mission Statement: (Please describe)
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                43



                             [Provide ANG unit mission statement, here.]




Measures of Success: (Describe what the measure of success will be for Initial Operating Capability
(IOC) and final operating capability (FOC))


[Quantify and describe how “success” will be measured at IOC and FOC, including, for example, the
number of Primary Aircraft Assigned, crew ratio, capacity, throughput, etc. If the organization will be
responsible for multiple missions (e.g., ongoing operational mission and FTU) describe them
separately.]


Part 2. Integration Plan Development


Section I. Chain of Command and Organizational Structures
[Review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required information in
Subsection B consistent with those principles.]
A. Guiding Principles
1. There are separate chains-of-command for Regular Air Force (Title 10) and Air National Guard
   (ANG) members (Title 32 or State Active Duty (SAD)), with the RegAF chain-of-command flowing
   from the President of the United States and the ANG chain-of-command flowing from the Governor
   of the State
2. To achieve functional integration and unity of effort, members of one status (Title 10, Title 32, or
   SAD) may be ordered by their respective chains of command to accept “operational direction” from
   members in another chain of command in accordance with a Memorandum of Understanding between
   the ANG unit and the associated Regular Air Force unit. Any limits on the scope of the direction must
    be clearly stated in the MOU. (See Section II below)
3. Disciplinary actions, including letters of counseling, letters of admonishment, letters of reprimand,
    and UCMJ actions, must be accomplished by the member’s own component chain-of-command (if a
    guardsman is in Title 10 status, the Title 10 chain has authority.). All ANGUS members in Title 10
    status will be assigned to the Air National Guard Readiness Center (ANGRC), and attached to the
    appropriate RegAF unit.
4. Supervisors or commanders from one chain of command cannot take disciplinary action against a
   member of the other component chain of command, but shall notify the member’s chain-of-command
   of the disciplinary infraction or other matters requiring redress.
5. Personnel actions must be accomplished by the member’s own component chain-of-command (with
    inputs from the member’s functional supervisor if a member of another component). Designation of
    raters for performance reports must be IAW the rules established by the member’s component.
6. When an entire ANG unit is performing in a Title 10 status, it must be assigned to a Title 10
    organizational structure. The ANG unit must be attached to a gaining Air Force MAJCOM.
44                                                                            AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
item.)
1. Describe, in detail, the organizational structure of the proposed ANG unit and its relationship with an
   integrated or associated RegAF unit, if any. (Attach a “wiring diagram”).

2. Describe with specificity the proposed chain-of-command for the ANG unit in Title 32 status,

3. Describe with specificity the proposed chains-of-command for the ANG unit and/or ANG members
   when performing duty in Title 10 status. [This may require more than one description if the
   integration plan includes both activation of the entire unit in some circumstances, and of only
   individual members in other circumstances.]

4. Describe how functional integration will be achieved if an associate unit is proposed and identify
   what MOUs are necessary to achieve cross-component unity of effort.



II. Support of Federal Operations or Missions
Does the purpose of the unit require the unit, or members of the unit, to perform or support federal
operational missions on a routine basis (e.g., day-to-day, or as a regular part of their military
activities -- other than unit mobilization)?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required information
in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles:
1. Generally, all Federal missions must be performed in Title 10 status, (absent specific SECDEF
    authorization for federal nexus missions to be performed in Title 32 status.) (See II.A.4. below for
    limited exception where performance of the Federal mission is incidental to ANG training.)
2. All training outside the United States and its territories must be accomplished in Title 10 status (absent
    specific SECDEF authorization for them to be performed in Title 32 status.)
3. The mission of the ANG unit in Title 32 status is to train for their federal mission, not to perform a
    federal mission. Title 32 activities must be consistent with this purpose.
4. ANG members in Title 32 status may support federal operations or missions while training, but that
    support must be incidental to the purpose of training, and consistent with the unit’s formalized
    training program.
5. ANG members may support federal operations or missions undertaken by the members’ unit at the
    request of the President or SECDEF, as an additional duty.
6. ANG members who perform a federal mission in Title 10 status must be attached or assigned to a
   specified organization in Active Duty status that is subject to operational or tactical control of the
   appropriate combatant command, while performing that mission.
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                   45


7. Change of status (into and out of Title 10 status) must be accomplished by federal direction, with the
   specific beginning and end points clearly identified in the federal order.
8. All activities in support of CCDR operations and missions must be performed under the OPCON or
    TACON of the appropriate CCDR, Air Force Component Commander or Joint Task Force
    commander.
9. All duty positions that will require the ANG member to be in federal chain of command to accomplish
   the federal mission must be clearly identified with arrangements in place to accomplish that transition
   in the appropriate timeframe.
10. If the federal authority elects to use standing orders to place volunteers into Title 10 status to
      accomplish a federal mission when specific events occur (relying upon 10 U.S.C. 12301(d),
     sometimes referred to as “self-executing orders), then:
      a. Authority to issue the standing activation orders must have been obtained from the SECAF and
          vested in the federal officer issuing the standing activation orders;
     b. Events that “trigger” when active duty status begins and ends must be clearly defined in those
         orders by the federal authority;
     c. ANG members must consent in writing, in advance, to being placed on active duty; and
     d. The Governor (or his/her designee) must have agreed in advance to the activation (by MOU or
         otherwise).
11. Accounting procedures must be established to properly account for duty performed in each status
     and to charge man-hours and related costs to the appropriate Guard or RegAF accounts. [See Section
      V, below.]
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
item.)
1. Describe the manner in which ANG members will be used to support federal operations and missions
(whether federal support is the purpose or is incidental to a Title 32 purpose), providing details regarding
status of individuals at relevant times, the authority for them to be in respective statuses, and methods to
ensure individuals are in the appropriate status and that the work they are performing is consistent with
that status.


2 Explain how all activities performed in Title 32 status are consistent with Title 32 purposes.


3. If standing orders to place volunteers into Title 10 status to accomplish a federal mission when
specific events occur (relying upon 10 U.S.C. 12301(d), sometimes referred to as “self-executing orders)
will be used, please describe with specificity how you will implement this aspect with particular attention
to the start and end of federal status, and the means of accomplishing each transition.


4. Explain how time in each status will be accounted for, and how appropriate fiscal accounts will be
charged.
46                                                                            AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007



III. National Guard Full-Time Support Personnel
This section must be completed for all initiatives. Review the guiding principles in Subsection A,
below, and provide the required information in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. AGR duties/activities must be primarily for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting,
    instructing, and/or training the reserve components.
2. AGR may also perform the following additional duties to the extent they do not interfere with
    performance of the AGR’s primary duties listed above:
    a. Support federal operations or missions undertaken by the members’ unit at the request of the
        President or SECDEF
   b. Support of training operations and training missions assigned in whole or in part to the AGR’s unit
        to the extent such training occurs in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions and is for
        RegAF military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian employees.
3. Technician duties/activities must primarily be administering, organizing, instructing and/or training
    the National Guard, or maintaining and repairing military supplies.
4. Technicians may also perform the following additional duties to the extent they do not interfere
    with performance of the technician’s primary duties listed above:
   a. Support federal operations or missions undertaken by the technician’s unit at the request of the
       President or SECDEF
   b. Support of training operations and training missions assigned in whole or in part to the technician’s
       unit to the extent such training occurs in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions and is
       for RegAF military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian employees.
5. The number (and proportion to other organization personnel) of full-time support personnel (FTS)
    (AGRs and Technicians) must be consistent with principles #1 through #4, above.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
item.)
1. Describe the mix of AGRs, technicians, and drill status guardsmen.


2. Describe any duties to be performed by FTS personnel which are not to directly organize, administer
   the National Guard, or train guardsmen, or maintain federal military supplies or equipment.


3. If the proportion of AGRs and technicians is greater than normal (usually not significantly in excess of
   30 percent of unit total strength), explain how this is consistent with the guiding principles outlined in
   Subsection A.
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                    47



IV. National Guard Training of Other Components
Will the unit be training individuals other than ANG personnel?


Yes __ No __
If yes, please review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the requested
information in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. AGRs and Technicians may support of training operations and training missions assigned in whole or
    in part to the member’s unit to the extent such training occurs in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S.
    possessions and is for RegAF military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian
    employees. AGRs and Technicians may only perform such duties to the extent they do not interfere
    with performance of their primary duties described in Section III.A.1. and 3, respectively.
2. Other circumstances that justify the use of AGRs and Technicians to train personnel from outside
     their own components include:
   a. The ANG unit DOC statement or mission essential tasking includes the formal training of other
       component members as a wartime tasking, and the training of other component personnel is
       necessary for the AGRs and technicians to maintain their own wartime skills.
    b. The training of other component personnel is incidental to other authorized activities (e.g., training
       provided in the course of, and incidental to, a scheduled proficiency or currency mission).
    c. The training of other component personnel is incidental to the training of ANG personnel, and the
       numbers of RegAF or Reserve personnel trained are not disproportionate to numbers of guardsmen
       trained.
3. The training of other component personnel by Drill Status Guardsmen (DSG) must be in conjunction
    with, or as part of, their own proficiency, currency, or qualification training, or in support of federal
   training operations and missions assigned in whole or in part to the member’s unit by the Secretary of
   the Air Force.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
or lettered item.)
1. If the unit provides formal training, provide the estimated ratio of instructors from each component
    (ANG, AFR, RegAF) and the estimated ratio of students from each component. [Note: For these
   purposes, training of foreign students or civilians should be attributable to the component (RegAF or
   AFR) requesting the training.]

2. If ANG members will provide training to RegAF or AFR members either incidental to training other
   ANG members or incidental to other authorized activities, describe:
   a. The type of training that will be provided;

  b. The circumstances under which the training will be provided; and,

  c. The safeguards to ensure training is only provided on an incidental basis.
48                                                                        AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007



. Fiscal Considerations Generally (See specifics above)
Does Section II (Operational Activities and Support of Operations or Missions) and/or Section IV
(National Guard Training of Other Components), above, apply to your initiative?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the requested information
in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. Funding sources for activities must be consistent with the purpose of the activity, and ANG funds
    should not be expended to support an RegAF mission (See limited exception in II.A.4. above where
    performance of the RegAF mission is incidental to ANG training or in III.A.2. and 4 above where
    Guard may support federal training missions and operations).
2. Congress appropriates certain personnel and operations and maintenance (O&M) funds expressly for
    the ANG, and those funds must be used to support the ANG.
3. Sufficient fiscal safeguards must exist to ensure ANG appropriations are used to support authorized
   ANG functions, and not diverted to augment RegAF or AFR appropriations for federal operations and
    missions. Fiscal concerns may be raised by:
    a. The use of AGR and technicians in Title 32 status to support federal operations and missions
        without proper justification;
    b. The use of ANG O&M funds to support federal operations and missions (unless properly
        accounted for and reimbursed from RegAF or AFR appropriations or otherwise incidental to
        authorized ANG activities).
4. When ANG members perform federal duty in Title 10 status, adequate fiscal procedures must exist to
    account for the number of man-hours expended in Title 10 status and ensure payment for those
    man-hours from Military Personnel Appropriations (i.e., RegAF appropriations). This can be
    accomplished through:
    a. Publication of individual Title 10 orders providing appropriate fund cites; or
    b. An aggregate reimbursement process (accounting for individual hours and periodic reconciliation/
        reimbursement of Guard funds from Title 10 funds.
5. When ANG and RegAF units participate together in activities that mutually benefit one another and
     the expenditure of funds by each unit is proportional to the respective benefits each organization
     receives, then reimbursement is generally not required (but a record of the decision process, and
     authority making the decision, should be made.)
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                   49


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
or lettered item.)
1. Please describe the procedures that will be used to account for costs and charge costs to the proper
   appropriations, including, but not limited to:
   a. The number of man hours ANG members perform duty in Title 10 status;


   b. ANG resources (e.g., flying hours/fuel, materials, etc) expended in support of federal operations
      and missions; and,


   c. The incremental increase in ANG resources expended (man hours and other costs) related to
      training RegAF and AFR members or supporting federal operations or missions (if not done
      incidental to training or authorized ANG activities).


2. If reimbursement is not required because the expenditure of ANG resources in support of federal
   operations or missions is proportional to the reciprocal benefit received by the ANG unit, incidental to
   ANG training, or otherwise authorized to be performed in Title 32 status, describe in detail the
   underlying arrangements, rationale, and safeguards to ensure ANG resources are properly used.



3. For associate units, identify the organization(s) that will be responsible for programming for shared
   resources (e.g., flying hours) and how costs will be shared/reimbursed.
50                                                                             AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


VI. Intelligence Activities (applicable to foreign intelligence and counter intelligence activities,
including training)
Will the unit be involved in intelligence collection, analysis, storage, or distribution?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required information
in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. All intelligence activities involving federal missions, including training for federal intelligence
    missions, and all personnel involved with such activities, are subject to federal intelligence oversight
    rules, regardless of the duty status of the individual or organization (e.g., Title 10 or Title 32.) See
    DoD 5240.1, DoD 5240.1R and AFI 14-104. Oversight rules apply to all aspects of acquisition,
    collection, retention, protection, and dissemination of intelligence information, and include
    information acquired during the course of ISR training activities, including intelligence analysis
    products resulting from training activities.
2. Operational intelligence activities may only be performed in Title 10 status.
3. Intelligence products developed for the purpose of Title 32 training may be used by the federal
    intelligence community generally.
4. No information that is acquired through federal intelligence activities may move from federal
    activities to state activities by any means other than established federal procedures for information
    sharing between the federal government and state governments. (I.e., intelligence information
    acquired during the course of a federal mission, or used in the course of training in a Title 32 status,
    may not be accessed or used by individuals in a state active duty status unless such dissemination is
   authorized and conducted in the same manner required for dissemination from a federal activity to any
   other state organization).
5. All intelligence activities involving federal missions, federally acquired intelligence, and all personnel
    involved with them, are subject to USAF (including NGB) and DoD inspection, regardless of duty
    status.



B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
item.)


1. Identify which superior federal organization will be responsible for intelligence oversight compliance
   of your unit.


2. Describe how the unit will comply with initial intelligence oversight training requirements.
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                   51


Legal and Operational Review Certification:


Please note the portion of the heading of this document that indicates whether HAF or MAJCOM legal
and operational reviews are required before beginning integration plan implementation. Regardless of the
level indicated in the heading, HAF review is required whenever significant policy or unresolved legal
implications arise. Certified reviews accomplished at MAJCOM level will be forwarded to AF/A8XF, as
will documentation requiring HAF level review. Legal issues encountered during preparation of this doc-
ument may be referred to AF/JAA, which will coordinate with SAF/GCM. Certification by the respective
legal authority indicates that necessary operational reviews have been accomplished at the appropriate
level as well.


Certification: I certify that I have reviewed this document for legal sufficiency of the concepts described
and that it is my opinion that they can be implemented in compliance with applicable law. Further, I cer-
tify that all necessary operational reviews have been accomplished and that the relevant A3/5 and/or A8
do not object to the concepts described herein. (Note: MAJCOMs may elect to obtain a second signature
from the MAJCOM proponent director, if desired, in lieu of a JA certification of an operational review.
Should a MAJCOM prefer to add a proponent director signature, the MAJCOM/JA signature will still be
required to indicate a completed legal review of the initiative’s operational concepts.)




                              _______________________________________________________
                                                     [MAJCOM SJA or authorized Representative]
52                                                                              AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


                                                Appendix B
                          Total Force Integration Initiative Review Worksheet
                                 [Plans involving the Air Force Reserve]


Designation of this Integration Plan: [Specific AFRC Unit and MAJCOM designation. (If a unit desig-
nation is not yet available, use some unique identifier that will clearly refer back to the organization in the
future.)]


Legal Review and Certification to be Accomplished by: [Specific MAJCOM/JA from the MAJCOM
designated by AF/A8XF as OPR for the initiative]
(Note: After the worksheet is forwarded to AF/A8XF in accord with paragraph 3.2.7.1.1., SAF/GCM or
AF/JAA will accomplish final HAF legal review for AF/A8XF.)


Due Date for Review Certification: [Date]


                                                  Instructions:
1. The MAJCOM responsible for I-Plan completes Part 1, General Information, on this docu-
   ment.
2. Organization responsible for integration plan development completes the applicable sections of
   Part 2, Integration Plan Development, on this document. (Boxes will “expand” as needed to
   accommodate the text in each section.)
3. Legal review and certification are performed by the legal office indicated above, on this docu-
   ment. (That office obtains operational review at the same time.)


NOTE: The Guiding Principles outlined in this document are based on current law as of January
2007. If you have questions about these principles or how they apply to your particular
Integration Plan, please contact your staff judge advocate.

                                 PART 1. GENERAL INFORMATION
                             (To be completed by the responsible MAJCOM)


                           Description of Integration Plan: (Please describe)
               [Provide a short description of the Total Force Integration Initiative, here]

Describe, here, the purpose of the initiative and what/whose MAJCOM requirement it is intended to
fulfill. (i.e. Purpose of the initiative, background, organizational structure/make-up, desired end state or
outcome and who the gaining/beneficiary MAJCOM will be in the event of full mobilization)
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                53


                                 Mission Statement: (Please describe)


[Provide AFRC unit mission statement, here.] [In doing so keep in mind that Reserve integration is for
the primary purpose of preparing the Reserve to perform its assigned USAF mission(s) when in an active
duty status. While there is incidental mutual advantage to all components involved with integration, the
routine accomplishment of the mission of the RegAF component is not the primary purpose of Reserve
participation. In addition, a principal function of any unit is to provide command and administrative
functions for their respective component personnel.]
Measures of Success: (Describe what the measure of success will be for Initial Operating Capability
(IOC) and final operating capability (FOC))


[Quantify and describe how “success” will be measured at IOC and FOC, including, for example, the
number of Primary Aircraft Assigned, crew ratio, capacity, throughput, etc. If the organization will be
responsible for multiple missions (e.g., ongoing operational mission and FTU) describe them
separately.]




                                Part 2. Integration Plan Development


Section I. Chain of Command and Organizational Structures
[Review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required information in
Subsection B consistent with those principles.]
A. Guiding Principles
1. AFRC and RegAF units and personnel fall under a federal chain-of-command that flows from the
    President of the United States to each individual. Consequently, AFRC and RegAF officers may give
   lawful orders to personnel from either component when both the officer and personnel are in a duty
   status.
2. All Air Force Reserve within the United States (except those assigned to SOCOM) must be assigned
    to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC); however, upon full mobilization, AFRC units will be
    assigned to the gaining RegAF MAJCOM.
3. When AFRC personnel are attached to a RegAF unit, the RegAF unit to which they are attached will
    have specified ADCON, including, but not limited to, disciplinary and UCMJ authority. Specified
    ADCON responsibilities will be set forth in a Memorandum of Understanding. The AFRC unit to
   which the personnel are assigned will have full ADCON, including concurrent disciplinary authority.
4. In situations where AFRC and RegAF units are associated with one another (not attached), each unit
   will maintain its separate AFRC or RegAF chain-of-command, respectively. The following principles
    apply when personnel from AFRC and RegAF units are functionally integrated with one another:
54                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


     a. To achieve functional integration and unity of effort, AFRC and RegAF personnel may be ordered
        by their respective chains of command to accept “operational direction” and commands from
        personnel in the other chain of command in accordance with a Memorandum of Understanding
        between the AFRC unit and the associated RegAF unit. Any limits on the scope of the direction
        must be clearly stated in the MOU. (See Section II below)
   b. AFRC and RegAF commanders, supervisors, and other persons in authority can issue
       administrative counselings, admonitions, and reprimands to personnel from either component.
   c. UCMJ actions and initiation of Unfavorable Information Files (UIF) must generally be
       accomplished by the member’s own chain-of-command.
   d. The member’s own component chain-of-command must accomplish personnel actions for the
       member (with inputs from the member’s functional supervisor if the supervisor is a member of
       another component). Designation of raters for performance reports must be IAW the rules
       established by the member’s component.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
item.)


1. Describe, in detail, the organizational structure of the proposed AFRC unit and its relationship with
   an integrated or associated RegAF unit, if any. (Attach a “wiring diagram”).


2. Describe with specificity the proposed chain-of-command for the AFRC unit.


3. Describe how functional integration will be achieved if an integrated unit is proposed and identify
   what MOUs are necessary to achieve cross-component unity of effort.


II. Support of Federal Operations or Missions
Does the purpose of the unit require the unit, or members of the unit, to perform or support
operational missions on a routine basis (e.g., day-to-day, or as a regular part of their military
activities -- other than unit mobilization)?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required information
in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles:
1. The mission of the AFRC unit is to train for, support, and perform the federal operations and missions
    assigned to it. The proper source of funding (e.g., Reserve Personnel Appropriations v. Military
   Personnel Appropriations) may change depending upon whether the AFRC unit and its personnel are
    training for their operational mission or actually supporting or performing the operational mission.
2. AFRC members may support or perform federal operations or missions without using RegAF
    appropriations if those activities are legitimately done for training purposes and consistent with the
   unit’s formalized training program. (See Section III, AFRC Full-Time Support Personnel, for specific
    information on the use of AGRs and ARTs)
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                 55


3. Pursuant to SECAF approval, AFRC members may support operations or missions assigned in whole
   or in part to the reserve components, as an additional duty.
4. All activities in support of combatant command operations and missions must be performed under the
   OPCON or TACON of the appropriate CCDR, Air Force Component Commander or Joint Task Force
   commander.
5. AFRC members who perform an operational mission must be attached or assigned to a specified
   RegAF organization that is subject to OPCON or TACON of the appropriate CCDR, while
   performing that mission.
6. Accounting procedures must be established to properly account for man-hours and related costs
   expended in support or performance of operational missions (if not incidental to training) and to
   charge those costs to the appropriate AFRC or RegAF accounts. [See Section V, below.]


B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
item.)


1. Describe the manner in which AFRC members will be used to support or perform federal operations
   and missions (including an explanation as to whether the primary purpose of AFRC members’
  activities is to support or perform federal operations and missions, or whether the support/performance
  is incidental to training).


2. When AFRC members are supporting combatant command operations and missions, identify the
   RegAF organization to which they will be attached and the operational chain-of-command.


3. Explain how time spent in support of federal operations and missions (if not incidental to training)
   will be accounted for, and how appropriate fiscal accounts will be charged.




III. AFRC Full-Time Support Personnel
This section must be completed for all initiatives. Review the guiding principles in Subsection A,
below, and provide the required information in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. A Reserve AGR’s primary duties are organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, and/or training
   the reserve components.
2. A Reserve AGR may also perform the following additional duties to the extent that the performance
   of those duties does not interfere with the performance of the AGR’s primary duties listed above.
   a. Support operations or missions assigned in whole or in part to the reserve components or to
       mixed-component units, including joint units;
56                                                                            AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


   b. Instruct or train military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian employees in
       the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions.
3. Air Reserve Technician (ART) primary duties are administering, instructing, or training the reserves,
   or maintaining and repairing military supplies or equipment.
4. ARTs may also perform the following additional duties to the extent that the performance of those
   duties does not interfere with the performance of the ART’s primary duties listed above.
   a. Support operations or missions assigned in whole or in part to the to the technicians unit, or to
       mixed-component units, including joint units, that include the technicians unit;
   b. Instruct or train military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or DoD civilian employees in
       the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions.
5. The number (and proportion to other organization personnel) of full-time support personnel (FTS)
   (AGRs and ARTs) must be consistent with principles #1 and 2, above.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
item.)
1. Describe the mix of AGRs, ARTs, and traditional reservists.



2. Describe any duties to be performed by FTS personnel that do not directly involve organizing or
   administering the reserves, train reservists, or maintaining federal military supplies or equipment.


3. Use of FTS for a specific integration function should generally be in the same proportion as has
   historically been the case for similar functions performed by the Reserve. While initial standup of a
   particular function may require a higher proportion of full-time personnel while the function is
   established and the initial cadre of participating personnel are trained, integration will be planned and
   executed to achieve the targeted proportions as soon as feasible. If the proportion of FTS is greater
   than historical proportions, explain how this is consistent with the guiding principles outlined in
   Subsection A, and include justification for the departure from historical proportions.




IV. AFRC Training of Other Components
Will the AFRC unit be training individuals other than AFRC personnel?
Yes __ No __
If yes, please review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the requested
information in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. AGRs and ARTs may instruct or train RegAF military, foreign military, DoD contractor personnel or
    DoD civilian employees in the United States, Puerto Rico or U.S. possessions, as additional duties to
   the extent that the performance of those duties does not interfere with the performance of their primary
   duties described above in Section III, A.1. and 3, respectively.
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                     57


2. Other circumstances that justify the use of AGRs, ARTs, and traditional reservists to train personnel
   from outside their own components include:
   a. The AFRC unit DOC statement, Mission Directive, or mission essential tasking includes the formal
      training of other component members as a wartime tasking, and the training of other component
      personnel is necessary for the AGRs and ARTs to maintain their own wartime skills.
   b. The training of other component personnel is incidental to other authorized activities (e.g., training
      provided in the course of, and incidental to, a scheduled proficiency or currency mission).
   c. The training of other component personnel is incidental to the training of AFRC personnel, and the
      numbers of RegAF or ANG personnel trained are not disproportionate to numbers of Reservists
      trained.
3. The training of other component personnel by traditional Reservists must be in conjunction with, or
    as part of, their own proficiency, currency, or qualification training, or in support of federal training
   operations and missions assigned in whole or in part to the member’s unit by the Secretary of the Air
   Force.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
or lettered item.)
1. If the unit provides formal training, provide the estimated ratio of instructors from each component
   (ANG, AFRC, RegAF) and the estimated ratio of students from each component. [Note: For these
   purposes, training of foreign students or civilians should be attributable to the component (RegAF or
   AFRC) requesting the training.]



2. If AFRC members will provide training to RegAF or ANG members either incidental to training
   other AFRC members or incidental to other authorized activities, describe:


   a. The type of training that will be provided;


   b. The circumstances under which the training will be provided; and,


   c. The safeguards to ensure training is only provided on an incidental basis (or if AGRs will be
      supporting the unit’s mission by training other component personnel, describe how this training
      supports the unit mission and does not interfere with the AGRs’ primary duties).
58                                                                        AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007



V. Fiscal Considerations Generally (See specifics above)
Does Section II (Operational Activities and Support of Operations or Missions) and/or Section IV
(AFRC Training of Other Components), above, apply to your initiative?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the requested information
in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. Funding sources for activities must be consistent with the purpose of the activity, and AFRC funds
    should not be expended to support an RegAF mission (See limited exception in II.A.2. above where
    performance of the RegAF mission is incidental to AFRC training or in III.A.2. and 4 above where
    AFRC may support federal training missions and operations).
2. Congress appropriates certain personnel and operations and maintenance (O&M) funds expressly for
    AFRC, and those funds must be used to support AFRC.
3. Sufficient fiscal safeguards must exist to ensure AFRC appropriations are used to support authorized
    AFRC functions, and not diverted to augment RegAF appropriations for federal operations and
    missions. Fiscal concerns may be raised by:
   a. The use of AGRs and ARTs to support federal operations and missions without proper justification;
   b. The use of AFRC O&M funds to support federal operations and missions (unless properly
       accounted for and reimbursed from RegAF appropriations or otherwise incidental to AFRC
      activities).
4. When AFRC members support or perform operations and missions, adequate fiscal procedures must
   exist to account for the number of man-hours expended on those operations and missions (if not done
   incidental to training or other authorized AFRC activities) and ensure payment for those man-hours
   from Military Personnel Appropriations (i.e., RegAF appropriations). This can be accomplished
   through:
   a. Publication of individual orders providing appropriate fund cites; or
   b. An aggregate reimbursement process (accounting for individual hours and periodic reconciliation/
       reimbursement of AFRC funds from RegAF funds).
5. When AFRC and RegAF units participate together in activities that mutually benefit one another and
    the expenditure of funds by each unit is proportional to the respective benefits each organization
    receives, then reimbursement is generally not required (but a record of the decision process, and
    authority making the decision, should be made).
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
or lettered item.)
1. Please describe the procedures that will be used to account for costs and charge costs to the proper
    appropriations, including, but not limited to:
   a. The number of man hours AFRC members support or perform federal operations or missions (if not
      done incidental to training or authorized AFRC activities);
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                    59


   b. AFRC resources (e.g., flying hours/fuel, materials, etc) expended in support of federal operations
      and missions (if not done incidental to training or authorized AFRC activities); and,


   c. The incremental increase in AFRC resources expended (man hours and other costs) related to
      training RegAF or supporting federal operations or missions.




2. If reimbursement is not required because the expenditure of AFRC resources in support of federal
   operations or missions is proportional to the reciprocal benefit received by the RegAF unit, incidental
   to AFRC training, or otherwise authorized to be performed by AFRC personnel, describe in detail the
  underlying arrangements, rationale, and safeguards to ensure AFRC resources are properly used.


3. For associate units, identify the organization(s) that will be responsible for programming for shared
   resources (e.g., flying hours) and how costs will be shared/reimbursed.




VI. Intelligence Activities (applicable to foreign intelligence and counter intelligence activities,
including training)
Will the unit be involved in intelligence collection, analysis, storage, or distribution?
Yes __ No __
If yes, review the guiding principles in Subsection A, below, and provide the required information
in Subsection B.
A. Guiding Principles
1. All intelligence activities involving operational missions, including training for federal intelligence
    missions, and all personnel involved with such activities, are subject to federal intelligence oversight
    rules (see DoD 5240.1, DoD 5240.1R and AFI 14-104). Oversight rules apply to all aspects of
    acquisition, collection, retention, protection, and dissemination of intelligence information, and
    include information acquired during the course of ISR training activities, including intelligence
    analysis products resulting from training activities.
2. Intelligence products developed for the purpose of training may be used by the federal intelligence
    community generally.
3. No information that is acquired through federal intelligence activities may move from federal
    activities to state activities by any means other than established federal procedures for information
    sharing between the federal government and state governments. (I.e., intelligence information
    acquired during the course of an operational mission, or used in the course of training, may not be
    accessed or used by individuals in a state active duty status unless such dissemination is authorized
   and conducted in the same manner required for dissemination from a federal activity to any other state
    organization).
60                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


4. All intelligence activities involving operational missions, federally acquired intelligence, and all
   personnel involved with them, are subject to USAF and DoD inspection, regardless of duty status.
B. Required Information. (Insert the required information immediately following each numbered
item.)


1. Identify which superior organization will be responsible for intelligence oversight compliance of your
   unit.


2. Describe how the unit will comply with initial intelligence oversight training requirements.


Legal and Operational Review Certification:


Please note the portion of the heading of this document that indicates whether HAF or MAJCOM legal
and operational reviews are required before beginning integration plan implementation. Regardless of the
level indicated in the heading, HAF review is required whenever significant policy or unresolved legal
implications arise. Certified reviews accomplished at MAJCOM level will be forwarded to AF/A8XF, as
will documentation requiring HAF level review. Legal issues encountered during preparation of this doc-
ument may be referred to AF/JAA, which will coordinate with SAF/GCM. Certification by the respective
legal authority indicates that necessary operational reviews have been accomplished at the appropriate
level as well.


Certification: I certify that I have reviewed this document for legal sufficiency of the concepts described
and that it is my opinion that they can be implemented in compliance with applicable law. Further, I cer-
tify that all necessary operational reviews have been accomplished and that the relevant A3/5 and/or A8
do not object to the concepts described herein. (Note: MAJCOMs may elect to obtain a second signature
from the MAJCOM proponent director, if desired, in lieu of a JA certification of an operational review.
Should a MAJCOM prefer to add a proponent director signature, the MAJCOM/JA signature will still be
required to indicate a completed legal review of the initiative’s operational concepts.)


                              _______________________________________________________
                                                     [MAJCOM SJA, or authorized Representative]
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                   61


                                              Attachment 4

                        AIR NATIONAL GUARD, TITLE 10, AND TITLE 32
                        COMMAND ARRANGEMENTS/ARCHITECTURE.


Command Arrangements/Architecture. The on-going requirement for an unbroken Title 10 chain of
command in the execution of federal operational mission(s) requires individuals directly involved in exe-
cution of the mission, to include command and control of Title 10 operational missions (e.g., missions
involving intelligence collection and weapons employment), to be in a Title 10 status, assigned to a Title
10 organization, and, attached to a unit in the chain of command of the Combatant Commander (CCDR)
responsible for the operation or mission. To satisfy these requirements individuals directly involved in the
execution, or command and control of Title 10 operational missions will be activated and assigned to the
ANG Readiness Center, and attached to a designated air expeditionary squadron/unit under command of
the CCDR for which an operational mission is performed for the duration of the mission. MOUs/MOAs
will specify the conditions under which and when Title 32 members will be activated into Title 10 status
and when they revert to Title 32 status.
Discussion of Operation Direction (OPDIR). Within the framework of Regular Component/Reserve
Component Associations, there will be a need to maintain a unity of effort in the accomplishment of the
mission(s) of the host and associate units. Since the law does not allow for the Total Integration of com-
mand structures and/or organizations with a single UMD, there needs to be some mechanism where a
functionally integrated activity has a single person to exercise supervisory direction over all personnel
assigned or detailed to work within that functional area. This mechanism for unity of effort is achieved by
means of the concept of Operational Direction.
"Operational Direction" is a concept used to describe the authority exercised by commanders and super-
visors from one component within host and associate units. It has aspects similar to “Coordinating
Authority” such as unity of effort. It is not a command authority and does not, in particular, convey Uni-
form Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) authority or administrative control over personnel from another
component. “Operational Direction” is defined as “the authority to designate objectives, assign tasks, and
provide the direction necessary to accomplish the mission or operation and ensure unity of effort. Author-
ity for operational direction of one component member over members of another component is obtained
by agreements between component unit commanders (most often between Title 10 and Title 32 com-
manders) whereby these component commanders, in an associate organizational structure, issue orders to
their subordinates to follow the operational direction of specified/designated senior members of the other
component for the purpose of accomplishing their associated mission.” For example, if the senior person
in an engine shop is a Guard member in Title 32 status, the Regular Air Force and/or Air Force Reserve
Command Title 10 members assigned, attached, or detailed to that section would be given an order by
their respective Regular Air Force or Air Force Reserve Command Title 10 commander to follow the
operational direction of the specified senior Title 32 Guardsman. Likewise, if the specified senior person
in an engine shop is a Regular Air Force or Air Force Reserve Command Title 10 member, the Title 32
Guard members assigned, attached, or detailed to that section would be given an order by their Title 32
Guard commander to follow the operational direction of the senior Title 10 Regular Air Force or Air
Force Reserve Command member. Violations of these operational direction orders would be dealt with
through the respective chains of command under Title 10 UCMJ authority or Title 32 State discipline
62                                                                           AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


codes. Finally, it is important to emphasize that operational direction is neither a command authority nor
a command relationship as defined in Service and joint doctrine.
Within the framework of Operational Direction, commanders should rely on delegation of authorities, as
stipulated in governing MOUs/MOAs, and commander’s intent as methods to control, direct, or supervise
personnel. However, just as in a discussion of command, although commanders may delegate authority to
accomplish the operational or training missions, they cannot delegate the responsibility for the attainment
of mission objectives. For this reason, the commander’s intent should specify the goals, priorities, accept-
able risks, and limits associated with training or operations. Further, commanders have the authority and
responsibility to influence training and/or operations and ensure mission success through other means,
such as MOAs, MOUs, and designation of an executive agent for specific functions.
Commanders, managers, and supervisors are responsible for personnel management, performance
reviews, career development, and administrative support for members of their respective units consistent
with provisions agreed to in MOUs and/or MOAs and consistent with public law. The work center super-
visor, whether RegAF, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, or civilian must have the authority created
by agreements or traditional command structures to assign tasks to all members assigned, attached, or
detailed to that unit in accordance with the terms of the governing MOU/MOA. All personnel will be
trained, tasked, and employed as a unified team to meet training or operational mission taskings. In addi-
tion, Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) and technician civilian job descriptions should be reviewed and
modified as necessary to make them subject to the direction of functional supervisors, regardless of com-
ponent.
Throughout the execution of Operational Direction, the associate unit’s parent component (RegAF/AFR/
ANG) will continue to exercise command over and be responsible for administration and support of its
own personnel. Within the Air Force, command and disciplinary authority over a member rests with the
member’s unit commander and his or her respective chain of command.
1. Air National Guard Command Arrangements and Duty Status. The Air Force assignment of fed-
eral missions to the Air National Guard, which require 24/7 reachback support of CCDR mission require-
ments, represents a new paradigm in developing Integration Plans. These integration plans must address
command relationships between federal and state authorities, and the determination of appropriate duty
statuses when performing the federal mission. This presents challenges to Air National Guard units in that
they must ensure the unit stand-up and personnel duty statuses are in compliance with the current statu-
tory framework, and that the personnel performing a Title 10 mission are attached to the appropriate
CCDR. This is especially necessary because the current statutory framework has not caught up with the
Air Force and Air National Guard leadership’s goal of “Total Force Integration.”
1.1. Title 10 / Title 32 Command Arrangements.
1.1.1. Title 10 Chain-of-Command (ANG Wing / Tenant Unit / Associate Unit). Individuals directly
involved in the execution, command and control of Title 10 operational missions will be in Title 10 status,
and attached to a unit in the CCDR’s operational chain of command. Ordinarily, the chain-of-command
runs from the CCDR, to the Joint Forces Commander (JFC), to the Commander Air Force Forces
(COMAFFOR), to the Expeditionary unit commander, to the unit Mission Commander (MSN/CC). (Fig-
ure A4.1.)
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                     63


Figure A4.1. Title 10 U.S.C. Operational Chain-of-Command




1.1.2. Title 32 Chain-of-Command (ANG Wing / Tenant Unit / Associate Unit). When not performing a
federal operational mission ANG personnel will usually be in Title 32 status. The chain-of-command runs
from the State governor, to The Adjutant General (TAG), the State’s Assistant Adjutant General for Air
(ATAG), to the unit commander (Figure A4.2.).

Figure A4.2. Title 32 U.S.C. Notional Chain-of-Command




1.2. Duty Status and Tracking.
1.2.1. ANG members placed in Title 10 status will be paid from the Title 10 active duty funds to avoid
violations of fiscal law.
1.2.1.1. When in Title 32 status, Active Guard and Reserves (AGRs), Technicians, and traditional guards-
men will only perform duties allowed by law. ANG members may support federal operations or missions
while in training status, so long as support is only incidental to the primary purpose of the training or oth-
erwise specifically authorized by law, (e.g., maintenance of federal equipment by technicians) unless
command and control considerations require that those individuals be placed in Title 10 status and
attached to a unit in the operational chain of command.
64                                                                             AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


1.2.1.1.1. AGRs, IAW 10 U.S.C. 101 (d)(6)(a), are authorized to organize, recruit, administer, instruct or
train their reserve component.
1.2.1.1.1.1. IAW 32 U.S.C. §§ 328 and 502(f)(2), AGRs, while in Title 32 status, may also perform the
following additional duties so long as those duties do not interfere with their primary duties of organizing,
administering, training, recruiting and instructing the reserve component: support operations undertaken
by their units at the request of the President or Secretary of Defense; support training operations assigned
in whole or in part to the Air National Guard by the Secretary of the Air Force; and instruct and train
members of the armed forces, DoD contractor personnel, DoD civilian employees, and members of for-
eign military forces (under the same authorities and restrictions applicable to members providing such
instruction or training).
1.2.1.1.1.2. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. § 12310, when individuals are in Title 10 status as AGRs, their
AGR duties in connection with organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or training reserve com-
ponents may include: supporting operations or missions assigned in whole or in part to reserve compo-
nents; and, supporting operations or missions performed or to be performed by: a unit composed of
elements from more than one component of the same armed force; or, a joint forces unit that includes one
or more reserve component units or includes a member of a reserve component whose reserve assignment
is in a position in an element of the joint forces unit.
1.2.1.1.1.3. AGRs activated as volunteers under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d), not for the purpose of performing
AGR duties specified in 10 U.S.C. § 12310(a), are not restricted in the duties that may be performed.
Note: AGRs who volunteer for duty under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d) are no longer performing AGR duties for
the reserve component. These volunteers are part of the active duty force, paid by active duty funds, and
count against the active duty manpower end strength ceilings if on Extended Active Duty (EAD) for more
than three years.
1.2.1.1.1.4. Unit AGR positions must be established based upon a need for their primary AGR duties, not
for the additional duties enumerated above.
1.2.1.1.2. Dual status technicians IAW 32 U.S.C. 709 are authorized to organize, administer, instruct and
train the National Guard and maintain and repair supplies issued to the National Guard or the armed
forces. When doing so does not interfere with these primary duties, dual status technicians may also: sup-
port operations undertaken by their units at the request of the President or the Secretary of Defense; sup-
port federal training missions assigned in whole or in part to the technicians’ units and instruct and train
members of the armed forces, DoD contractor personnel, DoD civilian employees, and members of for-
eign military forces (under the same authorities and restrictions applicable to members providing such
instruction or training).
1.2.1.1.3. Traditional Guardsmen (TG) performing required inactive duty for training (IDT) or Annual
Training (AT) in a Title 32 training status.
2. MAJCOMs
2.1. MAJCOMs must coordinate with the Air Force component to the Unified Combatant Command for
the establishment/activation/designation of air expeditionary squadrons or units assigned or attached to
each CCDR to which personnel can be attached during operational missions. Each such squadron or unit
will be commanded by a Title 10 commander.
2.2. Standing organizational structure. The gaining MAJCOM is the force provider on behalf of the Air
Force. NGB/CF is the channel of communications between the respective states and the Air Force. Oper-
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                     65


ational and training units (FTUs) will organize under their respective States, which in turn will report to
the National Guard Bureau (reporting includes SORTS, ART, etc.). Maintenance FTD unit(s) will report
to AETC.
2.3. Within the Air Force, the Commander, ANG Readiness Center, will be responsible for administration,
support and discipline of assigned personnel. Concurrent disciplinary authority resides with the respective
CCDR and the CCDR’s delegatees (e.g., the COMAFFOR) for conduct while individuals are attached to
that command for mission execution.
2.4. By means of the procedures contained within the preceding paragraphs, individuals directly involved
in the execution, command and control of Title 10 operational missions will be OPCON to the CCDR, and
to the Joint Force Commander (JFC), COMAFFOR in accordance with the CCDR’s delegation of author-
ity.
3. Automatically Executing Title 10 Orders (Formerly known as Self-Executing Orders)
3.1. IAW 10 U.S.C. 12301(d) the service secretary may designate an authority to order a member of the
ANG to federal service with the consent of the individual and the individual’s Governor. Operational
requirements of the Federal mission require that NGB coordinate with the gaining MAJCOM concerning
secretarial delegation of this authority. When necessary, ANG personnel may be involuntarily activated
under Chapter 1209 of Title 10, U.S. Code.
3.1.1. SECAF’s designee within the gaining MAJCOM will have the authority to order volunteers to
active duty under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d) and will issue a standing order that accomplishes the requirements
of paragraph 3.1, above. This standing order must specify a clearly identifiable factual event, the occur-
rence of which activates the orders, and another clearly identifiable factual event, the occurrence of which
terminates the order. (This has sometimes been referred to as a self-executing or, more accurately, an auto-
matically executing order.) In addition, standing orders must be in effect that attach the activating individ-
ual to the appropriate CCDR chain of command for the duration of the activation. However, their
attachment to the respective CCDR for operational missions upon the start of the mission, and termination
of that attachment at the end of the mission, will be accomplished by the standing order of the MAJCOM
representative who has been delegated authority by the SECAF to order ANG members to voluntary
active duty. That same representative has the authority to order the activation via a verbal order. [Note:
Such an order is also based on the prior consent of the individual and the Governor.] Confirmatory written
orders will be accomplished as soon as possible given that circumstance. Technicians must be in an appro-
priate leave status while performing active duty. (Note: Procedures must be in effect to capture the peri-
ods of activation and to ensure that these periods of activation for a federal purpose are funded from Title
10 appropriations. See paragraph 3.2.3.2.)
3.2. For designated ANG members expected to perform regular and frequent Title 10 duties associated
with a Federal or operational mission under an operational chain-of-command:
3.2.1. The member will sign a voluntary statement of consent to be ordered to active duty under 10 U.S.C.
12301(d) as a condition of employment or unit membership. For a Guard AGR member, the AGR order
will contain a statement that the member consents to being ordered to Active Duty for Operational Sup-
port under 10 U.S.C. 12301(d), in support of the active component, whenever he or she performs duties in
execution of a federal operational mission with the beginning and end points of the active duty period as
specified in the MOU/MOA.
3.2.2. The state Governor will enter into an MOU/MOA with federal authorities providing advance con-
sent to the voluntary order to active duty of the ANG member for federal operational missions.
66                                                                            AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


3.2.3. The designated Title 10 authority will issue an order directing the change in status, as needed, and
attachment of individuals to the designated operational unit in support of a CCDR as they activate or
deactivate pursuant to the MOU/MOA.
3.2.3.1. Based on the member’s and Governor’s advance consent and the order of the designated Title 10
commander, an AGR is automatically placed on active duty, Title 10, status to perform duties directly sup-
porting or in execution of a federal operational mission, and automatically reverts to AGR, Title 32 status,
and the performance of Title 32 Full Time National Guard Duty (FTNGD) functions upon completion of
the federal operational mission as required by the MOU/MOA. Simultaneously, they are attached to the
appropriate combatant command unit, and thereby under the operational command of that CCDR.
3.2.3.1.1. For technicians and traditional Guardsmen, Title 10 orders will ordinarily be requested and
approved in advance of performance of duty requiring Title 10 status. However, their attachment to the
respective CCDR for operational missions upon the start of the mission, and termination of that attach-
ment at the end of the mission, will be accomplished by the standing order of the MAJCOM representa-
tive who has been delegated authority by the SECAF to order ANG members to voluntary active duty.
That same representative has the authority to order the activation via a verbal order. [Note: Such an order
is also based on the prior consent of the individual and the Governor.] Confirmatory written orders will be
accomplished as soon as possible given that circumstance. Technicians must be in an appropriate leave
status while performing active duty.
3.2.3.2. Documentation will be created and maintained within the unit to verify all time spent by each
member performing duties in support of a federal or operational mission while in a Title 10 status and not
incidental to authorized Title 32 activities, and in execution of a Title 10 operational mission if not auto-
matically documented through MPA orders. For flight duties in a flying weapons system, the AFTO Form
781 will suffice. An appropriate mission log will be used to document other operational mission duty
assignments. This documentation will be processed through ANG/FM to the Regular Air Force organiza-
tion for obligation of Title 10 funds quarterly.
3.2.3.3. ANG technicians and traditional Guardsmen will be placed in Title 10 active duty status each day
they perform any duty in the execution, command and control of Title 10 operational missions.
3.2.3.4. AGR time when performing active duty under 10 U.S.C. 12301 (d), aside from duty performed
under 10 U.S.C. 12310(b), is considered active duty for operational support in support of the Regular
Component and represents a reimbursable, Title 10, MPA day for each calendar day in which any such
duty is performed regardless of the duration. While performing the duty necessitates man-day reimburse-
ment, the member may not perform any Title 32 functions.
Note: Legislation to simplify status and pay accounting requirements is being considered. These proce-
dures may need to be modified if legislative authorities are revised.
4. Permissible Duties Under United States Code
4.1. State Missions. Generally, ANG personnel perform federal missions under Title 10, train for federal
missions under Title 32, and perform state missions (e.g., responding to natural disasters) funded by their
state. While in Title 32 status or performing state missions, ANG members are subject to the command
and control of their Governor. Governors have constitutionally guaranteed expectations their National
Guard units will be available to perform state missions allowed by the laws of their states. See also para-
graph 3.2.2 of this attachment.
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                  67


4.1.1. RegAF leadership in conjunction with state ANG leadership should develop contingency plans that
clearly define expectations of both the RegAF and ANG to facilitate continuation of RegAF participation
in ARC training missions in the event of a state recall of ANG personnel for inclusion in a MOU as appro-
priate. In either case, RegAF personnel do not participate in state contingencies, unless directed/approved
by a higher federal authority.
4.1.2. When the ANG is called upon by the State Governor for state-only missions, care must be taken to
ensure RegAF personnel and equipment are not improperly used for these state-only missions (see, e.g.,
the Stafford Act, DoDD 3025.15, AFI 10-802, etc).
68                                                                               AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


                                                Attachment 5

                      REQUIRED INTEGRATION PLAN (I-PLAN) CONTENT


Note 1: In instances where a MAJCOM or the NGB has already produced macro level I-Plan documents,
the integration initiative OPR will still need to craft a document using this content template, and will iden-
tify it as an addendum to the existing Macro I-Plan document. Only those portions of the I-Plan template
content that are not already covered within a more macro level document need be accomplished (i.e. fill
in the blanks only where necessary) and submit this abbreviated document with the CONOPS/I-Plan
macro document for HAF functional and legal sufficiency review. It is not the intent, within the frame-
work of accomplishing an I-Plan to re-write existing CONOPS documents.
Note 2: The measures of merit listed for each objective are required to be reported, at a minimum, every
thirty (30) days. Units will be responsible to report to the major commands/National Guard Bureau all
measures of merit. Specific SORTS Measures of Merit will include the DRRS measures - personnel
authorizations, equipment and supplies on hand, equipment condition, and training measurement and be
reported using existing SORTS reporting procedures. Measures to be reported to the MAJCOM should
include, but are not limited to Operations Tempo (OPSTEMPO), Personnel Tempo (PERSTEMPO),
Dwell Time, Crew Ratios, UTE Rates, Career Development Courses (CDCs). This set of measures consti-
tutes the standard set of performance measures to be reported by all TFI units.
Sample Construct for “Integration Plan” documents.
Section I – I-Plan Integration Initiative Construct
A narrative description that identifies the type of integration initiative. (i.e. classic associate, active asso-
ciate, ARC associate,)
Section II – Overview.
1. Purpose of this I-Plan in overarching terms and a high-level description of the desired outcomes/effects
    to be achieved. (if BRAC directed, include the BRAC language). Each desired outcome will require
    that there be identified objectives that will help commanders at all levels focus on accomplishing
    courses of action that will identify success (or failure). The purpose statement will also capture
    language that expresses what benefits are to be derived from implementation of this initiative.
2. Commander’s Intent and Responsibilities.
3. Description of the Organizational Structure
Section III. Command Relationships. A narrative description of the major “players” involved in the
execution of this particular I-Plan. (May include an OV-4 graphic.)
Section IV. Identify the supporting documents needed to implement this specific integration initia-
tive, the sequence of document development, the supporting activities needed to develop each docu-
ment, and the projected completion dates for each of the documents. (i.e. these documents could
include: SATAFs, PPlans, OCRs, PADs, MOAs, MOUs, SAs, etc.)
Section V. JA Review. Identify the JA review requirements
Section VI. Addresses Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) and Manpower
Requirements
AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007                                                                                     69


   1. Near term budget requirements
   2. Near term manpower requirements
   3. Long term POM impact
Section VII. Address any AEF implications – to include AEF implications, HHQ expectations of
how the equipment/aircraft will be utilized to meet day-to-day training or state mission require-
ments, and changes to the unit’s AEF UTC
Section VIII. Describe Agile (and/or Expeditionary) Combat Support concepts for the impacted
weapon systems and capabilities.
Note 3: For Associations that involve Air National Guard units, as a part of the description of the initia-
tive and the unit’s mission, a description of the state mission for the Air Guard unit must be stated so that
proper equipage (as coordinated with NGB/A4) includes the ability of the unit to meet validated Home-
land Defense mission requirements. Association I-Plans, Support Agreements, MOUs and MOAs will
provide for the capability and identify the resources required for the ANG unit to respond to Federal
Homeland Defense taskings in conjunction with DOC taskings in the new association. I-Plans, Support
Agreements, MOUs and MOAs will also include language to recognize the ANG unit's responsibility to
the Governor of the state in responding to domestic emergencies and contingencies
Section IX. Identify source directives and publications that support this integration initiative.
Section X. Content – Individually list each Objective and each objective’s Measure(s) of Merit
Note 4. Capture each objective individually and enumerate as many objectives as may be needed to suc-
cessfully support attainment of the desired outcome.
Note 5. For each objective, identify data that needs to be captured either through existing processes/pro-
cedures, or, if need be – develop the guidance that will allow for the function(s) to easily capture the data.
DRRS/SORTS data should also be included in this data matrix. However, SORTS data will be reported
using the existing DRRS/SORTS reporting procedures.
Note 6. Measures other than those enumerated in the standard reporting set described in Note 2 of this
template may be added for reporting purposes dependent on the unique requirements of each Integration
initiative.
Example:
Objective 1. state the objective and time horizon for achieving the objective
   - Measure of Merit 1.
    - Measure of Merit 2(or however many process measures as may be needed to track the progress (or
lack thereof).
Assumptions. Self-explanatory.
Risks. Self-explanatory.
Objective 2. state the objective and time horizon for achieving the objective
   - Measure of Merit 1.
   - Measure of Merit 2
70                                                                        AFI90-1001 29 MAY 2007


     - Measure of Merit 3 (or however many process measures as may be needed to track the progress (or
     lack thereof).
Assumptions. Self-explanatory.
Risks. Self-explanatory.
Section XI – Summary.
Include signature blocks for I-Plan participants (MAJCOM/CC, or NGB/CF level).
Appendices as required
