BY ORDER OF THE                                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-107
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            11 DECEMBER 2012
                                                              Incorporating Change 1, 7 April 2014

                                                                                                Safety

                                                                DESIGN, EVALUATION,
                                                 TROUBLESHOOTING, AND MAINTENANCE
                                                      CRITERIA FOR NUCLEAR WEAPON
                                                                           SYSTEMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFSEC/SEWN                                                              Certified by: AF/SE
                                                                 (Maj Gen Margaret H. Woodward)
                                                                                        Pages: 12
Supersedes:    AFI 91-107, 26 January 2011


This Instruction implements AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety. This publication
is consistent with AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. It specifies the criteria for
maintaining and troubleshooting loaded nuclear weapon systems. It directs Air Force activities to
comply with the minimum Air Force safety criteria to develop and evaluate nuclear weapon
systems for nuclear safety design certification. It applies to individuals at all levels, including Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG), that design, develop, modify,
evaluate, support, or operate a nuclear weapon system. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of per the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Requests for
waivers must be submitted through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Send major command (MAJCOM) supplements to this instruction to AFSEC/SEW,
9700 G Avenue, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5670 for coordination before publication.
 2                                                            AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFI 91-107 by incorporating AFI33-360 guidance to include tier
waiver requirements.

Section A—Scope and Responsibilities

1. Application of Safety Criteria. Air Force activities shall apply Department of Defense and
Air Force safety criteria to design, develop, evaluate, troubleshoot, certify, and maintain nuclear
weapon systems. Weapons systems designers should constantly seek to design systems that
significantly exceed minimum safety standards.
     1.1. Department of Defense (DoD) Safety Standards. The DoD Nuclear Weapon System
     Safety Standards form the basis for the Air Force nuclear weapon system safety design
     certification program IAW DODD 3150.2M, Nuclear Weapons System Safety Program
     Manual.
     1.2. Nuclear Safety Design Certification. AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation
     Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, and AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation
     Criteria for Nuclear Weapons Systems Software, contain the minimum design and evaluation
     criteria required to safety design certify nuclear weapon systems according to AFI 91-103,
     Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program.
        1.2.1. The criteria in AFMAN 91-118 and AFMAN 91-119 does not invalidate the safety
        requirements in other DoD publications. Air Force activities must apply whichever
        criteria are most stringent.
        1.2.2. The weapon system designer may add reasonable safety features to improve safety
        yet meet operational design requirements because the Air Force goal is to design a system
        that significantly exceeds the basic safety criteria.
        1.2.3. The Air Force or the Department of Defense may prohibit or restrict operational
        use of a nuclear weapon system if the minimum safety criteria are not satisfied.
     1.3. Definition of Requirements. Design agencies implement safety criteria from the start of
     weapon system development by including them in appropriate formal source documents.
     These documents include the Program Management Directive, Initial Capabilities Document,
     Capability Development Document, Operational Plan Data Document, Stockpile-to-Target
     Sequence, Military Characteristics, and Weapon System Specifications.
     1.4. Modifications to Existing Systems. This instruction does not require modifications of
     an existing operational system solely to meet enhanced safety criteria implemented after the
     system became operational. However, when modifying an existing system apply these
     criteria to at least the part of the system being modified.
     1.5. Troubleshooting and Maintenance. Weapon system designers must apply safety criteria
     established by the DoD and Air Force when developing technical orders (TO) or other
     certified procedures for troubleshooting and maintaining loaded nuclear weapon systems
     (that is, a combat delivery-capable system with one or more nuclear weapons mechanically
     and electrically connected in a normal operational configuration). Field-level maintenance
     personnel must use these criteria to perform troubleshooting and maintenance operations.
AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012                                                                     3


2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division (AFSEC/SEW).
       2.1.1. Develops Air Force safety design and evaluation criteria.
       2.1.2. Approves waiver and deviation requests.
       2.1.3. Identifies criteria for, and approves troubleshooting and maintenance procedures
       and operations on loaded nuclear weapon systems.
   2.2. Major Commands (MAJCOM).
       2.2.1. Ensure troubleshooting and maintenance procedures and operations on loaded
       nuclear weapon systems comply with the criteria outlined in this AFI.
       2.2.2. Ensure new weapon system developments and modifications to existing weapon
       systems comply with the minimum Air Force safety design and evaluation criteria
       specified in AFMAN 91-118 and AFMAN 91-119.
       2.2.3. Request any necessary deviations and provide supporting engineering analyses per
       Section B.

Section B—Deviations

3. Deviations to Air Force Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria:
   3.1. Requests for Deviations. Some innovative designs or advances in technology, while
   conflicting with the specific criteria in AFMAN 91-118 and AFMAN 91-119, may appear to
   meet the objectives of the DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Standards or may provide
   significant safety advancements. In these cases, the engineering MAJCOM must send a
   deviation request to AFSEC/SEW. Send the request and supporting documents early enough
   in the system development to allow for an adequate analysis and to minimize the impact on
   system development if AFSEC/SEW does not approve the deviation.
   3.2. Supporting Documents. A deviation request must include an engineering analysis that
   shows how the proposed design meets or exceeds the intent of the design criteria.

Section C—General Design Philosophy and Numerical Requirements

4. Nuclear Weapon System Safety Design Philosophy. The Air Force is responsible for
protecting against the premature detonation of a nuclear weapon in both normal and credible
abnormal environments. Nuclear weapon system designs provide such protection by controlling
the system’s critical functions in the sequence that leads to weapon detonation. To a significant
extent, nuclear safety depends on the primary safety devices and the features that control the
critical functions of Authorization, Prearming, Launching, Releasing, Arming, and Targeting.
5. Critical Function Numerical Requirements. To demonstrate adequate control of critical
functions, nuclear weapon system designs must meet Air Force-established numerical probability
requirements.
   5.1. For normal environments, the weapon system designer must show within the calculated
   probability of occurrence that inadvertent prearming, launching, releasing or jettisoning,
   arming, or erroneous targeting are highly unlikely during the system’s lifetime.
 4                                                              AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012


      5.2. For credible abnormal environments, the weapon system designer must
      incorporate safety features that serve as positive measures into the design of combat delivery
      vehicles to protect against inadvertent critical function activation.
      5.3. Consult Tables 1 and 2 for the Air Force-established numerical probability
      requirements. Table 1 gives the probability requirements for obtaining an unintentional
      significant nuclear yield (greater than 4 pounds TNT equivalent) from nuclear bombs,
      warheads, and other nuclear devices because of faults and failures in the nuclear weapon
      system. Table 2 gives the probability requirements for preventing inadvertent critical
      function activation because of system faults and failures.
Table 1. Unintentional Significant Nuclear Yield Numerical Requirements for
NuclearBombs, Warheads, and Other Nuclear Devices.
 R     A                                                   B
 U     The probability of obtaining a nuclear yield is     in the absence of
 L     less than
 E
 1                                                         bomb or warhead-unique prearming,
       1 x 10 -9 per weapon over the stockpile lifetime    environment or trajectory stimuli.
 2                                                         the arming signal.
       1 x 10 -4 per event (see note)
 3                                                         unique prearming or environmental
       1 x 10 -6 per weapon during exposure to             stimuli.
       abnormal environments
 NOTE: The Air Force defines an "event" as the application of a prearm command and deliberate
deployment (weapon launch or release).


Table 2. Inadvertent Critical Function Activation Numerical Requirements.
  R                A                        B                                          C
  U
  L         For the critical    The probability of faults         will be less than…
  E         function of…        and failures in the nuclear
                                weapon system
                                will result in…
  1        Authorization        Not applicable                    (See note 1)

  2        Prearming            inadvertent transmission
                                                                 1 x 10 -6 per combat
                                of the prearm command
                                                                 delivery vehicle over the
                                signals
                                                                 system’s lifetime in normal
                                                                 environments.
                                                                (See note 2)
AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012                                                                     5


 3      Arming               an Arming and Fuzing (A&F)
                             system failure in a normal
                             environment after the A&F
                             system has been prearmed         1 x 10 -4 per prearmed weapon
                             but before launch or release

 4      Launching            accidental propulsion
                                                               1 x 10 -7per missile over the
                             system ignition
                                                               system’s
                                                               lifetime in normal environments.
                             an inadvertent programmed         (See note 3)
                                                               1 x 10 -12 per
                             launch of a ground-launched
                                                               missile over the
                             missile during a fully
                                                               system’s lifetime in
                             assembled weapon system
                                                               normal environments
                             operation

 5     Releasing             an inadvertent release or         1 x 10 -6 per weapon station
                             jettison of a bomb or             over the system’s lifetime in
                             missile when the release          normal environments.
                             system is locked
                                                                (See note 4)




                             an inadvertent release or
                                                               1 x 10 -3 per unlocking
                             jettison of a bomb or
                                                               event normal environments.
                             missile when the release
                                                                (See note 4)
                             system is unlocked

 6     Targeting             the erroneous issuance of the     1 x 10 -3 per missile
                             good guidance signal

 7     (See note 5)          an inadvertent application of     1 x 10 -4 per combat
                             power signals (other
                                                               delivery vehicle over the
                             than the prearm command)
                                                               system’s lifetime in normal
                             to the warhead/bomb interface
                                                               environments
NOTES:
1. Safety evaluations of combat delivery aircraft systems must consider the authorization
device of the command and control function and assume the authorization device has been
is part
activated. Safety criteria must be met with the authorization device activated. For ground-
launched missile systems (for which the user accepts the restriction that the authorization
device will not be activated until immediately before intended use of the missile), safety
studies and calculations may recognize and take credit for any safety enhancements the
authorization device provides.
2. Designers must include positive safety features to prevent inadvertent prearming in
credible abnormal environments.
 6                                                              AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012


 3. “Accidental ignition” does not include non-propulsive burning or explosion in the
 propulsion system.
 4. “Inadvertent release or jettison” doesn’t include cases when weapons separate from the
 aircraft because of catastrophic structural failure of the aircraft rather than operation of the
 release system. a critical function, weapon system designers must apply this numerical
 5. Although not
 requirement as an additional positive safety measure.

Section D—Troubleshooting and Maintenance Operations

6. General Criteria. When a fault occurs on a loaded nuclear weapon system, the primary
consideration is to ensure the system is safe and weapons are not subjected to inadvertent power
application or control signals.
     6.1. Weapon system designers must define allowable troubleshooting and maintenance
     operations for loaded nuclear weapon systems in applicable weapon system TOs or other
     certified procedures. Troubleshooting and maintenance operations must:
        6.1.1. Prohibit using any nuclear weapon as a troubleshooting tool. (T-0).
        6.1.2. Only use nuclear certified equipment listed in the Master Nuclear Certification
        Listing (MNCL) and published technical procedures. Common use items as identified in
        AFI 91-103 may be used. (T-1).
        6.1.3. Be consistent with applicable nuclear weapon system safety rules and approved
        technical data. (T-0).
        6.1.4. Require nuclear weapons be immediately and safely isolated from potential danger
        while maintaining appropriate physical security when a malfunction occurs. (T-1).
     6.2. If the authorized procedures do not adequately address the specific fault, the MAJCOM
     using the procedures must consult with the engineering MAJCOM Safety Office, the Air
     Force Nuclear Weapons Center, Nuclear Capabilities Directorate (AFNWC/NC), and
     AFSEC/SEW.
     6.3. Field-level maintenance personnel must not perform maintenance operations that affect
     the nuclear weapon system’s structural, propulsion, or electrical and hydraulic power systems
     unless the Air Force has established specific procedures for these operations. The purpose of
     this restriction is to protect against the possibility of exposing nuclear weapons to an adverse
     environment, particularly if a safety-related incident occurs. (T-0).
     6.4. The operating MAJCOM Safety must request approval from AFSEC/SEW to conduct
     other maintenance operations prohibited by these criteria but having a valid operational
     requirement.
7. Criteria Unique to Aircraft Systems
     7.1. Nuclear System Faults. When a nuclear system fault occurs on a loaded nuclear
     combat aircraft, cease current operation and take appropriate actions to identify, locate, and
     correct the fault if permitted in accordance with technical guidance. The engineering
     MAJCOM determines whether the system fault is critical by conducting a technical
     assessment of its potential impact on the nuclear weapons or the weapon system’s primary
AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012                                                                        7


  nuclear safety features and the possible hazards associated with troubleshooting the fault.
  The MAJCOM’s determination is the basis for any T.O. procedure that permits
  troubleshooting. Troubleshooting procedures must use built-in test (BIT) system capabilities,
  rather than determinations by field-level personnel, to identify faults and use only initial fault
  detection data to identify the fault, and prohibit diagnostic testing to identify the fault while
  nuclear weapons are electrically mated. (T-1).
     7.1.1. Critical Faults. For critical faults, isolate the affected nuclear weapons from the
     fault before initiating troubleshooting. The manner in which weapons are isolated
     depends on the type of fault and the potential for inadvertent application of power or
     control signals to the weapon interface. Ways to isolate weapons include downloading
     the weapons; demating the electrical signal lines to the weapons and mechanically safing
     the release system; and demating the electrical signal lines to both the weapons and the
     release system. (T-0).
         7.1.1.1. If authorized procedures are insufficient or inappropriate or if uncertainty
         exists about nuclear weapon impacts or the proper maintenance response, the
         operating MAJCOM must consult with the AFNWC/NC to determine the appropriate
         course of action; declare weapons nonoperational that could have been affected by the
         fault; keep weapons in nonoperational status and do not load them on a combat
         delivery aircraft until authorized by AFNWC/NC; and prohibit performance of
         electrical checks on these weapons unless directed by AFNWC/NC or until the
         original fault is resolved and the weapons have been returned to operational status.
         7.1.1.2. Nuclear weapons must remain isolated until the fault is identified, located,
         and corrected or the fault is isolated to a launcher assembly/nuclear weapon. Only
         then can the aircraft be operationally certified (that is, tested to verify system
         operability and safety) as being mission capable. When personnel can’t identify the
         cause of the fault, they must get the operating MAJCOM to authorize the aircraft
         operational certification. However, upon receipt of proper command authority, the
         aircraft may be declared operationally certified if each of these conditions are met:
         (T-1).
             7.1.1.2.1. A substitute aircraft is not available.
             7.1.1.2.2. Nuclear weapon system safety rules and TO restrictions are not
             violated.
             7.1.1.2.3. The fault is isolated to either specific weapon stations or a component
             associated only with those stations and the faulty stations are not loaded.
             7.1.1.2.4. The fault cannot cause or contribute to a critical fault on any loaded
             station. Note: As used here, "station" refers to an individual weapon location
             rather than a carriage store or launcher connection.
             7.1.1.2.5. Competent authority (not lower than the maintenance group
             commander or equivalent) approves the loading.
         7.1.1.3. Identify faults unmistakably before declaring them noncritical. If the BIT
         system’s fault identification is ambiguous or inconclusive or if personnel cannot
8                                                             AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012


           confidently assess the potential hazards associated with corrective actions, treat the
           fault as critical.
           7.1.1.4. Treat as critical any nuclear system fault that prevents electrical monitoring
           of the nuclear weapon’s status. This condition includes hardware and software
           failures that prevent execution of the monitoring function and failures that prevent
           proper display of the results of a monitoring function. Treat all other faults as
           Noncritical.
       7.1.2. Noncritical Faults. For faults that the engineering MAJCOM has determined to
       be noncritical, the nuclear weapons may remain electrically mated during troubleshooting
       operations. However, every attempt should be made to isolate the weapons unless
       isolating the weapons causes a severe operational impact. (T-1).
           7.1.2.1. Before developing troubleshooting procedures, the engineering
           MAJCOM will delineate specific instructions for each BIT system fault that verify
           the reliability and accuracy of BIT data, assess the potential consequences of the
           actions for each fault to assure troubleshooting will not adversely impact nuclear
           safety, and request evaluation and approval from AFSEC/SEW before
           troubleshooting noncritical faults.
    7.2. Mechanical Mating Problems. When a mechanical mating problem occurs that
    prevents load completion, visually verify no obvious damage exists to electrical connections
    with the aircraft nuclear system before proceeding with the loading operation. (T-1).
       7.2.1. If resolving the mechanical problem doesn’t involve the aircraft nuclear system
       (for example, an out-of-adjustment bomb rack rigging or a physically incompatible
       pullout cable), proceed with the loading operation after correcting the mechanical
       problem. The aircraft remains operationally certified. (T-1).
       7.2.2. If resolving the mechanical problem requires removing and replacing or
       reinstalling a component in the aircraft nuclear system, operationally certify the aircraft
       after correcting the mechanical problem. (T-1).
       7.2.3. If mechanical mating problems lead to potential aircraft or weapon damage,
       complete applicable technical order inspection procedures prior to subsequent mating.
       (T-1).
    7.3. Electrical Power Application. Keep application of electrical power to a loaded nuclear
    combat aircraft to a minimum. (T-1).
    7.4. Minor Maintenance. Perform only minor maintenance and operational checks not
    related to the nuclear weapon interface according to approved technical data and the nuclear
    weapon system safety rules. Examples of these operations include preflight checks, aircraft
    servicing, aircraft towing, fuel management actions, operational checks of lighting,
    navigation, radar, and communications systems, and load software into aircraft control
    processors prior to application of monitor power. (T-1).
    7.5. Nonnuclear System Faults. When a fault occurs outside the nuclear system on a
    loaded nuclear combat aircraft, perform corrective actions according to specific aircraft TOs.
    When corrective actions for a nonnuclear fault require personnel to de-mate weapons,
AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012                                                                      9


   perform all postload electrical and mechanical checks after mating the weapons. The aircraft
   remains operationally certified. (T-1).
   7.6. Prohibited Maintenance. Observe the restrictions described in TO 11A-1-33,
   Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft. In addition, personnel must not
   conduct these specific maintenance actions on loaded nuclear combat aircraft as well as
   noncombat delivery vehicles (cargo aircraft) with nuclear weapons aboard: (T-1).
       7.6.1. Aircraft engine and Alternate Power Unit changes.
       7.6.2. Landing gear maintenance requiring fuselage jacking.
       7.6.3. Major structural repair.
       7.6.4. Disruptions to fuel system, with the exception of fuel management ops (i.e.
       "topping-off") associated with keeping an aircraft mission ready.
       7.6.5. Repairing the launcher primary structure or any other structure that directly
       supports the loaded nuclear weapon or nuclear weapon system.
8. Criteria Unique to Ground-Launched Missile Systems. Use only approved procedures to
perform troubleshooting and maintenance operations while a warhead or reentry system is mated
to the missile. If maintenance personnel cannot identify the fault by using approved procedures,
remove the warhead or reentry system before proceeding. (T-0).
   8.1. Prohibit procedures that could send signals to a warhead or reentry system, jeopardize
   the safety of the warhead, reentry system, launch system, or launch control system, or arm or
   bypass safety interlocks. (T-0).
   8.2. Only use equipment listed in the MNCL and published technical orders to troubleshoot
   any fault or failure in the missile, its associated equipment, or any component that is part of
   the command and control of the missile. Note: Troubleshooting does not include replacing
   the "most likely to fail" item when personnel replace the item using approved technical data.
   (T-1).
   8.3. When faults occur that personnel cannot identify by using approved procedures, the
   operating MAJCOM must provide guidance after consulting with the engineering MAJCOM,
   AFNWC/NC, and AFSEC/SEW.
   8.4. Do not conduct these maintenance operations on a loaded nuclear missile system (T-1):
       8.4.1. Welding operations in or on the launcher (unless specifically authorized by the
       engineering MAJCOM).
       8.4.2. System-level testing that could inject critical commands.
       8.4.3. Use of uncertified test equipment.
10                                                       AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012


     8.4.4. Suspension system work (except minor servicing or repair).
     8.4.5. Ordnance testing or activation.




                                          MARGARET H. WOODWARD
                                          Major General, USAF
                                          Chief of Safety
AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012                                                               11


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 63-103, Joint Air Force-National Nuclear Security Administration (AF-NNSA) Nuclear
Weapons Life Cycle Management, 24 September 2008
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 8 August 2012
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 13 October 2010
AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program, 17 November 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, 4 August
2010
AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapons Systems Software,
5 June 2012
AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 December 2010
DODD 3150.2M Nuclear Weapons System Safety Program Manual, 23 December 1996
TO 11A-1-33, Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft, 27 May 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWC/NC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center, Nuclear Capabilities Directorate
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFSEC/SEW—Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division
AFSEC/SEWN—Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Safety Division, Nuclear Weapons Safety
Branch
ANG—Air National Guard
A&F—Arming and Fuzing
BIT—Built-In Test
DoD—Department of Defense
USAF/SE—US Air Force, Chief of Safety
MAJCOM—Major Command
MNCL—Master Nuclear Certification Listing
 12                                          AFI91-107 11 DECEMBER 2012


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibilities
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
TO—Technical Order
