DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-821
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                RANDOLPH AFB SUPPLEMENT

                                                                                    17 APRIL 2006
                                                                    Certified Current 20 MAY 2008

                                                                                        Command

                                                                    HAZARD COMMUNICATION

   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:          There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 12 ADS/SGGB (SrA Morrow)              Certified by: 12 MDG/CC (Col Gavron)
Supersedes: AFOSHSTD161-21_RANDOLPHAFBSUP, 10 May 2004                Pages: 12

This publication implements and extends the guidance in AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30
March 2005. It provides a “Work Area Specific Hazard Communication Training Plan” template.
This instruction applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel working at Randolph AFB,
supported sites, and contractors. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFM 37-123, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS) located at:
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The revisions to this publication include the added responsibility of Hazard Communication
program review (paragraph 1.6.2.2.3.3.); the added responsibility for HAZMART to maintain
Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) (paragraph 1.6.3.1.5.); and the establishment of a work area
hazardous material manager (paragraph 1.8.2.11.).

1.6.2.2.3.3. (Added-Randolph AFB) Assess the effectiveness of worker HAZCOM program
training and work area/shop compliance with the AF HAZCOM program during routine workplace
surveillance evaluations.

1.6.3.1.5. (Added-Randolph AFB) The 12 MSG/CEV maintains the Material Safety Data
Sheet (MSDS) master file containing MSDSs for all hazardous materials used on Randolph AFB.

1.8.2.11. (Added-Randolph AFB) Work area supervisors, or their designated hazardous material
manager, will maintain a work area hazard communication program binder containing the
information contained in figure 1 below. Supervisors are responsible for reading AFI 90-821 and
following the guidelines/requirements when writing the training plan on the subjects listed in the
template Hazcom Training Plan. Label the binder with the title, “Hazard Communication”, the
name of the work area and organization/office symbol. Ensure this binder and its contents are
readily accessible, during each work shift, to workers when they are in their work areas.
2                                        AFI 90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP            17 APRIL 2006

Figure 1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Hazard Communication Binder Table of Contents
Part   Contents
1      AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication
2      Randolph AFB Sup 1, Workplace Written Hazard Communication Program
3      Work Area-Specific Hazard Communication Training Plan (paragraph 2.3)
4      Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials (paragraph 2.9)
5      Hazardous Chemical Inventory (HCI) (paragraph 2.8) – may be kept in separate MSDS
       binder(s)
6      MSDSs for all hazardous materials used in work area - may be kept in separate binder(s))
7      Miscellaneous (Spill Plan etc…)

2.7.6. (Added-Randolph AFB) Work Area-Specific Hazard Communication Training Plan
Supplemental training used to provide information on work-area specific hazards. Required upon
initial work- area assignment and whenever a new hazard is introduced into their work-area.
2.11.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Adopted Forms.           DD Forms 2251 & 2252, Hazardous
Chemical Warning Labels.




                                            RICHARD M. CLARK, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing


2 Attachments
1. Glossary of References
4. Work Area-Specific Hazard Communication
   Training Plan Template (Added-Randolph AFB)
AFI90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               17 APRIL 2006                                               3

                                           Attachment 1

                                GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES

Terms

Work Area/Shop - Room or defined space in an installation where hazardous chemicals are
produced or used, and where employees are present. Note: Employees that often work outside the
physically defined work area, such as pest management personnel during pesticide application or
aircraft maintainers that take chemicals to the flightline, will have their hazards addressed as part
of the work area/shop program. This definition also encompasses geographically separated units
and units with a support agreement with the base.
4                                          AFI 90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               17 APRIL 2006

                             Attachment 4 (Added-Randolph AFB)

                 WORK AREA-SPECIFIC HAZARD COMMUNICATIONS
                               TRAINING PLAN

Note: The following template provides the required training topics listed in AFI 90-821, paragraph
2.3, for work area-specific hazard communication training and CFR 1910.1200. It may be used as
a template; however, it must contain work area-specific information, as noted in bold, italicized,
and underlined. This training may be integrated with Safety, Fire Protection and Health OJT, but
must include the required topics. The supervisor will ensure the appropriate agencies
review/approve the information for technical accuracy before first use: Bioenvironmental Engineering
(reviewing first), Public Health, Wing Ground Safety, CE Environmental and Fire Department.


      Work Area-Specific Hazard Communication
                  Training Plan




                            Organization/Office symbol
                                 Name of office
                               Workplace Identifier
                                       Date
AFI90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               17 APRIL 2006                                             5


                 Work center Specific HazCom Training
                      Organization/Office symbol
                          Name of workplace

INSTRUCTIONS:

1. The instructor must read and understand all of the requirements in AFI 90-821 Hazard
Communication. Supervisors will ensure workers receive comprehensive HAZCOM training at
the time of their initial assignment in a work area/shop, and when work area/shop conditions or
hazardous materials change.

2. Document training on AF Form 55, CAMS, or in ESOH-MIS. This record should also include
external HAZCOM training provided to AF supervisors and employees from contractor
organizations where applicable.

REFERENCES:

1. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication
2. 29 CFR 1910.1200 Hazard Communication Standard
3. Any other references you would like to use (Haz waste mgmt plans etc.).

OBJECTIVES/OVERVIEW:

1. Know how to access and read MSDSs.
2. Know the proper labeling of hazardous materials.
3. Know the operations or processes in the work area/shop where hazardous chemicals are present
or used, and the complete list of hazardous material used in association with work area/shop
processes.
4. Know the identification of relevant hazard categories associated with each chemical used (e.g.,
flammability, carcinogenicity, etc.) or the individual chemical hazards; including, but not limited
to, those with specific regulatory requirements (e.g., asbestos, benzene, beryllium, cadmium,
formaldehyde, and lead).
5. Know the controls (engineering controls, administrative controls, and personal protective
equipment) workers must use to minimize or eliminate exposure to hazardous chemicals specific to
a task (e.g., the specific respirator for a specific spray painting process). Also, know the proper
wear and care of the PPE. Supervisors shall refer to the installation Engineering Process and
Task/PPE Certification reports for specific control requirements.
6. Know the location and contents of the work area shop-specific written hazard communication
program.
7. Know the emergency procedures, such as recognition of a spill or accidental chemical release
(e.g., visual, odor, alarm) and escape procedures to include the locations of emergency eye wash
stations, showers, and monitoring capabilities.
8. Know the Chemical hazards associated with non-routine tasks (e.g., solvent tank change-out
every 3 months).
6                                           AFI 90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP              17 APRIL 2006

     1. MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEETS (MSDS)

     a. Our MSDS’s are located in the MSDS binder, which is (where). The HazCom monitor is
     responsible for obtaining and maintaining the MSDS’s.

     b. We will not accept a chemical without a MSDS, if it does arrive without one or it is lost,
     one may be printed off the Hazardous Material Information System (HMIS) computer program.
     If the MSDS cannot be found on HMIS, it will be requested from the manufacturer. If we have
     problems obtaining it we will try to obtain it through Hazmart or 12 MSG/CEV. The chemical
     will not be used until an MSDS is obtained.

     c. Companies are required by law to provide an MSDS for each hazardous material, there is
     no standard format, but they must contain certain criteria.

     d. There must be an MSDS for each chemical on hand. The MSDS must be
     manufacturer specific to the chemical on hand. Manufacturers use different constituents,
     percentage of constituents in their products, and they have different emergency contact
     numbers. The HCI may list the same chemical twice, but it should show different
     manufacturers.

    2. LABELING OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

     a. Warning labels are required on all chemicals whether they are known or unknown hazards.
     This work area uses the original labels if available.

     b. Chemicals will not be accepted from supply without appropriate labeling. They should
     contain the following information:

        Name of chemical
        Appropriate hazard warnings (definitions are in CFR 1910.1200)
        Name and address of the chemical manufacturer, importer, or other responsible party
        Expiration date (if applicable)

     c. In the event that a container is transferred from one container to another, or from a larger
     container to a smaller one, the DD Form 2521/2522 will be used as a label with all required
     information. In the event a container is too small for the above labels, a typed label may be
     used with the required information.

     d. HazCom labels may be obtained from the HazCom monitor who will ensure proper
     labeling of all hazardous material containers in the workcenter. Shipped containers must also
     be labeled.

     e. Containers are checked at least on a semi-annual basis and before use for expiration dates
     and label readability.

     f. The chemical name on the label must match the MSDS and the HCI. Before the label is
     applied to the chemical container, check and cross reference to ensure labeling is correct.
 AFI90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               17 APRIL 2006                                             7

 3. EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND TRAINING

     a. Personnel assigned to this flight have received initial HazCom training in their technical
     training. We also give initial HazCom training upon arrival to this shop. The training here
     serves a refresher in Hazard Communications and gives us an awareness of the chemicals used
     in our work center and the potential hazards associated with them.

     b. The (Who) is responsible for conducting HazCom training when a new chemical is
     introduced into the workplace or when workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal
     jobs. The supervisor of the activity will ensure these workers receive the training prior to
     beginning the activity. HazCom training consists of a verbal briefing based on this lesson
     plan and is documented on AF Form 55, CAMS, or in ESOH-MIS. Supplemental training
     will be provided at the time a new chemical is introduced, which will be in the form of a
     briefing.

 4. CHEMICAL INVENTORY

     a. A Hazardous Material Inventory with all workcenter hazardous chemicals is kept in the
     MSDS binder located (Where). The inventory is also maintained in the Environmental
     Management Information System (EMIS). The (Who) is responsible for updating this database
     whenever a new chemical is added or deleted. Update the HCI by printing the date and signing
     on the first printed page (The update/review must be done at least once a year).

     b. All new personnel will be briefed that the chemical inventories must be kept on file for a
     minimum of “30 YEARS”.

5.   NON-ROUTINE TASKS - Our Non-routine tasks are (list them). Non-routine tasks are
     performed infrequently, once or twice a year. Personnel will be trained on all non-routine
     tasks before the task is performed. This may include response to spills and accidents. Refer to
     the specific checklists for these responses located (where).

6.   UNLABELED PIPES. We do or do not have visible, unlabeled pipes.

7.   RELEASE AND DETECTION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

     a. The means of identifying hazardous chemicals would be situations where the chemical
     spilled or the container was found to be leaking.

     b. We refer to the Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEF) Process and Tasks/Personal
     Protective Equipment (PPE) Certification sheet for proper training of the potential health
     hazards and proper controls associated with the tasks within this workplace.

     c. Methods and observations that may be used to detect the presence or release of a hazardous
     material in the work area such as monitoring conducted by BEF, visual appearance and odor of
     hazardous materials, etc.

8.   MULTI-EMPLOYEE WORK SITES
8                                            AFI 90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               17 APRIL 2006

     a. When other personnel are in our work area, we will inform them of the potential hazards
     and the precautionary measures needed to protect themselves. If contractors are in our work
     area, we will inform them of the hazards only.
     b. Personnel temporarily working in our area (contractors, etc.) will be briefed on the location
     of the MSDS station, which includes an inventory of the hazardous materials in the work area.
     Workers also need to be briefed on the location of the eyewash station and shower.

     c. The supervisor will ensure personnel working outside their immediate work area receive
     the appropriate HazCom briefing at the other work sites. These briefings must be documented
     on the AF Form 55, CAMS, or in ESOH-MIS.

     d. Personnel temporarily working in this department will be briefed on the labeling system
     according to Section II of this HazCom lesson plan.

9.   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT

     a. For training we use the BEF Process and Task/PPE Certification worksheets and letters
     from their survey.

     b. There are many ways to protect you while using hazardous materials. Proper wearing of
     PPE like goggles and gloves and using hazardous material properly. Some materials require a
     well-ventilated area while others may be combustible when mixed with other materials.
     Keeping your work area clean and free from clutter is important at all times. Knowing your
     procedures is another way to keep yourself safe. Knowing what to do when a hazardous
     material is spilled on you, a co-worker, or simply on the floor is an important matter. Refer to
     the work center spill plan for specific actions to be taken during a spill. All personnel will be
     briefed initially and annually on the spill plan.

     c. If at any time holes or tears are noticed in any of the PPE, they must be discarded in the
     clean trash bins. If the PPE is covered with a hazardous material, then dispose of it with the
     contaminated spill absorbent materials. It is very important that PPE be kept in good condition
     by proper storage and inspection.

10. FORSEEABLE EMERGENCIES

     a. In case of an emergency, please refer to the following numbers for assistance:

           BEF                                              652-3256
           Facility Management                         (Workplace Specific)
           Environmental Management                         652-4668
           Security Police                                  652-5700
           Hospital Emergency Room                            911
           Fire Department                                  652-6915
           Base Safety                                      652-1852
           Disaster Preparedness                            652-2222
           Public Health                                    652-2456
AFI90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                      17 APRIL 2006                                                            9

    b. Hazardous Material Spills. Please refer to (workplace name) Spill Response Plan, which is
    posted and located in the HazCom binder.
    c. In the event of an uncontrollable release of hazardous chemicals into the work place (large
    spills) the base spill team should be contacted through the Fire Department (911). The work
    center spill plan will be discussed in this lesson plan under foreseeable emergencies. The spill
    plan also needs to be posted so all employees can see.

11. CONTRACTOR INTERFACE
We (do or do not) have contractor interface. (If you do, then you need to state how you let them
know the potential hazards within your workplace and you will have to state that you are made
aware of the potential hazards they are bringing with them, and ensure your people are trained
on their hazards.)

Approved By:
     Organization/Name                         Signature                 Printed Name                 Date
12 ADS/SGGB
Bioenvironmental Engineering
12 ADS/SGGM
Public Health Services
12 FTW/SEG
Wing Safety
12 MSG/CEV
Environmental Management
12 MSG/CEF
Fire Department

This is an example quiz. Create your own work place specific questions, unless some of these questions could pertain
to your shop
                                                 HazCom QUIZ
1. If you find a bottle containing a clear liquid in the flammable storage locker that does not have a
label you should:
   a. Assume it is distilled water and forget about it.
   b. Call HazMart and ask them for a label.
   c. Notify the HazCom monitor so they can make label.
   d. Close the locker and let someone else worry about it.

2. You are getting ready to do some respirator fit testing, and you go down to the lab and find a
bottle labeled “Isoamyl Acetate”. Name two things this label is missing.

    1.                                              2.

3. You get a new chemical in the lab, and it didn’t come with an MSDS. It is a different
manufacturer from last time. You go to call the company for an MSDS, but you can’t remember
your long distance PIN number. You see that there is still an MSDS on file from the old
manufacturer for the item. You decide just to use that MSDS since it is for the same item. Are
you in trouble during the next E-CAMP?
 10                                           AFI 90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                 17 APRIL 2006

 4. Let’s say you are more ambitious than the above character, and you decide to use more
 resources to get a hold of an MSDS. What are two other avenues you could try (Remember, I said
 ambitious, not responsible. You have still forgotten your long distance PIN number, and the
 company is in Connecticut).
      1. ________________            _        2. ________________           _
 5. True or False: You’ve been tasked with doing some filing, and come across an HCI that is
 dated 17 Sep 77. You think, goodness, I was still in bell-bottoms back then (or diapers, depending
 on who you are). It is ok to junk the thing since it is so old.

 6. You are helping the EP element collect hazardous waste samples on a Wednesday afternoon.
 Just as you’re thinking, “gee, maybe I should have stored those bottles full of hazardous waste
 properly in the boxes the bottles came in”, you hear a big “CRASH!” from the back of the truck as
 you take a really fast turn out onto Fort Crook. What are the appropriate procedures you should
 take to clean up the mess (two broken bottles). The waste was collected from 55-gallon drums
 from maintenance (petroleum products).

      a. Dial 911 on the cell phone.
      b. Consult the Spill Response Plan for proper procedures (call the office).
      c. Clean spill with absorbent material.
      d. All of the above.

 7. Many of the water testing reagents in the lab contain strong acids or bases. Circle all PPE that
 must be worn at a minimum when working with these chemicals.

 Safety glasses/goggles            FFAP respirator           Chemical resistant apron
 Butyl rubber gloves               Nitrile rubber gloves     Latex gloves

 8. You’re down in the lab working with some water testing reagents that contain a strong acid.
 There’s some contractor guy working down in the lab too, installing a soap dispenser. The only
 thing you have talked to him about is the Cubs game last night. You get a phone call and go
 upstairs for 5 minutes. Upon your return, you see him running around madly because somehow he
 managed to get the reagent in his eyes, and can’t find the eye wash station. What should you have
 done to avoid this situation?


 9. It’s around lunchtime and you’re the only one in the office. The Fire Dept calls to tell you there
 has been a 50-gallon fuel spill on the flightline. What is the first action you should take, after you
 get all the necessary information from the Fire Dept? You have no clue of where any Bio
 personnel are, so calling someone else is not an option.



                                    HazCom QUIZ ANSWERS

1. If you find a bottle containing a clear liquid in the flammable storage locker that does not have a
label you should:
AFI90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP               17 APRIL 2006                                                11


   a.   Assume it is distilled water and forget about it
   b.   Call HazMart and ask them for a label
   c.   Notify the HazCom monitor so they can make label
   d.   Close the locker and let someone else worry about it

2. You are getting ready to do some respirator fit testing, and you go down to the lab and find a
bottle labeled “Isoamyl Acetate”. Name two things this label is missing.

Any two of the following: manufacturer name, appropriate warnings, manufacturer address,
manufacturer phone number, and expiration date if applicable.

3. You get a new chemical in the lab, and it didn’t come with an MSDS. It is a different
manufacturer from last time. You go to call the company for an MSDS, but you can’t remember
your long distance PIN number. You see that there is still an MSDS on file from the old
manufacturer for the item. You decide just to use that MSDS since it is for the same item. Are you
in trouble during the next E-CAMP?

Well, someone is. You need a different MSDS for each item, each different manufacturer.

4. Let’s say you are more ambitious than the above character, and you decide to use more
resources to get a hold of an MSDS. What are two other avenues you could try (Remember, I said
ambitious, not responsible. You have still forgotten your long distance PIN number, and the
company is in Connecticut).

        1. Look in HMIS
        2. Call HAZMART

5. True or False: You’ve been tasked with doing some filing, and come across an HCI that is
dated 17 Sep 77. You think, goodness, I was still in bell-bottoms back then (or diapers, depending
on who you are). It is ok to junk the thing since it is so old.

False. You need to keep HCI’s on hand for 30 years.

6. You are helping the EP element collect hazardous waste samples on a Wednesday afternoon.
Just as you’re thinking, “gee, maybe I should have stored those bottles full of hazardous waste
properly in the boxes the bottles came in”, you hear a big “CRASH!” from the back of the truck as
you take a really fast turn out onto Fort Crook. What are the appropriate procedures you should take
to clean up the mess (two broken bottles). The waste was collected from 55-gallon drums from
maintenance (petroleum products).

   a.    Dial 911 on the cell phone.
   b.    Consult the Spill Response Plan for proper procedures (call the office).
   c.    Clean spill with absorbent material.
   d.    All of the above.
12                                          AFI 90-821_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                17 APRIL 2006


7. Many of the water testing reagents in the lab contain strong acids or bases. Circle all PPE that
must be worn at a minimum when working with these chemicals.

Safety glasses/goggles           FFAP respirator             Chemical resistant apron
Butyl rubber gloves *            Nitrile rubber gloves*      Latex gloves
* Either will do

8. You’re down in the lab working with some water testing reagents that contain a strong acid.
There’s some contractor guy working down in the lab too, installing a soap dispenser. The only
thing you have talked to him about is the Cubs game last night. You get a phone call and go upstairs
for 5 minutes. Upon your return, you see him running around madly because somehow he managed
to get the reagent in his eyes, and can’t find the eye wash station. What should you have done to
avoid this situation?

You should have briefed him on the hazards of what it is you are using, the location of the
eyewash station and shower, and the location of the MSDS’s

9. It’s around lunchtime and you’re the only one in the office. The Fire Dept calls to tell you there
has been a 50-gallon fuel spill on the flightline. What is the first action you should take, after you
get all the necessary information from the Fire Dept? You have no clue of where any Bio personnel
are, so calling someone else is not an option.

The first thing you should do is refer to the “Spill Response Checklist” to determine what your
next action needs to be.
