BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             9 MARCH 2011
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 5 November 2014

                                                                         Special Management

                                             PROCESSING DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                                                                    ISSUANCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at: www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AAII                                        Certified by: SAF/AAI (Dr. Karl Mathias)
                                                                                    Pages: 11
Supersedes:   AFI90-101, 6 January 2006


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-1, Policy Formulation, and is
consistent with Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5025.01, DoD Directives Program.
This Instruction provides guidance and procedures to all Air Force personnel including the Air
Force Reserve and the Air National Guard (ANG), when processing Department of Defense
(DoD) Issuances. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Maintain all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of IAW Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is revised and must be thoroughly reviewed. The major changes in this interim
change are updates to office symbols, identifying Primary and Alternate Issuance Focal Points,
changes to timeframe for AF Policy and Guidance Memoranda to match AFI 33-360, removing
the requirement to submit a memo with draft review packages, and removing the need to respond
to quarterly information reports.
 2                                                                     AFI90-101 9 March 2011



                                            Chapter 1

                                       DOD ISSUANCES

1.1. Overview. This Instruction establishes the Air Force process for reviewing draft or
proposed cancellation of DoD Issuances and determining the specific directive Air Force
publications to implement signed effective DoD Directives (DoDDs), DoD Instructions (DoDIs),
DoD Manuals (DoDMs), Directive-Type Memorandums (DTMs), and Administrative
Instructions (AIs) posted on the DoD Issuances website, www.dtic.mil/whs/directives. The
goal of implementing DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs, is to create a framework of
policy and guidance for use within the Department of the Air Force to accomplish the Air Force
mission. This Instruction will guide you through the coordination process of a draft or proposed
cancellation of a DoD Issuance to meeting the requirements and implementation of approved
DoDDs, DoDIs, DTMs, and AIs, with Air Force publications.
1.2. Types of DoD Issuances the Air Force implements with directive publications. A DoD
Issuance is the approved method for the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) to officially
delegate authority and dictate responsibilities to the Secretary of the Air Force.
     1.2.1. DoD Directives. DoD Issuances that exclusively establish policy, assign
     responsibilities, and delegate authorities to the Heads of the DoD Components. DoDDs do
     not contain procedures. They consist of two types:
        1.2.1.1. Direct oversight DoDDs. DoD Issuances, reserved for subjects requiring direct
        oversight by the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense, approved and signed only by
        the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense.
        1.2.1.2. Chartering DoDDs. DoDDs that establish missions, responsibilities, functions,
        relationships, and delegated authorities of the Head of an OSD Component or other OSD
        Presidentially Appointed, Senate-confirmed (PAS) official, Defense Agency, DoD Field
        Activity, or other major DoD or OSD Component, as required. Also referred to as an
        “organizational charter” or “Charter Directive.” Chartering DoDDs are signed by the
        Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense, except where the Under Secretaries of Defense
        are delegated the authority in their chartering DoDDs, the Under Secretaries of Defense
        then issue chartering DoDDs for their subordinate OSD PAS officials.
     1.2.2. DoD Instructions. Policy DoDIs can establish both policy and guidance.
        1.2.2.1. Policy DoDIs establish policy and assign responsibilities within a functional area
        assigned in the Head of an OSD Component’s chartering DoDD. Policy DoDIs may also
        provide general procedures for implementing that policy. Policy DoDIs are signed by the
        Head of the OSD Component as delegated in the chartering DoDD.
        1.2.2.2. Non-policy DoDIs implement policy established in a DoDD or a policy DoDI by
        providing additional procedures for carrying out that policy. Non-policy DoDIs are
        signed by the Heads of the OSD Components, their Principal Deputies, or the OSD PAS
        officials as authorized by their chartering DoDDs.
     1.2.3. Directive-Type Memoranda. OSD issues DTM's for time-sensitive actions that affect
     current DoD Issuances and only when time constraints prevent publishing a new DoD
AFI90-101 9 March 2011                                                                          3


   Issuance or a change to an existing DoD Issuance. Time sensitive actions are those that are
   mandated by Executive Order; directed by the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense; a
   matter of urgent national security; required by recent (less than 90 days) change in law or
   statute; or necessary to prevent loss of life or limb. DTMs can establish DoD policy and
   assign responsibilities, or provide guidance to implement policies and responsibilities
   established in existing DoD Issuances (DoDDs and policy DoDIs).
   1.2.4. Administrative Instructions. Implement policy established in a DoDD or DoDI for
   the administration of the DoD Components in the National Capital Region (NCR) serviced
   by Washington Headquarters Service (WHS). Provides general procedures for carrying out
   the policy.
   1.2.5. DoD Manuals. Manuals implement policy established in a DoDD or policy DoDI by
   providing detailed procedures for carrying out that policy.
   1.2.6. Secretary’s Policy Memorandum (PM). Secretary’s PMs are not issuances; however,
   they provide a way for the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense to quickly establish or
   implement DoD policy, assign responsibilities, or provide procedures to the DoD
   Components that are of an urgent matter or special interest.
1.3. Location of DoD Issuances. Unclassified DoD Issuances are located on the Non-Secure
Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) at www.dtic.mil/whs/directives. This site also
provides the unclassified titles of classified DoD Issuances. The majority of classified Issuances
are located on the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) at
www.dtic.smil.mil/whs/directives. The Air Force OPR must contact the appropriate OSD
organization to obtain a copy of any Issuance not accessible through the DoD Issuances
websites.
 4                                                                       AFI90-101 9 March 2011


                                             Chapter 2

                               ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Roles and Responsibilities:
     2.1.1. Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force and the Administrative Assistant to the
     Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AQ, SAF/FM, SAF/IE, SAF/MR, and SAF/AA) are
     designated officials to sign on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force for coordination on the
     Secretary of Defense (SD) Form 106, DoD Directives Program Coordination Record, for
     draft or proposed cancellation of DoD Issuances.
     2.1.2. The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) is the
     Primary Issuance Focal Point, oversees the Air Force implementation of the DoD Directives
     Program and approves the Air Force implementing guidance (this AFI). Day-to-day
     administration of this function is provided by the SAF/AAII Policy Branch which:
        2.1.2.1. Manages and administers the Air Force implementation of the DoD Directives
        Program (DoDI 5025.01).
        2.1.2.2. Is the Air Force focal point for the DoD Directives Program and provides
        clarification and interpretation for the DoD Directives Program.
        2.1.2.3. Develops guidance and procedures concerning the Air Force coordination on all
        DoD Issuances and implementation of DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs.
        2.1.2.4. Ensures written notification to OSD(DA&M) of positions designated and
        authorized to coordinate on draft or proposed cancellation of DoD Issuances on behalf of
        the Secretary of the Air Force.
        2.1.2.5. Notifies HAF OPRs of newly issued, re-issued, or cancelled DoDDs, DoDIs,
        DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs identified on the DoD Issuances websites.
        2.1.2.6. Tracks DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs with the corresponding
        implementing Air Force publication(s) by maintaining the Issuances, Delegations of
        Authority, and Responsibilities (IDAR) database www.idar.hq.af.mil.
        2.1.2.7. Develops the Quarterly Report issued by the SAF/AA and distributed to the
        applicable HAF two-letter/digit organizations, identifying the status of Air Force
        implementation of DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs.
     2.1.3. The Executive Secretariat (HAF/ES):
        2.1.3.1. Is the alternate Issuance Focal Point and HAF (Secretariat or Air Staff) focal
        point for the DoD Directives Program Portal by which all draft or proposed cancellation
        of DoD Issuances are circulated to and from the DoD Components for formal
        coordination.
        2.1.3.2. After receipt of task instructions, assigns draft or proposed cancellation of DoD
        Issuances tasks on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force to the designated HAF two-
        letter/digit OPR to review and coordinate the draft or proposed cancellation of DoD
        Issuances.
        2.1.3.3. Provides a copy of the task to the designated OCR(s) and to SAF/AA.
AFI90-101 9 March 2011                                                                        5


      2.1.3.4. Sets suspense dates for the OPR and ensures OSD suspense dates are met.
   2.1.4. HAF two-letter/digit OPR: Responsible for a two-part process for DoD Issuances
   consisting of the draft or proposed cancellation coordination phase and the implementation
   phase of approved DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs. Chapters 3 and 4 provide
   detailed procedures.
      2.1.4.1. If the designated HAF two-letter/digit organization determines a HAF/ES
      assigned task for coordinating a draft or proposed cancellation of a DoD Issuance belongs
      to a different HAF two-letter/digit organization, transfers the HAF/ES assigned task,
      IAW HOI 33-3, Correspondence Preparation, Control, and Tracking, in a timely
      manner.
      2.1.4.2. Reviews and coordinates the draft or proposed cancellation of DoD Issuances by
      requesting comments from applicable HAF two-letter/digit organizations.
      2.1.4.3. Provides the proposed Air Force position for authorized signature as designated
      in the HAF/ES tasking.
      2.1.4.4. Returns coordinated/signed package to HAF/ES for uploading into the DoD
      Directives Program Portal.
      2.1.4.5. Creates, updates, or rescinds Air Force publications in response to new, revised,
      or cancelled DoDD, DoDI, DoDM, DTM, or AI. Refer to AFI 33-360, Publications and
      Forms Management, for the creation, revision, or cancellation of Air Force publications.
          2.1.4.5.1. Within two-weeks of being tasked to take action on a new, revised, or
          cancelled DoDD, DoDI, DoDM, DTM, or AI, identifies a government POC (civilian
          or military) and provides a proposed course of action to SAF/AAII. Course of action
          must identify if an Air Force publication needs to be created, updated, rescinded, or
          transferred and the timeline to complete the action.
          2.1.4.5.2. DELETED.
          2.1.4.5.3. Notifies SAF/AAII when implementing Air Force publication(s) for DoD
          Issuances are published, superseded, rescinded or transferred.
      2.1.4.6. Ensures compliance with established suspense dates.
 6                                                                     AFI90-101 9 March 2011


                                            Chapter 3

             DRAFT OR PROPOSED CANCELLATION OF DOD ISSUANCES

3.1. Overview. Drafting DoD Issuances is the initial step in the process to comply with higher-
level direction. OSD formally coordinates proposed actions on DoD Issuances with the DoD
Components through the DoD Directives Program Portal. This formal coordination process
provides the Air Force the opportunity to comment on and/or contest requirements the Air Force
cannot meet. DoD Issuances are proposed for cancellation when the cognizant OSD Component
determines it has served the purpose, and is not appropriate for incorporation into a new, revised,
or existing Issuance.
3.2. Tasking. The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force determines the HAF OPR and
HAF/ES tasks the applicable HAF two-letter/digit organization. When the HAF two-letter/digit
organization accepts the task and coordinates the Department of the Air Force position for a DoD
Issuance, they are accepting OPRship unless the DoD Issuance is officially transferred to another
HAF two-letter/digit organization.
     3.2.1. The HAF two-letter/digit OPR assigns the task to a government POC (civilian or
     military) within the HAF who leads the review and coordinates the proposed Air Force
     position.
     3.2.2. The review must determine the impact on the Air Force.
     3.2.3. The review must ensure the authorities, responsibilities, and procedures that are
     dictated in the draft are to the Head of the DoD Component, and/or the Head of the Military
     Component, and/or the Secretaries of the Military Departments and not to an organization
     below that level.
3.3. Coordination Timeframes. The coordination timeframe is dependent upon the type of
Issuance being coordinated. HAF/ES sets suspense date to ensure the Air Force meets the OSD
suspense.
3.4. Not for Implementation or Compliance. Draft DoD Issuances and proposed cancellations
are not binding on the Department of the Air Force. No action should be taken on any Air Force
publication until the DoD Issuance or cancellation is approved.
3.5. Developing the proposed Air Force position for draft or proposed cancellation of an
Issuance. After review, the POC develops the proposed Air Force position, prepares an eSSS,
IAW AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, attaching the tasking from HAF/ES,
the draft DoD Issuance (or copy of the proposed cancellation), SD Form 106, and SD Form 818,
Comments Matrix for DoD Issuances, and coordinates with HAF 2-letter/digit organizations
having any potential equity in the authority, responsibilities, and any other portion of the DoD
Issuance, requesting comments on the SD Form 818.
3.6. Finalizing the Air Force Position:
     3.6.1. The OPR consolidates the comments received during coordination that will be
     forwarded to OSD for consideration using the SD Form 818.
     3.6.2. The OPR identifies the proposed Air Force position (the options are: concur; concur
     with comment/no comment; non-concur with comment) in the eSSS in TMT to the
AFI90-101 9 March 2011                                                                           7


   designated official (para 2.1.1 and para 2.1.2.4) that will sign the SD Form 106 approving the
   Air Force position.
   3.6.3. The OPR returns the signed SD Form 106 and SD Form 818 (if needed) to HAF/ES
   for uploading into the DoD Directives Program Portal.
3.7. Records Management. The coordination of DoD Issuances results in the creation of
official Air Force records. Each organization responsible for DoD Issuances must maintain a file
containing its historical development, i.e., copies of the draft DoD Issuance, the signed Air Force
memorandum to OSD documenting the official Air Force position, the signed SD Form 106, and
the SD Form 818 providing Air Force comments.

Figure 3.1. DELETED.
 8                                                                    AFI90-101 9 March 2011



                                            Chapter 4

 APPROVED/PUBLISHED OR CANCELLED DODDS, DODIS, DODMS, DTMS, AND
                             AIS

4.1. Overview. Only directive Air Force publications can implement DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs,
DTMs, and AIs. Official publications are published in accordance with AFI 33-360.
4.2. Tasking:
     4.2.1. The action required as a result of signed/effective DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs,
     and AIs, or their cancellation is tasked by SAF/AAII. The HAF two-letter/digit OPR
     receives a two-week suspense to notify SAF/AAII of their POC and course of action to be
     taken in response to an Issuance approval or cancellation. The OPR will ensure the identified
     Air Force publication(s) properly implement the policy and guidance in the DoDD, DoDI,
     DTM, DoDM or AI within the identified suspense. OPRs must notify SAF/AAII when final
     action is complete.
     4.2.2. If the OPR determines the DoDD, DoDI, DTM, DoDM, and AI, should belong to
     another OPR, they will suggest a proposed HAF two-letter/digit OPR and coordinate with
     that office to obtain concurrence to initiate the transfer. Once concurrence is obtained:
        4.2.2.1. Both offices will initiate actions to officially transfer the SECAFs delegated
        authority/assignment of responsibility in their respective HAF Mission Directives. HOI
        90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives — Delegations of Statutory Authority
        and Assignment of Responsibilities, provides guidance on updating HAF Mission
        Directives.
        4.2.2.2. The losing OPR must prepare an AF Form 673 to transfer OPR-ship of any
        implementing Air Force publication(s) to the new (gaining) OPR or to revise/rescind
        publication(s), as appropriate, IAW AFI 33-360. This action must be coordinated with
        SAF/AAII.
        4.2.2.3. The gaining OPR must identify to SAF/AAII if there are any Air Force
        implementing publication(s).
4.3. Types of publications that implement DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs. See
AFI 33-360 for specific publication formats.
     4.3.1. Air Force Policy Memoranda and Air Force Guidance Memoranda (AFPMs and
     AFGMs). When addressing critical issues such as national security, safety, changes in
     statute, and time constraints do not allow for a new or revised Air Force publication to be
     completed, publish an AFPM or AFGM to provide the Air Force with proper
     policy/guidance.
        4.3.1.1. AFPMs are approved by the SECAF as interim policy AFPMs expire one-year
        after their effective (published) date, or when superseded by a policy publication (AFPD
        or an Air Force Supplement to a DoDD or Policy DoDI) whichever is earlier.
        4.3.1.2. AFGMs are approved by the appropriate HAF two-letter/digit organization as
        interim guidance to prescribe new procedures and guidance. AFGMs expire one-year
AFI90-101 9 March 2011                                                                        9


      after their effective (published) date, or when superseded by a guidance publication (AFI,
      AFMAN, or an Air Force Supplement to a DoDI) whichever is earlier.
   4.3.2. Air Force Policy Directives (AFPD). The SECAF issues AFPDs to implement policy
   in DoDDs and DoDIs, as described in AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation.
   4.3.3. Air Force Instructions and Manuals (AFI/AFMAN). HAF two-letter organizations
   issue AFIs and AFMANs to implement guidance in DoD Instructions and Manuals.
   4.3.4. Headquarters Air Force level publications. Headquarters Air Force Operating
   Instructions (HOIs) provide procedures only to the HAF. HOIs do not apply for all Air Force
   organizations within the National Capital Region.
4.4. Publications that cannot implement DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs.
   4.4.1. Mission Directives.
      4.4.1.1. Air Force Mission Directives describe the mission and responsibilities for Major
      Commands (MAJCOMs), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), and Field Operating Agencies
      (FOAs). See AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, and AFI 10-101, Format and Content of
      Mission Directives.
      4.4.1.2. HAF Mission Directives (HAF MDs) document the delegation of the Secretary
      of the Air Force statutory authorities and assignment of responsibilities to HAF two-
      letter/digit organizations. See HOI 90-1.
   4.4.2. Doctrine Documents (DDs) and Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
   (TTPs). DDs are statements of officially sanctioned principles and beliefs and TTPs apply
   those principles and are not directive publications.
   4.4.3. Air Force Pamphlets. Informational “how to” publications and are not directive
   publications.
   4.4.4. Air Force Handbooks. Reference material only and are not directive publications.
   4.4.5. Air Force Directories. Informational listings such as a phone directory and are not
   directive publications.
   4.4.6. Publications at the MAJCOM, FOA, DRU level or below.
4.5. Adopted Forms. SD Form 106, Directives Program Coordination Record; SD Form 818,
Comments Matrix for DoD Issuances; AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action
Request; and AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           PATRICIA J. ZARODKIEWICZ
                                           Administrative Assistant
 10                                                               AFI90-101 9 March 2011


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 5025.01, DoD Directives Program, June 6, 2014
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 25 November 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
HOI 33-3, Correspondence Preparation Control, and Tracking, 20 September 2010
HOI 90-1, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directives — Delegations of Statutory Authority and
Assignment of Responsibilities, 29 May 2013
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SD Form 106, Directives Program Coordination Record
SD Form 818, Comments Matrix for DoD Issuances

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—DoD Directive
DoDI—DoD Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
IDAR—Issuances, Delegations of Authority and Responsibilities
MAJCOM—Major Command
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
AFI90-101 9 March 2011                                                                        11


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
WHS—Washington Headquarters Service

Terms
Air Force Publications—Officially produced, published, and distributed documents issued for
compliance, implementation, and/or information. See AFI 33-360.
Directive Publication—Directive Publications are necessary to meet the requirements of law,
safety, security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air
Force. Air Force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this
category carry the following statement: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS
MANDATORY.
DoD Component—OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Defense (IG DoD), the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field
Activities, and all other organizational entities in the Department of Defense.
Department of Defense Issuance— One of these five types of Issuances published by OSD:
DoDD, DoDI, DoDM, DTM, or AI, as the approved method for the Office of the Secretary of
Defense to officially delegate authority and dictate responsibilities to the DoD Components.
HAF— Headquarters Air Force consisting of both the Secretariat and the Air Staff.
IDAR Database—The Issuances, Delegations of Authority and Responsibilities (IDAR)
Database provides a cross-reference between DoDDs, DoDIs, DoDMs, DTMs, and AIs, the Air
Force implementing publications, and the HAF 2-letter/digit organization responsible for
implementing each DoD Issuance.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for an Air Force publication;
the author of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for
the accuracy, currency, and integrity of their publications and forms, and the office responsible
for implementation of a DoD Issuance.
Point of Contact (POC)—The individual designated by the OPR to meet all OPR
responsibilities. POC and OPR are often used interchangeably, but the organization of primary
responsibility retains ultimate responsibility.
Policy—Statements of important, higher-level direction that guides decisions and actions
throughout the Air Force. Policies are typically driven by higher headquarters (OSD) in the form
of DoD Directives, Instructions, and DTMs, although occasionally directly from the United
States Code, Public Laws, or Executive Orders.
