                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                     HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND




                                                          AFI91-203_AFGSCSUP_AFGSCGM1

                                                                                    14 June 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR AFGSC UNITS DOWN TO WING

FROM: AFGSC/SE

SUBJECT: AFGSC Guidance Memorandum (GM) – Military-Unique Bomb Loading Operations

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this Guidance Memorandum.

1. By Order of the Commander Air Force Global Strike Command, this is an AFGSC GM immediately
implementing AFGSC military-unique clarified guidance to AFI 91-203. This GM clarifies the military-
unique bomb loading operations used when loading munitions in the B-2 and B-52. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum are
maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

3.   For AFGSC units, AFI 91-203, paragraph 7.5.2.5.16.4. has been amended as follows:

7.5.2.5.16.4. Exception: Use of the top step of a portable stepladder is authorized. The top step of a
portable stepladder may be used only when no other approved method is available to reach the work.
The top platform of a portable stepladder will not be used. The use of the Little Giant Type lA ladder is
authorized for weapons loading/unloading/maintenance operations that do not allow extension of the
ladder to the required height. No more than two individuals are allowed on the Little Giant Type 1A
ladder at any given time, and limited to one person per side. At no time shall the government-rated
weight capacity of the ladder be exceeded. Some tasks are better accomplished by straddling the top of
the Little Giant Type 1A. This practice is authorized and performed by placing one foot on the second
rung or lower on each side of the ladder to maintain the most stable stance and balance control while in
this position. Approved straddling procedures are for the Smart Bomb Rack Assembly (SBRA)
loading/unloading, the BRU-44 bomb rack and Power Drive Unit (PDU) removal/installation.

4. This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this memorandum, or
upon release of an AFGSC publication, whichever is earlier.



                                                      REY R. ERMITAÑO, Colonel, USAF
                                                      Director of Safety


                                      To Deter and Assure
