BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-821
DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                       DAVIS MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                           7 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                            Special Management

                                                                HAZARD COMMUNICATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available digitally restrictions are available on
               the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or
               ordering..

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 355 AMDS/SGPB                                                    Certified by: 355 MDG/CC
                                                                          (Col Gordon C. Peters)
Supersedes:    AFOSHSTD 161-                                                            Pages: 30
               21_DAVIS-
               MONTHANAFBSUP, dated
               01 May 2001


AFI90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005, is supplemented as follows: This
Supplement provides the work center with a training program template and standardizes
documentation filing requirements for base-wide consistency and simplification of quality
control assessments. This publication describes procedures for Davis-Monthan Air Force Base’s
(DMAFB) personnel in conjunction with AFI 90-821. It applies to all units and personnel as
specified in AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication. All shops that handle hazardous materials,
whether industrial or administrative in nature, shall implement a Hazard Communication
Program IAW AFI 90-821; this Supplement will aid in that implementation. It serves as the
installation written Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program and Work Center ―Written
Hazard Communication Program.‖ This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command
units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records        Disposition       Schedule        (RDS)         located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through through 355 MDG/CSS, 4175 S. Alamo Ave., Davis-Monthan AFB, AZ 85707.
 2                                   AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include: This Supplement combined with the Workcenter Specific Hazardous
Chemical Training Handbook and hazardous material list will serve as the Environment, Safety
and Occupational Health (ESOH) approved (Bioenvironmental Flight (BE), Public Health,
Safety, and Fire Department) work center written Hazard Communication program in accordance
with AFI 90-821, which supersedes AFOSHSTD 161-21 Hazard Communication.

Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                     3
       1.1.1.   Introduction ..........................................................................................................    3
       1.6.     Wing/Installation Level Commanders. ..................................................................                     3
       1.8.     Squadron/Unit Level Commanders and Supervisors. ............................................                               3

Chapter 2—HAZARD COMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM                                                                                                    6
       2.6.     Labels and Other Forms of Warning. ....................................................................                    6
       2.7.     Employee Information and Training ......................................................................                   6
       2.8.     Hazardous Chemical Inventory ..............................................................................                6
       2.9.     Non Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials. .............................................                             7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             8

Attachment 4—(Added) TABLE A4.1. ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST                                                                                    10

Attachment 5—(Added) HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL TRAINING HANDBOOK                                                                                 12
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                 3



                                          Chapter 1

                                     INTRODUCTION

1.1. 1. (Added) This Supplement combined with the Workcenter Specific Hazardous Chemical
Training Handbook and hazardous material list will serve as the Environment, Safety and
Occupational Health (ESOH) approved (Bioenvironmental Flight (BE), Public Health, Safety,
and Fire Department) work center written Hazard Communication program in accordance with
AFI 90-821, which supersedes AFOSHSTD 161-21 Hazard Communication.
Section 1B-Responsiblities
1.6. Wing/Installation Level Commanders.
      1.6.2.3. (Added) Installation Flight Medicine Flight (355 AMDS/SGPF) will assign a
      physician to serve as the installation occupational medicine consultant. Integrates efforts
      with other medical professionals through the Occupational and Environmental Health
      Working Group (OEHWG). Available to workers as an occupational health resource for
      installation workplaces/workers.
      1.6.2.4. (Added) Installation Fire Department (355 CES/CEF) will provide technical
      assistance for HAZCOM program and reviews workplace-specific training plans for
      accuracy as part of the base ESOH team. Informs BE and Public Health of HAZCOM
      compliance issues identified during inspections.
      1.6.2.5. (Added) Installation Fighter Wing Safety (355 FW/SEG) will provide technical
      assistance for HAZCOM program and reviews workplace-specific training plans for
      accuracy as part of the base ESOH team. Informs BE and Public Health of HAZCOM
      compliance issues identified during inspections.
          1.6.3.2.5. (Added) Installation Contracting Office will ensure that all contract
          requirements comply with Title 29, Code of Federal Regulation (CFR), 1910.1200.
          1.6.3.2.6. (Added) The Contracting Office will ensure contractors provide a list of
          hazardous materials to be used during the contract performance to BE before
          beginning work on DMAFB. This task will prevent accidental exposure to AF
          personnel working adjacent to contract personnel.
1.8. Squadron/Unit Level Commanders and Supervisors.
      1.8.1.1. (Added) Ensure supervisors comply with the requirements of this Supplement.
      1.8.2.11. (Added) View the Supervisor’s Federal Hazard Communication Training
      located at DMAFB, ESOH intranet under Occupational Health tab
      (https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/a7/A7A/edash/dm/default.aspx ). This training class
      will provide supervisors with a general overview of the Federal Hazard Communication
      Program in their work center and the tools to train their employees.
      1.8.2.12. (Added) 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (AMARG),
      Education and Training Division, will provide Federal Hazard Communication Training
      Program (FHCTP) training to 309 AMARG employees as required and document
      training on AF Form 55 or equivalent training record.
4                       AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


    1.8.2.13. (Added) Determine whether the type and quantity of a hazardous material
    used in the work center qualifies the item to be exempt from the Hazard Communication
    Program as a ―consumer use‖ item, in accordance with Table A5.6. The 355th Medical
    Group/Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (355 AMDS/SGPB) will help with this
    determination.
    1.8.2.14. (Added) Perform quality assurance reviews using as necessary to maintain
    compliance with this Supplement. An all purpose checklist is located for this purpose in
    Attachment 4.
    1.8.2.15. (Added) Maintain a HAZCOM Binder and MSDS Binder containing all
    documentation listed below. Each binder should be tabbed in the format listed. Work
    centers with small chemical inventories may integrate all information into one binder.
    The supervisor must ensure the binders are easily accessible to all personnel during all
    work shifts (such as being located on a designated safety board) and ensure personnel are
    aware of the location.
       1.8.2.15.1. (Added) HAZCOM Binder format:
           1.8.2.15.1.1. (Added) AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication.
           1.8.2.15.1.2. (Added) AFI      90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP,                 Hazard
           Communication.
           1.8.2.15.1.3. (Added) Work Center Specific Hazardous Chemical Training
           Handbook.
           1.8.2.15.1.4. (Added) Bioenvironmental      Engineering    Flight   (BE)   Survey
           Reports for the past 10 years.
           1.8.2.15.1.5. (Added) Additional Information (i.e. Supervisors Quality Control
           Checklists, Job Safety Analysis, etc.).
           1.8.2.15.1.6. (Added)
       1.8.2.15.2. (Added) MSDS Binder format:
           1.8.2.15.2.1. (Added) Enterprise Environmental Safety and Occupational Health
           Management Information System (EESOH-MIS) Authorization Listing or
           equivalent (Hazardous Chemical Inventory).
           1.8.2.15.2.2. (Added) MSDSs.
       1.8.2.16.1. (Added) Develop a supplemental, work area specific employee
       education and training plan. A template for this written training plan is provided in
       Attachment 5, Work Center Specific Hazardous Chemical Training Handbook.
       1.8.2.16.2. (Added) Establish a list of non-routine tasks performed in the work area
       for all operations which involve the use of hazardous materials. If non-routine tasks
       are not performed, a signed statement such as ―Non-routine tasks involving the use of
       hazardous materials are not currently being performed in this work area‖ must be
       documented in the shop’ s work center specific hazardous chemical training
       handbook. The supervisor will ensure either work area Operating Instructions (OI) or
       technical orders describe the non-routine tasks, associated hazards and controls.
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                5


       Supervisor will ensure workers review these procedures before performing non-
       routine tasks.
       1.8.2.16.3. (Added) Maintain a copy of BE survey reports, annual updates, and
       other special surveys. These reports must be maintained in the work center IAW AFI
       91-301, para 2.14.16. All current and previous BE reports (10 years total) must be
       maintained in the workplace for direct access by workers to detailed explanations of
       current and potential occupational health risks. All other survey reports (for a
       minimum of 10 years or longer as required) will be maintained by BE.
       1.8.2.16.4. (Added) Maintain a current copy of the EESOH-MIS User Authorization
       Listing or equivalent. This listing will serve as the work center hazardous material list
       and must be updated whenever a new chemical or chemical manufacturer is
       introduced into the work area.
       1.8.2.16.5. (Added) Supervisors will identify consumer use items. Consumer use
       items are exempt from HAZCOM and EESOH-MIS tracking requirements and
       placement on the shop’s chemical inventory is optional.
       1.8.2.16.6. (Added) Obtain a current MSDS for each hazardous material used in the
       work area. The MSDS must be specific to the manufacturer and national stock
       number of the item used, and must be obtained prior to requesting authorization for
       local purchase items. MSDSs may be maintained in the work area/shops in paper or
       electronic version. If MSDSs are maintained in an electronic version (e.g. CD-ROM
       or on-line), electronic access must be available to all workers on all shifts. In-house
       instructions must clearly describe the primary access location and the back-up system
       used in case primary computer access is disrupted. Work centers must obtain
       approval from the Installation Hazardous Material Management Program Team
       (HMMPT) prior to initiating electronic access for MSDSs.
 6                        AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                         Chapter 2

                      HAZARD COMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM

2.6. Labels and Other Forms of Warning.
      2.6.5.1. (Added) DD Form 2521, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (8 1/2x11) or
      DD Form 2522, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (4x6) when available, will be used
      as a uniform labeling system to meet the labeling requirements for:
         2.6.5.1.1. (Added) Existing stocks of unlabeled materials.
         2.6.5.1.2. (Added) Hazardous materials manufactured within the Air Force.
         2.6.5.1.3. (Added) Transferring, repackaging or distributing of bulk quantities of
         hazardous materials into other containers (breakdown quantities). The exception for
         this rule is when a material is placed in an unmarked container and used or returned to
         the original container after task completion or within one work shift, whichever is
         sooner.
         2.6.5.1.4. (Added) Relabeling hazardous material containers when labels have been
         accidentally defaced or lost.
      2.6.5.2. (Added) The sources for this labeling information are:
         2.6.5.2.1. (Added) EESOH-MIS labeling field.
             2.6.5.2.1.1. (Added) Label on bulk or packaged containers.
             2.6.5.2.1.2. (Added) Hard copy of the manufacturer’s MSDS.
             2.6.5.2.1.3. (Added) Manufacturer, importer, or other responsible party.
         2.6.5.2.2. (Added) Label all tanks with the name of the material it contains. This
         will ensure non-compatible materials are not accidentally added to the tank or vat.
2.7. Employee Information and Training
      2.7.1.1. (Added) Public Health, 355 AMDS/SGPM, Defense Services Network (DSN):
      228-2788, is the central point of contact regarding training under the Federal Hazard
      Communication Program.
      2.7.1.2. (Added) Prior to starting work, each newly assigned person will receive a
      health and safety briefing and orientation found in the work center specific written
      training plan. Attachment 5, Work Center Specific Hazardous Chemical Training
      Handbook, should be used as a guide when creating your shop’s training plan.
      2.7.1.3. (Added) This is a performance-oriented instruction. Primary focus is to reduce
      incidence of chemically-induced occupational illnesses and injuries by information
      DMAFB personnel of hazards associated with and protective measures required when
      handling hazardous materials in their workplaces. Program effectiveness will be assessed
      by observing work practices, testing worker HAZCOM knowledge, and measuring
      occupational illness and injury rates.
2.8. Hazardous Chemical Inventory
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                            7


   2.8.3. (Added) EESOH-MIS User Authorization Listing or equivalent will be used for the
   work center chemical inventory. This listing must be reviewed/ updated by the shop
   supervisor at least annually.
2.9. Non Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
      2.9.2.1. (Added) The work area supervisor will list non-routine tasks performed in the
      work area which involve hazardous materials (Table A5.2 of the work center specific
      hazardous chemical training handbook).




                                         JOHN A. CHERRY, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, 355th Fighter Wing
 8                         AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005
Adopted Forms:
DD Form 2521, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (8 1/2x11)
DD Form 2522, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (4x6)
AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
355 AMDS/SGPB—- 355th Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Bioenvironmental Engineering
Flight
355 AMDS/SGPM—- 355th Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Public Health Flight
355 CES/CEF—- 355th Fighter Wing, Fire Department
355 FW/SEG—- 355th Fighter Wing, Safety
AFHCP—- Air Force Hazard Communication Program
AMARG—- Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group
ESOH—- environment, safety and occupational health
EESOH—MIS—enterprise environmental safety and occupational health management
information system

Terms
Consumer Commodity— Product is used in the work center in the same manner as it would be
used for household use, with similar duration and frequency of exposure.
Consumer Use Product— A product used by a worker in a frequency equal to or less than what
a reasonable person would concede to be ―normal consumer use‖ in a home or household
environment. Products in this category are exempt from the requirements of the Hazard
Communication Program. The work center supervisor, with the help of Bioenvironmental
Engineering, is responsible for determining if a product is used in the same manner as normal
consumer use.
Hazardous Chemical or Hazardous Material— Any material, which is a physical or health
hazard and requires an MSDS as defined in Federal Standard 313, unless excluded. The
following items are not considered hazardous materials and are exempt: 1) Hazardous wastes; 2)
Tobacco; 3) Wood products; 4) Materials packaged for retail sale; 5) Personal food, drugs, or
cosmetics brought into the work area; 6) Consumer products used in small quantities for non-
occupational uses; 7) Chemicals used for laboratory analytical processes; 8) Pharmaceuticals and
biological materials, including serums and vaccines in their final form.
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                              9


Non-routine Tasks— Those tasks included within a work area’s normal activity but performed
infrequently. For example, tasks performed less than three times per year should be considered
non-routine. Temporary duties outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)
or job series may be considered non-routine.
Standard Use— Normally purchased to service specific equipment.
         10                          AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                             Attachment 4 (Added)
                                 TABLE A4.1 ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST

 ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST                                                           PAGE 1       OF 2        PAGE
 TITLE/SUBJECT/ACTIVITY/FUNCTIONAL AREA                                          OPR          DATE
 Davis-Monthan AFB Hazard Communication Program Checklist                        SGPB

     ITEM                                                                                     Yes    No    N/A

     This checklist addresses the items to be inspected IAW with AFI 90-821 and
     AFI90-821_DMAFBSUP
     WRITTEN HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
     1. Does the work area maintain a written hazard communication program book,
     divided into sections or tabs? (AFI90-821_DMAFBSUP, para 1.8.2.16.1)
     2. Does Tab A of the book contain a copy of AFI 90-821? 3.
     3. Does Tab B of the book contain a copy of AFI 90-821 BS?
     4. Does Tab C of the book contain the Work center Specific Hazardous Chemical
     Training?
     5. Does Tab D of the book contain the last 10 years of BE survey reports?
     6. Does Tab E of the book contain additional information job safety analysis (JSA),
     checklists, etc)?
     7. Does Tab F of the book contain the AF Forms 55 of personnel trained in Hazard
     Communication, or a reference to the training database where the documentation is
     maintained?
     MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS) BINDER
     1. Does the shop maintain a MSDS binder that has two tabs according to AFI90-
     821_DMAFBSUP, para 1.8.2.16.2.
     2. Does the workplace have paper copies or electronic access to MSDSs for all
     hazardous materials used in the workplace? (AFI 90-821, para 4.1.)
     3. Do all workers on all shifts have unrestricted direct access to MSDSs for their
     work area/shop during all shifts? (AFI 90-821, para 4.2.)
     4. If primary MSDS access is electronic, does work area/shop have a back-up system
     for MSDS access approved by the HMMPT? (AFI 90-821, para 2.2.7.8.)
        AF Form 2519 NOV 91             PREVIOUS EDITION WILL BE USED
                                                                               PAGE       2               PAGE
                                                                                              OF 2
8.
       AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                 11


NO   ITEM                                                                                    Yes No        N/A

     LABELING
     1. Has supervisor ensured all hazardous material containers are labeled, tagged, or
     marked with: (AFI 90-821, para 2.6.4 and 5.1.)
     1.1. Are labels marked with identity of hazardous material?
     1.2. Are labels marked with hazard warnings? (This may include any combination
     of words, symbols, or pictures)
     2. Are any vats, tanks, or other containers labeled with signs, placards, or other
     written material in lieu of DD Form 2521 or DD Form 2522? (Department of
     Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6050.5-H and AFI 90-821, para 5.4.)
     EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND TRAINING
     1. Does shop supervisor have an approved training outline that addresses work
     area/shop-specific hazards? (AFI 90-821 para 2.7.1) Refer to para 2.7.2.1 for
     minimum contents of training outline.
     2. Have all workers received initial and supplemental workplace specific training?
     (AFI 90-821, para 2.7.2.1. and 2.7.2.2.)
     3. Is HAZCOM training effective? To determine this, recommend randomly
     selecting 10% of shop workers (up to 10 total) and having them demonstrate
     knowledge of the questions found in Table A3.2. (AFI 90-821, para 2.7.5.)
     NON-ROUTINE TASKS INVOLVING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
     1. Does the work area have a list of all non-routine tasks performed in the work area
     involving hazardous materials? (AFI 90-821, para 2.9.2. and AFI90-
     821_DMAFBSUP, para 2.9.2.1.)
     2. Do workplace supervisors ensure workers review non-routine task procedures
     before performing the non-routine task? (AFI 90-821 para 2.9.2.)
     3. Do workplace supervisors ensure temporary workers in the area have received the
     initial HAZCOM and supplemental training, as necessary, on work area specific
     chemical hazards and associated controls? (AFI 90-821, para 2.9.3.)
     HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL INVENTORY
     1. Has the shop supervisor developed a hazardous chemical inventory for the
     workplace? (AFI 90-821, para 2.3.4., 2.8, AFI90-821_DMAFBSUP, para 2.8.3.)




                                      AF Form 2519 NOV 91 (REVERSE)
 12                        AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                   Attachment 5 (Added)
                  HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL TRAINING HANDBOOK

                                WORK CENTER SPECIFIC


                  HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL TRAINING HANDBOOK


                              (ADOPTED FROM AFI 90-821)



                                  This handbook belongs to:



                        ORGANIZATION: YOUR OFFICE SYMBOL


                                 SHOP: YOUR SHOP NAME
                                            DATE
A5.1. Purpose: This plan of instruction supplements the ―Workplace Written Hazard
Communication Program‖ by providing the student (employee) a format for receiving employee
information and training. This workbook is tailored to meet your work center’s specific
requirements.
A5.2. Objectives: Enable employees to identify hazardous chemicals used in their respective
work area and the precautions to take during hazardous chemical use/handling.
A5.3. Introduction:
A5.3. 1 Your rights: By law (29 Code of Federal Regulations, 1910.1200), you have the right
and are required to receive information and training regarding the hazardous chemicals that you
handle or work with. This information and training is the “Hazard Communication Program,”
commonly referred to as HAZCOM. You may also hear it referred to as the ―Right-to-know‖
program. This program deals specifically with your supervisor informing you of the hazardous
chemicals within your workplace. It also provides you the training required to safely work with
and around hazardous chemicals. You were first introduced to this program when you received
the ―Department of Defense Federal Hazard Communication Training Program.‖ The training
you are about to receive is a continuation of that program and addresses the hazardous chemicals
you will be exposed to, established protective measures, and how to find the information needed
to protect yourself. You can expect to receive some aspect of this program for as long as you
work with or around hazardous materials.
   A5.3.2. Your Responsibilities:    Under AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
   Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program, you have specific
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                  13


   responsibilities. You are required to follow the training you are given, comply with personal
   protective equipment requirements, including its use, inspection, and care, and give due
   consideration to personal safety and the safety of fellow workers.
   A5.3.3. Methods of Recourse: If you feel you have not received information which you
   need or have a right to under the Hazard Communication Program, talk to your supervisor.
   You may contact Public Health at extension 228-2788.
   A5.3.4. OSHA Expanded Standard Chemicals: Our shop will comply with OSHA expanded
   standard substance requirements contained in 29 CFR 1910.___, (Benzene, Cadmium, Lead,
   etc.). Our shop is current with annual training requirements. Expanded standard training is
   documented on the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health as OSHA expanded chemical
   training.
A5.4. Workplace Written Hazard Communication Program and Bioenvironmental
Engineering (BE) Survey:
   A5.4.1. Begin training by reviewing our ―Work Center Specific Hazardous Chemical
   Training Booklet‖ and our most recent BE Survey. These two documents will provide you
   with the background information on which we base today’s training.
   A5.4.2. Know where these documents are kept for your review.
   A5.4.3. The work center written HAZCOM program is found in Tab C of the HAZCOM
   binder.
   A5.4.4. BE survey letters are found in Tab D of the HAZCOM binder.
A5.5. Operations/Tasks in Your Work Place Involving Hazardous Chemicals.
   A5.5.1. The operations/tasks listed below involve working with one or more hazardous
   chemicals.
   A5.5.2. Ensure you are trained before attempting to accomplish any task involving
   hazardous materials.
   A5.5.3. Work center personnel may perform the following processes listed in Table A5.1.
(Fill in all processes involving hazardous chemicals, list the chemical and hazard associated with
each. MSDSs and the most recent BE industrial hygiene survey letter and its attachments should
be used to complete this section.)
 14                        AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011




Table A5. 1 Processes Work Center Personnel May Perform
                           Chemical                  Hazard/Category         Required Controls
                       Name/National Stock
                         Number (NSN)
      Process
Painting AGE          Epoxy Primer/               Hexavalent Chromium/       FF supplied air
                                                  OSHA Expanded Std,         respirator
                      8010-00-082-2450
                                                  A1 Carcinogen              Nitrile Gloves
                                                  Strontium Chromate/A2 Tyvek coveralls
                                                  Carcinogen
                                                  Toluene/ skin
                                                  absorption/
                                                  reproductive hazard
Sanding AGE           Hazard generated            Hexavalent Chromium/       FF supplied air
                      throughout process          OSHA Expanded Std,         respirator
                                                  A1 Carcinogen              Nitrile Gloves
                                                  Strontium Chromate/        Tyvek coveralls
                                                  A2 Carcinogen

A5.6. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials
   A5.6.1. A non-routine task is a task included within the activities of a workplace but
   performed infrequently or a detail or temporary duty performed outside of an employee’s
   normal workplace or AFSC. This includes squadron and base details.
   A5.6.2. Supervisors will ensure work area Operation Instructions (OIs) thoroughly describe
   non-routine tasks, associated hazards, and controls for the infrequent tasks listed in this
   section. OIs do not need to be prepared if technical orders (TOs), other official documents,
   or manufacturer’s instructions adequately describe these tasks. Supervisors will ensure
   workers review these procedures before performing the non-routine tasks.
   A5.6.3. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the supervisor
   of the activity will ensure these workers receive the following training prior to beginning the
   activity:
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                15


      A5.6.3.1. The initial DoD HazCom Training Program if not previously trained.
      A5.6.3.2. Supplemental training, as necessary, on work area specific chemical hazards
      and associated controls.
      A5.6.3.3. The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter to the worker’s formal
      supervisor describing the training conducted so the individual’s AF Form 55 can be
      updated.
   A5.6.4. Our-Non-Routine Tasks are: (if non-routine tasks do not exist, the shop should
   write a bullet statement stating that your shop does not perform non-routine operations.)

Table A5.2. Our Workplace Non-Routine Tasks
          TASKS                 CHEMICALS INVOLVED                  LOCATION OF TECH
                                                                   DATA, MFG INST, or OI




A5.7. Material Safety Data Sheets
   A5.7.1. MSDS are designed to help you understand how to work safely with chemicals in
   your work area. Although MSDSs may vary in appearance and length, most MSDSs will
   have approximately 8 to 10 sections which explain the proper ways to handle and store
   chemicals in your work area. An MSDS also provides information on health hazards of the
   chemical, precautionary measures to follow, and emergency procedures.
   A5.7.2. Know where the MSDS binder is kept
   A5.7.3. MSDSs must be accessible to all personnel
   A5.7.4. HAVE AN MSDS AVAILABLE WHEN SEEKING                                      MEDICAL
   ATTENTION. A.5.7.5. Explanation of the Material Safety Data Sheet
      A5.7.5.1. The INTRODUCTORY SECTION of the MSDS includes the chemical
      manufacturer’s name, address and emergency phone number, the chemical name, trade
      name, and chemical formula. This section helps you identify the chemical on the MSDS.
      A5.7.5.2. The HAZARDOUS INGREDIENTS section lists any hazardous ingredients
      found within the chemical that can be hazardous to you. In this section you might also
      see the terms (Threshold Limit Value) TLV and (Permissible Exposure Limit) PEL. Both
      terms are used to express the airborne concentration levels of a C.A.S. (Chemical
      Abstract Service), which will usually be listed in this section the MSDS. The C.A.S.
      numbers identify specific chemicals according to information published by the American
      Chemical Society.
      A5.7.5.3. The PHYSICAL DATA section lists such important physical properties of the
      chemical as boiling point, vapor density, percent volatile, appearance and odor, and other.
      This information helps determine the degree of hazards associated with the chemical in
      different work environments. For example, vapor density describes the weight of a vapor
      relative to an equal volume of air (air=1). If a chemical has a vapor density greater than
      1, the vapor will be heavier than air and tends to fall and hug the ground.
 16                         AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


       A5.7.5.4. The FIRE AND EXPLOSION DATA section helps you determine the
       chemical flash point, which is the temperature at which a chemical will release enough
       flammable vapor to ignite. Chemicals that ignite at or above 100F are classified as
       flammable. In addition, this section usually lists the chemical’s upper and lower
       flammability limits, proper types of extinguishing media required to safety extinguish
       the fire (example Co2, water, foam, etc.), special firefighting procedures, and any unusual
       fire and explosion hazards associated with the chemical.
       A5.7.5.5. The HEALTH HAZARD DATA section describes health effects associated
       with being overexposed to the chemical through ingestion, inhalation, and skin or eye
       contact. The information may include: the acute (immediate) and chronic (long term)
       effects of overexposure to the chemical, whether the chemical is a known carcinogen
       (cancer-causing agent), emergency and first aid procedures to follow in case of
       overexposure, whether overexposures may require immediate medical attention, and
       medical conditions that may be aggravated upon contact with the chemical. If you work
       in an area where overexposure is possible, safety equipment may be needed to protect
       you.
       A5.7.5.6. The REACTIVITY DATA section helps you determine if the chemical will
       react with other chemical or conditions. Chemicals that are reactive (unstable) may
       explode, burn, or release toxic substances under certain conditions. In addition, this
       section usually tells you if the chemical is stable or unstable and list any chemicals or
       substances that might be incompatible with the chemical.
       A5.7.5.7. The SPILL OR LEAK PROCEDURES section lists the procedures to
       follow when a chemical is accidentally released or spilled. It will also cover types of
       cleanup and protective equipment needed to safely contain or clean up a spill as well as
       proper ways to dispose of the chemical.
       A5.7.5.8. The SPECIAL PROTECTION INFORMATION section list the types of
       special protective equipment (respirators, gloves, eye protection, ventilation) that is
       recommended to be used when with the chemical. Remember, there are various types of
       protective equipment that are specially designed for certain tasks. Consult it with your
       supervisor to ensure you are using the correct type for the work you are performing.
       A5.7.5.9. The SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS                   section usually discusses special
       precautions to be taken to during handling and storage of the chemical. Also, this section
       will usually discuss any other health or safety concerns that have not already mentioned
       in another section of the MSDS.
A5.8. Labeling
   A5.8.1. To ensure employees are aware of all hazardous material within their workplace,
   OSHA requires all containers of hazardous materials brought into or used within a workplace
   to have the contents labeled, tagged, or marked.
   A5.8.2. The chemical manufacturer, importer, or distributor is required to label, tag, or mark
   each container with:
The identity of the hazardous material
Appropriate hazard warnings
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                      17


Name, address, and phone number of the manufacturer, importer, or distributor
   A5.8.3. These labels, tags, or markings will not be removed, defaced, or changed. If it
   becomes necessary to replace a label, tag, or marking due to damage or loss, a DD Form
   2521 (8‖ x 11‖) or DD Form 2522 (4‖ x 6‖), Hazardous Chemical Warning Label, will be
   used. One of these forms will also be used to meet the labeling requirements for existing
   stocks of unlabeled materials and for transferring, repackaging, or distributing of bulk
   quantities of hazardous materials into other containers (breakdown quantities).
   A5.8.4. The supervisor will ensure that each container of hazardous chemicals in the
   workplace is labeled, tagged, or marked with:
The identity of the hazardous chemical; and
Appropriate hazard warnings.
A.5.8.4.1. If the container is used or transported for use outside of the workplace, the name, duty
section and phone number of the responsible individual will be included.
       A5.8.4.2. Stationary containers may have their contents identified using signs, placards,
       or other such written material in place of labels as long as the alternative method
       identifies the container to which it is applicable.
       A5.8.4.3. Small quantity containers, when filled, used, and emptied by one employee
       during one shift within the workplace, will be marked, as a minimum, with the name of
       the material in use. If these small quantity containers are filled from other containers, the
       source container will have the required OSHA markings.
   A5.8.5. Warning labels may be formatted with either message or symbol which will identify
   the chemical and communicate the hazards of the chemical within the container. Labels may
   also address:
First aid - The label may explain what to do if the chemical comes in contact with eyes or skin or
if it is ingested or inhaled.
Fire - The label may list the type of extinguisher to use if the chemical is flammable, and if it
should catch fire.
Spills - Some warning labels may contain information on how spills should be handled.
Handling and Storage - The label will provide storage information and may list the type of
personal protective equipment required to handle/use the chemical.
A5.9. Physical and Health Hazards
   A5.9.1. The specific chemicals used during a particular operation or task will be addressed
   during the training or orientation for that operation or task.
   A5.9.2. Consult label and MSDS for information on specific chemicals before handling
   or use.
 18                        AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


A5.10. Methods and Observations to Detect Presence or Release of a Hazardous Material
in the Workplace
   A5.10.1. Continuous Monitoring Devices:
   A5.10.2. Monitoring Conducted by the Supervisor: Shift supervisors will do a walk around
   inspection at beginning and end of shift to check for any spilled or leaking hazardous
   chemicals.
   A5.10.3. Supervisor will also monitor the physical appearance and mental status of
   personnel working with hazardous chemicals.
   A5.10.4. Visual Appearance: Many chemicals have a distinct color and others, by their lack
   of color, could be visually confused with water. Certain colors can be distorted depending
   upon the lighting and the color of the material the chemical is in contact with. For these
   reasons, be extremely careful when attempting to identify an unknown spill by color alone.
   A5.10.5. Odor: Chemicals can also have a distinctive smell, such as an oily, or alcohol-like
   smell. Unfortunately, some chemicals are nearly odorless. In these cases, remain aware of
   your or a co-worker’s physical reactions. Burning eyes, nose or throat, prickly skin, loss of
   coordination, and dizziness are a few signs of exposure to a hazardous chemical.
   A5.10.6. Monitoring by Bioenvironmental Engineering: May be performed as a part of a
   special survey, when a new process or chemical is introduced into the workplace, or when
   over-exposure to a chemical is suspected.
A5.11. Protective Measures
   A5.11.1. Controlling chemical hazards often require a combination of protective measures:
   administrative controls, engineering controls, and personal protective equipment. We will
   examine how these controls are used.
   A5.11.2. Administrative Controls
   A5.11.3. Information and Training: In order to recognize the need for protection against a
   hazard, you need to be aware that a hazard exists. This information is passed to you through
   Hazard Communication Training, technical data, and on-the-job training (OJT).
   A5.11.4. Safe Work Practices: Through information and training, you learn the safe work
   practices to use with chemicals you will use or be exposed to. Common sense also goes a
   long way.
   A5.11.5. Good Housekeeping and Personal Hygiene: The goal of good housekeeping is to
   contain and remove hazards through proper storage, proper cleanup, and the prompt removal
   and correct disposal of chemical wastes. Correct personal hygiene around hazardous
   chemicals involves washing your hands before eating, drinking, or smoking, prompt removal
   of contaminated clothing, and cleaning of the clothing before wearing again.
   A5.11.6. Environmental, Medical, and Personal Monitoring: In some workplaces, the
   hazard of a chemical used requires the use of machines to monitor the air to warn of possible
   overexposure. Another method is physical exams of the personnel to detect adverse health
   conditions, both before allowing exposure to a chemical and at specific intervals while
   working with a chemical. In all workplaces, monitoring by the workers and the supervisors
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                 19


   for poor work practices, poor housekeeping, and damaged equipment is the first line of
   defense against unprotected exposure to hazardous chemicals.
   A5.11.7. Engineering Controls
   A5.11.8. Substitution: Finding a less hazardous chemical used within a process, finding a
   less hazardous process, or finding a less hazardous piece of equipment.
   A5.11.9. Isolation: Using barriers or enclosures to separate the employee from the hazard.
   Examples within this work area are: List specific examples that apply in the workplace
   A5.11.10. Ventilation: Providing a constant source of fresh air to the work area or removing
   airborne hazards at the source. Examples within this work area are: List specific industrial
   ventilation systems used in the workplace and what exposures they are used to control.
NOTE: Bioenvironmental Engineering will be consulted before initiating any changes in the
ventilation system.
   A5.11.11. Personal Protective Equipment: Bioenvironmental (BE) provides an authorized
   PPE listing as an attachment to their industrial hygiene survey. In addition, technical data
   and MSDSs will specify the protective equipment necessary while using specific chemicals.
   The protective equipment used in this work center is annotated in Table A.3.
A5.12. Emergency Procedures: When controls fail or there is an accidental release of a
hazardous chemical, emergency actions to safeguard life and property must be taken. Work area
personnel do/do not use large quantities of hazardous materials. Most spills are cleaned up on
the spot by following the Hazardous Material Spill Cleanup Procedures, which are reviewed
prior to working with any chemical. An emergency eyewash and or shower is available for
accidental contact. Immediately after flushing the exposed area for 15 minutes, personnel
involved will be taken to the Emergency Room for further evaluation. Additionally, work area
personnel receive in-service training on responding to hazardous material spills. If, at any time,
there is a spill, which is beyond our capabilities, work area personnel will evacuate the building
and call the Fire Department for assistance. Provide location of eye wash and shower units.
A5.13. Conclusion
   A5.13.1. Supplemental Training. Training for all potentially affected employees is
   required when a new hazard is brought into the work area/shop, a new chemical is
   introduced, and/or the shop uses chemicals regulated under an OSHA Expanded Standard
   regulation that requires supplemental training. The training shall include all elements
   described in AFI 90-821 Para. 2.7.2. Supervisors may use BE special survey letters or
   training material provided by Public Health Flight as sources of information to meet this
   training requirement. When workers change work area/shops either by assigned duties or
   location, work area/shop specific training as described in AFI 90-821 Para. 2.7.2.1. will be
   re-accomplished only to the extent needed to cover changes in working conditions, potential
   exposures, and OSHA expanded standard requirements.
   A5.13.2. Documentation of Hazard Communication Training. While the Federal
   HAZCOM standard does not require documentation of worker training, the Air Force, in
   accordance with AFI 91-301, as a good management practice, requires work area/shop
   supervisors to document both worker initial and supplemental hazard communication training
   on AF Form 55 or electronic equivalent. This record should also include external HAZCOM
 20                         AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


   training provided to AF supervisors and employees from contractor organizations where
   applicable.
   A5.13.3. We’ve covered some very important information today, information which will
   permit you to do your job safely and avert health problems in later years.
   A5.13.4. You should now know and understand:
   A5.13.4. 1 Your personal rights and responsibilities under OSHA.
   A5.13.4. 2 HazCom requirements that apply to your job and workplace.
       A5.13.4.3. The chemical hazards of your workplace.
       A5.13.4.4. Personal Protective Equipment that you need, where to get it, how to use it,
       and how to maintain it.
       A5.13.4.5. How to identify and report hazards.
       A5.13.4.6. Emergency procedures that apply to your job and workplace.
   A5.13.5. If you have any doubts or questions, ask your supervisor to go over the material
   again. Don’t shortchange yourself, your family, or the Air Force.
SIGNATURE BLOCK
Hazard Communications Manager

Table A5.3. ACRONYMS/DEFINITIONS
Administrative Controls - Use of information, training, shift schedules, work practices,
housekeeping, and monitoring to reduce or eliminate exposures.
Airborne - Word used to describe something that is in the air.
Air-Purifying Respirator - Type of personal protective equipment that uses a special filter or
chemical cartridge to remove specific airborne hazards from contaminated air before the wearer
inhales it.
Air-Supplied Respirator - Type of personal protective equipment that supplies the air that the
wearer breathes; includes self-contained breathing apparatus and hose-type supplied-air units.
Barrier Cream - Protective cream applied to the skin to protect against skin contact/absorption
hazards; often used in addition to gloves.
Boiling Point - Temperature at which a liquid changes into a gas.
Carcinogen - Health hazard that causes cancer in the exposed individual.
CAS Number - See Chemical Abstract Service Number.
Chemical Abstract Service Number - Identifies specific chemicals according to information
published by the American Chemical Society.
Chemical Container - Bags, barrels, bottles, boxes, cans, cylinders, drums, reaction vessels,
storage tanks, and other vessels used to hold chemicals.
Chemical Family - Name given to a group of chemicals having related structures of properties
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                   21


(e.g., aliphatic hydrocarbons).
Chemical Formula - Way of identifying chemical materials by showing the number of each
type of atom contained in one molecule of the chemical.
Chemical Hazard - Any chemical material that can cause health problems, fire, explosion, or
other dangerous situations.
Combustible Liquid - Liquid having a flash point at or above 100F, but below 200F.
Combustion - The process of burning.
Compressed Gas - Gas stored inside a container at a pressure much higher than normal air
pressure; contains a lot of stored energy; a physical hazard due to the potential for sudden release
of the stored energy when the gas expands.
Condensation - Process by which an airborne vapor becomes a mist or fume.
Corrosive - Health hazard that burns on contact, causing visible damage and/or irreversible
changes to body tissues; also a physical hazard that can burn through inert materials.
Cryogenic - Health hazard that freezes body tissues on contact.Cubic Meter - A cube measuring
1 meter on each side.
Decomposition Product - Chemical that forms when a material breaks down into simpler
molecules; may be hazardous even if the parent material is not.
Degree of Hazard - Measures of how serious an exposure is based on what can happen as a
result; takes into account the chemical, exposure route, dosage, number and length of exposures,
and individual differences.
Delayed Effect - Health effect that appears slowly over time, rather than right away; can be
associated with either single or repeated exposures.
Dermatitis - Cracked, broken, dry skin caused by exposure to health hazards that remove fat
from the skin; inflammation of the skin caused by direct contact or systemic exposure to
hazardous chemicals.
Dosage - Amount of chemical that enters the body over a specified period of time.
Dust - Airborne particles formed from solids.
Engineering Controls - Use of substitution, isolation, or ventilation to reduce exposure to
chemical hazards and the injury or illness caused by such exposure.
Environmental Monitoring - Type of administrative control that involves collecting,
measuring, and analyzing air or wipe samples of chemical substances to determine whether a
hazard exists, or whether a known hazard is being effectively controlled.
Esophagus - Tube that leads from the throat to the stomach.
Evaporate - Process by which liquids change into the vapor form.
Evaporation Rate - Physical data on the MSDS that describes how fast a liquid evaporates in
comparison to a standard having a rate of 1.
Explosive - Chemical material that can undergo a sudden and violent release of pressure and
 22                         AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


heat.
Explosive Limits - Data on the MSDS that define the ranges of air-chemical mixtures that can
explode when exposed to an ignition source; see Upper and Lower Explosive Limits.
Exposure Limit - The maximum amount of chemical in a given volume of air to which workers
may be exposed, as averaged over a specified period of time. Most people can be exposed to this
airborne limit for an entire working lifetime without developing health effects.
Exposure Symptom - Health effect produced by exposure to a chemical material, such as
headache or skin irritation.
Extinguishing Medium - Chemical used to put out a fire.
Eye Contact Hazard - Chemical material that damages or irritates the eye on contact or is
systemically absorbed (either with the bulk chemical or its airborne forms), or that can be
absorbed through the eyes; an exposure route.
Fire Hazard - Chemical material that ignites and burns easily, or that cause or supports fire in
other materials; includes pyrophorics, flammables, combustibles, and oxidizers.
Flammable Liquid - A liquid with a flash point below 100F.
Flash Point - Lowest temperature at which a liquid gives off enough vapor to ignite in the
presence of an ignition source.
Fume - Tiny airborne particles that can form when a solid is melted.
Gas - Physical form of a chemical that is easily compressed and expands to fill its container; has
a boiling point below room temperature.
General Ventilation - Type of ventilation system that is used to mix an airborne hazard with
fresh air to dilute it and reduce its concentration to safe levels.
Hazard Communication Program - Written document that describes how an employer or
facility complies with all requirements of the Federal Hazard Communication Standard (29 Code
of Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910. 1200).
Hazard Communication Standard - Federal law developed by OSHA to reduce illness and
injury caused by chemical hazards in the workplace; requires evaluation of chemical hazards and
communication of hazard information to both employers and employees.
Hazard Determination (or Evaluation) - Process of finding out whether a chemical material is
hazardous and what the hazards are.
Hazardous Chemical Inventory - List of all hazardous chemicals known to be present in a
given workplace; identity/name of chemicals used on this list must match the identity/name used
on the warning labels and MSDSs.
Hazardous Ingredient - Chemical in a mixture that presents either a physical hazard or a health
hazard.
Health Hazard - Any chemical material that can cause illness or injury when a person is
exposed by ingestion, skin or eye contact, skin absorption, or inhalation.
High Toxicity - Description applying to chemicals that can produce either life-threatening or
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                      23


seriously disabling health effects.
Housekeeping - An administrative control that involves containing and removing chemical
hazards--e.g., vacuuming, proper storage and handling, prompt removal and correct disposal of
chemical wastes.
IARC – See International Agency for Research on Cancer.
IDLH - Immediate Danger to Life and Health
Immediate Effect - Health effect that appears right away-- either during the exposure or shortly
afterwards.
Industrial Hygienist - Expert in the recognition, evaluation, and control of safety and health
hazards.
Ingestion - The way that a chemical enters the body if you swallow it; an exposure route.
Ingredient - See Hazardous Ingredient.
Inhalation - The way that a chemical enters the body when you breathe it through your nose or
mouth; an exposure route.
International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) - Agency that evaluates the research
data on substances tested for their carcinogenic potential. IARC publishes information on
carcinogens and potential carcinogens. The IARC listing is one of the references that must be
used to identify cancer-causing chemicals on MSDSs.
Irritant - Health hazard that reacts with body tissues at the point of contact causing reddening,
itching, tearing, irritation, and/or minor inflammation.
Isolation - Engineering control that involves using an enclosure, barrier, or safe distance to
separate workers from exposure hazards.
LEL - See Lower Explosive Limit.
Liquid - Physical form of a chemical that has no definite shape, but takes the shape of its
container; has a boiling point above room temperature.
Local Exhaust Ventilation - Type of ventilation system that captures an airborne hazard as it is
released at the source and takes it out of the workplace.
Low Toxicity - Description applying to chemicals that produce only minor health effects--effects
that usually go away with or without medical attention when exposure stops.
Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) - Data on the MSDS that defines the minimum amount of
airborne chemical that must be present in an air-chemical mixture to make it explosive.
Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) - Written document that identifies a chemical material;
gives its physical properties; describes known physical hazards, health hazards, and required
controls; and identifies correct procedures for putting out fire, cleaning up a spill or leak,
disposing of waste, and handling/storing the material safety.
Medical Monitoring - Type of administrative control that involves physical examinations and/or
lab tests to establish an individual’s baseline health status and check the effectiveness of other
controls used to protect an individual from health hazards.
 24                         AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


mg/m3 - See Milligrams Per Cubic Meter.
Milligrams Per Cubic Meter (mg/m3 ) - Unit used to express exposure limits; defines the mass
of chemical contaminant (in milligrams) allowed in each cubic meter volume of air.
Mist - Airborne form of a liquid chemical; consists of tiny droplets.
Mixture - Material that contains more than one chemical.
Moderate Toxicity - Description applying to chemicals that produce health effects requiring
medical attention; damage may be permanent but is neither life-threatening nor seriously
disabling.
Monitoring - An administrative control that checks the effectiveness of other controls by
analyzing air samples, wipe samples, and personal exposure levels; may involve medical
monitoring.MSDS - See Material Safety Data Sheet.
Mutagen - Reproductive hazard that causes genetic changes in sperm or egg cells.
N/A - Not applicable
National Toxicology Program (NTP) - Organization that funds and conducts research on
chemical substances. NTP publishes lists of carcinogens and potential carcinogens; this list is
one of the reference sources that must be used to identify cancer-causing chemicals on MSDSs.
NTP - See National Toxicology Program.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) - Federal agency within the
Department of Labor that develops and enforces standards for workplace safety and health.
OSHA - See Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Oxidizer - Chemical material that supplies the oxygen required to start or support fire. Common
oxidizers include chlorine gas, oxygen and peroxides.
Parts Per Million (ppm) - Unit used to express exposure limits; defines parts of the chemical
allowed in each one million (1,000,000) parts of the air-chemical mixture.
PEL - Exposure limit set and enforced by OSHA. (See Exposure Limit).
Personal Monitoring - Type of administrative control that involves the worker’s wearing a
badge or other sampling device to measure exposure to a chemical hazard in the workplace.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) - Equipment that protects the individual who wears it by
placing a barrier between that individual and a hazard; includes protective eyewear, face shields
and masks, gloves, boots, clothing, and respirators.
Physical/Chemical Characteristics - Information on the MSDS that describes the appearance,
odor, boiling point, vapor pressure, vapor density, evaporation rate, specific gravity, and water
solubility of a chemical material.
Physical Hazard - Any chemical material that can cause fire, explosion, violent chemical
reactions, or other similarly hazardous situations.
Polymerization Hazard - Unstable chemical that undergoes a violent reaction and release of
energy that produces or releases a hazard when two or more small molecules combine (self-
react) to form large molecules called polymers.
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                     25


PPE - See Personal Protective Equipment.
PPM - See Parts Per Million.
Pyrophoric - Chemical material that spontaneously bursts into flame when exposed to air at
temperatures below 130F; no ignition source is needed.
Reactive Chemical - Material that reacts violently on contact with certain other chemical
materials to produce or release a hazard.Recommended Exposure Limit (REL) - Exposure
limit recommended by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).
REL - See Recommended Exposure Limit.
Reproductive Hazard - Health hazard that targets the human reproductive system; category that
includes teratogens and mutagens.
RESP - Respirable
SCBA - Self-contained breathing apparatus
Sensitizer - Health hazard that produces an allergic-like reaction in some people after repeated
exposure.
Skin Absorption - Way that some chemicals pass through the skin on contact and enter the
bloodstream; an exposure route.
Skin Contact Hazard - Chemical material that damages or irritates the skin on contact; an
exposure route.
Smoke - An airborne mixture of fire, gases, dust, and fumes.
Solid - Physical form of a chemical that has a definite shape.
Solubility in Water - Physical data element on the MSDS that describes whether or not a
material dissolves in water.
Specific Gravity - Physical data on the MSDS that describes whether a liquid is lighter or
heavier than water.
Substitution - Engineering control that involves replacing a chemical, process, or piece of
equipment with a less hazardous one.
Synonym - With the same or nearly the same meaning
Target Organ Chemical - Health hazard that enters the bloodstream and damages specific
Teratogen - Reproductive hazard that damages the fetus during its development.
Threshold Limit Value (TLV) - Exposure limit recommended by the American Conference of
Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH). (See Exposure Limit)
TLV - See Threshold Limit Value.
Toxicity - Description of the degree of health hazard associated with exposure to a chemical; see
Low, Moderate, and High Toxicity.
Transfer Container - Chemical container that does not require labels because only one person
handles the container, and it is filled and emptied during the same shift.
 26                         AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


UEL - See Upper Explosive Limit.
Unstable Chemical - Material that violently self-reacts under commonly occurring conditions; a
type of physical hazard.Upper Explosive Limit (UEL) - The maximum amount of airborne
chemical that can be present in an air-chemical mixture and still have it be explosive.
Vapor - One airborne form of a liquid chemical.
Vapor Density - Physical data that describes whether the vapor formed by a material is lighter or
heavier than air.
Vapor Pressure - Force exerted on the walls of a closed container of liquid by vapor formed
above the liquid surface.
Vaporization - Process by which liquids become airborne.
Ventilation - Engineering control that reduces airborne exposure levels either by mixing the
hazard with fresh air, or by removing it as it is released at the source.
Warning Label - Document affixed to chemical containers (or posted by stationary containers)
that identifies the chemical material and all appropriate hazard warnings.
Water-Reactive - Chemical material that reacts with water or moist air to produce or release a
hazard.
Work Practices - Procedures normally used to do the job.


IMPORTANT POINTS OF CONTACT

Table A5.4.
Emergency                                                  911/228-3333
Bioenvironmental Engineering (355 AMDS/SGPB)               228-5369
Civil Engineering Environmental (355 CES/CEV)              228-4840
Fire Department (355 CES/CEF)                              228-4757
Public Health (355 AMDS/SGPM)                              228-2788
DM Base Safety (355 FW/SE)                                 228-5558/ 4895
AMARG Safety (309 AMARG/QP-SE)                             228-8181
Security Police (355 SFS/CCQ)                              228-2300
Note: Commercial Prefix is 520-228-XXXX
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                              27




Table A5.5. Workers’ Knowledge of HAZCOM.
                   QUESTION                                        ANSWER
What chemicals could present a potential health
hazard?
Name one hazardous chemical used by your
shop?
What is a MSDS?
Where are the MSDSs for your shop kept?


Where is the Hazardous Material Inventory?


What type of PPE is used in your shop?

Who is your HAZCOM Program Manager?


What procedures do you follow in the event of a
small spill? A large spill? What is the difference?

Table A5.6. Hazard Communication Program Exemption List.
                ITEM NAME                            SIZE               EXCEPTIONS
Air Freshener                                   Consumer        Aerosols with Class I ODS
                                                Commodity       Propellant
Anti-Seize Tape (Teflon Tape)                   All             N/A
Automobile Wax                                  Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity
Baking Soda                                     Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity
Batteries, Dry Cell/Alkaline                    AAA-D, 9V, 6V   N/A
Correction Fluid                                Consumer        Containing 1,1,1 Trichloroethane
                                                Commodity
Detergents (Laundry/Dishwasher/etc.)            Consumer        Industrial Concentrations
                                                Commodity
Dish/Hand soaps/Compounds                       Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity
Duct Board (Used to Construct Air handling      Standard Use    N/A
Ducts)
 28                            AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


Dustmop Treatment Compound                 Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Eye Wash Additive                          Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Floor Finish                               Consumer       Oil/Solvent Based
                                           Commodity
Floor Polish Remover                       Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Floor Sweeping Compound                    Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Floor Wax                                  Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Flux                                       Standard Use   Acid Containing
Furniture Polish                           Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity



             ITEM NAME                         SIZE                EXCEPTIONS
General Purpose Deodorant                  Consumer       Aerosols with Class I ODS
                                           Commodity      Propellant
Glass Cleaner (Windex/Glass Plus/etc.)     Consumer       Industrial Concentrations
                                           Commodity
Glazing Cmpd                               Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Glue Stick                                 Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Insect Repellent (Off, etc.)               Consumer       Commercial Concentrations
                                           Commodity
Insecticide/Herbicide (Raid/Black Flag/    Consumer       Commercial Concentrations
etc.)                                      Commodity
Joint Cmpd (for sheetrock work)            Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Leak Detector (soapy water)                Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Liquid Chlorine Bleach                     Consumer       Greater than 9% concentration
                                           Commodity
Metal Polish                               Consumer       Industrial Concentrations
                                           Commodity
Muti-Purpose Cleaner (409/Simple Green,    Consumer       N/A
etc.)                                      Commodity
Neatsfoot Oil                              Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
Print Cartridges/Printer Ribbon            Consumer       N/A
                                           Commodity
AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011                                              29


Rug/Upholstery Cleaner                          Consumer        Industrial Concentrations
                                                Commodity
Shredder Oil                                    Standard Use    N/A
Soap (toilet/pumice)                            Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity
Stamp Pad Ink (all colors)                      Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity




               ITEM NAME                            SIZE                 EXCEPTIONS
Superglue                                       Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity
Talcum Powder                                   Consumer        Asbestos Containing
                                                Commodity
Technical Bees Wax                              Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity
Tire/Rubber Lubricant                           Standard Use    N/A
Toilet/Porcelain Cleaner (Soft-Scrub/ etc.)     Consumer        Acid Containing
                                                Commodity
Toner (Direct/Indirect/kits/print cartridges)   Standard Use    N/A
Urinal Cakes                                    Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity
White Out                                       Consumer        N/A
                                                Commodity
NOTES:
1. ―Consumer Commodity‖ means product is used in the work center in the same manner as it
would be used for household use, with similar duration and frequency of exposure; determination
is made item by item by work center supervisor (Reference AFI 90-821, 2.2.9).
2. Consumer use items are exempt from Hazard Communication program (no MSDS required);
work centers, however, must identify these items on a separate list in their HAZCOM binder.
3. List DOES NOT exempt item from separate storage, compatibility and disposal requirements.
4. Cannot stockpile consumer use items; general guidance is two containers allowed per shop.
5. Standard Use means normally purchased to service specific equipment.
 30                       AFI90-821_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 SEPTEMBER 2011


Table A5. 7 HAZCOM PROGRAM APPROVAL LETTER
                     HAZCOM PROGRAM APPROVAL LETTER

                                       Squadron
                               Shop Name and Office Symbol




1st Ind, Your Squadron Commander, Squadron/CC



2nd Ind, Base Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight, 355 AMDS/SGPB



3rd Ind, Public Health, 355 AMDS/SGPM



4th Ind, Fire Department, 355 CES/CEF



5th Ind, 355th Wing Safety, 355 FW/SEG
Or 309th AMARG Safety, 309 AMARG/QP-SE
