                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                     HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND



                                                     AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP_AFGSCGM2014-01

                                                                                         8 May 2014



MEMORANDUM FOR AFGSC Wing/Unit/NAF CCs

FROM: AFGSC/CV
      245 Davis Ave. East, Suite 200
      Barksdale AFB, LA 71110

SUBJECT: Air Force Global Strike Command Guidance Memorandum to AFI 90-201,
         The Air Force Inspection System

1. By Order of the Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command, this AFGSC Guidance
Memorandum (GM) immediately provides amplifying information to AFI 90-201, The Air Force
Inspection System, dated 2 August 2013. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To
the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein
prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. In advance of a rewrite of AFI 90-201_AFGSCSUP, the attachment to this memorandum,
which is effective immediately, provides additional guidance for implementation of wing CCIP
programs and Attachment 3 inspection areas.

3. This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the memorandum date, or
upon incorporation by interim change to, or rewrite of AFI 90-201_AFGSCSUP, The Air Force
Inspection System, whichever is earlier.




                                              ROBERT D. REGO
                                              Major General, USAF
                                              Vice Commander

Atch
Guidance Changes




                                       To Deter and Assure
                                           Attachment

                                       Guidance Changes

The below additions to AFI 90-201, dated 2 AUGUST 2013, are effective immediately.

(Added) 1.5.9.1.2. Products that substantiate compliance with regulations (e.g. monthly, quarterly
or annual reports) that are already provided or available to the FAM should be provided in turn by
the FAM to their respective IG counterpart.

(Added) 2.2.1. 576th Flight Test Squadron (FLTS) is not considered to be a wing equivalent unit.
However, AFGSC/A3 will perform CCIP functions as they pertain to the 576 FLTS.

(Added) 2.2.2. 625th Strategic Operations Squadron (STOS) and 620th Ground Combat Training
Squadron (GCTS) are not considered to be wing equivalent units and are not required to comply
with CCIP requirements.

(Added) 5.4.5.10.2.1. Units will upload substantiating records into MICT as an attachment to the
self-assessment checklist item that they support (T-2). Wing leadership will provide guidance on
the content and amount of substantiating records required (T-2). Uploading records that are
readily available through other common sources (e.g., e-publishing website) is not necessary.
Additional documents that AFGSC/IG determines are necessary to support ongoing virtual
inspections may be requested from the unit through the wing IG.

(Added) 5.8.2.3.2.1.1. [Bomber-Only] Wing IGs will develop exercises to evaluate conventional
operational readiness.

(Added) 5.8.2.3.2.1.1.1. [Bomber Only] Generation: Evaluate unit’s ability to configure/generate
aircraft (T-2).

(Added) 5.8.2.3.2.1.1.2. [Bomber Only] Deployment: Evaluate unit’s ability to deploy generated
(IG accepted) aircraft (T-2).

(Added) 5.8.2.3.2.1.1.3. [Bomber Only] Regeneration: Evaluate the deployed unit's ability to
attain a combat ready posture (T-2).

(Added) 5.8.2.3.2.1.1.4. [Bomber Only] Evaluate Combat Mission Effectiveness (CSE). CME is
an overall assessment of unit capability to accomplish DOC/ATO tasked missions. CME
encompasses Mission Preparation, Mission Execution and Weapons Employment (T-2). This
rating encompasses evaluation of all aspects of mission employment including the following
applicable elements: air refueling, Composite/Large Force Employment (C/LFE), mission
conduct, threat assessment/reaction, maritime mining operations, Command and Control (C2)
operations, intelligence and information operations.

(Added) 6.7.2.2. Rate Stockpile as ACCEPTABLE, MARGINAL or UNACCEPTABLE




                                      To Deter and Assure
(Added) 6.10.7.2.1. Validate nuclear surety training by testing a minimum of 25 percent of PRP
certified personnel in each subordinate unit. AFGSC/IG will develop the test from the Master
Test Question Bank located on the HQ AFGSC/SEW SharePoint website.

(Added) 6.11.3.1.1.1. Exercise Controllers. AFGSC/IG personnel will provide exercise
controllers. They may be augmented by other personnel as necessary to ensure the exercise is
conducted safely and effectively. These exercise controllers will be briefed on their
responsibilities by AFGSC/IG personnel.

(Added) 6.11.3.1.1.2. The exercise will be evaluated by AFGSC/IG personnel augmented by
trusted agents (TAs) as necessary to ensure effective assessment of the exercise. If used, TAs will
provide their observations to AFGSC/IG personnel for use in developing the final report.

(Added) 6.18.4.1. [ICBM Only] If required, unit will be tasked to generate the off-base training
Launch Facility (LF) to simulate Emergency War Order (EWO) alert status using training code
materials (T-2).

(Added) 6.18.4.1.1. [ICBM Only] The training Re-entry System/Re-entry Vehicle (RS/RV) will
be used to simulate generation of the off-base trainer (T-2).

(Added) 6.18.4.1.2. [ICBM Only] At no point will safing pins be removed from the training LF
with the MGS running unless the Command Signal Decoder (Missile) (CSD (M)) contains
operational codes (T-2). The training LF will be configured as follows:

(Added) 6.18.4.1.3. [ICBM Only] The CSD (M) will be operationally coded (T-2).

(Added) 6.18.4.1.4. [ICBM Only] A test Permutation Plug (P-Plug) will be installed in the MGS
(T-2).

(Added) 6.18.4.1.5. [ICBM Only] The Missile Guidance Set (MGS) will be coded with test codes
selected from the Test Master Data (T-2).

(Added) 6.18.4.1.6. [ICBM Only] The Safety Control Switch (SCS) lockpin assembly and all
safing pins will be removed (T-2).

(Added) 6.18.4.1.7. [ICBM Only] All required weapon system post-maintenance tests will be
accomplished. Training LFs with training tapes will not respond to an inhibit test. This is a
normal indication (T-2).

(Added) A3.1.3.1. Additional AFGSC-specific Attachment 3 items and SPINS (Special
Instructions) are located on the AFGSC/IG External Sharepoint Site at https://afgsc-
p.eis.af.mil/es/directorates/IGE/AFGSC%20Attachment%203%20Additions/Forms/AllItems.aspx




                                       To Deter and Assure
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-201
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE
COMMAND                                          AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                          Supplement
                                                                           26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                           Special Management

                                                   THE AIR FORCE INSPECTION SYSTEM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:          AFGSC/IGI                                              Certified by: AFGSC/DIG
Supersedes:   AFI 90-201 AFGSCSUP,                                  (Colonel Lance K. Kawane)
              07 January 2011                                                        Pages:103


AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, is supplemented as follows: This supplement
provides additional guidance where MAJCOM direction is required. It applies to all units within
AFGSC; to include, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units
in Title 10 status performing duties in direct support of AFGSC assets, units or mission. Process
supplements in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims



SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
This supplement establishes AFGSC-added requirements to AFI 90-201. Inspection
requirements for AFGSC Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Wings and AFGSC Bomb
Wings are listed in this supplement. Paragraphs coded as “(Added)” apply to all AFGSC Wings.
 2                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


Paragraphs coded as “(Added) [Bomber Only]” apply to AFGSC Bomb Wings only.
Paragraphs coded as “(Added) [ICBM Only]” apply to AFGSC Missile Wings only.
1.5.9.1.1.1. (Added) [ICBM Only] In coordination with AFGSC/IGIO, AFGSC/A3I/T will
develop Nuclear Surety Inspection (NSI) and Nuclear Operational Readiness Inspection (NORI)
observation script shells for AFGSC/IG approval. Upon approval, AFGSC/A3I/T will work with
20 AF/A3N on script development and programming. As the technical approval authority,
AFGSC/A3I/T will ensure the final script meets all current operational evaluation requirements
for use in the Missile Procedures Trainer (MPT). AFGSC/IG is the final approval authority for
use during an inspection. Any technical changes during or after script development will be
coordinated/approved by AFGSC/A3I/T and submitted for final approval to AFGSC/IG.
1.5.9.1.1.2. (Added) [ICBM Only] Script Development. Upon notification, AFGSC/A3I/T will
have 30 days to produce a script shell based on inspection-specific inputs from AFGSC/IG.
Once AFGSC/IG approves the shell, AFGSC/A3I/T will forward the shell to 20 AF/A3N.
20 AF/A3N will have 45 days to produce the approved script for use in the MPT. Each shell will
be wing-specific and must be designed and programmed to be presented at the assigned wing.
Prior to an inspection, AFGSC/IGIO inspector(s), AFGSC/A3I/T representative(s), and the script
programmer or designated representative(s) will perform a script checkout in an MPT. Once this
checkout is complete, AFGSC/IGIO will make a recommendation to AFGSC/IG for final
approval.
1.5.9.1.1.3. (Added) [ICBM Only] Script Requirements. All scripts will be considered special
evaluations IAW AFGSCI 13-5301, Volume 2, Rapid Execution and Combat Targeting
(REACT) Crew Standardization and Evaluation, unless otherwise indicated.
2.4.1.1.1. (Added) Team Composition: In addition to AFGSC/IG members, inspection teams
will include subject matter experts from NAFs, HAF, MAJCOM and wings to ensure the team
has the experience base necessary to provide a thorough evaluation of all applicable inspection
areas. During inspections where air or missile crew certification is to be evaluated (e.g., CUI),
qualified evaluators will be included as members of the inspection team.
2.8.2.2.1. (Added) All visits to AFGSC units by Air Force agencies will use the AFGSC
Gatekeeper Process in Attachment 11. All visits to AFGSC units by non-Air Force agencies
(e.g.,Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA)
and Government Accountability Office (GAO)) OPRs for inspections, assessments, audits,
evaluations or observations will coordinate with AFIA and request liaison with the AFGSC/IG
Gatekeeper prior to the event being scheduled. If an AFGSC unit is contacted directly by an
agency, the unit will refer the agency to the AFGSC Gatekeeper. The AFGSC Gatekeeper will
coordinate with host wings on visit requests to tenet units.
2.8.2.2.2. (Added) NAFs, wings, and independent inspectable Air Reserve Components (ARC)
will appoint in writing a primary and alternate Gatekeeper Liaisons. Gatekeeper appointment
letters will be sent to the Gatekeeper workflow afgsc.gatekeeper@us.af.mil.
2.8.2.2.3. (Added) HQ AFGSC/IGX will work with other HQ AFGSC functional directorates,
NAFs, wings, and ARC to coordinate sponsored/projected events on a quarterly basis.
2.8.2.2.4. (Added) AFGSC/IG Gatekeeper master schedule and long range planning calendar
can be accessed for review on the HQ AFGSC/IG SharePoint site: https://afgsc-
p.eis.af.mil/es/directorates/IGE/schedule/default.aspx.
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                3


2.8.3. (Added) Safeguarding Inspector General Inspection Details.
2.8.3.1. (Added) The Air Force Global Strike Command Inspector General (IG) fulfills a
critical function by providing the command with independent and objective inspection feedback.
In order for inspections to be fair and objective for all units and personnel across the command,
the IG must avoid compromise of most inspection details. Compromised inspection information
not only leads to unfair inspection results but also provides leaders at all levels an inaccurate
assessment of the command's capabilities. IG inspection information is prevalent throughout the
command, including no-notice inspection dates, IG travel plans, associate inspector and trusted
agent details, inspection scripts, and discussions with functional area managers.
2.8.3.2. (Added) In order to protect the impartiality of IG inspections, all personnel are directed
to safeguard all inspection details unless the IG explicitly grants permission to share information
with other personnel. Military or civilian personnel who divulge Trusted Agent IG inspection
information as described above may be disciplined under the Uniform Code of Military Justice
or civilian personnel regulations, as applicable. If ever in doubt, seek IG approval before
releasing inspection information.
2.12.2.1. (Added) Contract activities eligible for inspection may include but are not limited to
Base Operations and Support Service contracts.
2.12.2.2. (Added) AFGSC/IG members will request a copy of the applicable Performance Work
Statement (PWS) and Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) from the inspected unit to
review prior to conducting an inspection. PWS non-support of compliance items does not
relieve the inspected unit from compliance with by-law mandates or mission areas identified by
senior AF and MAJCOM leadership as critical or important. AFGSC evaluates key unit
readiness functions performed by military, government civilian personnel, or contractors. The
evaluation is focused on unit capability to perform the mission, regardless of what type of
resources are used for this purpose. Consolidated Unit Inspection (CUI) Phase 2 Readiness
Inspection (RI) exception: when contracts supply only home station base operating support
which would not forward deploy with the unit, then contracted personnel performing these
functions will be considered external support and not-inspected. AFGSC/IG will not evaluate
deployed functions performed by contractors when the contract does not provide deployed
support in real-world contingencies. The Contracting Officer is the only person authorized to
provide contractual direction of any kind.
2.14.3. Contact AFGSC/IGX for AFGSC IGEMS/IGEMS-C access.
2.16.8.1. Minor deficiencies assessed to a NAF will be closed by the NAF/CC.
2.16.8.1.2. All deficiencies not requiring a long-term solution, as determined by AFGSC/IG,
should be closed within 90 days (180 days for ARC units).
2.16.8.4.1. (Added) Open deficiencies will be updated in IGEMS or IGEMS-C NLT the first
Wednesday of each month. AFGSC/IGX will conduct a Deficiency Review Board (DRB) as
needed to discuss inspection deficiencies, deficiency impact on the unit’s mission, and
headquarter’s policy. AFGSC DRB membership will include the following 2-letter directorates:
A1, A2, A3, A4/7, A5/8, A6, A9, FM, HC, HO, IG, IP, JA, SE, SG and PA. In addition,
8 AF/CC, 20 AF/CC and AFGSC wing and DRU commanders are also members. Headquarters
Air Force, USSTRATCOM, Air Force Materiel Command, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center,
Air Force Safety Center, and DTRA representatives may attend meetings when requested.
 4                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


3.1.2.1. (Added) [ICBM Only] ICBM wings will receive a CUI Phase 1 only. A Phase 1 will
include tailored compliance items, tailored readiness items as applicable to ICBM wings and
integrated or synchronized functional inspections.
3.3.1.1. (Added) Combat Crew Communications will be evaluated IAW AFI 90-201,
Attachment 3, Table A3.1, Air Force Inspection Requirements, Section 7.3, SAF/CIO A6
(Information Dominance & Chief Information Officer).
3.3.6. (Added) Emergency Management (Installation Commander, Group and Squadron
Commanders, Detachment Commanders, and staff agency chiefs).
3.3.6.1. (Added) Ensure unit commanders have met requirements listed in AFI 10-2501.
3.3.6.2. (Added) Evaluate whether the base exercise program complies with AFI 10-2501, AFI
10-2603, Emergency Health Powers on Air Force Installations, AFI 10-2604, Disease
Containment Planning Guidance and DoDI 6055.17, DoD Installation Emergency Management
Program. The installation, unit or activity shall demonstrate the tasks and/or technical operations
required to comply with exercise and evaluation program by conducting a base-wide exercise.
3.3.6.2.1. (Added) The wing will conduct an Emergency Management Exercise (EME) IAW
AFI 10-2501, Table 7.1. During an inspection, the EME will not be accomplished by table top;
the exercise will be accomplished by an Operations Based Exercise (Drills, Functional or Full
Scale). The EME will generate a response by the IC and First Responder elements and select
Emergency Responders and Emergency Support Functions only (as defined in AFI 10-2501,
Table A2.1). The IG will inspect the unit’s ability to plan, execute and report on an EME.
3.3.6.2.2. (Added) AFGSC/IG will evaluate the EET’s objectivity and quality of evaluation.
The IG will observe the unit’s in-brief, hotwash, and debrief. The EET’s final report/grading of
exercise objectives is due to the IG NLT 1500 (Local Time) of Day 4 of the inspection.
3.3.6.3. (Added) Assess Nuclear Chemical Biological Defense Report (CBDRT) reporting for
the installation, per AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System.
3.5.1.2.1.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Phase 1 RI aircraft acceptance:
3.5.1.2.1.1.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Aircrew Aircraft Acceptance. An aircrew will accept
generated aircraft and enter "Aircrew accepted at (time)/(date)/(name)/(rank)" in the first open
block of the AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document. Maintenance
inspection will include a visual inspection, safety of flight checks, forms review, assessed
mission capability using the Mission Essential Subsystem List (MESL), and Maintenance
Information System (MIS) data. Following aircrew acceptance, no subsequent maintenance or
forms entries are authorized without IG approval/coordination until the aircraft has been
inspected. After inspection, form entries for minor maintenance are authorized to be placed after
the Aircrew Aircraft Acceptance entry.
3.5.1.2.1.1.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] A rejected aircraft is any aircraft not properly configured
for tasking, unable to meet mission requirements or any aircraft with a safety of flight
discrepancy discovered during IG visual inspection and/or forms review. Rejected aircraft will
not be considered as successfully generated/regenerated. Rejected aircraft will negatively impact
the rating IAW Table 3.1.
3.5.1.2.1.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Generation: Evaluate unit’s ability to configure/generate
aircraft. Deviations must be coordinated with the IG Team Chief in advance or immediately
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 5


upon arrival. The baseline will be adjusted if the number of aircraft available resulting from IG-
approved deviations is less than the original tasking. Use Table 3.1. to determine potential
generation ratings.

Table 3.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Generate/Deploy/Regenerate/IG Acceptance Ratings.
 # of Aircraft Tasked    16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8                        7    6 5 4 3 2
 Rating                   Number of Aircraft Generated, Deployed, Regenerated & IG Accepted
                                                   Within Time Limits
 Outstanding             16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8                        7    6 5 4 3 2
 Excellent               14 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7                         6    5 5 4 3 2
 Satisfactory            12 11 11 10 9               8    8 7 6          6    5 4 3 2 2
 Marginal                10 10 9           8    8    7    7 6 6          5    4 4 3 2 1
 Unsatisfactory          Does not meet other criteria
 Note: Actual rating will be determined by number of aircraft successfully generated, deployed,
 regenerated, and the overall generation actions.

3.5.1.2.1.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Deployment: Evaluate unit’s ability to deploy generated
(IG accepted) aircraft. In extenuating circumstances, the IG may rate a unit's deployment based
on evaluation of actions through aircraft brake release for takeoff roll without an actual launch
being required. If flyaway spares are used, aircraft selected for deployment must be "declared"
after aerial refueling or at an IG predetermined point. Use Table 3.1. to determine potential
deployment ratings.
3.5.1.2.1.4. (Added) [Bomber Only] Regeneration: Evaluate the deployed unit's ability to attain
a combat ready posture.
3.5.1.2.1.4.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Unit munitions activity must populate the USAF
Munitions (FV) account for the deployed or simulated deployed location in the Combat
Ammunition System (CAS) training database and account for munitions.
3.5.1.2.1.4.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Weapons loaded during aircraft generation can be
applied to the regeneration if the original load was properly configured and if actual/simulated
expenditure did not occur during deployment. Use Table 3.1. to determine potential
regeneration ratings.
3.5.1.2.1.4.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] If aircrews are not available due to crew rest
considerations, regeneration completion time will be the time the aircraft is declared ready by
maintenance plus 20 minutes. Annotate date/time in AFTO Form 781A.
3.5.1.3.6. (Added) Intelligence. During initial deployment, evaluate the effectiveness of
intelligence support and mobility planning IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 3 (V3), General
Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008 (Incorporating Change 1, 17 September 2012) and AFI 14-
202_AFGSCSUP, 30 Jul 2010 in Attachment 1, and applicable AFI 14-2 Mission Design Series
(MDS) volumes.
3.5.1.4.1. (Added) Unit Type Code (UTC)-deployed personnel, equipment, and vehicles may
not be used for regeneration actions until 3 hours after the scheduled departure of simulated
airlift.
 6                                               AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


3.5.1.4.2. (Added) Units may use non-UTC personnel, vehicles and equipment in lieu of
resources identified in the deployed location In-Garrison Expeditionary Support Plan or other
planning documents. Provide a complete list of these resources to IG’s STRYKER OPS prior to
the regeneration.
3.5.1.4.3. (Added) Units must clearly identify non-deployed vehicles and equipment in the
regeneration area with a War Reserve Materiel (WRM) triangle symbol. Additionally, all
vehicles used for regeneration require a visible means of identification. Units may locally create
a method of identifying non-deployed personnel.
3.5.2.1.4. (Added) Evaluate command post Command and Control (C2) operations, Status of
Resources & Training System (SORTS) and/or Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS),
and Crisis Action Team (CAT) operations after initial response. Reporting and emergency
actions are scored during real-world and evaluation scenario events.
3.5.2.1.5. (Added) SORTS/DRRS. Assess accuracy, timeliness, and proper classification of
unit data reported throughout the RI.
3.5.2.3.1. (Added) Evaluate unit’s ability to execute Intelligence tasks IAW AFI 14-202 V3,
General Intelligence Rules,AFI 14-202_AFGSCSUP, Attachment 1, applicable AFI 14-2 MDS
volumes, AFGSCI 13-520, Volume 2, Bomber Nuclear Mission Preparation, AFI 14-
117_AFGSCSUP, Air Force Targeting, and applicable Area of Responsibility (AOR)/Theater
directives. Additionally, assess effectiveness of Intelligence Command and Control (IC2),
briefing/mission planning support, automated intelligence systems connectivity and use, and
standardization/accuracy of situation/order of battle displays.
3.5.2.4.1. [Bomber Only] Evaluate unit’s ability to sustain combat aircraft employment IAW
ATO. Deviations must be coordinated with the IG Team Chief in advance or immediately upon
arrival. Non-player aircraft may not be used in any way without IG approval. The baseline used
to determine CUI Phase 2 sortie rates will be adjusted if the number of aircraft available resulting
from IG-approved deviations is less than the original tasking.
3.5.2.4.2.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] An effective sortie must meet the following criteria:
3.5.2.4.2.1.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Aircraft is configured IAW the ATO or other IG tasking.
3.5.2.4.2.1.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Aircraft is generated in time to meet its originally
scheduled mission profile/time-on-target requirements.
3.5.2.4.2.1.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Air and ground aborts due to maintenance will count
against the unit’s rating, unless the maintenance discrepancy is acceptable using war-time criteria
(even if it causes a peace-time abort). Sorties lost due to circumstances beyond the unit's control,
such as weather or Higher Headquarters (HHQ) cancellations, will not be counted against the
unit. The unit will not add sorties to make up for previous ATO cycle losses or to exceed the
current/future IG ATO tasking (only ATO tasked sorties will be graded); however, the IG may
offer additional ATO taskings to offset losses beyond the unit's control. Use Table 3.2. to
determine sortie production ratings.

Table 3.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Sortie Production Ratings.
 RATING                                    Wing/Squadron Sortie Generation
 Outstanding                               97 to 100 percent
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  7


 Excellent                                          90 to 96.9 percent
 Satisfactory                                       80 to 89.9 percent
 Marginal                                           72 to 79.9 percent
 Unsatisfactory                                     < 72 percent
 Note: IG Team Chief may adjust up/down for units with low sortie production requirements to
 accurately reflect capability. Actual rating will be determined by the sorties produced rating
 and the overall generation actions.

3.5.2.4.2.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] For units simulated as deployed, the criteria for Concurrent
Servicing Operations and Dual Loading Operations will be based on the simulated location (i.e.,
facilities, resources, etc).
3.5.2.4.5. [Bomber Only] This area will be “Not Rated” if less than ten drop/fire attempts are
executed in each category.
3.5.2.4.5.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Computations are based on the first attempted
release/firing live/inert munitions for each sortie flown. Each selected weapon will count as one
release attempt for a ripple release. When multiple releases are attempted, each selected weapon
will count as one release attempt unless the weapons system automatically inhibits further
releases. A no-release will be charged only if caused by either armament system maintenance or
a malfunction. STRYKER OPS will be notified when a malfunction is encountered. Use Table
3.3. to determine Airborne Release Reliability ratings.

Table 3.3. (Added) Airborne Release Reliability Ratings.
 RATING                                           Missile, Bomb, and Overall
 Outstanding                                      98 to 100 percent
 Excellent                                        96 to 97.9 percent
 Satisfactory                                     90 to 95.9 percent
 Marginal                                         87 to 89.9 percent
 Unsatisfactory                                   < 87 percent
 Note: The rating will be determined by the # of reliable items / # of items tested x 100 for each
 category. Actual rating will be determined by the reliability rating and the overall quality of
 maintenance.

3.5.2.5.3.1. (Added) Survival Evasion Resistance Escape (SERE). Units will be evaluated on
their capability to execute Air Force SERE Specialist Personnel Recovery (PR) duties while
deployed in support of the unit mission. Units that do not have an assigned SERE Specialist, but
are supporting aircrews and personnel when flying in aircraft assigned or attached to
organizations of this command will be evaluated per Isolated Personnel (IP) .
3.5.2.6.5.1. (Added) Inspector Flying. IG team members and associate inspectors will normally
fly on selected flights as an integral member or as an observer in multi-place aircraft, to evaluate
mission preparation, execution and employment. IG team members will not be scheduled to fly
in the flight or element lead positions for multi-ship missions.
3.5.2.6.5.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Evaluate Combat Sortie Effectiveness (CSE). CSE is
an overall assessment of unit capability to accomplish DOC/ATO tasked air combat or
combat support missions. CSE encompasses Mission Effectiveness, Weapons Employment,
 8                                               AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


Mission Execution and Mission Preparation.
3.5.2.6.5.2.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Mission Effectiveness. Mission effectiveness ratings
are derived as a percentage of either tasked sorties or on-station time flown and effective.
Sorties may be rated partially effective or not-effective for improper flight procedures, poor
tactics or execution, improper weapons procedures, failure to meet timing criteria, failure to
conduct successful air refueling operations, inadequate visual lookout/defensive reactions, failure
to adhere to training rules, air aborts due to aircrew factors or when flights are conducted in such
a way as would result in a friendly aircraft loss. Sorties flown by IG evaluators who act as an
integral member of the flight are counted effective; however, weapons deliveries may not be
included in weapons employment data. Weather aborts or validated Air Traffic Control
deviations/delays not attributable to aircrew error will not be included in mission effectiveness
computations. Use Table 3.4. to determine mission effectiveness ratings.

Table 3.4. (Added) [Bomber Only] Mission Effectiveness Ratings.
 RATING                                   Percent Effective
 Outstanding                                       95 to 100 percent
 Excellent                                         85 to 94.9 percent
 Satisfactory                                      75 to 84.9 percent
 Marginal                                          65 to 74.9 percent
 Unsatisfactory                                    < 65 percent

3.5.2.6.5.2.1.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Bomber Sorties. Bomber sorties are rated effective if
the tasked mission is successfully accomplished within the ATO tasking. Missions with an
assigned time on station (TOS), vulnerability (VUL) time, or force rendezvous time must arrive
on station no later than 5 minutes after the beginning of the VUL or TOS window or the assigned
rendezvous time. Aircraft with an assigned time on target (TOT) window must complete all
weapons deliveries within the window, to include any reattacks. Absent other specified timing
tolerance, aircraft assigned a specific TOT must meet the TOT +2 minutes. If circumstances
preclude meeting assigned timing criteria, the unit should coordinate with STRIKER OPS as
soon as possible. Mission delays beyond the unit's control will not be counted. Bomber sorties
may be credited as effective when external support failures remove the opportunity for ordnance
delivery (ex. loss of air refueling after take-off, range closures, weather restrictions, etc.). In
such cases, alibi sheets and mission tapes (if applicable) should annotate that no opportunity existed
for weapon system employment. Maintenance delays and equipment/weapon malfunction are
not considered external support failures.
3.5.2.6.5.2.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Weapons Employment. Weapons hit criteria will be
IAW AFI 11-2B-2, Volume 1, B-2 Aircrew Training, and AFI 11-2B-52, Volume 1, B-52
Aircrew Training, criteria as applicable. To receive credit for actual or simulated releases,
applicable portions of the weapons delivery/release must be recorded (if capable) to ensure
accurate aimpoint designation and weapons release parameters were met.
3.5.2.6.5.2.2.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Air-to-Surface (A/S) Employment. The A/S
employment rating is based on the ratio of valid hits versus attempts. Whenever possible,
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                9


actual weapons will be delivered on a scoreable range to sample weapons delivery accuracy and
release reliability. Impact scoring for multiple releases is the closest bomb of a string to a point
target or IG designated aim point for an area target. For bomber aircraft dropping more than six
bombs, scoring will be based on the center of the train as determined by evaluating the first
and last weapon impacts. Simulated weapons deliveries will be evaluated by on-board
recording devices if available and be credited with a hit or miss only (see Note 5 of Table 3.5).
Simulated weapon impact scores will also be evaluated IAW Note 5 of Table 3.5. Simulated
deliveries not recorded by on-board devices may be scored as a miss, unless due to a MX-
validated inoperative recording system. (B-52 simulated deliveries only) If the OAS fails to
capture delivery data due to an internal/software malfunction, see note 5 of Table 3.5. Use Table
3.5. to determine A/S Employment ratings.

Table 3.5. (Added) [Bomber Only] A/S Employment Ratings.
                      IAM        CALCM, Laser Guided General Purpose
 RATING (Percent)                JASSM     Bomb          Munitions
 Outstanding             96 to 100     98 to 100     95 to 100        95 to 100
 Excellent               91 to 95.9    93 to 97.9    89 to 94.9       85 to 94.9
 Satisfactory            86 to 90.9    88 to 92.9    82 to 88.9       75 to 84.9
 Marginal                76 to 85.9    78 to 87.9    75 to 81.9       65 to 74.9
 Unsatisfactory          < 76          < 78          < 75             <65
 Notes:
 1. For scoreable deliveries, the IG compiles results and computes circular error average
 for each AFI 11-2B MDS event scored.
 2. Normally, weapons delivery effectiveness is based on the ability to achieve ordnance
 delivery parameters on the first attempt. Dry passes for switch errors are counted as a miss.
 However, clearing/dry passes made for safety, weather or if required by local range
 procedures are not counted as a miss. Any foul or any range safety violation charged
 against an aircrew will result in a miss for that delivery. Range officers or evaluators will
 advise aircrews when they have been charged with a foul. Multiple attacks to achieve a
 successful hit due to aircrew error may negatively impact weapons/weapon system
 employment, but the sortie may be effective under mission results. Rationale for re-attacks
 will be provided to the IG on an alibi form.
 3. Documented weapons malfunctions will be listed on the alibi sheet and brought to the
 attention of the IG. Those scores may be invalidated.
 4. Inertial Aided Munitions (IAM). IAMs include but are not limited to Joint Direct
 Attack Munitions, Wind Corrected Munitions Dispenser and Joint Stand-off Weapon.
 5. Simulated weapons deliveries: Where impact scores can't be reliably determined by on-
 board recording devices (e.g., IAM, Conventional Air Launch Cruise Missile (CALCM),
 etc), an effective weapon is defined as launch/release of the weapon against the assigned
 target, IAW assigned targeting parameters and applicable directives, and within the
 employment envelope which would have resulted in attaining published reliability standards
 for that weapon.
 10                                            AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


3.5.2.6.5.2.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Mission Execution. This rating encompasses
evaluation of all aspects of mission employment including the following applicable elements:
air refueling, Composite/Large Force Employment (C/LFE), mission conduct, alert response
timing, threat assessment/reaction, maritime mining operations, reconnaissance, battle
management, intelligence and information operations, surveillance/datalink and weapons
directors. Mission execution will be graded no higher than the grade for mission conduct.
3.5.2.6.5.2.3.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Air Refueling. Aircrews must demonstrate ability to
conduct air refueling when tasked in the ATO. A sortie may be scored as non effective if an
aircrew is unable to air refuel. Sorties will not be penalized for missed refueling due to tanker
fallout or malfunctions. Manual boom latching/emergency override is authorized IAW
applicable MDS directives. Pressure refueling is not authorized for Readiness Inspection (RI)
missions. In the case of receiver aircraft refueling malfunctions, IG maintenance and operations
will determine whether or not degraded refueling procedures (manual boom latch, emergency
override, pressure refueling) prohibited by peacetime restrictions would have been possible. If
so, the sortie will not be penalized.
3.5.2.6.5.2.3.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] C/LFE. The IG will evaluate the unit's ability to
formulate, coordinate and execute an effective C/LFE attack plan with other tasked strike and
support assets. The inspected unit will be tasked with mission commander duties. If notional
units/assets are tasked in the ATO, the unit will be evaluated on planning for these assets.
3.5.2.6.5.2.3.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Mission Conduct. Mission conduct will include
adherence to briefed flight procedures, Special Instructions (SPINS)/Airspace Coordination
Order (ACO)/Rules of Engagement (ROE)/ identification compliance, flight/element mutual
support, radio discipline, tactics, and general compliance with training rules and flight safety.
Any violation of SPINS/ROE/training rules such as weapon release without clearance,
unauthorized weapon release, or fratricide could seriously degrade the overall RI rating based on
the severity of the infraction. Mission conduct will also include aircrew response to IG
contingency inputs such as downed aircrew scenarios, simulated aircraft emergencies or systems
failures and re-attacks.
3.5.2.6.5.2.3.4. (Added) [Bomber Only] Threat Assessment/Reaction. General procedures
evaluated include visual lookout, radar warning receiver awareness, use of on-board
countermeasures, threat assessment, and appropriate defensive reaction. Aircrew threat reaction
must consider training rules, airspace restrictions, local restrictions, and RI SPINS. Aircrews
will also provide a thorough intelligence debrief with respect to the threats encountered.
3.5.2.6.5.2.3.4.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Aircrew alibi sheets should indicate if a defensive
maneuver could not be completed due to training rules, airspace restrictions, weather, or other
safety factors.
3.5.2.6.5.2.3.4.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Threat avoidance tactics (maneuvers, terrain masking,
etc.) may be assessed against simulated threats placed at various locations along the route of
flight. Simulated threats used for aircrew evaluation will normally be planned and integrated into
the overall Phase 2 intelligence scenario. This threat order of battle will be used for mission
planning purposes and briefed prior to flight to evaluate aircrew in-flight actions.
3.5.2.6.5.2.3.4.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Electronic Attack (EA). If applicable to MDS,
aircrews will demonstrate effective use of EA during threat scenarios against selected surface to
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                11


air missile, anti-aircraft artillery, associated acquisition, and EW/GCI radar signals. Aircrews
will demonstrate capability to counter hostile enemy electromagnetic emissions and ensure
mission accomplishment. Hostile enemy emissions include both radar and communications
jamming.
3.5.2.6.5.2.4. (Added) [Bomber Only] Mission Preparation. Effective mission preparation
will be demonstrated during flight briefings and employment. All actions from receipt of
mission tasking to mission execution are subject to evaluation. Mission preparation rating will
also include the following elements and will be evaluated as applicable.
3.5.2.6.5.2.4.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Planning. The unit's mission planning cell and
aircrews will be evaluated on the following as applicable: the use of available weather and
environmental data, ground/air reconnaissance liaison officer information, available
intelligence data, electronic, air, naval and defensive orders of battle, parametric data, imagery
interpreter recommendations, planning accuracy, route selection, weaponeering and use of Joint
Munitions Effectiveness Manual, target area tactics, reconnaissance collection management
plan, mass launch/recovery, review of Isolated Personnel Reports (ISOPREPs) and completion
of Evasion Plan of Action (EPA). For assigned wartime preplanned targets, aircrews must be
able to plan, brief, and step in sufficient time to meet timing requirements specified in applicable
war plans or ATOs.
3.5.2.6.5.2.4.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Briefing. Evaluation emphasis will be placed on
scenario-specific combat employment considerations.
3.5.3.3.2.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Airfield Damage Repair (ADR) will not be evaluated if
eighty-five percent of Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 3E5 (Engineer Assistants), 3E2 (Heavy
Equipment) and 3E3 (Structures) assigned to the unit are current in Category III training (Silver
Flag).
3.5.3.5.7. (Added) Evaluate management, maintenance, recall and preparation of WRM assets.
3.5.3.5.8. (Added) Evaluate contingency training.
4.4.6. (Added) For new or proposed modifications to CONUS weapons storage area essential
facility systems (per AFMAN 91-118 para 2.45), wings shall ensure certification requirements of
AFI 63-125 as supplemented by AFGSC are implemented.
4.4.6.1. (Added) Upon completion of nuclear design certification, the AFGSC MAJCOM
functional will draft the AFGSC/CC INSI determination letter with attached go/no-go criteria
and route it through AFGSC/SEW for MAJCOM/CC approval.
4.4.6.2. (Added) After approval, the INSI determination and go-no go criteria will be forwarded
to the wing and AFGSC/IG to be used for the INSI.
4.4.6.3. (Added) Upon completion of construction, the wing commander will forward a request
for the INSI to AFGSC/SEW indicating they are ready for an INSSAV and subsequent INSI.
4.10.1.2.7. (Added) [ICBM Only] Evaluate unit ICBM targeting and Computer Memory
Verification Check (CMVC) accuracy.
4.10.6.6.4. (Added) [ICBM Only] Aerial Support. Evaluate the ability of the helicopter unit to
generate sorties during security response, security during convoy operations, tactically insert and
extract security forces, provide airborne surveillance, communication, and assist as tasked by
 12                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


controlling agencies.
4.10.7.2.1. (Added) Validate nuclear surety training by testing a minimum of 25 percent of PRP
certified personnel in each subordinate unit. AFGSC/IG will develop the test from the Master
Test Question Bank located on the AFGSC/SEW sharepoint.
4.10.10.3.1. (Added) IG will coordinate with the PNAF unit (AMC) to secure aircraft support
and establish the Logistics Operations and Transportation exercise scenario. Once the PNAF
unit provides the inspected unit with a set-up message, the inspected unit will coordinate PNAF
support on base and with the PNAF unit IAW established procedures.
4.10.10.3.2. (Added) IG will coordinate with AFGSC/A4WN and/or unit to select a specific
WR asset serial number for the simulated shipment. Applicable paperwork associated with the
operation will contain the actual trainer serial number (if applicable) and the “simulated” WR
serial number so a complete audit trail is created ending with a signed DD Form 1911, Material
Courier Receipt and DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Documents.
4.10.10.3.3. (Added) If airlift is unavailable, IG will coordinate the Logistics Operations and
Transportation exercise simulation with the unit.
4.11.2.1. (Added) AFGSC/IG will evaluate crew and command post controller formats and
emergency action procedures/checklists.
4.11.2.1.1. (Added) Command Post Controller Nuclear Control Order Procedures (NCOP)
Performance. The rating for this subarea will consist of the combined results of controller EA
testing results and scenario evaluation.
4.11.2.1.2. (Added) Scenario evaluations will be accomplished at the discretion of the
AFGSC/IG team and after discussion with the nuclear Command Post (CP) officer in charge and
superintendent regarding their current nuclear CP manning availability (e.g., authorized/assigned
personnel, air expeditionary force deployments, professional military education, temporary duty,
etc.).
4.11.2.1.3. (Added) All available certified nuclear Emergency Action Procedures (EAP)
command post controllers will be given a closed-book examination of USSTRATCOM EAP,
Volume 4, Command Post, guidance and procedures. Overall average test score will be
documented in the NSI report. Rating for the CP controller closed-book examination will be
determined using Table 4.1.
4.11.2.1.4. (Added) [Bomber Only] Evaluate aircrew knowledge of and ability to accurately
process Emergency Action (EA) nuclear control orders and accomplish directed actions in a
timely and effective manner.
4.11.2.1.5. (Added) [Bomber Only] Combat Mission Folder (CMF) and Aircrew and Controller
EA Checklists (EAC)/Crew Actions Sheets (CAS). Evaluate the accuracy and completeness of
unit command and control formats included in controller and aircrew emergency action nuclear
message checklists, to include inserted values, strike mission assignment and timing information,
and CAS. Evaluate CMF contents for currency, completeness, proper security marking and
construction IAW AFGSCI 13-520 V2 criteria. This subarea will be rated UNSATISFACTORY
and the overall unit rating will be UNSATISFACTORY if the unit inserts incorrect execution or
termination characters or incorrect strike timing and assignment information in the aircrew
CMFs.
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              13


4.11.2.1.6. (Added) [Bomber Only] Aircrew EA testing will be conducted during NSIs. Tests
may include questions on command and control procedures, Nuclear Surety or other related areas
as determined by the AFGSC/IG and appropriate staff agencies. The number of aircrews tested
is at the discretion of the AFGSC/IG, but will be no less than 50 percent of unit certified aircrews.
When testing less than 100 percent of unit certified aircrews, the IG team will randomly select
those aircrews for testing. Individual crewmember substitution can be accomplished at unit
discretion should a member become unable (e.g., sickness, emergency leave, etc.) to participate
in aircrew testing. If 50 percent cannot be assembled, 100 percent of available certified aircrews
will be tested. Units will maintain a minimum of eight unused editions of United States Non-
cryptographic Training Series-1 (USNTS-1) Sealed Authentication System (SAS) and a USNTS-
4101 training series sealed authenticators at a volume to support 100 percent aircrew testing
(Primary Aircrew EA trainer will advise AFGSC/IGI which USNTS editions will be set aside for
NSI aircrew NCOP testing NLT 1 October each year). Units which are tasked to support another
unit’s tasking are required to duplicate the tasked sorties for training and testing purposes IAW
AFGSCI 13-520 guidance. Rating for the Aircrew NCOP Examination will be determined using
Table 4.1.

Table 4.1. (Added) (Bomber/CP Only) NCOP Quantitative Score.
 Rating                                            Percent
 Outstanding                                       97.5 to 100 percent
 Excellent                                         95 to 97.4 percent
 Satisfactory                                      92.5 to 94.9 percent
 Marginal                                          90 to 92.4 percent
 Unsatisfactory                                    < 90 percent
 Notes:
 1. NCOP testing will be rated UNSATISFACTORY if an aircrew misses a nuclear surety-
 critical question. An overall NSI rating of UNSATISFACTORY for the unit will result from
 an unauthorized attempt to launch or release a nuclear weapon due to one or more of the
 following circumstances:
 a. When not in receipt of valid and authentic execution message for the assigned target.
 b. Prior to validating and authenticating an execution message for the assigned target.
 c. When attempted launch or release is based on an invalid/non-authentic message.
 d. When in receipt of a valid and authentic termination message for the assigned target and
 the weapon time over target is past the termination time.
 e. When attempted launch or release is against an unauthorized or non-assigned target(s).
 2. Rate an aircrew's individual score (0%) for failure to attempt launch or release of a nuclear
 weapon upon receipt of a valid execution message and attainable time over target. An
 individual aircrew score of (0%) will also result from an aircrew erroneously terminating a
 properly executed sortie.

4.11.3. (Not applicable to Barksdale AFB)
4.11.3.5.1.5. (Added) Evaluate the wing installation’s plans for reception and beddown of
follow-on force operations.
4.11.3.7. (Added) Nuclear Weapons Denial Exercise. A performance-based exercise will be
used to gauge a unit’s ability to deny unauthorized access to a nuclear weapon by a realistic
 14                                            AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


threat force as defined in the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Nuclear Security Threat
Capabilities Assessment (NSTCA) and local NSTCA.
4.11.3.7.1. (Added) Opposing Forces (OPFOR). The OPFOR may be comprised of members
from the inspected unit or another organization either residing on or off the installation.
Adversary force size and capabilities will mirror the adversary force size and capabilities as
described in DIA and local NSTCA for that specific configuration. Exercise OPFOR players
will be briefed on all necessary safety matters.
4.11.3.7.2. (Added) Exercise Controllers. AFGSC/IG personnel will provide exercise
controllers. They may be augmented by other personnel as necessary to ensure the exercise is
conducted safely and effectively. These exercise controllers will be briefed on their
responsibilities by AFGSC/IG personnel.
4.11.3.7.3. (Added) The exercise will be evaluated by AFGSC/IG personnel augmented by
trusted agents (TAs) as necessary to ensure effective assessment of the exercise. If used, TAs
will provide their observations to AFGSC/IG personnel for use in developing the final report.
4.11.3.7.4. (Added) Exercise Termination. The exercise will be terminated by the AFGSC/IG
senior exercise controller when specific conditions are met. These conditions include
neutralization of either the OPFOR or defense forces to the point they are deemed ineffective,
when OPFOR completes their primary or alternate objectives, or when a life threatening
condition or real-world security and/or safety event occurs.
4.11.3.7.5. (Added) Grading the Denial Exercise. Should nuclear security vulnerabilities be
identified, the report will be classified and handled accordingly.
4.11.3.8. (Added) Nuclear Weapon Recapture Exercise. A performance-based exercise will be
used to evaluate a wing’s ability to effectively recapture a weapon under the control of an
adversary group that mirrors the adversary force size and capabilities as outlined in DoD S-
5210.41-M_AFMAN 31-108 and the DIA NSTCA and identified in the wing’s local NSTCA.
Base-level response agency evaluation will include initial response teams, the Emergency
Operations Center (EOC), and emergency support functions, munitions, wing safety, civil
engineers, command and control functions, and follow-on recovery operations IAW applicable
DoD, USAF and local guidance.
4.11.3.8.1. (Added) The end goal in recapture operations is to regain custody of nuclear
weapons before an adversary can successfully steal, damage, destroy, or detonate a nuclear
weapon. As a minimum, the IG will evaluate hostile incident reporting and assessment,
adversarial surveillance and tracking, tactical leadership of the Response Force (RF), command
and control center performance, tactical response and deployment of RF, harassment techniques,
employment of breaching techniques, and use of force by security and support forces, and the
effective employment of assigned weapons.
4.11.3.8.2. (Added) On-duty security forces patrols involved in the exercise will be released to
normal operations as soon as reasonably possible. Selected forces may be retained to allow for
exercise realism and continuity.
4.11.3.8.3. (Added) Post Recapture Actions. Other actions associated with this exercise will be
evaluated in relation to their impact on nuclear surety. The IG will evaluate immediate
reestablishment of entry and circulation control, exclusion area and the two-person concept at
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  15


recaptured structures, facilities, aircraft, vehicles, and other areas where US custody of nuclear
weapons or components are regained. The IG will also evaluate return to normal security
operations; reconstitution of personnel and ammunition, security for damaged perimeter and
structure systems, area sweeps, etc.
4.11.3.8.4.1. (Added) Explosives Ordnance Disposal. The IG will evaluate EOD actions and
role as a support agency to the EOC in recapture operation. Demonstrate EOD team ability to
fulfill capabilities identified in unit's IBDP, hazardous material response plan, and/or the civil
engineer contingency plan. Provide support to SF recapture operations, protection from or
mitigation of entrapment devices, weapon safety measures briefing for security recapture teams,
assistance provided to response forces during facility explosive dynamic entry procedures when
addressed in the IBDP and requested by the on-scene commander, preparation of nuclear
weapons accident/incident initial reconnaissance team for initial and follow-on weapons
assessment.
4.11.3.9. (Added) Ratings.
4.11.3.9.1. (Added) An UNACCEPTABLE exercise rating will result for significant
deficiencies in EOD response, technical knowledge, task proficiency, training certification,
publications, equipment, or the failure of the EOD team to effectively employ the minimum
actions in support of the wing recapture operation. The number, type, and severity of
deficiencies and observations identified in all other areas related to recapture actions during this
exercise will be evaluated in relation to their impact on nuclear surety.
4.18.4.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] NORI aircraft acceptance:
4.18.4.1.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Aircrew Aircraft Acceptance. An aircrew will accept
generated aircraft and enter "Aircrew accepted at (time)/(date)/(name)/(rank)" in the first open
block of the AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document. Maintenance
inspection will include a visual inspection, safety of flight checks, forms review, assessed
mission capability using the Mission Essential Subsystem List (MESL), and Maintenance
Information System (MIS) data. Following aircrew acceptance, no subsequent maintenance or
forms entries are authorized without IG approval/coordination until the aircraft has been
inspected. After inspection, form entries for minor maintenance are authorized to be placed after
the Aircrew Aircraft Acceptance entry.
4.18.4.1.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] A rejected aircraft is any aircraft not properly configured
for tasking, unable to meet mission requirements or any aircraft with a safety of flight
discrepancy discovered during IG visual inspection and/or forms review. Rejected aircraft will
not be considered as successfully generated. Rejected aircraft will negatively impact the rating
IAW Table 4.2. and 4.3.
4.18.4.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Force Generation:
4.18.4.2.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Nuclear Weapons System Capability Rating. The overall
grade for this area will be determined by Table 4.2. and associated notes for evaluation criteria
for this item.

Table 4.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Nuclear Weapons System Capability Rating Criteria.
       Rating             Aircraft Generation Timing      Effective Weapons Generated
 16                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


                        1) To at least partial mission capable       100% tasked gravity weapons
                           (PMC) status within DOC and EAP-          or 100% of tasked missiles
  OUTSTANDING              STRAT Vol 11 timing and;
                        2) No less than 95% of MC generated
                           sorties meet the MESL.
                        1) To at least PMC status within DOC         98-99.9% of tasked gravity
                           and EAP-STRAT Vol 11 timing and;          weapons or 96-97.9% of tasked
      EXCELLENT
                        2) No less than 85% of MC generated          missiles
                           sorties meet the MESL.
                        1) To at least PMC status within DOC         95-97.9% of tasked gravity
                           and EAP-STRAT Vol 11 timing and;          weapons or 94-95.9% of tasked
 SATISFACTORY           2) No less than 75% of MC generated          missiles
                           sorties meet the MESL.
                           1) No less than 90% of sorties generated 94-94.9% of tasked gravity
                              to at least PMC status within DOC        weapons or 92-93.9% of tasked
     MARGINAL                 and EAP-STRAT Vol 11 timing, and missiles
                           2) No less than 50% of those sorties meet
                              the MESL.
UNSATISFACTORY Does not meet above criteria                            Does not meet above criteria
Notes:
1. Table 4.2. criteria is based on a unit's attempt to meet 100% of the EWO DOC sortie tasking.
Units unable to generate 100% of EWO DOC tasking due to LIMFACS or a lesser-directed tasking
must coordinate approval as directed by AFGSCI 13-520, Volume 3, Bomber Nuclear Generation
and Regeneration. When units schedule to generate less than 70% of their EWO DOC tasking, the
rating criteria for this subarea will be determined by HQ AFGSC/A3B and coordinated through HQ
AFGSC IG/A4 and HQ 8 AF staff prior to the NORI.
2. When the NORI is conducted in concurrence with USSTRATCOM FTXs, the unit is responsible
for coordinating adjustments through normal command and control channels IAW Emergency
Action Procedures (EAP)-STRAT, Volume 11, (Classified), LERTCON System. The IG Team Chief
may adjust the generation timing window when a delay in USSTRATCOM injects or messages
significantly affects the unit's response time. For non-FTX NORIs, the unit will coordinate
adjustments via IG STRYKER OPS. Adaptive planning and/or tasking for units will receive
appropriate priority. The IG Team Chief will adjust scoring methods to reflect tasking priorities and
adjustments to timing criteria where appropriate.
3. Generation success is determined by both weapon availability/timing and aircraft condition.
Bombers will generate IAW unit-developed aircraft generation flow plans, EWO DOC tasking and
Bomber Priority List (BPL) generation timing.
4. Effective weapons generated will be scored at expiration of appropriate generation timing
criteria. At the expiration of the generation time, cocked-on aircraft or munitions found by the IG to
be unreliable/unserviceable IAW technical order standards will be scored as ineffective and this
subarea will be rated UNSATISFACTORY.
5. An MC aircraft is one that is declared cocked-on with all sortie-assigned weapons loaded (ref:
Nuclear Weapon Recap Summary), capable of performing its assigned mission, and meets MESL
requirements. Obtain HQ AFGSC/A3/A4 approved waivers on any MESL requirements prior to the
exercise/NORI.
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                           17


4.18.4.2.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Forward Located Alert Generation (FLAG) Operations.
The Main Operating Base (MOB) may FLAG aircraft, personnel, and equipment IAW OPLANS.
The unit will provide the IG team their sortie launch report message when complete. Use Table
3.1 to determine IG acceptance ratings.
4.18.4.2.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Generate to Deploy/Regeneration Timing. Use Table 4.3.
and associated notes for evaluation criteria for FLAG Operations. The wing receives grades only
applicable to the portions of FLAG it performs.

Table 4.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Generate to Deploy/Regeneration Grading Criteria.
         Rating                         Generate to Deploy                   Regeneration Timing
                           1) To at least PMC status within DOC,        No less than 95% of sorties
                              HHQ-directed, and/or unit aircraft        meet the applicable weapon
  OUTSTANDING                 deployment generation flow plan and;      system MESL
                           2) No less than 95% of MC generated
                              sorties meet the MESL
                           1) To at least PMC status within DOC,        No less than 85% of sorties
                              HHQ-directed, and/or unit aircraft        meet the applicable weapon
    EXCELLENT                 deployment generation flow plan and;      system MESL
                           2) No less than 85% of MC generated
                              sorties meet the MESL
                           1) To at least PMC status within DOC,        No less than 75% of sorties
                              HHQ-directed, and/or unit aircraft        meet the applicable weapon
  SATISFACTORY                deployment generation flow plan and;      system MESL
                            2) No less than 75% of MC generated
                              sorties meeting the MESL
                           1) No less than 90% of sorties generated     No less than 50% of sorties
                               to at least PMC status within DOC and meeting the MESL
     MARGINAL                  EAP-STRAT Vol 11 timing, and
                           2) No less than 50% of those sorties meet
                               the MESL
UNSATISFACTORY Does not meet above criteria                             Does not meet above criteria
Notes:
1. Table 4.3. criteria is based on a unit's attempt to generate 100% of the EWO DOC deployed
sortie tasking and sorties tasked for recovery and regeneration at the FOL. Units unable to achieve
100% of generate to deploy and/or regeneration tasking due to LIMFACS, must coordinate approval
as directed by AFGSCI 13-520 V3. Coordinate requests for reduced NORI tasking through HQ
AFGSC A3B/IG/A4 and HQ 8 AF staffs prior to the NORI.
2. When the NORI is conducted in concurrence with USSTRATCOM FTXs, the unit is responsible
for coordinating adjustments through normal command and control channels per guidance IAW
EAP-STRAT, Volume 11. The IG Team Chief may adjust generation timing window when a delay
in USSTRATCOM injects or messages significantly affects the unit's response time. For non-FTX
NORIs, the unit will coordinate adjustments via IG STRYKER OPS. The IG will adjust scoring
methods to reflect tasking priorities and adjustments to timing criteria where appropriate.
3. Generation success for units is determined by both the unit ability to generate for deployment at
their MOB and then regenerate sorties once they arrive at their FOL. Bombers will generate to
 18                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


deploy IAW unit-developed aircraft deployment flow plans, EWO DOC and AFGSC supporting
plans and regenerate IAW AFGSCI 13-520 V3 criteria.
4. Effective sorties for “generate to deploy” will be scored at the expiration of timing criteria set
forth in the unit’s EWO DOC and/or AFGSC support plans and “regeneration” at the expiration of
AFGSCI 13-520 V3 criteria for the number of sorties regenerated. At the expiration of the
appropriate event timing criteria, cocked-on aircraft found by the IG to be unreliable/unserviceable
IAW technical order standards will be scored as ineffective and this subarea will be rated
UNSATISFACTORY.
5. Evaluate generated to deploy sorties for at least PMC status, using the applicable MESL, once the
sortie is reported as ready to deploy. Evaluate regenerated sorties for PMC status again after aircraft
have arrived at the FOL and regenerated to alert status. Obtain HQ AFGSC/A3/A4 approved
waivers on any MESL requirements prior to the exercise/NORI.

4.18.4.2.4. (Added) [Bomber Only] [Not applicable to FLAG] Aircraft Cock-On. Aircrew will
call "ready for inspectors" once they have cocked-on and accepted the aircraft (Ops 4028 in
effect). Cocked-on bombers will remain on hard alert until the generation is terminated by
USSTRATCOM or a time determined by the exercise scenario.
4.18.4.2.5. (Added) [Bomber Only] [Not applicable to FLAG] Examine CMF security seals,
equipment positioning, aircraft switch positions, and overall compliance with two-person control
procedures.
4.18.4.2.6. (Added) [Bomber Only] [Not applicable to FLAG] Alert Aircraft Repositioning Plan
(AARP). In the event AARP procedures are not implemented during the exercise, the unit's
AARP plan will be inspected.
4.18.4.2.7. (Added) [Bomber Only] [Not applicable to FLAG] Assess unit-developed
procedures to enable the wing to manage and sustain an alert force and alert force response
capability. Includes base agency support to the bomber alert force.
4.18.4.2.8. (Added) [Bomber Only] [Not applicable to FLAG] Alert Facility Operations. Unit
will be evaluated on their ability to logistically sustain (i.e., billet, meals and associated
communications capabilities) and provide security for alert aircrews and ground crews.
 4.18.4.2.9. (Added) [Bomber Only] [Not applicable to FLAG] Mission Material Issue. The IG
will evaluate the issue and handling of Positive Control Material (PCM) and the use of CMF
containers to store nuclear strike materials and Positive Control (PC) documents and the security
of the CMF containers IAW EAP-STRAT Volume 3, Positive Control Policy and Procedures
(U); and AFGSCI 13-520 V2. Random evaluation of CMFs may be conducted to validate
accuracy and currency of mission materials. Training PCM may be issued and sealed/stored in
CMFs in lieu of actual PCM to facilitate authentication/decoding procedures during aircrew
NCOP testing.
4.18.4.3. (Added) ICBM Operations.
4.18.4.3.1. (Added) Evaluate the unit’s ability to generate missiles to alert status to include
generation planning and command and control of maintenance activities. If required, unit will be
tasked to generate the off-base training launch facility (LF) to simulate Emergency War Order
(EWO) alert status using training code materials.
4.18.4.3.1.1. (Added) The training RS/RV will be used to simulate generation of the off-base
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              19


trainer.
4.18.4.3.1.2. (Added) At no point will safing pins be removed from the training LF with the
MGS running unless the CSD(M) contains operational codes. The training LF will be
configured as follows:
4.18.4.3.1.2.1. (Added) The CSD(M) will be operationally coded.
4.18.4.3.1.2.2. (Added) [ICBM Only] A test P-Plug will be installed in the MGS.
4.18.4.3.1.2.3. (Added) [ICBM Only] The MGS will be coded with test codes selected from the
Test Master Data.
4.18.4.3.1.3. (Added) [ICBM Only] The SCS lockpin assembly and all safing pins will be
removed.
4.18.4.3.1.4. (Added) [ICBM Only] All required weapon system post-maintenance tests will be
accomplished. Training LFs with training tapes will not respond to an inhibit test. This is a
normal indication.
4.18.4.3.2. (Added) [ICBM Only] Evaluate the unit’s ability to restore weapon systems and
mission systems equipment during unscheduled or simulated equipment degradations/outages.
Units shall coordinate non-EWO essential on-site and in-shop maintenance scheduled during the
NORI with the IG. Advise IG of on-site work or requirements in progress or planned.
4.18.4.3.3. (Added) [ICBM Only] Evaluate the unit’s ability to maintain critical equipment
listing status, weapon system test results, LF EWO evacuation and LF recovery actions.
4.18.4.3.4. (Added) [ICBM Only] Evaluate unit’s ability to certify Missile Guidance Sets
and/or electronic drawers and maintain LF and LCC mission system communications-electronics
equipment during unscheduled or simulated equipment degradations/outages.
4.18.4.3.5. (Added) [ICBM Only] Evaluate two Missile Alert Facility (MAF) diesel generators
per squadron and a random sampling of LF diesel generators via LF status print raw data. Diesel
generators must operate for 60 minutes, after assuming the load, to be scored effective. If a
MAF diesel is declared Fully Mission Capable (FMC), but found to be PMC, the system is
scored non-effective. Diesel generators failing to complete power transfer are scored non-
effective. Data obtained as a result of a commercial power failure may be used when computing
standby power effectiveness. LF status print raw data must be reviewed for unit LFs to
determine if any power systems fail to operate properly.
4.18.4.4. (Added) Intelligence: Evaluate ability to execute intelligence tasks from Force
Generation through Force Employment in support of the unit mission IAW AFI 14-202 V3
General Intelligece Rules 10 MARCH 2008 (Incorporating Change 1, 17 September 2012) and
AFI 14-202_AFGSCSUP, 30 Jul 2010 in Attachment 1, AFI 14-2 MDS V3, AFGSC
supplements, AFGSCI 13-520 V2, AFI 14-117 and applicable AOR/Theater directives.
Additionally, consider effectiveness of Installation Command and Control (IC2), support to
adaptive planning, briefing/mission planning support, automated intelligence systems
connectivity and use, as well as standardization and accuracy of situation/order of battle displays.
4.18.4.5. (Added) Employment:
4.18.4.5.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Evaluate unit’s ability to launch/deploy generated aircraft
(IG accepted). In extenuating circumstances, the IG may rate a unit's employment based on
 20                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


evaluation of actions through aircraft brake release for takeoff roll without an actual launch being
required.
4.18.4.5.2. (Added) AFGSC/IG will evaluate missile/air crew and command post controller
formats and emergency action procedures/checklists.
4.18.4.5.3. (Added) [ICBM and 625 STOS Only] Evaluate unit’s ability to effectively apply
crew force management principles as defined in AFGSCI 13-5301, Volume 3, Crew Operations
and AFGSCI 13-5302, Volume 1, Airborne Launch Control System (ALCS), Crew Training.
4.18.4.5.4. (Added) [ICBM Only] Non-effective sorties. Sorties shall be declared non-effective
after the start of weapon system tests when: (1) Missile Combat Crew (MCC) actions prevent a
launch capable sortie from launching; (2) improper maintenance actions on launch/flight critical
equipment cause the sortie to fail a required weapon system test or regress from strategic alert; or
(3) material failure of launch/flight essential equipment prevents a sortie from launching. Sorties
incapable of successful launch or flight due to a discrepancy discovered after the completion of
weapon system tests shall be declared non-effective.
4.18.4.5.5. (Added) NCOP. Assess the wing's ability to respond to positive control orders and
Commander’s senior staff actions during sustainment and execution of the alert force.
4.18.4.5.5.1. (Added) NCOP Testing. Assess the entire scope of Command Post controller
FTX/NORI scenario actions and controller and aircrew emergency action testing.
4.18.4.5.5.1.1. (Added) Controllers performing console duty and those controllers/PC crew
members assigned to the mobile support team will be evaluated in pre-/trans-/post-hostilities,
emergency actions, and operational reporting functions IAW EAP-STRAT Volume 4, Command
Post Emergency Action Procedures (U).
4.18.4.5.5.1.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] After completion of the generation, aircrew and
Command Post controller NCOP testing will be conducted. NCOP testing is designed to assess
the wing's ability to accurately respond to positive control orders and perform emergency actions
or written responses per guidance in EAP-STRAT, Volume 4; EAP-STRAT, Volume 4 Annex A,
Command Post Emergency Action Formats and Checklists (U); and EAP-STRAT, Volume 5,
Aircrew Emergency Action Procedures (U). Tests may include questions on Nuclear Command
and Control (NC2) procedures, EAP STRAT guidance, nuclear surety, or other subject areas as
determined by the IG and appropriate staff agencies.
4.18.4.5.5.1.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] The number of controller teams tested is at the
discretion of the IG. The number of aircrews tested is at the discretion of the IG but will not be
less than 50 percent of crews required to man all USSTRATCOM-assigned sorties.
4.18.4.5.5.1.4. (Added) [Bomber Only] Rate overall NCOP testing results as the sum of scores
(percentages) divided by the number of crews and controller teams tested using Table 4.1.
4.18.4.5.6. (Added) [Bomber Only] Mission Execution. Evaluate aircrew ability to accomplish
nuclear sortie mission requirements. The Mission Execution graded area consists of NORI Fly-
Off Mission Debriefs and Nuclear Mission Checkrides, or Nuclear Weapon System Trainer
(WST) evaluations. The IG will make a case-by-case determination of the need for WST
evaluations.
4.18.4.5.6.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] NORI Fly-Off Mission Debrief. All available mission
reconstruction tools will be reviewed to evaluate the ability of aircrews to execute their assigned
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              21


nuclear training missions. This review will focus on the aircrew's ability to meet timing
constraints and strike assigned targets. If circumstances prohibit the Fly-Off, the IG will
determine if WST evaluations are required to evaluate Mission Execution.
4.18.4.5.6.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Nuclear Mission Checkrides. Nuclear checkrides
evaluated during a CUI Phase 0 or CUI Phase 1/2, within 12 months of the NORI, will satisfy the
Mission Execution evaluation aspects that cannot be observed during the Fly-Off mission debrief.
The IG will coordinate with the NAF stan/eval office and the inspected unit to ensure a sufficient
sample of nuclear missions is scheduled. If the CUIs and NORI do not align, the IG will
determine if WST evaluations are required to evaluate Mission Execution.
4.18.4.5.6.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Nuclear WST Assessment. The AFGSC/IG will
determine when WSTs must be used to assess mission execution. If necessary, WSTs will be
scheduled on a noninterference basis. The assessment will be conducted using a unit-supplied
nuclear sortie representative of USSTRATCOM sortie tasking. The assessment will include
actions from “report to aircraft” through post-release/post-launch weapons checklists and will
include aerial refueling. The assessment will focus on checklist discipline, airmanship and
aircrew ability to accomplish the mission effectively. Inspectors may observe aircrew from both
console and individual crew compartments during assessment. Inspectors will serve as
command and control authority and communicate all simulated nuclear control orders using clear
text instructions via interphone. All injects will be treated as if they are actual situations.
However, Aircrew attempts to resolve WST malfunctions (not part of the exercise scenario) will
not be evaluated, nor will improper actions due to WST malfunctions.
4.18.4.5.7. (Added) [Bomber Only] Alert Force Response. Aircrews will respond from the
designated alert facility to aircraft as appropriate using local alert response procedures,
designated routes, and appropriate traffic speeds.
4.18.4.6. (Added) Reconstitution: (Not applicable to Barksdale AFB)
4.18.4.6.1. (Added) [Bomber Only] Bomber Strategic Aircraft Reconstitution Team (BSART).
If not physically deployed off-station, BSART will operate from an area easily segregated from
other MOB operations (e.g., alert area, displaced parking ramp/hangars, etc.). Only deployed
personnel and equipment may participate.
4.18.4.6.2. (Added) [Bomber Only] Bomber Recovery Operations. BSART will demonstrate
the ability to receive a minimum of two aircraft and recover and regenerate at least one aircraft.
 4.18.4.6.3. (Added) [Bomber Only] Evaluate unit’s ability to recover and regenerate aircraft
and perform munitions maintenance/accountability, weapons loading, and mission planning
operations.
4.18.4.6.4. (Added) [Bomber Only] Aircrew Servicing. Exercise requires aircrew to perform
necessary recovery base-level aircraft servicing functions.
4.18.4.7. (Added) [Bomber Only] BSART: As applicable, evaluate Intelligence unit’s ability to
support a nuclear alert, launch and BSART operations IAW applicable AFI 14-2 MDS V3,
AFGSCI 13-520 V2 and AFGSC supplements.
4.18.4.8. (Added) [Bomber Only] Dispersal: The DRT will demonstrate the ability to recover
and regenerate a minimum of one aircraft, if tasked.
 22                                          AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


6.3.2.1.1. (Added) AFGSC FAMs can contact AFGSC Lead MICT Manager, AFGSC/IGIS to
request access to Wing MICT data.




                                          THOMAS P. HESTERMAN, Colonel, USAF
                                          Inspector General


Attachment 1
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References
AFI 11-2B-2, Volume 1, B-2 Aircrew Training, 9 Jun 2010
AFI 11-2B-52, Volume 1, B-52 Aircrew Training, 8 Sep 2011
AFI 14-2B-2, Volume 3, B-2 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 30 Jan 2012
AFI 14-2B-52, Volume 3, B-52 Unit Intelligence Procedures. 24 Feb 2012
AFI 14-117_AFGSCSUP, Air Force Targeting, 21 Dec 2011
AFI 16-1301_AFGSCSUP, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program
AFI 21-112, Aircrew Egress Systems Maintenance, 12 Apr 2010
AFI 21-103_AFGSCSUP, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 1 Feb 2010
AFI 21-200, Munitions and Missile Maintenance Management, 13 Nov 2009
AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 Jun 2012
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 Sep 2008
AFI 32-2001_AFGSCSUP, Fire Emergency Services Program, 1 Feb 2010
AFI 36-2217, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training, 9 Apr 2009
AFGSCI 10-1202, Crew Operations, 16 May 2011
AFGSCI 13-520, Volume 1, Bomber Nuclear Training, 12 Jun 2012
AFGSCI 13-520, Volume 2, Bomber Nuclear Mission Preparation, 12 Jun 2012
AFGSCI 13-520, Volume 3, Bomber Nuclear Generation and Regeneration, 12 Jun 2012
AFGSCI 13-520, Volume 4, Bomber Nuclear Flight Rules, 12 Jun 2012
AFGSCI 13-5301, Volume 2, Rapid Execution and Combat Targeting (REACT) Crew
Standardization and Evaluation, 16 May 2011
AFGSCI 13-5301, Volume 3, Crew Operations, 16 May 2011
AFGSCI 13-5302, Volume 1, Airborne Launch Control System (ALCS), Crew Training, 17 Nov
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                   23


2011
AFTTP 3-1.8 (S) TACTICAL EMPLOYMENT--GUARDIAN ANGEL and Special Tactics Forces
(U), 1 Apr 06
AFTTP 3-3.8, COMBAT FUNDAMENTALS-- GUARDIAN ANGEL and Special Tactics Forces,
9 Apr 2009
DOD S-5210.41-M_AFMAN31-108, Volumes 1, (S) The Air Force Nuclear Weapon Security
Manual (U), 1 Feb 2010
DOD S-5210.41-M_AFMAN31-108, Volume 2, (S) General Nuclear Weapon Security
Procedures (U), 1 Feb 2010
DOD S-5210.41-M_AFMAN31-108, Volume 3, (S) Nuclear Weapon Specific Requirements (U),
1 Feb 2010
DODI 2310.4, Repatriation of Prisoners of War (POW), Hostages, Peacetime Government
Detainees and Other Missing or Isolated Personnel, 21 Nov 2000
Emergency Action Procedures (EAP)-STRAT Volume 3, Positive Control Policy and
Procedures (U), 9 May 2011
EAP-STRAT, Volume 4, Command Post Emergency Action Procedures (U), 20 Apr 2011
EAP-STRAT, Volume 5, Aircrew Emergency Action Procedures (U), 21 Apr 2011
EAP-STRAT, Volume 11, (Classified), LERTCON System, 15 Mar 2011
EAP-STRAT, Volume 16, ICBM Code Components Control Policy and Procedures, 1 Mar 2012
HQ DTRA-48M-2H, Emergency Response Forces Handbook
Joint Publication 3-50, Personnel Recovery, 20 Dec 2011

Prescribed Forms
AFGSC Form 201, Air Force Global Strike Gatekeeper Visit Request
Adopted Forms
DD Form 1911, Material Courier Receipt
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Documents
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AARP—Alert Aircraft Repositioning Plan
ACR—Aviation Change Request
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
 24                                       AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


ALCM—Air Launched Cruise Missile
AMC—Air Mobility Command
BCC—Base Communications Center
BPL—Bomber Priority List
BSL—Basic Systems List
CAS—Combat Ammunition System
C/LFE—Composite/Large Force Employment
CLIN—Contract Line Item Number
CMOS—Cargo Movement Operations System
CMVC—Computer Memory Verification Check
COR—Contracting Officer Representative
CRO— COMSEC Responsible Officer
CSE— Combat Sortie Effectiveness
EA— Electronic Attack
EAL—Entry Authority List
EAP—Emergency Action Procedure
EME—Emergency Management Exercise
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EPE—Evaluator Proficiency Evaluation
EPO—Exercise Program Office
ESTS—Electronic Systems Test Set
EWO—Electronic Warfare Officer (Bomber) / Emergency War Order (ICBM)
FATS—Findings Automated Tracking System
FM—Facility Manager
FMC—Fully Mission Capable
FV— USAF Munitions (Formerly FK)
GM— General Maintenance
HICS—Hardened Intersite Cable System
IAM—Inertial Aided Munitions
IBDP—Installation Base Defense Plan IC—Incident Commander
IC2— Installation Command and Control
IFF—Identification Friend or Foe
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                     25


InspCon—Inspection Considerations
INFOCON—Information Conditions
IP—Isolated Personnel
IPL—Immediately Prior to Launch
IRF—Initial Response Force
ISAP—Intelligence Support to Adaptive Planning
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Reports
IV—Intravenous
J-FIRE—Joint Firefighter Integrated Response Ensemble
JPIC—Joint Planning Interim Change
LCC—Launch Control Center
LCAP—Logistics Compliance Inspection Program
LF—Launch Facility
LLA—Launcher Loading Adaptor
LLCE— Limited Life Component Exchange
MAF—Missile Alert Facility
MARE—Major Accident Response Exercise
MATD—Missile Assignment & Timing Documents
MCC—Missile Combat Crew
MDS—Mission Design Series
MEO—Most Efficient Organization
MESL—Mission Essential Subsystem List
MHE— Material Handling Equipment
MLV—Memory Loader/verifiers
MPT—Missile Procedures Trainer
NC2—Nuclear Command and Control
NCOP—Nuclear Control Order Procedures
OPS—Operations
PAL—Permissive Action Link
PC—Positive Control
PCM—Positive Control Material
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
 26                                         AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


PML—Prioritized Maintenance Letter
P-Plug—Permutation Plug
PR— Personnel Recovery
RDC—Remote Data Change
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
REACT— Rapid Execution and Combat Targeting
RS—Reentry System
RST—Reference Start Time
SAS—Sealed Authentication System
SCL—Standard Conventional Load
SOW— Statement of Work
Stan/Eval—Standardization and Evaluation
STARTEX—Start Exercise
TA—Trusted Agent
TATD—Target & Timing Documents
TEAP—Training Emergency Action Procedures
TEEO—Training Exercise Evaluation Outline
TMCO—Targeting Materials Control Officer
TOS—Time On Station
TOT—Time On Target
TPE—Training Profiency Evaluation
TRF—Tactical Response Force
UOF—Use of Force
USNTS—United States Non-cryptographic Training Series
V—Volume
VCB—Virtual Casebook
VUL—Vulnerability
WCPS—Wing Code Processing System
WWM—Wing Weapons Manager
ZEN—Zero Effort Network
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                     27




Attachment 3

AIR FORCE INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS

Table A3.1. Air Force Inspection Requirements.

                                                                                             Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                         MANDATORY

                                                                     CUI Ph 0

                                                                                CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                    P=Performance
                                                                                                    A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                    T=Testing
                                                                                                    I=Interview
                                                                                                    S=Survey
                                                                                             P    A     V    T     I        S
1.                Commander’s Inspection Items
1.1       -Are units properly manned?                                X           X                X     X          X    X
1.2.      -Are units properly trained?                               X           X           X    X     X    X     X    X
1.3.      -Are units properly equipped?                              X           X                X     X          X    X
1.4.      -What is the condition of unit equipment?                  X           X                X          X
1.5.      -Are units ready and proficient?                           X           X           X    X     X    X     X    X
1.6.      -Is the leadership climate effective?                      X           X                      X          X    X
1.7.      -Are units disciplined and compliant?                      X           X           X    X     X    X     X    X
          -Do Airmen enjoy a satisfactory quality of
1.8.                                                                 X           X                                 X    X
          life
2.        AF/A1 (Manpower, Personnel, and Services)
2.1.      Force Support
2.1.1.         -Mortuary Affairs                                     X           X           X    X
2.1.2.         -Food Operations                                      X           X           X    X
2.1.3.         -Lodging Operations                                   X           X           X    X
2.1.4.         -Fitness Facility Operations                          X           X           X    X
               -Alcoholic Beverage Program (Dram
2.1.5.                                                               X                            X
               Shop)
2.1.6.         -Customer Service (INTRO & DEERS)                     X                            X
2.1.7.         -Force Mgt (Leave, Duty Status, UPMR)                 X                            X
2.1.8.         -Career Development                                   X                            X
2.1.9.         -Airman and Family Readiness                          X           X                X
               -Prime Readiness in Base Service (RIBS)
2.1.10.        in Training and Equipment                             X           X                X
               Accountability
 28                                      AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                      Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                  MANDATORY

                                                              CUI Ph 0

                                                                         CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                             P=Performance
                                                                                             A=Audit
             Air Force Inspection Requirements                                               V=Virtual
                                                                                             T=Testing
                                                                                             I=Interview
                                                                                             S=Survey
                                                                                      P    A     V    T     I        S
             -Wartime duties including mortuary,
             lodging, food service, community
2.1.11.                                                                   X           X
             programs, Unit Control Center, and
             fitness programs
             -Resource Management (Personnel
2.1.12.      Systems Support) & (Non-Appropriated      X                                   X
             Funds)
             -Installation Personnel Readiness
2.1.13.                                                X                  X           X    X
             Functions
             -Program Manager (Evaluations,
2.1.14.                                                X                                   X
             Decorations, Fitness)
             -Base Individual Mobilization
2.1.15.                                                X                                   X
             Augmentee Administrator (BIMAA)
2.2.      Manpower & Organization Section
2.2.1.       -Installation Manpower Support            X                                   X
2.3.      Personnel Accountability (By-Law)
2.3.1.       -IAW AFI 36-3803                          X                                   X
2.4.      Relocation Assistance Program (By-Law)
2.4.1.       -IAW DoDD 1338.19                         X                              X    X
2.5.      Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (By-Law)
2.5.1.       -IAW AFI 36-6001                          X                                   X
2.6.      Trafficking in Persons (By-Law)
2.6.1.       -IAW AFI 36-2921                          X                                   X
2.7.      Transition Assistance Programs (By-Law)
2.7.1.       -IAW DODD 1332.35                         X                                   X
2.8.      Voting Assistance Program (By-Law)
2.8.1.       -IAW AFI 36-3107                          X                                   X                X
2.9.      Equal Opportunity (By-Law)
             -Evaluate the effectiveness of military
             and civilian EO complaint processing
2.9.1.                                                 X                                   X
             procedures (formal, informal, and
             commander worked issues)
             -Evaluate managerial and supervisory
2.9.2.       enforcement of AF EO policies and         X                                   X
             procedures
             -Evaluate human relations education and
2.9.3.                                                 X                                   X
             training
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                    29

                                                                                            Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                        MANDATORY

                                                                    CUI Ph 0

                                                                               CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                   P=Performance
                                                                                                   A=Audit
             Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                   T=Testing
                                                                                                   I=Interview
                                                                                                   S=Survey
                                                                                            P    A     V    T     I        S
             -Evaluate organizational climate
2.9.4.                                                              X                            X
             assessments
2.10.     Retiree Activities Program (RAP)
2.10.1.   Retiree Activities Office (RAO)
2.10.2.      -Volunteer of the Year                                 X                            X
2.10.3.      -Annual Retiree Appreciation Day                       X                            X
2.10.4.      -Air Force Retiree Counsel support                     X                            X
             -Retiree Customs/Courtesies established
2.10.5.                                                             X                            X
             and enforced by installation CC
2.10.6.      -Commander Support
2.10.7.      -RAO Director appointed by CC                          X                            X
             -Facilities, Equip, Funding committed to
2.10.8.                                                             X                            X
             RAO
             -Retirees appointed by CC to base-level
2.10.9.      advisory councils as required                          X                            X
             (Commissary, Club, etc)
2.11.     PERSCO Support
2.11.1.      -Evaluate personnel readiness to deploy                            X
             -Personnel management, casualty
2.11.2.      reporting, force                                                   X           X
             accountability/reporting/analysis
             -Assess, account for, and manage
2.11.3.                                                                         X           X
             organization and adequacy of forces
             -Access and refine manpower databases
2.11.4.      from forward deployed operating                                    X           X
             locations
             -Personnel Support for Contingency
             Operations (PERSCO) Teams to ensure
             alignment/accuracy of the PERSCO and
             Manpower reporting numbers between
2.11.5.                                                                         X           X
             the Deployed Requirements Manning
             Document (DRMD) and/or Employed
             Requirements Manning Document
             (ERMD)
 30                                      AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                     Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                 MANDATORY

                                                             CUI Ph 0

                                                                        CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                            P=Performance
                                                                                            A=Audit
             Air Force Inspection Requirements                                              V=Virtual
                                                                                            T=Testing
                                                                                            I=Interview
                                                                                            S=Survey
                                                                                     P    A     V    T     I        S
             -Access unit’s ability to receive and bed-
             down forces for personnel accountability,
2.11.6.                                                         X
             equipment accountability, and adequacy
             of services provided
3.        AF/A2 (Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance)
3.1.      Intelligence Oversight (By-Law)
             -Assess compliance/procedures
3.1.1.       pertaining to collecting, retaining, and      X X X X
             disseminating intelligence on US persons
3.2.      Intelligence Evaluations—Task Phase
3.2.1.       -Qualification (QUAL)—Task                    X      X
3.2.2.       -Mission (MSN)—Task                           X      X
3.2.3.       -Specialized Qualification—Task               X      X
3.2.4.       -Intelligence Evaluator (IE)—Task             X      X
3.2.5.       -SPOT evaluation—Task                         X      X
3.2.6.       -No-Notice evaluation—Task                    X      X
3.3.      Intelligence Examinations Programs
3.3.1.       -Intelligence Personnel Testing               X          X X
3.3.2.       -Master Question File Management              X        X X       X
3.4.      Unit Stan/Eval Function
             -Compliance with AFI 14-202 V2 and
3.4.1.                                                     X        X X       X
             MAJCOM/UNIT Supplements
3.5.      Intelligence Evaluators
             -Compliance with AFI 14-202 V2 and
3.5.1.                                                     X        X X       X
             MAJCOM/UNIT Supplements
3.6.      Documentation-Evaluation Records/Folders, AF Forms 4350, AF Forms 4349
             -Compliance with AFI 14-202 V2 and
3.6.1.                                                     X        X X       X
             MAJCOM/UNIT Supplements
3.7.      Additional Programs
3.7.1.       -Evaluation Profile                           X        X X       X
3.7.2.       -Intelligence Evaluator Upgrade Program       X        X X       X
3.7.3.       -Stan/Eval Board                              X        X X       X
3.7.4.       -Trend Analysis                               X        X X       X
3.7.5.       -Forms 847 Program                            X        X X       X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                    31

                                                                                            Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                        MANDATORY

                                                                    CUI Ph 0

                                                                               CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                   P=Performance
                                                                                                   A=Audit
            Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                   T=Testing
                                                                                                   I=Interview
                                                                                                   S=Survey
                                                                                            P    A     V    T     I        S
            -Personnel designated to support force
3.7.6.                                                              X           X           X
            protection missions
            -Collecting, analyzing, and disseminating
3.7.7.                                                              X           X           X    X
            threat information/warnings
            -Evaluate operational and target
3.7.8.                                                              X           X           X    X
            intelligence support to commanders
3.8.     Intelligence Personnel Training
3.8.1.      -Intelligence Training Administration                   X                            X     X          X
3.8.2.      -Intelligence Training Folders                          X                            X     X          X
3.8.3.      -Intelligence Qualification Training                    X                            X     X          X
3.8.4.      -Mission Qualification Training                         X                            X     X          X
            -Ready Intelligence Program
3.8.5.                                                              X                            X     X          X
            Management
3.8.6.      -Continuation Training                                  X                            X     X          X
            -Instructor Training and Upgrade
3.8.7.                                                              X                            X     X          X
            (AFISRA/AETC)
            Notes:
            1. Task evaluations are conducted during
            CUI Phase 0.
            2. Evaluated in conjunction with task
            evaluations. Also reviewed for general
            compliance with AFI 14-202 V2.
            * Some/most portions may be
            accomplished virtually; however some
            on-site inspection and/or interviews may
            be required.
3.9.     Intelligence Support
 32                                         AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                         Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                     MANDATORY

                                                                 CUI Ph 0

                                                                            CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                P=Performance
                                                                                                A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                 V=Virtual
                                                                                                T=Testing
                                                                                                I=Interview
                                                                                                S=Survey
                                                                                         P    A     V    T     I        S
              -Evaluate operational and target
              intelligence support to commanders
              relevant to unit’s mission, and may
              include: Information Operations threats,
              threat assessment analysis, support to
              Threat/Force Protection Working Groups,
              Military Deception, tasking orders,
3.9.1.                                                   X X X X
              Production/collection/transmission
              requirements, effects-based assessment
              (tactical, operational), geospatial
              information and services (GI&S), force
              protection operations, Counter-
              Improvised Explosive Device (C-IED)
              operations, etc
4.         AF/A3/5 (Operations, Plans and Requirements)
4.1        Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation
4.1.1.     Aircrew Evaluations and Other Inflight and/or Simulator Evaluations (Note 1)
4.1.1.1.      -Qualification (QUAL)—Flight (Note 2)      X        X
4.1.1.2.      -Instrument (INSTM)—Flight (Note 2)        X        X
4.1.1.3.      -Mission (MSN)—Flight (Note 2)             X        X
4.1.1.4.      -Instructor (INSTR)—Flight (Note 2)        X        X
4.1.1.5.      -SPOT / No-Notice—Flight                   X        X
              -SPOT (SEFE Objectivity)—Flight or
4.1.1.6.                                                 X        X
              Simulator
              -Emergency Procedures Evaluation
4.1.1.7.                                                 X        X
              (EPE)—Simulator
4.1.2.     Aircrew Evaluations—Ground Phase Requisites
4.1.2.1.      -Required Examinations                     X        X X * X
4.1.3.     Aircrew Evaluations
4.1.3.1.      -Compliance with AFI 11-202 V2             X            X *         X
4.1.4.     Aircrew Examination Programs
4.1.4.1.      -Aircrew Testing                           X                 * X
4.1.4.2.      -Compliance with AFI 11-202 V2             X            X *         X
4.1.5.     Unit Stan/Eval Function
4.1.5.1.      -Compliance with AFI 11-202 V2             X            X *         X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                               33

                                                                                       Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                   MANDATORY

                                                               CUI Ph 0

                                                                          CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                              P=Performance
                                                                                              A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                              V=Virtual
                                                                                              T=Testing
                                                                                              I=Interview
                                                                                              S=Survey
                                                                                       P    A     V    T     I        S
4.1.6.      Squadron Stan/Eval Function
4.1.6.1.        -Compliance with AFI 11-202 V2                 X                            X     *          X
4.1.7.      Flight Examiners
4.1.7.1.        -In-flight Evaluations                  X       X
4.1.7.2.        -Compliance with AFI 11-202 V2          X           X *        X
4.1.8.      Documentation—Flight Evaluation Folders, AF Forms 8/8A, AF Forms 942
4.1.8.1.        -Compliance with AFI 11-202 V2          X           X *        X
4.1.9.      Flight Crew Information File
                -Compliance with AFI 11-202 V2 (Note
4.1.9.1.                                                X X X X *              X
                3)
4.1.10.     Additional Programs
4.1.10.1.       -Go/No-Go System (Notes 3, 4)           X X X X *              X
4.1.10.2.       -Special Interest Items (Note 3)        X       X X *          X
                -Aeromedical Evacuation Equipment
4.1.10.3.                                               X X X X                X
                (Note 3)
4.1.10.4.       -Other Programs                         X X         X          X
4.1.10.5.       -SOF                                    X X         X          X
4.1.11.     Aircrew Training Program
4.1.11.1.       -Training Administration                X                      X
4.1.11.2.       -Training Review Panel                  X           X          X
4.1.11.3.       -Training Folders                       X           X          X
4.1.11.4.       -Qualification Training                 X           X          X
4.1.11.5.       -Continuation Training                  X           X          X
4.1.11.6.       -Manning                                X           X          X
                -Instructor Training and Upgrade
4.1.11.7.                                               X           X          X
                (AETC)
                -Host Aviation Resource Management
4.1.11.8.                                               X           X          X
                (HARM) (AMC)
                -Squadron Aviation Resource
4.1.11.9.                                               X           X          X
                Management (SARM) (AMC)
4.1.12.     Aircrew Tactics Program
4.1.12.1.       -Tactics and Responsibilities           X                      X
                -Tactics Mission Planning and
4.1.12.2.                                               X           X          X
                Deployment
 34                                        AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                        Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                    MANDATORY

                                                                CUI Ph 0

                                                                           CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                               P=Performance
                                                                                               A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                               V=Virtual
                                                                                               T=Testing
                                                                                               I=Interview
                                                                                               S=Survey
                                                                                        P    A     V    T     I        S
4.1.12.3.     -Electronic Combat Officer (ECO)                  X                            X                X
4.1.12.4.     -Tactics Improvement and Assessment               X                            X                X
4.1.12.5.     -Tactics Formal Training                          X                            X                X
4.1.12.6.     -Tactics Unit Training                            X                            X                X
4.1.12.7.     -Joint Airdrop Inspection (JAI)                   X                            X                X
4.1.13.     Additional Inspection Areas (MAJCOM)
4.1.13.1.       -RSU (AETC)                              X                                   X                X
4.1.13.2.       -Aircrew Protection                      X
4.2.        Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Training Program
                -AFE equipment availability,
4.2.1.          serviceability, configuration,           X
                accountability, and management
            Notes:
            1. Flight evaluations may be conducted prior
            to, during, or after a CUI Phase 0.
            2. Evaluations may be combined, IAW AFI
            11-202 V2 and AFI 11-2MDS V2.
            3. Evaluated in conjunction with flying
            evaluations. Also reviewed for general
            compliance with AFI 11-202 V2.
            4. With HARM/SARM functionals.
            * Some/most portions may be accomplished
            virtually; however some on-site inspection
            and/or interviews may be required.
4.3.        JTAC Standardization Evaluation
4.3.1.      Individual JTAC Evaluation Program
4.3.1.1.        -JTAC Evaluation Folders                 X                                   X                X
4.3.1.2.        -Stan/Eval Documentation                 X                                   X                X
4.3.1.3.        -Evaluation Profiles and Scenarios       X                                   X                X
                -Stan Eval Examiner (SEE) Upgrade
4.3.1.4.                                                 X                                   X                X
                Program
4.3.1.5.        -Stan/Eval Board                         X                                   X                X
4.3.1.6.        -Trend Analysis                          X                                   X                X
4.3.1.7.        -Operations Publications                 X                                   X                X
4.3.1.8.        -Go/No-Go                                X                              X    X                X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                               35

                                                                                       Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                   MANDATORY

                                                               CUI Ph 0

                                                                          CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                              P=Performance
                                                                                              A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                              V=Virtual
                                                                                              T=Testing
                                                                                              I=Interview
                                                                                              S=Survey
                                                                                       P    A     V    T     I        S
4.3.1.9.        -Ground Phase Examination Program       X                              X    X                X
4.3.1.10.       -Compliance with Applicable SIIs        X                                   X                X
4.3.1.11.       -SEE Objectivity Evaluations            X                              X    X          X
4.3.2.      Operational JTAC and SEE Objectivity Evaluations
4.3.2.1.        -Written Examination                    X                              X
4.3.2.2.        -Performance Evaluation                 X                              X
            Notes:
            MAJCOM designated Stan/Eval Personnel
            conduct unit JTAC S/E program inspections.
            Inspections consist of two parts, the
            Individual JTAC Evaluation Program and the
            Operational JTAC Evaluation.
            Items are evaluated for compliance and
            inspections conducted through audits and
            interviews with leadership and program
            managers. SEE Objectivity Evaluations are
            conducted through performance evaluations
            and previous evaluations are reviewed. For
            Operational JTAC Evaluations, written
            examinations are administered to 100% of
            available JTACs and 25% of total assigned
            JTACs are administered performance
            evaluations.
4.4.        Airfield Operations
4.4.1.      Airfield Operations Management (AOM)
4.4.1.1.        -AOM Operations                         X X                            X    X          X     X
4.4.1.2.        -AOM Training                           X X                                 X          X     X
4.4.1.3.        -AOM Quality Assurance                  X X                                 X          X     X
4.4.1.4.        -Administration                         X X                                 X          X     X
4.4.2.      Air Traffic Control (ATC)
4.4.2.1.        -ATC Management                         X X                            X    X          X     X
4.4.2.2.        -ATC Operations                         X X                            X    X          X     X
4.4.2.3.        -ATC Control Tower Operations           X X                            X    X          X     X
4.4.2.4.        -ATC RADAR Operations                   X X                            X    X          X     X
4.4.2.5.        -ATC Training                           X X                                 X          X     X
 36                                        AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                         Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                     MANDATORY

                                                                 CUI Ph 0

                                                                            CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                P=Performance
                                                                                                A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                 V=Virtual
                                                                                                T=Testing
                                                                                                I=Interview
                                                                                                S=Survey
                                                                                         P    A     V    T     I        S
4.4.2.6       -ATC Quality Assurance                             X           X                X          X     X
4.4.3.     Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPS)
4.4.3.1.      -TERPS Training                                    X           X                X                X
4.4.3.2.      -TERPS Data Management                             X           X                X                X
4.4.3.3.      -TERPS Procedural Requirements                     X           X                X                X
4.4.3.4.      -TERPS Chart Requirements                          X           X                X                X
4.4.3.5.      -TERPS Admin                                       X           X                X                X
4.4.4.     Airfield Operations System Specialist (AOSS)
4.4.4.1.      -AOSS Operations                                   X           X           X    X          X     X
4.4.4.2.      -AOSS Training                                     X           X                X          X     X
4.4.4.3.      -AOSS Admin                                        X           X                X          X     X
4.4.5.     Airfield Management (AM)
4.4.5.1.      -AM Operations                           X X                               X    X          X     X
4.4.5.2.      -AM Training                             X X                                    X          X     X
4.4.5.3.      -AM Facilities and Equipment             X X                                    X
4.4.5.4.      -Airfield Driving Program Management     X X                               X    X          X     X
4.4.5.5.      -AM Quality Control                      X X                                    X          X     X
4.4.5.6.      -AM Admin                                X X                                    X          X     X
4.4.6.     Airspace Management*(See note)              X X
4.4.7.     Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems (ATCALS)
4.4.7.1.      -ATCALS Operations                       X X                               X               X     X
4.4.7.2.      -ATCALS Training                         X X                               X    X          X     X
4.4.7.3.      -ATCALS Quality Assurance                X X                                    X          X     X
4.4.7.4.      -ATCALS Admin                            X X                                    X          X     X
4.4.8.     Airfield Infrastructure
4.4.8.1.      -Markings                                X X                                    X          X     X
4.4.8.2.      -Lighting                                X X                               X    X          X     X
4.4.8.3.      -Signs                                   X X                                    X          X     X
4.4.8.4.      -Pavement                                X X                               X    X          X     X
4.4.8.5.      -Lateral Clearances                      X X                                    X          X     X
4.4.8.6.      -Airfield Waivers                        X X                                    X          X     X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                 37

                                                                                         Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                     MANDATORY

                                                                 CUI Ph 0

                                                                            CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                P=Performance
                                                                                                A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                 V=Virtual
                                                                                                T=Testing
                                                                                                I=Interview
                                                                                                S=Survey
                                                                                         P    A     V    T     I        S
4.4.8.7.      -Arresting System                                  X           X           X    X          X     X
4.4.8.8.      -BASH                                              X           X           X    X
           Notes:
           * Airspace Management Checklists are
           MAJCOM specific.
4.5.       Ground C2
4.5.1.     Stan/Eval Documentation
4.5.1.1.      -Inspect Evaluation Folders                        X                            X     *
4.5.1.2.      -Inspect all AF Form 8s/942s                       X                            X     *
4.5.1.3.      -Personnel Transfers                               X                            X     *          X
4.5.1.4.      -Waivers                                           X                            X     *          X
4.5.2.     Individual Evaluation Program
4.5.2.1.     -Evaluation Profiles and Scenarios                  X                       X          *          X
             -Stan/Eval Examiner (SEE) Upgrade
4.5.2.2.                                                         X                            X     *          X
             Program
4.5.2.3.     -Stan/Eval Board                                    X                            X     *          X
4.5.2.4.     -Trend Analysis                                     X                            X     *          X
4.5.2.5.     -Operations Publications                            X                            X     *          X
4.5.2.6.     -Go/No-Go Compliance/Procedures                     X                       X    X     *          X
4.5.2.7.     -Supplementary Evaluations                          X                       X    X     *          X
             -Crew Examination Administrative
4.5.2.8.                                                         X                       X    X     *          X
             Procedures
             -SEE Objectivity Evaluations (OIC and
4.5.2.9.                                                                                 X
             NCOIC at a minimum)
4.5.3.     Overall Unit Assessment
             -Unit Stan/Eval Functions and
4.5.3.1.                                                         X                       X    X     *          X
             Organization
4.5.3.2.     -Supervision                                        X                       X               X          X
4.5.3.3.     -Compliance with Applicable SIIs                    X                       X          *               X
4.5.3.4.     -Unit Limiting Factors                              X                                             X
 38                                           AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                             Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                         MANDATORY

                                                                     CUI Ph 0

                                                                                CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                    P=Performance
                                                                                                    A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                    T=Testing
                                                                                                    I=Interview
                                                                                                    S=Survey
                                                                                             P    A     V    T     I        S
           Notes:
           Many portions of the inspection can be
           accomplished using multiple venues or
           combination of venues (Performance, Audit,
           Virtually, Testing, Interview and/or
           Surveys).
           * Some/most portions may be accomplished
           virtually, however some on-site inspection
           and/or interviews will be required
4.6.       Information Operations
4.6.1.     Operations Security (OPSEC) Program
4.6.1.1.      -Program Management                                    X                            X
4.6.1.2.      -HQ/Staff Level                                        X           X           X    X     X          X    X
4.6.1.3.      -Wing/Installation Level                               X           X           X    X     X          X    X
4.6.1.4.      -Squadron Level                                        X           X           X    X     X          X    X
4.6.2.     Military Deception Program
4.6.2.1.      -Program Management                                    X                            X
4.6.2.2.      -HQ/Staff Level                                        X           X           X    X     X          X
4.6.2.3.      -Wing/Installation Level                               X           X           X    X     X          X
4.6.3.     Signature Management Program
4.6.3.1.      -Wing/Installation Level                 X X X X                                          X          X    X
4.6.4.     Military Information Support Operations (MISO) Program
4.6.4.1.      -HQ/Staff Level                          X X X X                                          X          X    X
4.6.4.2.      -Wing/Installation Level                 X X X X                                          X          X    X
4.7.       Weather Operations
4.7.1.     Weather Flight
4.7.2.     Airfield Services
4.7.2.1.      -Manual observing procedures                           X           X           X    X     X
4.7.2.2.      -Automated observing procedures                        X           X           X    X     X
4.7.2.3.      -Alternate operating location procedures               X           X           X    X     X
4.7.2.4.      -Aircraft contact process and procedures               X           X           X    X     X
4.7.2.5.      -Mishap procedures                                     X           X           X    X     X
              -Weather watch/warning procedures
4.7.2.6.                                                             X           X           X    X     X
              (Resource Protection)
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                   39

                                                                                           Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                       MANDATORY

                                                                   CUI Ph 0

                                                                              CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                  P=Performance
                                                                                                  A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                  V=Virtual
                                                                                                  T=Testing
                                                                                                  I=Interview
                                                                                                  S=Survey
                                                                                           P    A     V    T     I        S
4.7.2.7.       -Meteorological watch                               X           X           X    X     X
4.7.2.8.       -Equipment/dissemination procedures                 X           X           X    X     X
4.7.2.9.       -OWS/WF Collaboration/Coordination                  X           X           X    X     X          X
4.7.3.      Mission Weather
4.7.3.1.       -Weather process integration                        X           X           X    X     X          X
4.7.3.2.       -Mission execution forecast process                 X           X           X    X     X
4.7.3.3.       -Forecast techniques                                X           X           X    X     X
               -Weather flight/squadron
4.7.3.4.                                                           X           X           X    X     X          X
               interaction/collaboration
4.7.3.5.       -Space weather forecasting                          X           X           X    X     X
4.7.3.6.       -Transient aircrew support                          X           X           X    X     X          X
4.7.3.7.       -Tactical decision aids                             X           X           X    X     X
4.7.3.8.       -MISSIONWATCH                                       X           X           X    X     X
               -Feedback, process improvement and
4.7.3.9.                                                           X           X           X    X     X          X    X
               metrics
4.7.3.10.      -Analyze Mission Requirements                       X           X           X
               -Data
4.7.3.11.                                                          X           X           X
               Collection/Assimilation/Dissemination
4.7.4.      Staff weather operations
4.7.4.1.       -WF documentation and agreements                    X           X                X     X          X
4.7.4.2.       -Conduct and document training                      X           X                X     X
4.7.4.3.       -ORM                                                X           X           X    X     X
4.7.4.4.       -Establish Flight Procedures                        X           X                X     X
               -Severe Weather Team
4.7.4.5.                                                           X           X           X    X     X
               Management/Reporting
4.7.4.6.       -Deployment: Pre/Post-Actions                       X           X           X    X     X
               -Establish/Maintain Agency
4.7.4.7.                                                           X           X                X     X          X
               Relationships: Intra/Inter
4.8.        SERE Inspection
               -No Inputs Received
4.9.        A3/5 Support
               -Initial response actions by the
4.9.1.         Installation Control Center (ICC) and                           X           X
               other wing C2 agencies/elements
 40                                        AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                           Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                       MANDATORY

                                                                   CUI Ph 0

                                                                              CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                  P=Performance
                                                                                                  A=Audit
          Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                       V=Virtual
                                                                                                  T=Testing
                                                                                                  I=Interview
                                                                                                  S=Survey
                                                                                           P    A     V    T     I        S
          -Command Post (CP) and Commander's
          Senior Staff procedures for receiving,
4.9.2.    processing and disseminating emergency                   X           X           X    X          X     X
          action messages (EAM) IAW HHQ
          requirements as applicable
          -OPREP-3 procedures/reports do not
4.9.3.    include personally-identifiable                          X           X           X    X          X
          information
          -Commander or designated alternate
4.9.4.    review all OPREP-3 reports Prior to CP                   X           X           X    X          X
          submission
          -CP delay of INITIAL voice reporting to
4.9.5.    obtain additional information or acquire                 X           X           X    X
          NAF or HHQ permission
          -Submit OPREP-3 Reports within
4.9.6.                                                             X           X           X    X          X
          established timelines
          -Evaluate CP's and Commander's Senior
4.9.7.    Staff reporting in SORTS IAW AFI 10-                     X           X           X    X
          201
          -Evaluate C2 functions support and
          facilitate mission accomplishment
4.9.8.    through proper arrangement of personnel,                 X           X           X    X
          equipment, communications, facilities,
          and procedures
          -CP and Commander's Senior Staff
          procedures for building and Transmitting
4.9.9.                                                             X           X           X    X
          Commander's Situational Reports
          (SITREP)
          -CP quick reaction checklist procedures
4.9.10.                                                            X           X           X    X
          as applicable
          -Integration of all applicable Information
4.9.11.                                                                        X           X
          Operations
          -Tactics conducted under military
4.9.12.                                                                        X
          deception plans
          -Public Affairs tactics conducted in
4.9.13.                                                                        X
          support of Information Operations
          -Integrate deployed location procedures
4.9.14.                                                                        X
          and requirements into unit’s plans
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                    41

                                                                                            Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                        MANDATORY

                                                                    CUI Ph 0

                                                                               CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                   P=Performance
                                                                                                   A=Audit
          Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                        V=Virtual
                                                                                                   T=Testing
                                                                                                   I=Interview
                                                                                                   S=Survey
                                                                                            P    A     V    T     I        S
          -Provide non-secure and secure
          voice/data connectivity to support
          command, control, communications, and
4.9.15.                                                                         X           X
          computer (C4) functions and enable
          air/space forces to retrieve, create, fuse,
          and disseminate information
          -Measures to protect critical
4.9.16.                                                                         X
          information/C4 systems
4.9.17.   -C4 back-up and restoral capabilities                                 X
          -Provide, disseminate, and Protect
4.9.18.                                                                         X
          STINFO
          -Continuity of Operations (COOP) plan
4.9.19.   for contingency operations for incidents                  X           X           X    X
          at the garrison location
          -Individual actions during potential
4.9.20.                                                                         X           X
          incidents
          -Application of unified commander’s
          rules of engagement (ROE) for clarity
4.9.21.                                                                         X
          and understanding within exercise
          constraints
          -Established search-and-rescue
4.9.22.   procedures within exercise constraints                                X           X
          (flying units)
          -Operations, equipment, and training can
4.9.23.   adequately meet wartime or contingency                                X
          requirements
          -AFE—provide aircrews with serviceable
4.9.24.   protective, survival, rescue, and CBRN                                X
          defensive equipment
          -Airfield Operations (Air Traffic Control
4.9.25.                                                                         X
          and Airfield Management)
          -Evaluates from an operational
          viewpoint, the air traffic system and
4.9.26.                                                                         X
          airfield for safety, compatibility, and
          adequacy
          -Evaluates Airfield Operations functional
4.9.27.   areas for safety and compliance with                                  X
          governing directives
 42                                                AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                    Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                                MANDATORY

                                                                            CUI Ph 0

                                                                                       CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                           P=Performance
                                                                                                           A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                          V=Virtual
                                                                                                           T=Testing
                                                                                                           I=Interview
                                                                                                           S=Survey
                                                                                                    P    A     V    T     I        S
                -Base Operations Inter-Service Support
4.9.28.                                                                                 X
                Agreements
                -Operating procedures meet requirement
4.9.29.                                                                                 X
                to mitigate the results of an airbase attack
                -Ability of flying unit to accomplish the
4.9.30.                                                                                 X
                DRRS CORE METL
                -Ability of space unit to accomplish the
4.9.31.                                                                                 X
                DRRS CORE METL
                -Evaluate units’ ability to control, collect,
4.9.32.         display, report, and disseminate                                        X
                information
                -Evaluate ability of unit C2
                agencies/elements to implement
4.9.33.         appropriate plans, procedures, and                                      X
                directives using AFIMS response
                structure
                -Evaluate ability to conduct IED Network
                Defeat (IED-ND) operations both inside
4.9.34.                                                                                 X
                the Base Boundary and in support of joint
                force operations.
                -Evaluate ability to prepare for and
4.9.35.         execute defense against IED attack on                                   X
                static positions.
                -Evaluate ability to prepare for and
4.9.36.         execute IED defeat during ground                                        X
                movements outside secured perimeters.
4.10.       ICBM Operations [ICBM Only]
4.10.1.     Evaluation Programs
            Ops Evaluation Proficiency Evaluations
4.10.1.1.                                                                   X                       X
            (to include OGV Senior Crew)
            Product Reviews:
              --Evaluation materials
4.10.1.2.     --Error document log                                          X                            X
              --Evaluator certification/training programs
              --Evaluation scripts
4.10.1.3.   Chef/FM Evaluation Proficiency Evaluations                      X                       X
4.10.1.4.   Technical Order Page Count                                      X                            X
4.10.2.     Training Programs
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                       43

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
            Ops Training Proficiency Evaluations (to
4.10.2.1.                                                              X                       X
            include OSS Senior Crew)
            EWO/Weapon System Classroom
4.10.2.2.                                                              X                       X
            Observation
            Product Reviews:
              --Instructor certification documentation
              --MPT documentation (previous 6 months)
              --Review of online training scripts
              --Review of annual plan of instruction
4.10.2.3.                                                              X                            X
              --EWO training material/lesson plans,
              training/certification documentation,
              EWO scripts, and initial qualification,
              supplemental and individual training
              programs
4.10.2.4.   Chef/FM Training Proficiency Evaluations                   X                       X
4.10.2.5.    Nuclear Surety Testing                                    X                                       X
4.10.2.6.    Nuclear Control Order Procedures (NCOP)                   X                       X
             APT Observations/Evaluations & mission
4.10.2.7.                                                              X                       X
             certification program
4.10.2.8.    Resource & Alert Force Management                         X                            X
4.10.3.     ICBM Codes
4.10.3.1.   Ops Code Handler Written Test                              X                                       X
4.10.3.2.   Maintenance Code Handler Written Test                      X                                       X
4.10.3.3.   Code Controller Written Test                               X                                       X
            Wing Code Processing System (WCPS)
4.10.3.4.   evaluation (unit-administered Evaluator                    X                       X
            Proficiency Evaluation (EPE))
4.10.3.5.   Codes Classroom Observation                                X                       X
4.10.3.6.   Quality Assurance WCPS evaluation                          X                       X
            Product Reviews:
             --Evaluation materials
             --Evaluator certification/training programs
4.10.3.7.    & scripts within 12 months of on-line date                X                            X
             --Monthly codes training material
             --Instructor training
             --WCPS training scripts/lesson plans
 44                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                  Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                              MANDATORY

                                                                          CUI Ph 0

                                                                                     CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                         P=Performance
                                                                                                         A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                        V=Virtual
                                                                                                         T=Testing
                                                                                                         I=Interview
                                                                                                         S=Survey
                                                                                                  P    A     V    T     I        S
             Operations Observations to include
             component dispatch, ops plans and
4.10.3.8.    instructions, code controller tasks, review of               X                       X    X                X
             coding documentation, coding records audit
             and a random audit of codes 20-year spares
4.10.4.     Technical Proficiency
            Missile Procedures Trainer (MPT)
4.10.4.1.   Evaluations (minimum 1 evaluation per                         X                       X
             missile squadron)
4.10.4.2.   Emergency War-Order Written Test                              X                                       X
4.10.4.3.   Weapons System Written Test                                   X                                       X
            Field Observations (minimum of 2 per
4.10.4.4.                                                                 X                       X
              missile squadron)
            ICBM Plans:
              --Missile Assignment & Timing
              Documents (MATD)
              --Virtual Casebook (VCB)
              --Target & Timing Documents (TATD)
              --Remote Data Change (RDC) summary
              prints
              -- Computer Memory Verification Check
4.10.4.5.     (CMVC)                                                      X                       X
              --Prioritized Maintenance Letter (PML)
              --Reentry System (RS) configuration
              memo
              --Joint Planning Interim Change (JPIC) &
              maintenance letter program
              --Targeting Materials Control Officer
              (TMCO)
              --TEAP/EAP Page Count
            Facility Manager (FM) technical
            proficiency:
              --Personal Proficiency Evaluations (PPE)
              --Missile Alert Facility (MAF)
4.10.4.6.                                                                 X                       X    X          X
              configuration/management assessments
              --FM task performance observation
              --FM training/certification program
              review
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                      45

                                                                                              Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                          MANDATORY

                                                                      CUI Ph 0

                                                                                 CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                     P=Performance
                                                                                                     A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                     T=Testing
                                                                                                     I=Interview
                                                                                                     S=Survey
                                                                                              P    A     V    T     I        S
            Chef technical proficiency:
              --Personal Proficiency Evaluations (PPE)
              --Kitchen configuration/management
              assessments
4.10.4.7                                                 X                                    X    X          X
              --Chef task performance observation
              --Review of food service
               training/certification and MAF inspection
               program
4.11.       ICBM Operations (625 STOS and 576 FLTS Only)
4.11.1.     Evaluation Programs
4.11.1.1.                                                X                                    X
            Ops Evaluation Proficiency Evaluations
4.11.1.2.   Product Reviews:
             --Evaluation materials
             --Error documentation log                   X                                         X
             --Evaluator certification/training programs
             --Evaluation scripts
4.11.1.3.                                                X                                         X
            Technical Order Page Count
4.11.2.     Training Programs
4.11.2.1    Ops Training Proficiency Evaluations                      X                       X
            EWO/Weapon System Classroom
                                                                      X                       X
4.11.2.2    Observation
            Product Reviews:
             --Instructor certification documentation
4.11.2.3     --MPT documentation (previous 6 months)                  X                            X
             --Review of online training scripts
             --Review of annual plan of instruction
4.11.2.4    Nuclear Surety Testing                                    X                                       X
4.11.2.5    Nuclear Control Order Procedures (NCOP)                   X                       X
            Procedures Trainer Observations/Evaluations
                                                                      X                       X
4.11.2.6    & mission certification program
4.11.2.7    Resource & Alert Force Management                         X                            X
4.11.3.     ICBM Codes
4.11.3.1    Ops Code Handler Written Test                             X                                       X
4.11.3.2    Code Controller Written Test                              X                                       X
            Wing Code Processing System (WCPS)
            evaluation (unit-administered Evaluator                   X                       X
4.11.3.3    Proficiency Evaluation (EPE))
 46                                            AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                       V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
4.11.3.4   Codes Classroom Observation                                 X                       X
4.11.3.5   Quality Assurance WCPS evaluation                           X                       X
           Product Reviews:
            --Evaluation materials
            --Evaluator certification/training programs
4.11.3.6    & scripts within 12 months of on-line date                 X                            X
            --Monthly codes training material
            --Instructor training
            --WCPS training scripts/lesson plans
           Operations Observations to include
           component dispatch, ops plans and
4.11.3.7   instructions, code controller tasks, review of              X                       X    X                X
           coding documentation, coding records audit
           and a random audit of codes 20-year spares
4.11.4     Technical Proficiency
4.11.4.1   Test & Evaluation Program                                   X                            X
4.11.4.2   Nuclear Certified Equipment (NCE)                           X                       X
5.         AF/A3/5 (Operations, Plans and Requirements)
5.1.          -Evaluate deployment planning                                        X
5.2.          -Evaluate deployment process                                         X
              -Evaluate use of automated deployment
5.3.                                                                               X
              systems
5.4.       Prepare
              -Determine if the installation CEMP 10-
              2; DCP, base support, joint support or
              expeditionary site plan identifies
5.4.1.        integrated tasks and assigns                                         X
              responsibilities to implement preparation,
              response, recovery, and sustainment
              actions
              -Determine if the installation plan
              includes support provided to or received
5.4.2.                                                                             X
              from joint service, host nation, or
              coalition forces
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                  47

                                                                                          Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                      MANDATORY

                                                                  CUI Ph 0

                                                                             CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                 P=Performance
                                                                                                 A=Audit
            Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                 T=Testing
                                                                                                 I=Interview
                                                                                                 S=Survey
                                                                                          P    A     V    T     I        S
           -Determine if the unit has identified and
           documented to HHQ critical
5.4.3.                                                                        X
           infrastructure assets requiring special
           considerations for operational planning
           -Determine if contingency plans are
           developed and training/exercises are
           conducted for both the home station and
5.4.4.     deployment location(s) for units in                                X
           medium or high threat areas or where a
           geographically specific Terrorism Threat
           Warning Report is in effect
6.       AF/A4/7 (Logistics, Installations and Mission Support)
6.1.       -Deployment training                            X                              X    X     X          X
           -Evaluate Weapon System Generation
6.2.                                                                          X
           and Deployment
           -Maintenance and management of vehicle
6.3.                                                       X                                   X                X
           assets
6.4.       -Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT)                   X                                   X                X
           -Personal property and passenger
6.5.                                                       X                  X                X                X
           movements
6.6.       -Stock Control management processes             X                                   X                X
6.7.       -Assess Repair Cycle Management                 X                                   X                X
           -Management of mission capable
6.8.                                                       X                                   X                X
           (MICAP)
           -Readiness Spares Packages/Mission
6.9.                                                       X                  X                X                X
           Support Kits
6.10.      -Management of mobility assets                  X                  X                X                X
           -Facility/equipment inspection and
6.11.                                                      X                                   X                X
           preventive maintenance programs
           -Confined space, hazardous
6.12.                                                      X                                   X                X
           communication training/awareness
6.13.      -Fuels Management                               X                                   X                X
6.14.      -War Reserve Materiel (WRM)                     X                                   X                X
6.15.      -Base Support Plan (BSP)                        X                                   X                X
 48                                            AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                       V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
              -Base deployment planning process,
              deployment-related documentation, e.g.,
              Contingency Sourced OPLAN
              /CONPLAN Time Phased Force
              Deployment Data (TPFDD) taskings,
6.16.         AEF Reporting Tool (ART) data, Unit                      X           X                X                X
              Type Code (UTC) Availability (formerly
              AFWUS), the all-forces TPFDD for
              equipment and related UTC taskings, and
              Global Command and Control System
              (GCCS) Classified Newsgroups.
6.17.         -Support Agreement processes                             X                            X                X
6.18.         -Wood Packaging Material                                 X                            X                X
              -Arms, Ammunition and Explosive
6.19.         (AA&E) and classified cargo shipping                     X           X                X                X
              and receipt procedures
              -Maintenance/disposition of shipment
6.20.                                                                  X                            X                X
              records
6.21.      Logistics Support
6.21.1.       -Control of maintenance                                              X           X    X     X          X
6.21.2.       -Sortie production                                                   X
              -Aircraft maintenance during
6.21.3.                                                                            X
              employment
              -Evaluate Equipment and Logistics
6.21.4.                                                                            X
              Readiness
6.21.5.       -Munitions activity                                                  X           X    X     X          X
6.21.6.       -Airborne release reliability                                        X
              -Material management to meet user asset
6.21.7.                                                                            X           X    X     X          X
              requirements
              -Physical control, accountability,
6.21.8.       serviceability, and efficient management                             X
              of supplies and equipment
              -Safely and efficiently issue quality bulk
6.21.9.       petroleum products, cryogenic fluids, and                            X
              missile propellants
              -Provide efficient and economical
6.21.10.                                                                           X
              transportation services
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                       49

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
               -Economical, reliable, and up-to-date
6.21.11.       procedures to maintain vehicles in a safe                           X           X
               and serviceable condition
               -Determine location of unit
               passengers/cargo and to
6.21.12.                                                                           X
               reprioritize/redirect movement in
               response to changing circumstances
6.22.       NWRM
6.22.1.        -NWRM Management                                        X           X           X    X                X
6.22.2.        -Marking and Packaging                                  X                       X    X
6.22.3.        -Storage and Warehouse Management                       X                       X    X
6.22.4.        -Shipment and Receipt Processing                        X                       X    X
6.23.       LCAP
6.23.1.     Contract Surveillance                                      X           X           X    X                X
6.23.2.     Distribution Management                                    X           X           X    X                X
6.23.2.1.      -Small Terminal Operation                               X           X           X
6.23.2.2.      -Vehicle Operations                                     X           X           X    X                X
6.23.2.3.      -Cargo Movement                                         X           X           X    X                X
6.23.2.4.      -Rigger                                                 X           X           X    X
6.23.2.5.      -Aerial Port                                            X           X           X    X                X
6.23.3.     Fuels Management                                           X           X           X
6.23.4.     General Leadership                                         X           X                                 X
6.23.4.1.       -Wing Commander                                        X           X                                 X
6.23.4.2.       -Group Commander                                       X           X                                 X
6.23.4.3.       -Squadron Commander                                    X           X                X                X
6.23.5.     Logistics Plans                                            X           X           X
6.23.5.1.       -War Reserve Material                                  X           X           X    X                X
6.23.6.     Flightline Maintenance                                     X           X           X
6.23.6.1.       -Operations Officer / MX Supt                          X           X           X    X                X
6.23.6.2.       -AMU OIC/Supt                                          X           X           X    X                X
6.23.6.3.       -Production Element                                    X           X           X    X                X
6.23.6.4.       -Debrief                                               X           X           X    X
6.23.6.5.       -Aircraft Section                                      X           X           X    X
 50                                          AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                         Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                     MANDATORY

                                                                 CUI Ph 0

                                                                            CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                P=Performance
                                                                                                A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                               V=Virtual
                                                                                                T=Testing
                                                                                                I=Interview
                                                                                                S=Survey
                                                                                         P    A     V    T     I        S
6.23.6.6.      -Support Section                                  X           X           X    X                X
6.23.6.7.      -Specialist Section                               X           X           X    X
6.23.6.8.      -Weapons Section                                  X           X           X    X
6.23.7.      Maintenance Operations Squadron                     X           X           X
6.23.7.1       -Analysis                                         X           X           X    X                X
6.23.7.2.      -Maintenance Operations Control                   X           X           X    X                X
6.23.7.3.      -Training                                         X           X           X    X                X
6.23.7.4.      -Engine Management                                X           X           X    X
6.23.7.5.      -PS&D                                             X           X           X    X
6.23.8.      Maintenance (MXS/CMS/EMS)                           X           X           X
6.23.8.1.      -Operations Officer/MX Supt                       X           X           X    X                X
6.23.8.2.      -Accessories Flight                               X           X           X    X
6.23.8.3.      -AGE Flight                                       X           X           X    X
6.23.8.4.      -Avionics Flight                                  X           X           X    X
6.23.8.4.      -Fabrication Flight                               X           X           X    X
6.23.8.5.      -Maintenance Flight                               X           X           X    X
6.23.8.6.      -Propulsion Flight                                X           X           X    X
               -Test Measurement and Diagnostic
6.23.8.7.                                                        X           X           X    X
               Equipment
6.23.9.      Maintenance Quality Assurance Program               X           X           X    X                X
6.23.9.1.      -Chief Inspector                                  X           X           X    X                X
6.23.9.2.      -TODO                                             X           X           X    X                X
6.23.9.3.      -PIP                                              X           X           X    X                X
6.23.9.4.      -MSEP                                             X           X           X    X                X
6.23.9.5.      -EPEs                                             X           X           X    X                X
6.23.9.6.      -Tool and Equipment Management                    X           X           X    X                X
6.23.9.7.      -AFREP                                            X           X           X    X                X
6.23.10.     Material Management                                 X           X           X    X                X
6.23.10.1.     -Readiness Spares Package                         X           X           X    X
6.23.10.2.     -Warehouse Operations                             X           X           X    X
6.23.10.3.     -Equipment Management                             X           X           X    X
6.23.11.     COSO (AMU/Backshop)                                 X           X           X    X                X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                    51

                                                                                            Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                        MANDATORY

                                                                    CUI Ph 0

                                                                               CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                   P=Performance
                                                                                                   A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                  V=Virtual
                                                                                                   T=Testing
                                                                                                   I=Interview
                                                                                                   S=Survey
                                                                                            P    A     V    T     I        S
6.23.12.     LRS Quality Assurance Program                          X           X           X    X                X
6.23.13.     Munitions Flight Supervision                           X           X           X    X                X
6.23.14.     Munitions Production                                   X           X           X    X                X
6.23.14.1.      -Conventional Maintenance                           X           X           X    X
6.23.14.2.      -Line Delivery                                      X           X           X    X                X
6.23.14.3.      -Precision Guided Munitions                         X           X           X    X
                -Munitions Support Equipment (Note
6.23.14.4.                                                          X           X           X    X
                this element encompasses MMHE)
6.23.14.5.      -Conventional Munitions Maintenance                 X           X           X    X
6.23.15.     Munitions Material                                     X           X           X    X
                -Munitions Accountability (Note this
6.23.15.1.                                                          X           X           X    X
                element encompasses MASO)
6.23.15.2.      -Munitions Inspection                               X           X           X    X
6.23.15.3.      -Munitions Storage/Handling
6.23.16.     Munitions Systems
6.23.16.1.      -Munitions Control
6.23.16.2.      -Combat Plans/Training/Mobility
6.23.16.3.      -Plans & Scheduling
6.23.16.4.      -Munitions Accountability                           X           X           X    X
6.23.16.5.      -Munitions Control                                  X           X           X    X
6.23.17.     Nuclear Weapons Maintenance                            X           X           X    X                X
6.23.17.1.      -MASO                                               X           X           X    X
6.23.17.2.      -Quality Assurance                                  X           X           X    X                X
                -Nuclear Accountability and Reporting
6.23.17.3.                                                          X           X           X    X
                Section
6.23.18.     Passenger Travel                                       X           X           X    X
6.23.19.     Personal Property Activity                             X           X           X    X                X
6.23.19.1.      -Inbound                                            X           X           X    X
6.23.19.2.      -Outbound                                           X           X           X    X
6.23.19.3.      -Quality Assurance                                  X           X           X    X     X          X
6.23.20.     Supply Chain Management                                X           X           X    X                X
6.23.21.     Training                                               X           X           X    X     X          X
6.23.22.     Vehicle Management                                     X           X           X    X
 52                                                AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                 Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                             MANDATORY

                                                                         CUI Ph 0

                                                                                    CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                        P=Performance
                                                                                                        A=Audit
                   Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                        T=Testing
                                                                                                        I=Interview
                                                                                                        S=Survey
                                                                                                 P    A     V    T     I        S
6.23.23.       Weapons                                                   X           X           X    X                X
6.23.23.1.        -Wing Weapons Manager                                  X           X           X    X     X          X
6.23.23.2.        -Weapons Standardization                               X           X           X    X     X          X
6.23.23.3.        -Armament                                              X           X           X    X                X
6.23.24.       Special Maintenance Programs                              X           X           X
6.23.24.1.        -ASIP                                                  X           X           X    X     X
6.23.24.2.        -Intake/Exhaust Certification                          X           X           X    X     X
6.23.24.3.        -Cannibalization                                       X           X           X    X                X
6.23.24.4.        -Combat Sortie Generation                              X           X           X    X
6.23.24.5.        -CDDAR                                                 X           X           X    X                X
6.23.24.6.        -Blade Blending                                        X           X           X    X
6.23.24.7.        -Borescope                                             X           X           X    X
6.23.24.8.        -F.O.D. Program                                        X           X           X    X
6.23.24.9.        -Special Certification Roster                          X           X           X    X
6.23.25.       ICBM Maintenance [ICBM Only]
6.23.25.1.     Quality Assurance Programs
               Product Reviews:
                 -- Quality Assurance Reports
                 -- Career Field Education and Training
6.23.25.1.1.   Plan                                                      X                            X
                 (CFETP)
                 -- Training Business Area (TBA)
                 -- 100 percent Task Coverage
6.23.25.1.2.   Evaluation Programs                                       X                            X
6.23.25.2.
               Training Trainers / Programs
               All Maintenance Class I, II and III Trainer
6.23.25.2.1.                                                             X                            X
               Hardware
6.23.25.2.2.   All Communication system trainers (test                   X                            X
               benches and mock-ups)
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                            53

                                                                                                    Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                                MANDATORY

                                                                            CUI Ph 0

                                                                                       CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                           P=Performance
                                                                                                           A=Audit
                  Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                        V=Virtual
                                                                                                           T=Testing
                                                                                                           I=Interview
                                                                                                           S=Survey
                                                                                                    P    A     V    T     I        S
               Product Reviews:
                 -- Career Field Education and Training
               Plan
                 (CFETP) (approx 10 percent)
6.23.25.2.3.                                                                X                            X
                 -- Training Business Area (TBA) (approx
               10
                 percent)
                 -- 100 percent Task Coverage
6.23.25.3.     Support
               Vehicles (approximately 10 percent of
               maintenance and security special purpose
6.23.25.3.1.                                                                X                            X
               vehicles assigned to the wing will be
               inspected)
               Launch Facility, Missile Alert Facility and
               Communication Equipment Hardware and
               Support equipment will be inspected:
                -- 6 Launch Facilities (3 to include deephole
6.23.25.3.2.                                                                X                            X
                inspections
                -- 3 Missile Alert Facilities
                -- Wing Command Post communications
                hardware (N/A for the 91 MW)
               Hardened Intersite Cable System (HICS)
6.23.25.3.3.   cable yard, equipment and documentation                      X                            X
               will be inspected
               In conjunction with the Logistics
               Compliance Inspection Program, up to 10
               percent of all Tools and Equipment will be
               inspected (Tools used in conjunction with
               proficiency evaluations may also be
6.23.25.3.4.   inspected and may be a part or in addition to                X                            X
               the 10 percent of respective totals):
                -- Nuclear Certified Equipment / Nuclear
                Weapons Related Material will be inspected
                for serviceability and verified against the
                Master Nuclear Certification List
6.23.25.3.5.
               Technical Orders (TO), TO Kits and TO                        X                            X
               Programs will be inspected
 54                                                AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                    Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                                MANDATORY

                                                                            CUI Ph 0

                                                                                       CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                           P=Performance
                                                                                                           A=Audit
                   Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                       V=Virtual
                                                                                                           T=Testing
                                                                                                           I=Interview
                                                                                                           S=Survey
                                                                                                    P    A     V    T     I        S
               Weapons system configuration control:
                 -- Maintenance Data Accuracy, weapon \
                 system modification tracking, weapon
                 system periodic testing
6.23.25.3.6.     -- Maintenance operations capacity to       X            X
                 positively track Time Compliance
                 Technical Orders / Master Change Log
                 start and completion dates and maintenance
                 data collection
6.23.25.4.     Technical Proficiency
               Maintenance Evaluator Proficiency:
6.23.25.4.1.   Evaluations (EPE 100 percent of all available X        X X
               evaluators)
               Maintenance Training Proficiency:
               Evaluations (100 percent of all available
6.23.25.4.2.                                                 X        X X
               Team Training and back shop trainers will
               complete a TPE)
               Maintenance Personnel Proficiency:
6.23.25.4.3.                                                 X        X X
               Evaluations, if needed
6.23.25.5.
               Helicopter Maintenance Contracting Office Representative Program Inspections
               and Evaluations
               Helicopter Maintenance Operations:
                 --Contracting Officers Representative
                 Programs
                 --Management Programs
6.23.25.5.1.                                                 X        X X
                 --Helicopter Generation
                 --Equipment Management
                 --Helicopter Inspection and Systems
                 Maintenance
6.24.          AF/A4/7 (Security)
6.24.1.        Force Protection
6.24.1.1.         -Force Protection Programs                                X                                  X          X
6.24.2.        Installation Security
                  -Installation security at home station (PL)
                  1-3 resources), resource protection (PL 4
6.24.2.1.                                                                   X           X           X    X     X          X    X
                  resources) police services, entry control,
                  and base defense
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                           55

                                                                                                   Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                               MANDATORY

                                                                           CUI Ph 0

                                                                                      CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                          P=Performance
                                                                                                          A=Audit
                 Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                        V=Virtual
                                                                                                          T=Testing
                                                                                                          I=Interview
                                                                                                          S=Survey
                                                                                                   P    A     V    T     I        S
                 -SF support program areas (training and
                 standardization evaluation, SF
                 investigations,
6.24.2.2.        intelligence/counterintelligence/law                      X           X           X    X     X          X    X
                 enforcement in coordination with AFOSI,
                 military working dog program, intrusion
                 detection systems, confinement, combat
                 arms, and the armory)
6.25.         Anti-Terror Vulnerability Assessment
6.25.1.          -As Applicable- IAW DoD & COCOM                           X           X           X    X     X          X    X
                 Requirements
6.25.2.       Integrated Defense
                 -Ability of base defense forces to plan
                 and conduct defense operations to protect
6.25.2.1.                                                                  X           X           X    X          X     X    X
                 assets IAW unit’s Integrated Defense
                 Plan
                 -Compatibility/interoperability of
                 communication systems with other units,
6.25.2.2.                                                                  X           X           X    X          X     X    X
                 commands, services, and national or
                 theater assets
                 -Police Services and resource protection
6.25.2.3.                                                                  X           X           X    X          X     X    X
                 activities and responses
                 -Security of PL 1—4 resources and
6.25.2.4.                                                                  X           X           X    X          X     X    X
                 responses.
                 -Ability of base defense forces to defeat
6.25.2.5.        Level I threats and disrupt or delay Level                X           X           X    X          X     X    X
                 II threats.
                 -Evaluate ability of base defense forces to
                 conduct offensive operations against
6.25.2.6.                                                                  X           X           X    X          X     X    X
                 enemy networks within the Base
                 Boundary.
6.25.2.7.     AF/A4/7 (Security) [ICBM Only]
6.25.2.7.1.   Life Cycle Review                                            X                            X
6.25.2.7.2.   Evaluator Proficiency                                        X                       X    X
6.25.2.7.3.   Duty Position Evaluation                                     X                       X    X          X
6.25.2.7.4.   Instructor Proficiency                                       X                       X    X
 56                                         AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                        Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                    MANDATORY

                                                                CUI Ph 0

                                                                           CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                               P=Performance
                                                                                               A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                              V=Virtual
                                                                                               T=Testing
                                                                                               I=Interview
                                                                                               S=Survey
                                                                                        P    A     V    T     I        S
6.26.        AF Metrology and Calibration
6.26.1.      Measurement Capability Assessment
6.26.2.         -Technical proficiency exams             X X X                                                X
                -Process for calibrating standards and
6.26.3.                                                  X X X                               X                X
                TMDE
                -Conditions/use of calibration standards
6.26.4.                                                  X X X                               X
                and TMDE
                -Application of metrology
6.26.5.                                                  X X X                                                X
                principles/procedures
6.26.6.      Facility
                -Facilitates proper performance and
6.26.6.1.                                                X X X                               X
                safe/accurate calibration/verification
6.26.7.      Quality Program
6.26.7.1.       -QP Activity Summary                     X X                                 X     X
6.26.7.2.       -Quality Review Selection Rate           X X                                 X     X
6.26.7.3.       -Process Review Selection Rate           X X                                 X     X
6.26.7.4.       -Root Cause Analysis                     X X X                               X     X          X
6.26.7.5.       -Trend Analysis                          X X X                               X     X          X
6.26.7.6.       -Quality Program Effectiveness           X X X                                                X
6.26.8.      Management System
6.26.8.1.       -Quality Manual                          X X                                 X     X          X
6.26.8.2.       -Internal Audit                          X X                                 X     X          X
6.26.8.3.       -Management Review                       X X                                 X     X          X
6.26.9.      Environmental Control System
6.26.9.1.       -ECS effectiveness                       X X X                               X                X
6.26.9.2.       -In-tolerance ≥90%                       X X                                 X     X
6.26.10.     Proficiency Testing and Measurement Assurance Program
6.26.10.1.      -Exchange Standards                      X X                                       X    X
6.26.10.2.      -Artifact Calibrations                   X X                                       X    X
6.26.10.3.      -Inter-comparison Measurements           X X                                       X    X
6.27.        AF/A4/7 (Civil Engineering)
                -Present and future facility and
6.27.1.                                                  X
                infrastructure requirements
6.27.2.         -Real Property Maintenance Activities    X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                       57

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
                -Work Information Management
6.27.3.         System/Automated Civil Engineering                     X                                  X
                System
6.27.4.         -Real Property Accountability                          X                            X                X    X
6.27.5.         -Housing                                               X                       X    X     X          X
                -Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
                (BEEF)/Rapid Engineer Deployable
6.27.6.         Heavy Operational Repair Squadron                      X                       X    X
                Engineer (RED HORSE) training and Air
                Force Specialty Certifications
                -Compliance with deployment
6.27.7.                                                                X                            X
                requirements
                -Fire Emergency Services (FES) flight
6.27.8.         using the FES Assessment Program                       X                       X    X                X
                (FESAP)
                -Installation compliance/remediation
6.27.9.                                                                X                       X    X
                response plans
6.27.10.     Emergency Management (EM) Programs
                -Installation commander EM Program
6.27.10.1.                                                             X                            X                X
                requirements
6.27.10.2.      -Base EM exercise program                              X           X           X    X
6.27.10.3.      -Base/unit EM training                                 X                       X    X          X     X    X
                -Installation EM planning, coordination,
                implementation, and execution of the
6.27.10.4.      Comprehensive Emergency Management                     X           X           X    X     X    X     X    X
                Plan 10-2 and Air Force Incident
                Management System
6.27.10.5.      -Installation warning and notification                 X                       X    X                     X
                -Joint Base Only—EM requirements as
6.27.10.6.                                                             X           X           X                     X
                the supported service
6.27.11.     Readiness
                -Capability to meet in-place wartime
6.27.11.1.      requirements and/if required, capability                           X           X    X
                to deploy to another area
 58                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                            MANDATORY

                                                                        CUI Ph 0

                                                                                   CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                       P=Performance
                                                                                                       A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                       T=Testing
                                                                                                       I=Interview
                                                                                                       S=Survey
                                                                                                P    A     V    T     I        S
                -Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
                (BEEF) Program. Emphasis given to the
                following: CBRN Defense and EM,
                expedient methods (bed-down),
                (construction), (repair), explosive
                ordnance disposal (EOD), FES using the
6.27.11.2.                                                                          X           X    X
                FESAP, NFPA 1201 checklist, expedient
                methods (destruction), force protection,
                and deployment support. Other tasks
                include minimum airfield operating
                surface (MAOS) and airfield damage
                repair (ADR).
                -Evaluate ability of the installation to
                implement CBRN defense plan actions to
6.27.11.3.      save lives, protect resources, recover                              X
                from attacks, and restore mission
                capability
6.27.12.     Protection
                -Determine ability of organizations to
                prepare for and implement actions to
6.27.12.1.      protect personnel and resources from                                X
                improvised, conventional and CBRN
                weapons effects
                -Determine if individuals have completed
                Protective Mask Fit training with their
6.27.12.2.      personal mask and understand the threat                             X
                of CBRN agents as well as effective
                protective measures
                -Evaluate individuals’ knowledge of
                Mission Oriented Protective Posture
                (MOPP) levels, ability to inspect and don
                their IPE within specified time criteria,
6.27.12.3.      ability to remove their IPE by processing                           X
                through a contamination control area
                (CCA); demonstrate the use of issued
                chemical decontamination kits, detection
                equipment, and chemical agent antidotes
                -Evaluate ability to execute force health
6.27.12.4.                                                                          X
                protection activities
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                       59

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
               -Determine ability to provide permanent
6.27.12.5.     and expedient hardening protection for                              X
               assigned and deployed forces
6.27.12.6.     -Evaluate ability to disperse and protect                           X
               critical assets
               -Evaluate ability to conduct operations
6.27.12.7.     under blackout conditions, as appropriate                           X
               for the threat
               -Determine if unit accomplished asset
6.27.12.8.     identification supporting the AF critical                           X
               infrastructure program
6.27.13.     Contamination Avoidance and Control
               -Evaluate ability to receive and
               disseminate information through the
6.27.13.1.                                                                         X
               installation and theater CBRN defense
               warning and reporting system
               -Determine adequacy/serviceability/
               sustainment capability of available
6.27.13.2.                                                                         X
               CBRN detection and monitoring
               equipment.
               -Evaluate ability to deploy, operate, and
6.27.13.3.     maintain the CBRN detection and
               reporting system
               -Determine adequacy of contamination
6.27.13.4.     avoidance plans and material stocks,                                X
               based on the CBRN threat.
               -Evaluate ability to implement
6.27.13.5.     contamination avoidance measures in                                 X
               preparation of and response to attacks
               -Determine adequacy of contaminated
6.27.13.6.     waste collection, control, and disposal                             X
               capability.
               -Evaluate ability to implement
6.27.13.7.     contaminated waste collection actions at                            X
               the unit and installation level
 60                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                  Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                              MANDATORY

                                                                          CUI Ph 0

                                                                                     CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                         P=Performance
                                                                                                         A=Audit
                 Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                       V=Virtual
                                                                                                         T=Testing
                                                                                                         I=Interview
                                                                                                         S=Survey
                                                                                                  P    A     V    T     I        S
                -Evaluate ability to identify and mark
                CBRN hazard and hazard areas, conduct
6.27.13.8.      post-attack risk assessment, and                                      X
                implement management actions to reduce
                mission degradation
6.27.14.     Respond
                -Evaluate ability of base population to
6.27.14.1.      react to MOPP and alarm condition                                     X
                changes and respond to attacks
                -Evaluate ability of base population to
6.27.14.2.      identify, mark, report, and avoid hazards                             X
                after an attack
                -Evaluate ability of individuals to
                perform self-aid/buddy care and to
                identify/recognize symptoms associated
                with chemical attacks (to include toxic
6.27.14.3.      industrial chemical (TIC)/toxic industrial                            X
                material (TIM)), biological events (to
                include, naturally-occurring disease
                outbreaks), and radiological/nuclear
                events
                -Evaluate ability of unit to implement
6.27.14.4.      preparation, response and recovery                                    X
                actions after an attack
                -Evaluate ability of unit post-attack
                reconnaissance teams other assigned
                specialized teams to conduct operations
6.27.14.5.                                                                            X
                to include
                detection/identification/quantification of
                threats to FHP and mission continuation
                -Evaluate ability of unit to manage the
                movement of casualties and exposed
                personnel to the appropriate medical
6.27.14.6.      treatment facility. Evaluate the ability of                           X
                the unit to relocate, establish command
                and control functions and conduct
                operations from a COOP (alternate) site
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                      61

                                                                                              Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                          MANDATORY

                                                                      CUI Ph 0

                                                                                 CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                     P=Performance
                                                                                                     A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                     T=Testing
                                                                                                     I=Interview
                                                                                                     S=Survey
                                                                                              P    A     V    T     I        S
               -Evaluate ability to integrate with
               assigned or attached joint service, host
6.27.14.7.     nation or coalition CBRN defense forces                            X
               and support installation or theater
               missions
                -Evaluate ability to protect enemy POW,
                retained personnel, civilian internees, and
6.27.14.8.      other detainees in AF custody. Evaluate       X
                ability to protect DOD civilian and
                contract personnel not designated as
                emergency essential
6.27.15.     Mission Continuation/Restoration and Sustainment
                -Evaluate ability to conduct integrated
6.27.15.1.      response operations, restore mission          X
                capability, and sustain operations
                -Determine adequacy of personnel
6.27.15.2.                                                    X
                accountability and replacement actions
                -Determine adequacy of CBRN defense
6.27.15.3.      individual and team equipment stock           X
                levels to support sustained operations
                -Evaluate actions to initiate re-supply of
                critical CBRN defense equipment,
6.27.15.4.                                                    X
                including medical and pharmaceutical
                supplies
6.27.15.5.      -Combat Arms/Dismounted Tactics             X   X
6.27.16.     Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD)
6.27.16.1.      -General Demolition Procedures              X   X           X
                -Explosives Safety (Intentional Range,
6.27.16.2.      Proficiency Range and Bombing Range         X   X           X
                Process)
6.27.16.3.      -Asset Accountability                       X   X X                                                 X
7.           SAF/CIO A6 (Information Dominance & Chief Information Officer)
7.1.         Communications and Information
                -Evaluate Information Operations
7.1.1.          (Electronic warfare, network warfare, and     X
                influence operations)
 62                                         AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                         Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                     MANDATORY

                                                                 CUI Ph 0

                                                                            CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                P=Performance
                                                                                                A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                 V=Virtual
                                                                                                T=Testing
                                                                                                I=Interview
                                                                                                S=Survey
                                                                                         P    A     V    T     I        S
              -Training to support mission critical
7.1.2.                                                           X                            X
              communication systems
              -Planning, configuration control, physical
              infrastructure/medium, management,
7.1.3.                                                           X
              maintenance, and security of the
              communication infrastructure
              -Personal Wireless Communications
7.1.4.                                                           X                            X
              Management
              -Command and control (C2) systems
7.1.5.                                                           X                            X
              maintenance
7.2.       Knowledge Operations Management Programs
7.2.1.     Records Management
              -Program Management/Administration
7.2.1.1.        -- Record Professional Appt/Training             X                            X     X
                -- File Plan Established/Approved
              -Records Disposition/Management
7.2.1.2.        -- Lifecycle                                     X                       X    X
                -- Privacy Act/HIPAA
7.2.1.3.      -Staging                                           X                       X    X
7.2.1.4.      -Vital Records/Emergency Preparedness              X                            X
              -Search Request & Litigation Hold
7.2.1.5.                                                         X                       X    X
              (FRCP)
7.2.1.6.      -Electronic Communications                         X                       X    X
7.2.2.     FOIA
              -Program Management/Administration
7.2.2.1.      IDA, FOIA Manager, & Monitors                      X                       X    X
              Appt/Training—Provided OPR Training
7.2.2.2.
              -Records Disposition/FOIA Case Files               X                       X    X     X
              -FOIA Compliance
7.2.2.3.                                                         X                       X    X     X
                -- Request Processing
7.2.3.     Privacy Act
7.2.3.1.      -Program Management/Administration                 X                            X     X
                -- PA Manager Appt/Training
              -Compliance Reporting
7.2.3.2.        -- Privacy Breach Reporting                      X                            X                X
                -- Privacy Act Complaints
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                63

                                                                                        Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                    MANDATORY

                                                                CUI Ph 0

                                                                           CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                               P=Performance
                                                                                               A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                V=Virtual
                                                                                               T=Testing
                                                                                               I=Interview
                                                                                               S=Survey
                                                                                        P    A     V    T     I        S
7.2.4.     Publication/Forms Management Programs
              -Program Management
              -- Approval Official Appt/Provided
7.2.4.1.                                                        X                            X     X
              -- Established POC for Official Records
              Set
              -Records Set Management
7.2.4.2.         -- AF673                                       X                       X    X     X
                 -- Publication and Form Formatting
7.2.5.     Official Mail Program (OMP)
              -Self-inspection program for Official
7.2.5.1.                                                        X                            X
              Mail Centers and Postal Service Centers
              -Security and safeguarding of mail and
7.2.5.2.                                                        X                            X
              maintenance of delivery records
              -Receipts accountability for items signed
7.2.5.3.                                                        X                            X
              from USPS and other commercial carriers
              -Effective and maximum use of
7.2.5.4.                                                        X                            X
              consolidated mailings
              -Maintenance of forwarding addresses
7.2.5.5.      and appropriate directory service                 X                            X
              procedures
7.2.6.     Scientific and Technical Information Program
              No Inputs Received
7.2.7.     Management and Security of IT Systems
              No Inputs Received
7.3.       Information Assurance Assessment
7.3.1.     Computer Security (COMPUSEC)
7.3.1.1.      -COMPUSEC Training and education                  X                            X                X
              -Information Assurance (IA) Awareness
7.3.1.2.                                                        X                            X          X     X
              Training
7.3.1.3.      -Passwords and Administrator access               X                       X    X
              -Foreign Nationals information system
7.3.1.4.                                                        X                            X                X
              access
7.3.2.     Emission Security (EMSEC)
7.3.2.1.      -EMSEC Training and education                     X                            X                X
              -EMSEC assessments and
7.3.2.2.                                                        X                       X    X                X
              countermeasures
 64                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                 Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                             MANDATORY

                                                                         CUI Ph 0

                                                                                    CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                        P=Performance
                                                                                                        A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                       V=Virtual
                                                                                                        T=Testing
                                                                                                        I=Interview
                                                                                                        S=Survey
                                                                                                 P    A     V    T     I        S
              -EMSEC considerations in planning new
7.3.2.3.                                                                 X                            X                X
              facilities or renovating existing facilities
7.3.3.      Communications Security (COMSEC)
7.3.3.1.      -COMSEC training and education                             X           X                X                X
7.3.3.2.      -COMSEC program administration                             X           X                X                X
7.3.3.3.      -Cryptographic Access Program (CAP)                        X           X                X                X
              -Cryptographic Responsible Officer
7.3.3.4.                                                                 X           X                X
              access
7.3.3.5.      -Emergency Action Plan (EAP)                               X           X           X    X          X     X
7.3.3.6.      -COMSEC Material Accountability                            X           X           X    X                X
7.3.3.7.      -Physical Safeguarding                                     X           X           X    X          X     X
7.3.3.8.      -COMSEC Material Destruction                               X           X           X    X                X
7.3.3.9.      -COMSEC Incidents handling                                 X           X           X    X          X     X
7.3.3.10.     -Protective Technologies                                   X           X                X          X
              -Controlling Authorities crypto net
7.3.3.11.                                                                X           X                X                X
              management
              -Secure Voice Responsible Officers
7.3.3.12.                                                                X           X                X                X
              (SVRO) administration
7.3.3.13.     -Secure Voice Devices accountability                       X           X                X                X
7.3.3.14.     -Semi-Annual Inventories                                   X           X                X                X
7.3.3.15.     -Audit/Assessments                                         X           X                X                X
              -Local Management Device/Key
7.3.3.16.                                                                X           X                X                X
              Processor (LMD/KP) management
7.4.        Command Cyber Readiness Inspection
7.4.1.      USCYBERCOM Computer Network Defense Directives
7.4.1.1.       -Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)     X       X X X
7.4.1.2.       -Scanning and Remediation            X       X X X X
7.4.1.3.       -Warning Banner                      X       X X X
7.4.1.4.       -Disable Autorun                     X       X X X X
               -Host Base Security System (HBSS)
7.4.1.5.                                            X       X X X X
               Deployment
7.4.2.
            Technology Areas [includes USCYBERCOM IAVA and DoD (DISA, NSA)
            STIG compliance]
7.4.2.1.       -Boundary Security                   X       X X X X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                      65

                                                                                              Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                          MANDATORY

                                                                      CUI Ph 0

                                                                                 CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                     P=Performance
                                                                                                     A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                     T=Testing
                                                                                                     I=Interview
                                                                                                     S=Survey
                                                                                              P    A     V    T     I        S
7.4.2.2.      -Internal Network                                       X                       X    X     X    X
7.4.2.3.      -Network Vulnerability Scan                             X                            X     X
7.4.2.4.      -Domain Name System                                     X                            X     X
7.4.2.5.      -HBSS Checklist                                         X                            X
7.4.2.6.      -Traditional Security                                   X                       X    X
7.4.2.7.      -Windows Operating Systems                              X                       X    X     X
7.4.2.8.      -UNIX Operating Systems                                 X                       X    X     X
7.4.2.9.      -Wireless Communications                                X                       X    X     X    X
7.4.2.10.     -802.11                                                 X                       X    X     X    X
7.4.3.      Contributing Factors
              -Culture (includes certification and
7.4.3.1.      accreditation; Leadership; POA&M                        X                            X                X    X
              processes; POR baseline review)
              -Conduct (includes training;
              configuration Management; and
7.4.3.2.                                                              X                            X                X    X
              consistent and repeatable vulnerability
              management processes)
              -Capability (includes incident handling
              processes; internal/external NIDS
7.4.3.3.                                                              X                       X    X                X    X
              deployment; and CNDSP and COOP
              capabilities)
8.          AF/A8 (Strategic Plans & Programs)
              -None
9.          AF/A9 (Studies & Analyses, Assessments, & Lessons Learned)
              -None
10.         AF/A10 (Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration)
10.1.       Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
                -PRP at non-nuclear-capable units, to
10.1.1.         include Medical Treatment Facilities                  X                            X                X
                (MTF)
            Note: PRP at nuclear-capable units will be
            inspected during Nuclear Surety Inspections
            and Defense Nuclear Surety Inspections
            (DNSI) IAW CJCSI 3263.05 Nuclear
            Weapons Technical Inspections, versus CUIs
            or other inspections.
 66                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
11.         AF/HC (Chaplain Corps)
11.1        Chaplain Corps Support
11.1.1.       -Ability to support religious observances X                          X           X    X
              -Ability to provide and support spiritual
11.1.2                                                  X                          X           X    X
              care
              -Ability to advise leaders on spiritual,
11.1.3.       ethical, moral, morale, and religious     X                          X           X
              accommodation issues
12.         AF/HO (Air Force History and Museum Programs)
12.1.       History Office
               -History Office interaction/relationships
12.1.1                                                                 X           X                                 X
               within unit
12.1.2.        -Access to information                                  X           X                X                X
               -Compliance with AFIs related to
12.1.3.                                                                X           X                X                X
               production of AF histories
               -Evaluate historian’s readiness to deploy
12.1.4.                                                                X           X                X                X
               (EE Deployable Historians Only)
12.1.5.        -Quality of archival holdings                           X           X                X
               -Compliance with directives related to
12.1.6.                                                                X           X                X
               AF Art
12.2.       Heritage Activities
               -Condition/display of historic aerospace
12.2.1.                                                                X           X                X
               vehicles
               -Documentation related to historic
12.2.2.                                                                X           X                X                X
               aerospace vehicles
               -Condition and display of historic
12.2.3.                                                                X           X                X
               property
12.2.4.        -Operation of heritage activities                       X           X                X                X
               -Documentation related to operation of
12.2.5.                                                                X           X                X                X
               heritage activities
13.         AF/JA (Judge Advocate General)
13.1.       Article 6 Inspection Part 1/2
13.1.1.     Leadership*                                                X                            X                X
13.1.1.1.      -Personnel and Management*                              X                            X                X
               -Reserve Programs, Awards &
13.1.1.2.                                                              X                            X
               Decorations, Recruiting
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                       67

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
13.1.1.3.       -Training                                              X                            X
13.1.1.4.       --Office & Individual Training Plans                   X                            X
13.1.2.      Military Justice                                          X                            X                X
13.1.2.1.       -Metrics                                               X                            X                X
13.1.2.2.       -Article 15s                                           X                            X                X
13.1.2.3.       -Civil Law—Adverse Actions                             X                            X
                --Rapid Airman Discharge Program &
13.1.2.4.                                                              X                            X
                Officer Separations
                --Administrative actions : denial of re-
13.1.2.5.                                                              X                            X
                enlistments, discharges, IG complaints
13.1.2.6.       -Courts-Martial (Pretrial)                             X                            X                X
13.1.2.7.       --Search and Seizure                                   X
13.1.2.8.       --Pretrial Confinement                                 X                            X
13.1.2.9.       --Docketing Issues*                                    X                            X                X
13.1.2.10.      -Courts-Martial (Trial)*                               X                            X                X
13.1.2.11.      --Case Preparation*                                    X                            X                X
13.1.2.12.      -Courts-Martial (Post-Trial Processing)                X                            X                X
13.1.2.13.      --Post-Trial Documents                                 X                            X                X
13.1.2.14.      -Victim/Witness Assistance Program                     X                            X
13.1.3.      International Law Issues                                  X           X                X                X
13.1.3.1.       -Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction (FCJ)                   X                            X
13.1.3.2.       -Foreign Civil Litigation (FCL)                        X                            X
                -General International Law/International
13.1.3.3.                                                              X                            X
                Agreements
13.1.3.4.       --SOFA Issues*                                                                      X
13.1.3.5.       --Host nation issues                                   X                            X
13.1.3.6        -Operational Law                                       X           X                X                X
13.1.4.      Civil Law                                                 X                            X                X
13.1.4.1.       -FOIA/PA                                               X                            X
13.1.4.2.       -Labor law                                             X                            X                X
                -Legal Assistance, Preventive Law & Tax
13.1.4.3.                                                              X                            X                X
                Assistance Programs
13.1.4.4.       -Ethics                                                X                            X
 68                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                            MANDATORY

                                                                        CUI Ph 0

                                                                                   CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                       P=Performance
                                                                                                       A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                       T=Testing
                                                                                                       I=Interview
                                                                                                       S=Survey
                                                                                                P    A     V    T     I        S
13.1.4.5.      -Environmental Law                                       X                            X                X
               --Federal & state
13.1.4.6.                                                               X                            X
               compliance/encroachment issues
13.1.4.7.      -Procurement Law                                         X                            X                X
13.1.4.8.      -Claims                                                  X                            X
13.1.5.     Rules of Law
               -Evaluate knowledge and understanding
               of the principles and rules of the Law of
13.1.5.1.      Armed Conflict (LOAC) throughout the                                 X
               installation, commensurate with
               individual duties and responsibilities
               -Evaluate knowledge and understanding
13.1.5.2.      of the applicable ROE and rules for the                              X
               use of force
               -Evaluate that legal (or command)
13.1.5.3.      representative briefed ROE as published                              X
               by the combatant commander
               -Evaluate adequacy of legal support for
13.1.5.4.                                                                           X
               wartime and contingency operations
               -Evaluate availability of legal assistance
13.1.5.5.                                                                           X
               for deployed personnel
               -Evaluate adequacy of legal office
13.1.5.6.                                                                           X
               operational and mission readiness
13.1.6.     Defense Services*                                           X                                             X
            Notes:
            * Article 6 Part 1/2 inspections only
14.         AF/RE (Chief of the Air Force Reserve)
              -If applicable
15.         SAF/SB (Air Force Scientific Advisory Board)
              -None
16.         AF/SE (Chief of Safety)
16.1.       Flight
16.1.1.     Assessment and Inspection
                -Mishap Investigation and Reporting
16.1.1.1.                                                               X           X                X     X          X
                (Class A-E)
16.1.1.2.       -FSO compliance with Directives                         X           X                X     X          X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                       69

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
16.1.1.3.      -FSNCO compliance with Directives                       X           X                X     X          X
               -Office Admin, Equipment, Emergency
16.1.1.4.                                                              X           X                X                X
               Response
               -Flight Related Facilities & Airfield
16.1.1.5.                                                              X           X                X     X          X
               Conditions
               -Aircraft Maintenance/Flight Safety
16.1.1.6.                                                              X           X                X                X
               Integration
16.1.1.7.      -Recommendation Management                              X           X                X     X          X
16.1.2.     Mishap Prevention Program
16.1.2.1.      -Maintenance                                            X           X                X     X          X
16.1.2.2.      -FOD                                                    X           X                X     X          X
16.1.2.3.      -BASH                                                   X           X                X     X          X
16.1.2.4.      -MACA                                                   X           X                X     X          X
16.1.2.5.      -HATR                                                   X           X                X     X          X
16.1.2.6.      -Aero Club Safety                                       X           X                X     X          X
               -Effectiveness of mishap prevention
16.1.2.7.      program, including actions taken to                                 X                X                X
               mitigate risks associated with all phases
               of deployments and contingencies
16.2.       Ground
16.2.1.     Confined Space Program
16.2.1.1.      -Master Listing                                         X           X                X     X          X
16.2.1.2.      -Training Plan                                          X           X                X     X          X
16.2.1.3.      -Master Entry Plan                                      X           X                X     X          X
16.2.1.4.      -CSPT Meeting/minutes                                   X           X                X     X          X
16.2.2.     Lock Out / Tag Out Program
16.2.2.1.      -Lesson Plans                                           X           X                X     X          X
16.2.2.2.      -Equipment List                                         X           X                X     X          X
16.2.2.3.      -Authorizations                                         X           X                X     X          X
16.2.3.     Fall Protection
16.2.3.1.      -Lesson Plans                                           X           X                X     X          X
16.2.3.2.      -Job Safety Analysis                                    X           X                X     X          X
16.2.3.3.      -Equipment List                                         X           X                X     X          X
 70                                           AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                             Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                         MANDATORY

                                                                     CUI Ph 0

                                                                                CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                    P=Performance
                                                                                                    A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                    T=Testing
                                                                                                    I=Interview
                                                                                                    S=Survey
                                                                                             P    A     V    T     I        S
16.2.4.     Personal Protective Equipment
               -Safety related PPE during demos (i.e.,
16.2.4.1.                                                            X           X           X    X                X
               LOTO, etc)
16.2.5.     Traffic Safety Program
16.2.5.1.      -Motorcycle Safety                                    X                            X                X
16.2.5.2.      -PMV-2 Training, MUSTT, CC Briefing                   X                            X     X          X
16.2.5.3.      -PMV-4 Training, Seatbelt survey                      X                            X     X          X
16.2.5.4.      -Program Admin/coord groups                           X                            X     X          X
16.3.       Weapons
16.3.1.     Safety Program Evaluation
16.3.1.1.      -Exercise Planning                                    X                            X                X
16.3.1.2.      -Deployment Planning                                  X           X                X                X
16.3.1.3.      -Host/Tenant Support Agreements                       X                            X                X
16.3.1.4.      -Nuclear Surety Council                               X                            X                X
16.3.1.5.      -Deficiency Reporting (dull sword)                    X                            X                X
16.3.2.     Safety Inspections
16.3.2.1.      -Checklist                                            X                            X                X
16.3.2.2.      -Reports                                              X                            X                X
16.3.2.3.      -Annuals                                              X                            X                X
16.3.2.4.      -High Interest Items                                  X                            X                X
16.3.2.5.      -20% Unmanned Launch Facilities (when                 X                            X                X
               applicable)
16.3.2.6.      -Spot Inspections                                     X                            X                X
16.3.3.     Safety Education & Training
16.3.3.1.      -Mishap Prevention                                    X                            X                X
16.3.3.2.      -WSM                                                  X                            X                X
16.3.3.3.      -Weapons Safety USR                                   X                            X                X
16.3.3.4.      -Unit                                                 X                            X                X
16.3.3.5.      -Lesson Plans                                         X                            X                X
16.3.4.     Mishap Prevention
               -Operational Risk
16.3.4.1.                                                            X           X                X                X
               Management/Mitigation
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                    71

                                                                                            Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                        MANDATORY

                                                                    CUI Ph 0

                                                                               CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                   P=Performance
                                                                                                   A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                   V=Virtual
                                                                                                   T=Testing
                                                                                                   I=Interview
                                                                                                   S=Survey
                                                                                            P    A     V    T     I        S
16.3.5.     Mishap Investigations (Class A-E)
16.3.5.1.      -Accuracy & Completeness of Reports                  X                            X                X
               -Timeliness of Reports/Recommended
16.3.5.2.                                                           X                            X                X
               Closures
16.3.5.3.      -Sanitizing                                          X                            X                X
16.3.6.     Explosives Site Planning
16.3.6.1.      -Submissions/Approvals                               X                            X                X
16.3.6.2.      -Exceptions                                          X                            X                X
16.3.6.3.      -Compensatory Measures                               X                            X                X
16.3.6.4.      -Host Nation/Tenant Risk Notification                X                            X                X
16.3.6.5.      -Base Explosives Location Maps                       X                            X                X
16.3.6.6.      -Facility Modifications/Change in Use                X                            X                X
16.3.6.7.      -Non-DoD Explosives Activities                       X                            X                X
16.3.6.8.      -Clear Zone Monitoring “Construction &               X                            X                X
               Facility Utilization”
16.4.       Space Safety (AFSPC)
16.4.1.        -Program Management                                  X           X                X     X          X    X
16.4.2.     Launch Safety
16.4.2.1.      -Risk Management                                     X           X                X                X
16.4.2.2.      -Operational Requirements                            X           X                X                X
16.4.2.3.     -Commercial/Civil                                     X           X                X                X
16.4.3.     Range Safety
16.4.3.1.     -Form 3 Review                                        X           X                X                X
16.4.3.2.     -System Safety Program                    X X                                      X                X
16.4.4.     Orbital Safety
16.4.4.1.     -End of Life Plan                         X X                                      X                X
16.4.4.2.     -Collision Avoidance                      X X                                      X                X
16.4.4.3.     -Risk Mitigation                          X X                                      X                X
16.4.4.4.     -Risk Acceptance                          X X                                      X                X
16.4.5.     Ground Based Space System Safety/Space Control Systems
              -Risks/hazards of unintended effects
16.4.5.1.                                               X X                                      X     X          X
              identified and limited
 72                                            AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                            Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                        MANDATORY

                                                                    CUI Ph 0

                                                                               CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                   P=Performance
                                                                                                   A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                   V=Virtual
                                                                                                   T=Testing
                                                                                                   I=Interview
                                                                                                   S=Survey
                                                                                            P    A     V    T     I        S
16.4.5.2.   System Safety Groups (SSG, NWSSG, NNMSB)
16.4.6.     Mishap Investigation (Class A-E)
16.4.6.1.      -Accuracy & Completeness of Reports                  X           X                X     X          X
16.4.6.2.      -Timeliness of Reports/Rec Closures                  X           X                X     X          X
16.4.6.3.      -Sanitizing                                          X           X                X                X
16.4.7.     Safety Education and Training
16.4.7.1.      -Space Safety Council                                X           X                                 X    X
               -All Safety Courses Applicable to Unit
16.4.7.2.                                                           X           X                                 X    X
               Mission Requirements
16.5.       System Safety (AFMC, AFSPC)
16.5.1.     Program Management
16.5.1.1.      -Personnel                              X                        X                X     X          X
16.5.1.2.      -System Safety in Acquisition           X                        X                X                X    X
16.5.1.3.      --System Safety in Contracts            X                        X                X                X    X
               --System Safety for Non-Development
16.5.1.4.                                              X                        X                X                X    X
               Items
16.5.1.5.      --System Safety ins Sustainment         X                        X                X                X    X
16.5.2.     System Safety Groups (SSG, NWSSG, NNSMB)
16.5.3.     System Safety Engineering Analyses
16.5.4.     Discipline Unique System Safety Concerns
16.5.4.1.      -Directed Energy Safety                 X                        X                X     X          X    X
               -Range Safety (MRTBF) see also range
16.5.4.2.                                              X                        X                X     X          X    X
               safety
16.5.4.3.      -Space—see also space safety            X                        X                X     X          X    X
16.5.4.4.      -Software                               X                        X                X     X          X    X
16.5.4.5.      -Test Safety—see also test safety below X                        X                X     X          X    X
16.5.4.6.      Weapons—see also weapon safety above
16.5.4.7       --Non-Nuclear Munitions                              X           X                X     X          X    X
16.5.4.8.      --Nuclear Weapons                                    X           X                X     X          X    X
16.6.       Safety Office Administration
16.6.1.     Safety Program Management/Assessments
16.6.1.1.      -Commander's Involvement                             X           X                X
16.6.1.2.      -Squadron Assessments                                X           X                X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                       73

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
16.6.1.3.     -Trend Analysis                                          X           X                X
16.6.1.4.     -High Interest Items                                     X           X                X
16.6.1.5.     -Outreach, campaigns, media                              X           X                X
16.6.2.     OSHA Coordination
16.6.2.1.      -Reception Plan                                         X           X                X
16.6.2.2.      -Reporting                                              X           X
16.6.3.     Safety Support
               -Implementation of mishap prevention
               program—including actions taken to
16.6.3.1.                                                              X           X                X
               mitigate risks associated with all phases
               of deployments and contingencies
               -Implementation of Risk Management
16.6.3.2.                                                              X           X                X
               (RM) program
16.6.3.3.      -Implementation of safety reporting                     X           X                X
               -Implementation of unit’s flying safety
16.6.3.4.                                                              X           X                X
               program
               -Implementation of unit’s ground safety
16.6.3.5.                                                              X           X                X
               program
               -Implementation of unit’s weapons safety
16.6.3.6.                                                              X           X                X
               program
               -Implementation of unit’s space safety
16.6.3.7.                                                              X           X                X
               program
               -Implementation of unit’s system safety
16.6.3.8.                                                              X           X                X
               program
17.         AF/SG (Surgeon General)
17.1.       Suicide Prevention (By-Law)
17.1.1.        -IAW AFI 44-154                                         X                            X
17.1.2.     Community Support
               -Community Action Information Board
17.1.2.1.      and Integrated Delivery System (IAW                     X                                             X
               AFI 90-501)
17.1.3.     Disease Containment Response
               -Public health emergency training
17.1.3.1.                                                              X
               requirements
 74                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                            MANDATORY

                                                                        CUI Ph 0

                                                                                   CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                       P=Performance
                                                                                                       A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                       T=Testing
                                                                                                       I=Interview
                                                                                                       S=Survey
                                                                                                P    A     V    T     I        S
               -Installation ability to meet specialized
17.1.3.2.      teams' personnel/ equipment/training                     X
               requirements
               -Installation public health emergency and
               disease containment planning,
               implementation/execution of the disease
17.1.3.3.      containment plan. NOTE: Although                         X
               inherently medical, all functionals have a
               role in DCP development and
               implementation / execution
17.1.4.      Medical Contingency Response Plan
17.1.4.1.      -Medical counter-CBRN response                           X           X           X                     X
               -Evaluate medical deployment personnel
               processing support (individual or mass),
               as appropriate for wing
               mission/capabilities, including
               medical/dental/immunization clearance
17.1.4.2.                                                                           X
               certification, pre-deployment health
               assessment, deployable medical records
               management, immunizations, prophylaxis
               distribution, and medical intelligence
               briefing
17.1.4.3.      -In-place patient decontamination                        X           X           X                     X
17.1.4.4.      -Immediate medical response                              X           X           X                     X
17.1.4.5.      -In-patient medical support                              X           X           X                     X
17.1.4.6.      -Pharmaceutical support                                  X           X           X                     X
17.1.4.7.      -Threat agent surveillance                               X           X           X                     X
               -National Disaster Medical System
17.1.4.8.      support (Federal Coordinating Centers                    X           X           X    X
               facilities only)
17.1.4.9.      -Public health emergencies                               X           X           X                     X
               -Aeromedical evacuation
17.1.4.10.                                                              X           X           X    X
               interface/support
17.2.        Health Services Inspection (HSI)                           X
17.2.1.      Expeditionary Medical Operations
17.2.1.1.       -WRM and CBRN Program Management                        X           X                X     X          X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                   75

                                                                                           Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                       MANDATORY

                                                                   CUI Ph 0

                                                                              CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                  P=Performance
                                                                                                  A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                  V=Virtual
                                                                                                  T=Testing
                                                                                                  I=Interview
                                                                                                  S=Survey
                                                                                           P    A     V    T     I        S
               -Executive Oversight of Medical
17.2.1.2.                                                          X                            X                X    X
               Readiness
               -Medical Readiness Training, Planning
17.2.1.3.                                                          X                            X     X          X
               and Execution
17.2.1.4.      -Operational Medicine                               X                       X    X                X
               -Occupational/Environmental Health
17.2.1.5.                                                          X                       X    X                X
               (OEH) Assessment
               -Epidemiology and Public Health
17.2.1.6.                                                          X                       X
               Surveillance
17.2.2.     In-Garrison Medical Operations
               -Worker Protection and Public Health
17.2.2.1.                                                          X                       X    X                X    X
               Surveillance
17.2.2.2.      -Dentistry                                          X                       X    X                X    X
17.2.2.3.      -Mental Health                                      X                       X    X                X    X
17.2.2.4.      -Population Health                                  X                       X    X                X    X
17.2.2.5.      -Clinical Services                                  X                       X    X                X    X
               -Educational and Developmental
17.2.2.6.                                                          X                       X    X                X    X
               Intervention Services (EDIS)
18.         SAF/SP (Space)
              -If applicable
19.         AF/ST (Air Force Chief Scientist)
              -If applicable
20.         AF/TE (Test and Evaluation)
               -IF applicable
21.         SAF/AA
21.1.       Information Protection Management Evaluation
21.1.1.     Information Security
21.1.1.1.      -Policy and Program Management           X                                  X    X     X          X
21.1.1.2.      -Records Management                      X                                  X    X                X
21.1.1.3.      -Reporting Requirements                  X                                       X     X          X
21.1.1.4.      -Waivers                                 X                                       X     X          X
               -Information Security (INFOSEC)
21.1.1.5.                                               X                                  X    X     X          X
               Deviations Processing
               -Original Classification Authority (OCA)
21.1.1.6.                                               X                                       X     X          X
               Actions
 76                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                            MANDATORY

                                                                        CUI Ph 0

                                                                                   CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                       P=Performance
                                                                                                       A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                       T=Testing
                                                                                                       I=Interview
                                                                                                       S=Survey
                                                                                                P    A     V    T     I        S
21.1.1.7.       -Derivative Classification Process                      X                            X     X          X
                -Classification Challenges/Information
21.1.1.8.                                                               X                       X    X     X          X
                Reviews
                -Unit Security Managers (USMs)
21.1.1.9.                                                               X                       X    X                X
                Management
21.1.1.10.      -Initial Training Planning and Process                  X                            X     X          X
                -Recurring Training Planning and
21.1.1.11.                                                              X                            X     X          X
                Process
21.1.1.12.      -Security Education and Training                        X                            X     X          X
                -Actions for Cleared / Uncleared
21.1.1.13.                                                              X                            X
                personnel
21.1.1.14.      -Termination Briefings                                  X                            X
                -USM Training/Meetings Planning and
21.1.1.15.                                                              X                            X                X
                Process
                -Declassifying and Downgrading
21.1.1.16.                                                              X                            X                X
                Information
                -Access / Non-Disclosure Agreements
21.1.1.17.                                                              X                            X
                (NDAs)
21.1.2.      Safeguarding
                -Physical Security Aids, Locks, intrusion
21.1.2.1.                                                               X                       X    X                X
                detection systems, etc.
21.1.2.2.       -Analysis of Forms                                      X                       X    X                X
21.1.3.      Inspections
21.1.3.1.       -Security Containers                                    X                       X    X
                -Top Secret / Secret / Confidential (TS /
21.1.3.2.                                                               X                       X    X
                S / C) Requirements
21.1.3.3.       -Bulk Storage                                           X                       X    X
                -Secure Rooms / Open Storage
21.1.3.4.                                                               X                       X    X
                (certification process)
21.1.3.5.       -Reproduction Process and Limitations                   X                       X    X
21.1.3.6.       -Disposition / Destruction                              X                       X    X
21.1.3.7.       -Miscellaneous Media (accountability)                   X                       X    X
21.1.3.8.       -End of Day Checks                                      X                       X    X
21.1.3.9.       -Care During Working Hours                              X                            X                X
                -Residential Storage Process and
21.1.3.10.                                                              X                            X                X
                Accountability
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                     77

                                                                                             Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                         MANDATORY

                                                                     CUI Ph 0

                                                                                CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                    P=Performance
                                                                                                    A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                   V=Virtual
                                                                                                    T=Testing
                                                                                                    I=Interview
                                                                                                    S=Survey
                                                                                             P    A     V    T     I        S
                -In-Transit Storage requirements and
21.1.3.11.                                                           X                            X                X
                availability
21.1.3.12.      -Classified Meetings                                 X                            X                X
21.1.3.13.      -Classified Aboard Aircraft                          X                            X                X
21.1.3.14.      -Information Technology (IT) Equipment               X                            X                X
21.1.3.15.      -Emergency Action Plans                              X                            X                X
21.1.3.16.      -Top Secret Control Accounts                         X                       X    X                X
21.1.3.17.      -Special Access Programs (SAP)                       X                       X    X                X
21.1.3.18.      -NATO / CNWDI / NC2                                  X                       X    X                X
                -Installation Security Advisory Group
21.1.3.19.                                                           X                       X    X     X          X    X
                (ISAG)
21.1.3.20.      -Foreign Travel                                      X                       X    X     X          X
21.1.4.      Transmission and Transportation
21.1.4.1.      -Top Secret / Secret / Confidential                   X                       X    X                X
21.1.4.2.      -Courier Card / Memo                                  X                       X    X                X
21.1.4.3.      -Hand Carry Rules                                     X                       X    X                X
21.1.4.4.      -Transmission to Foreign Government                   X                       X    X                X
21.1.4.5.      -Material Preparation                                 X                       X    X                X
21.1.4.6.      -Mail Distribution Center                             X                       X    X                X
21.1.5.      Marking
21.1.5.1.       -Overall Markings                                    X                       X    X     X          X
21.1.5.2.       -Media                                               X                       X    X                X
21.1.5.3.       -Special Information                                 X                       X    X                X
                -Controlled Unclassified Information
21.1.5.4.                                                            X                       X    X                X
                (CUI)
21.1.6.      Security Incidents
                -Actual or Potential Compromise of
21.1.6.1.                                                            X                       X    X                X
                Classified Information
21.1.6.2.       -Timelines                                           X                       X    X                X
21.1.6.3.       -Classification                                      X                       X    X                X
21.1.6.4.       -Notifications                                                               X    X                X
                -Preliminary Inquiries / Formal
21.1.6.5.                                                                                    X    X                X
                Investigation
21.1.6.6.       -Damage Assessment                                   X                       X    X                X
 78                                            AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                              Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                          MANDATORY

                                                                      CUI Ph 0

                                                                                 CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                     P=Performance
                                                                                                     A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                     T=Testing
                                                                                                     I=Interview
                                                                                                     S=Survey
                                                                                              P    A     V    T     I        S
21.1.6.7.       -Appointing / Closing Requirements                    X                       X    X     X          X
21.1.6.8.       -Technical Review                                     X                       X    X     X          X
21.1.7.      Personnel Security
21.1.7.1.       -Policies                                             X                            X     X
21.1.7.2.       -Program Management                                   X                            X     X
21.1.7.3.       -Personnel Security Program Reviews                   X                            X     X
21.1.7.4.       -Records Management                                   X                       X    X     X

21.1.7.5.       -Safeguarding Personnel Security                      X                       X    X     X
                Investigative Records
21.1.8.      Security Clearance
21.1.8.1.       -Adjudication                                         X                       X    X     X
21.1.8.2.       -Issuing Clearance and Granting Access                X                       X    X     X
21.1.8.3.       -Conditional Clearances                               X                            X     X
21.1.8.4.       -Interim Clearances                                   X                       X    X     X
                -Reciprocal Acceptance of Prior
21.1.8.5.       Investigations and Personnel Security                 X                            X     X
                Determinations
21.1.8.6.       -Foreign National Limited Access                      X                            X     X
                Authorization (LAA)
21.1.8.7.       -Security Access Requirement (SAR)                    X                            X     X
                Position Code Validation
21.1.8.8.
                -Validation of Requirements                           X                            X     X

21.1.8.9.      -Immigration Naturalization Service                    X                            X     X
               (INS) Validation
21.1.9.      Unfavorable Administrative Actions
21.1.9.1.      -Suitability Determinations Process                    X                       X    X     X
21.1.9.2.      -Security Information File (SIF) Process               X                            X     X
               -Due Process Procedures: SORs / LORs /
21.1.9.3.                                                             X                            X     X
               LODs
21.1.10.     Continuous Evaluation Security Clearance
               -Commander / Supervisor Monitoring of
21.1.10.1.                                                            X                       X    X     X
               Personnel
21.1.10.2.     -Continuing Security Responsibilities                  X                       X    X     X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                     79

                                                                                             Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                         MANDATORY

                                                                     CUI Ph 0

                                                                                CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                    P=Performance
                                                                                                    A=Audit
                 Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                  V=Virtual
                                                                                                    T=Testing
                                                                                                    I=Interview
                                                                                                    S=Survey
                                                                                             P    A     V    T     I        S
21.1.11.      Personnel Security Investigation (PSI) Processing Security Clearance
                 -Electronic Questionnaire for
21.1.11.                                                      X        X X X
                 Investigative Processing (eQIP)
                 -Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
21.1.11.                                                      X        X X X
                 Rejects
21.1.11.         -Finger Printing                             X        X X X
21.1.12.      Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS)Security Clearance
21.1.12.1.       -JPAS User Account Management                X            X X
                 -Security Management Office (SMO)
21.1.12.2.                                                    X            X X
                 Management
21.1.12.3.       -PSM Net Management                          X            X X
21.1.12.4.       -System Notifications                        X            X X
21.1.13.      Central Adjudication Security Personnel Repository (CASPR)
21.1.13.1.       -System Notifications                                     X X
21.1.13.2.       -Suspenses                                                X X
21.1.14.      Industrial Security
21.1.14.1.       -Program Management                          X        X X                                         X
21.1.14.2.       -General Provisions and Requirements         X            X                                       X
21.1.14.3.       -Industrial Security Program Reviews         X        X X                                         X
21.1.14.4.       -Records Management                          X            X                                       X
21.1.14.5.       -Security Clearances                         X            X                                       X
21.1.14.6.       -Facility Clearances (FCLs)                  X            X                                       X
21.1.14.7.       -Personnel Eligibility                       X            X                                       X
21.1.14.8.       -Security Training and Briefings             X            X                                       X
                 -Unit Security Manager (USM)
21.1.14.9.                                                    X            X                                       X
                 Participation
21.1.14.10.      -Security Specifications and Guidance        X            X                                       X
21.1.14.11.      -DD 254s                                     X            X                                       X
                 -Visitor Group Support Agreements
21.1.14.12.                                                   X            X X                                     X
                 (VGSAs)
21.1.14.13.      -Safeguarding                                X            X                                       X
                 -Oversight Reviews and Reporting
21.1.14.14.                                                   X            X X                                     X
                 Requirements
21.1.14.15.      -Visits and Meetings                         X            X X                                     X
 80                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
                 Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
21.1.14.16.      -Visit Access Requests (VAR)                          X                                  X          X
21.1.14.17.      -Subcontracting                                       X                            X     X          X
                 -Information Technology & Automated
21.1.14.18.                                                            X                            X     X          X
                 Information Systems Security
                 -NACI for Uncleared Contractors IT
21.1.14.19.                                                            X                            X     X          X
                 Access
21.1.14.20.      -Special Requirements                                 X                            X                X
21.1.14.21.     -International Security Requirements                   X                            X                X
22.           SAF/AG (Auditor General)
                -None
23.           SAF/AQ (Acquisition)
                -Compliance of acquisition, technology,
23.1.                                                                  X
                and logistics units
23.2.         Contracting
                -Contract award, and contract
23.2.1.                                                                X                            X
                management procedures
23.2.2.          -Government Purchase Card                             X                            X

23.2.3.
                 -Contracting oversight office of the QA               X                            X
                 program
23.2.4.         -Continuation of contractor services                   X           X           X    X
                during crises
23.3.         Contracting Support
23.3.1.          -Adequacy of contracting support                                  X           X    X
23.3.2.          -Contingency operational contracting                              X           X    X
                 procedures
23.3.3.
                 -Oversight of deployed operations                                 X           X    X
                 contracts
23.4.         Technology Protection
                -Safe operations at affected/designated
                USAF Research, Development, Test and
23.4.1.         Evaluation facilities. Security, technology X
                protection, and counterintelligence
                practices at those facilities
24.           SAF/FM (Financial Management and Comptroller)
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                       81

                                                                                               Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                           MANDATORY

                                                                       CUI Ph 0

                                                                                  CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                      P=Performance
                                                                                                      A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                      T=Testing
                                                                                                      I=Interview
                                                                                                      S=Survey
                                                                                               P    A     V    T     I        S
24.1.        Financial Management and Comptroller
                -QA, Non-Appropriated Funds oversight,
24.1.1.                                                                X                       X    X     X    X     X    X
                systems access controls
                -Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity
24.1.2.
                Act (FMFIA)
                -Anti-Deficiency Act, CFO Act of 1990,
24.1.3.                                                                X                       X    X     X    X     X    X
                FFMIA of 1996
                -Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996, GMR Act
24.1.4.                                                                X                       X    X     X    X     X    X
                of 1994
                -OMB Cir A-123 Appendix A, and Cir.
24.1.5.         127and audit Liaison responsibilities                                          X    X     X    X     X    X
                (AFPD 65-4)
                -Pay, travel, accounting, and disbursing
24.1.6.                                                                X                       X    X     X    X     X    X
                functions
                -Planning, programming, budgeting,
24.1.7.                                                                X                       X    X     X               X
                execution, and analysis functions
                -Organization capability and training to
24.1.8.         conduct Independent Review Official and                X                       X    X     X    X     X    X
                Economic Analysis duties
24.1.9.         -Training programs                                     X                       X          X    X     X    X
                -Official Representation Fund (ORF)
24.1.10.                                                               X                       X    X     X    X     X    X
                Program
24.1.11.     Financial Services Support
24.1.11.1.     -Provide FM decision support                                        X           X                     X    X
24.1.11.2.     -Provide financial service support                                  X           X    X     X    X     X    X
25.          SAF/GC (General Counsel)
               -Alternative Dispute Resolution Program                 X                            X     X
26.          SAF/IA (International Affairs)
                 -Treaty Office (if applicable)                X                                                     X
27.          SAF/IE (Installations, Environment and Logistics)
27.1.        ESOHCAMP
             Note:
             Although ESOHCAMP inspection areas are
             a compilation of requirements from AF/SE,
             AF/SG, and AF/A4/7, they are complied here
             for the purpose of inspection performance
             and reporting.
 82                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                            MANDATORY

                                                                        CUI Ph 0

                                                                                   CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                       P=Performance
                                                                                                       A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                       V=Virtual
                                                                                                       T=Testing
                                                                                                       I=Interview
                                                                                                       S=Survey
                                                                                                P    A     V    T     I        S
27.2.       Safety Protocols
27.3.       Ground
27.3.1.     Confined Space Program
27.3.1.1.      -Master Listing                                          X           X                X     X          X
27.3.1.2.      -Training Plan                                           X           X                X     X          X
27.3.1.3.      -Master Entry Plan                                       X           X                X     X          X
27.3.1.4.      -CSPT Meeting/minutes                                    X           X                X     X          X
27.3.2.     Lock Out / Tag Out Program
27.3.2.1.      -Lesson Plans                                            X           X                X     X          X
27.3.2.2.      -Equipment List                                          X           X                X     X          X
27.3.2.3.      -Authorizations                                          X           X                X     X          X
27.3.3.     Fall Protection
27.3.3.1.      -Lesson Plans                                            X           X                X     X          X
27.3.3.2.      -Job Safety Analysis                                     X           X                X     X          X
27.3.3.3.      -Equipment List                                          X           X                X     X          X
27.3.4.     Personal Protective Equipment
27.3.4.1.      -Safety related PPE during demos (i.e.,                  X           X           X    X                X
               LOTO, etc)
27.3.5.     Traffic Safety Program
27.3.5.1.      -Motorcycle Safety                                       X                            X                X
27.3.5.2.      -PMV-2 Training, MUSTT, CC Briefing                      X                            X     X          X
27.3.5.3.      -PMV-4 Training, Seatbelt survey                         X                            X     X          X
27.3.5.4.      -Program Admin/coord groups                              X                            X     X          X
27.3.6.     Mishap Investigations (Class A-E)
               -Ancillary reports (300, AD, blotter, prop
27.3.6.1.                                                               X           X                X     X          X
               damage)
27.3.6.2.      -Accuracy & completeness of reports                      X           X                X     X          X
27.3.6.3.      -Timeliness of reports/record closures                   X           X                X     X          X
27.3.6.4.      -Skill level of investigator for mishap                  X           X                X     X          X
27.3.7.     Facility Inspections
27.3.7.1.      -Facilities Systems Safety                               X           X           X    X     X          X
27.3.8.     Safety Education & Training
27.3.8.1.      -1S0/018 Training                                        X           X                X     X    X     X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                   83

                                                                                           Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                       MANDATORY

                                                                   CUI Ph 0

                                                                              CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                  P=Performance
                                                                                                  A=Audit
                 Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                V=Virtual
                                                                                                  T=Testing
                                                                                                  I=Interview
                                                                                                  S=Survey
                                                                                           P    A     V    T     I        S
27.3.8.2.       -SST                                               X           X           X    X     X          X
27.3.8.3.       -USR Training                                      X           X                X     X          X
27.3.8.4.       -Job Safety Training Outline                       X           X                X                X
27.3.9.       Hazard Reporting
27.3.9.1.       -Continuity Control Number Log                     X           X                X     X          X
27.3.10.      Hazard Abatement
27.3.10.1.       -Master Hazard Abatement Plan                     X           X                X     X          X
27.3.10.2.       -Commander’s Annual Review/Approval               X           X                X     X          X
27.3.10.3.       -Form 3 Review                                    X           X                X     X          X
27.3.10.4.       -1118 Posting                                     X           X           X    X                X
27.3.10.5.       -Employee Knowledge of Hazard                     X           X           X    X                X
27.3.10.6.       -Briefed Annually AFOSH/ESOHC                     X           X                X     X          X
27.3.11.      Job Safety Analysis & Training
27.3.11.1.       -Number and Location of Hazards                   X           X                X                X
27.3.11.2.       -All Hazards Identified                           X           X                X                X
27.3.12.      Process Safety Management
27.3.12.1.       -Annual Review/Audit                              X           X                X     X          X
27.3.13.      Safety Councils & Meetings
27.3.13.1.      -Administrative                                    X           X                X     X          X
27.3.14.      Contract Safety
27.3.14.1.       -Attend all Pre-Con/Acceptance                    X           X                X     X          X
27.3.14.2.       -AF Form 9 / Purchase Request                     X           X                X     X          X
27.3.15.      Risk Management
27.3.15.1.      -On duty initiatives                               X           X                X     X          X
27.3.15.2.      -Off duty initiatives                              X           X                X     X          X
27.3.1 5.3.     -RM Training                                       X           X                X     X          X
27.3.15.4.      -High Risk Activities                              X           X                X     X          X
27.3.16.      AFOSH Variance
27.3.16.1.      -Status/currency of all variance                   X           X                X     X          X
27.3.17.      OSHA Coordination
27.3.17.1.       -Reception Plan                                   X           X                X
27.3.17.2.       -Reporting                                        X           X
 84                                         AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                        Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                    MANDATORY

                                                                CUI Ph 0

                                                                           CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                               P=Performance
                                                                                               A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                              V=Virtual
                                                                                               T=Testing
                                                                                               I=Interview
                                                                                               S=Survey
                                                                                        P    A     V    T     I        S
27.4.        Environmental Protocols
27.4.1.      External Environmental Management System Audit
27.4.1.1.       -Environmental Mgt System                 X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.2.       --Policy                                  X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.3.       --Aspects                                 X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.4.       --Legal Requirements                      X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.5.       --Objectives and Targets                  X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.6.       --Roles, Resources, and Responsibilities  X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.7.       --Training                                X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.8.       --Communication                           X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.9.       --Documentation and Document Control      X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.10.      --Operational Controls                    X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.11.      --Emergency Response                      X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.12.      --Monitoring and Measuring                X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.13.      --Evaluation of Compliance                X                 X                X     X          X
                --Nonconformity Corrective and
27.4.1.14.                                                X                 X                X     X          X
                Preventative Actions
27.4.1.15.      --Records and Control of Records          X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.16.      --Internal Audit                          X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.1.17.      --Management Review                       X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.2.      External Compliance Assessment
27.4.2.1.    Environmental Compliance                     X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.3.        -Air
                --Permits (Title V, Synthetic Minor, True
27.4.3.1.       Minor, Permit by Rule, State operating,   X                 X                X     X          X
                Construction)
                --Ozone Depleting Substances,
27.4.3.2.                                                 X                 X                X     X          X
                Sampling/Monitoring
27.4.3.3.       --Air Emission Inventories                X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.3.4.       --Air NESHAP compliance                   X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.3.5.       --Air Conformity Planning Requirements    X                 X                X     X          X
27.4.3.6.       --Air New Source Performance Standards    X                 X                X     X          X
                --Air Prevention of Significant
27.4.3.7.                                                 X                 X                X     X          X
                Deterioration Standards
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                     85

                                                                                             Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                         MANDATORY

                                                                     CUI Ph 0

                                                                                CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                    P=Performance
                                                                                                    A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                    T=Testing
                                                                                                    I=Interview
                                                                                                    S=Survey
                                                                                             P    A     V    T     I        S
27.4.3.8.
              --Mobile Sources                                       X           X                X     X          X

27.4.3.9.     --Risk Management and Emergency                        X           X                X     X          X
              Planning, General Planning
              --Infrastructure/Utilities/Emissions
27.4.3.10.                                                           X           X                X     X          X
              Control
27.4.3.11.    --Utilizing air emission credits                       X           X                X     X          X
27.4.3.12.
               --Pre-construction air emissions review               X           X                X     X          X
27.4.4.       -Hazardous Waste
27.4.4.1.     --Permits (Treatment, Storage, Disposal                X           X                X     X          X
              Facility)
              --Large or Small Quantity Generator
27.4.4.2.     (Centralized Container Storage, 90-day                 X           X                X     X          X
              storage, Initial Accumulation Point)
27.4.4.3.
              --Universal Waste                                      X           X                X     X          X
              Management/Collection
27.4.4.4.     --Sampling/Monitoring for Hazardous                    X           X                X     X          X
              Waste Determinations
               --Review of HW Contingency Plans, HW
27.4.4.5.      Management Plans, HW Manifests/Land                   X           X                X     X          X
               Disposal Treatment records, HW
               Training records
27.4.4.6.
               --Permits (Treatment, Storage, Disposal               X           X                X     X          X
               Facility)
27.4.5.       -Water Quality
27.4.5.1.      --Permits                                             X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.2.      --Sampling/Monitoring                                 X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.3.      --Infrastructure                                      X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.4.      --Treatment                                           X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.5.     -Storm water
27.4.5.5.1.   --Permits, Sampling/Monitoring, Plans,                 X           X                X     X          X
              Infrastructure/Treatment
27.4.5.5.2.   --Storm water Pollution Prevention Plans               X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.5.3.   --Storm water reuse                                    X           X                X     X          X
 86                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                                Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                            MANDATORY

                                                                        CUI Ph 0

                                                                                   CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                       P=Performance
                                                                                                       A=Audit
                Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                      V=Virtual
                                                                                                       T=Testing
                                                                                                       I=Interview
                                                                                                       S=Survey
                                                                                                P    A     V    T     I        S
27.4.5.6.      -Wastewater
                --Permits, Sampling/Monitoring, Plans,
27.4.5.6.1.     Infrastructure/Treatment,                               X           X                X     X          X
                Inflow/Infiltration
27.4.5.6.2.     --Discharge Monitoring Reports                          X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.6.3.     --Cross-connections/Illicit Discharges                  X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.6.4.     --Oil/Water Separators                                  X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.6.5.     --Watershed & Wetlands management                       X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.6.6.     --Bio-solids & Industrial Sludge disposal               X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.6.7.     --Wastewater reuse                                      X           X                X     X          X
                --Land application of reclaimed water
27.4.5.6.8.                                                             X           X                X     X          X
                and Bio-solids
27.4.5.6.9.     --Spill Plans                                           X           X                X     X          X
27.4.5.6.10.    --Subsurface disposal                                   X           X                X     X          X
27.4.6.        -Toxic Substances
27.4.6.1.       --Asbestos, Lead-based Paint, PCBs                      X           X                X     X          X
                --Asbestos and Lead-based Paint
27.4.6.2.                                                               X           X                X     X          X
                plans/inventories
                --Waste Disposal –PCB, Asbestos, Lead-
27.4.6.3.                                                               X           X                X     X          X
                based Paint
                --Asbestos/Lead Paint Abatement
27.4.6.4.       operations from Construction/                           X           X                X     X          X
                Renovation Demolition
27.4.6.5.       --Sampling, Analysis, Monitoring                        X           X                X     X          X
27.4.7.        -Storage Tanks
27.4.7.1.      --Aboveground, Underground, Plans,                       X           X                X     X          X
               Infrastructure
27.4.7.2.      --Facility Response Plans                                X           X                X     X          X
27.4.7.3.      --Secondary Containment                                  X           X                X     X          X
27.4.7.4.       --Leak Detection Equipment/Procedures                   X           X                X     X          X
27.4.8.        -Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants
                --Operations, Infrastructure, Plan, Used
27.4.8.1.                                                               X           X                X     X          X
                Oil
27.4.8.2.      --Spill Prevention & Response Plan                       X           X                X     X          X
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                   87

                                                                                           Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                       MANDATORY

                                                                   CUI Ph 0

                                                                              CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                  P=Performance
                                                                                                  A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                  V=Virtual
                                                                                                  T=Testing
                                                                                                  I=Interview
                                                                                                  S=Survey
                                                                                           P    A     V    T     I        S
27.5.       Environmental Pollution Prevention
27.5.1.       -Solid Waste
27.5.1.1.      --Landfills/Subtitle D permits                      X           X                X     X          X
27.5.1.2.      --Recycling, Diversion                              X           X                X     X          X
               --Waste Operations (Sanitary Waste,
27.5.1.3.      Construction and Demolition, and                    X           X                X     X          X
               Medical Waste)
27.5.2.       -Hazardous Materials Management Process
               --Authorizations & Tracking in EESOH-
27.5.2.1.                                                          X           X                X     X          X
               MIS
               --Environmental Reporting: Toxic
27.5.2.2.      Release Inventory/Other Tier 1/2 EPCRA              X           X                X     X          X
               Reporting
27.5.2.3.      --MSDS Documentation/HAZCOM                         X           X                X     X          X
27.5.2.4.      --Material Substitution                             X           X                X     X          X
27.5.3.       -Green Procurement Program
27.5.3.1.      --Plans                                             X           X                X     X          X
27.5.3.2.      --Procurement/Acquisition Contracts                 X           X                X     X          X
27.5.3.3.      --Roles & Responsibilities                          X           X                X     X          X
27.6.       Environmental Conservation
27.6.1.       -Natural Resources
               --Plans—Integrated Natural Resources
27.6.1.1.                                                          X           X                X     X          X
               Mgmt Plan (INRMP)
27.6.1.2.      --Land Mgmt (incl. Forestry)                        X           X                X     X          X
               --National Environmental Policy Act
27.6.1.3.      (NEPA), Environmental Impact Analysis               X           X                X     X          X
               Process (EIAP)
27.6.1.4.      --Water/Wetland Resources                           X           X                X     X          X
27.6.1.5.      --Wildlife Resource Mgmt                            X           X                X     X          X
27.6.2.       -Cultural Resources
               --Plans—Integrated Cultural Resources
27.6.2.1.                                                          X           X                X     X          X
               Mgmt Plan (ICRMP)
27.6.2.2.      --Historical Structures/Resources                   X           X                X     X          X
               --Native American Cultural
27.6.2.3.                                                          X           X                X     X          X
               Sites/Resources
 88                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                            Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                        MANDATORY

                                                                    CUI Ph 0

                                                                               CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                   P=Performance
                                                                                                   A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                   V=Virtual
                                                                                                   T=Testing
                                                                                                   I=Interview
                                                                                                   S=Survey
                                                                                            P    A     V    T     I        S
27.6.2.4.      --Archeological Resources/Sites                      X           X                X     X          X
27.6.3.       -Pesticides
27.6.3.1.      --Pesticide Storage                                  X           X                X     X          X
               --Pesticides Application—Equipment,
27.6.3.2.                                                           X           X                X     X          X
               Procedures
27.6.3.3.      --Pesticide Application Certification                X           X                X     X          X
27.6.4.       -Environmental Restoration
27.6.4.1.     --Cleanup sites—Tracking/Reporting                    X           X                X     X          X
27.6.4.2.     --Partnering/Partnership Agreements                   X           X                X     X          X
              --Contracts—Performance Based
27.6.4.3.                                                           X           X                X     X          X
              Contracting
              --Long-Term Monitoring/Long-Term
27.6.4.4.                                                           X           X                X     X          X
              Operations
              --Military Munitions Response Program
27.6.4.5.                                                           X           X                X     X          X
              (on Closed/Transferred Ranges)
27.6.4.6.     --Federal Facility Agreements                         X           X                X     X          X
              --Performance/Cleanup Goals (DoD/AF
27.6.4.7.                                                           X           X                X     X          X
              Goals)
27.7.       Occupational Health Protocols
27.7.1.     Occupational Health Program Management
27.7.1.1.     -General Chemical Hazards                             X                       X               X
27.8.       OSHA Expanded Standard Chemicals
27.8.1.        -HAZCOM Program                                      X                            X                X    X
27.8.2.        -HAZCOM for Laboratories                             X                       X               X
27.8.3.        -Radiofrequency Radiation                            X                       X               X
27.8.4.        -Respiratory Protection Program                      X                            X                X    X
27.8.5.        -Hearing Conservation Program                        X                       X               X
27.8.6.        -Lasers                                              X                       X               X
27.8.7         -Thermal Stress Program                              X                       X               X
27.8.8         -Engineering Controls                                X                            X          X
27.8.9.        -Potable Water Sources/Systems                       X                            X                X    X
27.8.10.       -Ionizing Radiation                                  X                            X                X    X
27.9.       Shop-Level Occupational Health Program
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                               89

                                                                                       Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                   MANDATORY

                                                               CUI Ph 0

                                                                          CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                              P=Performance
                                                                                              A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                               V=Virtual
                                                                                              T=Testing
                                                                                              I=Interview
                                                                                              S=Survey
                                                                                       P    A     V    T     I        S
27.9.1.      -General Chemical Hazards                X                                X               X
27.9.2.      -Workplace Specific Chemical Hazards     X                                     X                X    X
27.9.3.      -OSHA Expanded Standard Chemicals        X                                     X                X    X
27.9.4.      -HAZCOM Program                          X                                     X                X    X
27.9.5.      -HAZCOM for Laboratories                 X                                X               X
             -Electro-Magnetic Frequency Radiation
27.9.6.                                               X                                X               X
             (EMF)
27.9.7.      -Respiratory Protection Program          X                                     X                X    X
27.9.8.      -Hearing Conservation Program            X                                X               X
27.9.9       -Lasers                                  X                                X               X
27.9.10.     -Thermal Stress Program                  X                                X               X
27.9.11.     -Engineering Controls                    X                                     X                X    X
27.9.12.     -Potable Water Sources/Systems           X                                     X                X    X
27.9.13.     -Ionizing Radiation                      X                                     X                X    X
28.        SAF/IG (Inspector General)
28.1.      Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP) (USAFE only)
28.1.1.      -CCIP Director/Guidance                  X X                                   X     X          X    X
             -Management Internal Control Toolset
28.1.2.                                               X X                                   X     X          X    X
             (MICT)
             -Commanders Inspection Management
28.1.3.                                               X X                                   X     X          X    X
             Board
28.1.4.      -Exercise Evaluation Team                X X                                   X     X          X    X
28.1.5.      -Self Assessment Program                 X X                                   X     X          X    X
28.1.6.      -CCIP Reporting Procedures               X X                                   X     X          X    X
28.2.      Complaints Resolution (AFI 90-301)
28.2.1.      -Installation/Wing IG Responsibilities   X                                     X     X          X    X
28.2.2.      -Installation IG Organization            X                                     X     X          X    X
28.2.3.      -Assigning Additional Duties to IGs      X                                     X     X          X    X
28.2.4.      -Commander Support of the IG System      X                                     X     X          X    X
28.2.5.      -IG Training Requirements                X                                     X     X          X    X
             -Educating Air Force Personnel on the IG
28.2.6.                                               X                                     X     X          X    X
             System
28.2.7.      -Managing IG Complaints                  X                                X    X     X          X    X
 90                                           AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                             Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                         MANDATORY

                                                                     CUI Ph 0

                                                                                CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                    P=Performance
                                                                                                    A=Audit
              Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                     V=Virtual
                                                                                                    T=Testing
                                                                                                    I=Interview
                                                                                                    S=Survey
                                                                                             P    A     V    T     I        S
              -Managing Fraud, Waste, and Abuse
28.2.8.       (FWA) and Gross Mismanagement                          X                       X    X     X          X    X
              Complaints
28.2.9.       -Managing Defense Hotline Complaints                   X                       X    X     X          X    X

28.2.10.     -Managing IG Records Maintenance and                    X                       X    X     X          X    X
             Release
28.3.      Wounded, Ill & Injured (WII)
28.3.1.      -See Attachment 8                                       X                            X                X
28.4.      AFOSI Unit Operations
28.4.1.      -OSI-specific programs                                  X                       X    X     X          X    X
29.        SAF/LL (Legislative Liaison)
             -None
30.        SAF/MR (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
             -None
31.        SAF/PA (Public Affairs)
31.1.      Management & Communication Planning
              -Communication programs and plans that
              serve the installation, including host
31.1.1.                                                              X           X           X                     X
              units, tenant units, local retirees and
              families and enhance the unit’s mission
31.2.      Security & Policy Review
             -Information released to the public is
31.2.1.
             consistent with established DOD and Air                 X           X                X                X
             Force policies
31.3.      Public Affairs Travel

             -PA travel processes/program--ability to
31.3.1.
             enhance public understanding of                         X                            X                X
             Department of Defense activities
31.4.      News Media Operations
              -Media operations program—achieving
31.4.1.       specified effects through the deployment               X           X           X                     X
              of time-sensitive information
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                               91

                                                                                       Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                   MANDATORY

                                                               CUI Ph 0

                                                                          CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                              P=Performance
                                                                                              A=Audit
             Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                V=Virtual
                                                                                              T=Testing
                                                                                              I=Interview
                                                                                              S=Survey
                                                                                       P    A     V    T     I        S
31.5.     Civic Engagement
             -Civic Engagement relations programs—
             foster two-way communication between
             Airmen and local communities, promote
31.5.1.      coordination, cooperation, and mutual             X                            X                X
             understanding among DOD components;
             other federal, state, and local agencies;
             and the civilian community
31.6.     Public Web Communications
             -Integration of the Internet, Web, and
31.6.1.      related information technologies into Air         X           X           X          X          X
             Force public and internal communication
31.7.     Environmental Public Affairs
             -Effective and legally sufficient
31.7.1.                                                        X                            X                X
             Environmental Public Affairs program
31.8.     Visual Information
             -Visual Information processes and
             programs. Internal and external,
31.8.1.      operational/support with visual products.         X           X           X    X     X          X
             Collection/accession of visual products
             through Air Force and DOD channels.
31.9.     Contingency Operations & Wartime Readiness
             -Management of public affairs assets and
             readiness for deployment—direction of
31.9.1.                                                        X           X           X    X                X
             communication capabilities in a deployed
             environment
             -Evaluate effectiveness of support to
31.9.2.                                                                    X
             commander
             -Evaluate effectiveness of all aspects of
31.9.3.      the PA program in directly helping to                         X
             achieve organizational mission objectives
             -Evaluate readiness to support deployed
31.9.4.                                                                    X
             PA taskings
             -Evaluate integration of research,
31.9.5.      planning, execution and assessment                            X
             model into communication activities
 92                                            AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                             Suggested Inspection Methods




                                                         MANDATORY

                                                                     CUI Ph 0

                                                                                CUI Ph 1/2
                                                                                                    P=Performance
                                                                                                    A=Audit
               Air Force Inspection Requirements                                                    V=Virtual
                                                                                                    T=Testing
                                                                                                    I=Interview
                                                                                                    S=Survey
                                                                                             P    A     V    T     I        S
              -Evaluate readiness to performance
31.9.6.       effectiveness of deployed multimedia           X
              operations
              -Evaluate Public Affairs activities
31.9.7.       conducted in coordination with                 X
              Information Operations objectives
31.10.     Command Information
              -Organization programs/processes to
              enhance commander communication
31.10.1.                                                 X X X X                  X
              objectives and ensure free flow of
              information to Airmen and their families
31.11.     Trademark & Licensing
              -Enforcement and regulation of the Air
31.11.1.                                                 X             X          X
              Force Trademark and Licensing Program
           SAF/US(M) (Director, Business Transformation & Deputy Chief Management
32.
           Office)
              -None




Attachment 10 (Added)
AFGSC INSPECTION GROUND RULES


A10.1. General. Respond to all IG inputs as if they were real-world except as noted by these
ground rules.
A10.1.1. During exercise scenarios, on-scene inspectors wear IG badges and/or vests to assist
unit members in identifying inspectors. IG badges do not replace restricted area badges.
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 93


A10.1.2. Inspectors with a USAF Restricted Area Badge, AF Entry Control Card, or DD Form 2,
Armed Forces of the United States – Geneva Convention Identification Card (Active), or Geneva
Conventions Identification Card and whose name appears on the Entry Authority List (EAL), are
authorized unescorted and unrestricted access into restricted areas authorized for that individual
as indicated by EAL access codes. IG inspectors will not intentionally use invalid/inaccurate
badges or EAL data to attempt entry to restricted areas. IG inspectors require escorted entry to
Limited/Exclusion areas. Unit personnel will not unnecessarily delay or hinder inspector access
to authorized areas.
A10.1.3. Units are permitted to contact HHQ or off-base agencies through the appropriate
functional chain of command to facilitate mission accomplishment. Inspected unit personnel
shall not contact any external agencies for the sole purpose of guidance or resolution of a
potential inspection deficiency without an IG Inspector present. AFGSC functional staff will not
discuss a potential deficiency with the inspected unit without an IG Inspector present.
A10.1.4. Personnel providing emergency care (e.g., Self-Aid and Buddy Care, first-responder,
etc.) will carry out all treatment to the fullest extent with exception of invasive procedures or
administering of medications.
A10.2. Mission.
A10.2.1. IG will not allow exercise activities to interfere with real world requirements. Contact
the on-scene inspector immediately with any questions concerning exercise termination. If an
inspector is not present, contact the IG STRIKER OPS or IG Workcenter for guidance.
A10.2.2. IG personnel observe and evaluate activities on a non-interference basis. The
inspected unit must make arrangements to provide IG team members access to all unit activities.
A10.2.3. IG inspectors will not operate, modify or configure operational equipment to support
scenario activities.
A10.2.4. Units will respond to inspection events even when an IG inspector is not present. Unit
personnel not taking appropriate self-protective actions, or equipment not properly protected
commensurate with the RI scenario, may be declared an exercise kill or destroyed for an
appropriate amount of time. Unit aircrews failing to avoid a simulated scenario threat or to
employ appropriate tactics/self protection actions may have their sortie/mission declared "not
effective," and the IG may take the aircraft and aircrew out of play for a period of time as
deemed appropriate by the IG Team Chief.
A10.3. Logistics Operations and Transportation.
A10.3.1. Cargo Processing Ground Rules:
A10.3.1.1. All actions necessary for actual air or surface deployments will be taken unless
specifically exempted by the IG Team Chief.
A10.3.1.2. Units simulating movement to another aerial port of embarkation for onward
movement by air will prepare all cargo for air shipment.
A10.3.1.3. A container representing the actual size of the simulated cargo will be processed with
all required shipping documentation and markings for any approved simulation for cargo
movement.
A10.3.1.4. Necessary security/protective measures and applicable procedures will be followed
 94                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


for all actual and simulated increments.
A10.3.1.5. Accepted. An accepted chalk is any chalk which is presented to the IG on time for
both passengers and cargo, is properly configured, and does not contain any potential safety of
flight discrepancies.
A10.3.1.6. Late. A late chalk is any chalk presented to the IG team with no potential safety of
flight discrepancies which does not meet load timing criteria.
A10.3.1.7. Rejected. A rejected chalk is any chalk presented to the IG with a potential safety of
flight discrepancy. Any chalk assessed as rejected will not be assessed as late.
A10.3.1.8. Potential Safety of Flight Discrepancies. The following cargo load violations will be
assessed as potential safety of flight discrepancies:
A10.3.1.8.1. Unidentified hazardous cargo.
A10.3.1.8.2. Incompatible cargo on the same pallet or aircraft.
A10.3.1.8.3. Improperly labeled hazardous materials.
A10.3.1.8.4. Leaking hazardous material.
A10.3.2. Load Safety and Timing Ground Rules:
A10.3.2.1. Hot Cargo Pad Operations. Simulated chalks that meet criteria for hot cargo pad
loading will be marshaled and inspected in their entirety at a designated hot cargo pad location
(the simulated aircraft parking spot will be at a hot cargo pad). All departure timing
requirements will be met at the hot cargo pad.
A10.3.2.2. Aircraft Loading Exercises. The IG may task aircraft loading exercises. The load
team will move cargo from the ready line to another simulated aircraft parking spot/silhouette for
this exercise.
A10.3.2.2.1. Actual times for cargo and passenger load start will be provided by the inspector
for simulated support airlift departure timing. All cargo, passengers, documentation, material
handling equipment (MHE), and a qualified load team must be available at the designated
aircraft parking spot for simulated loading.
A10.3.2.2.2. For AMC procured commercial airlift (e.g., channel or special assignment airlift
mission), units must include the baggage load time on the deployment schedule of events. All
requirements for cargo load start must be met.
A10.3.2.2.3. The deployment inspector will not accept a load complete time for actual support
airlift departure timing, until all cargo and passengers are loaded and documentation is finalized.
A10.4. Safety.
A10.4.1. Safety takes precedence over all inspection activities; do not jeopardize safety or
violate safety practices. The IG may terminate a mission and declare a sortie(s) "not effective"
when a major safety violation occurs during aircraft operations. Any aircraft, ground equipment
or personnel involved in a safety violation will be documented and reflected in overall quality of
maintenance rating.
A10.4.2. Inspectors and TAs who participate in IG scenarios will wear reflective vests/gear
during hours of darkness or limited visibility.
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              95


A10.4.3. Observe posted speed limits or unit-directed speed limits for all scenario responses.
A10.4.4. Do not use sirens on emergency vehicles when responding to an exercise scenario.
A10.4.5. Do not wear personal protective equipment or chemical warfare ensemble while
driving any vehicle (unless properly trained and annotated on Government issued driver’s
license) outside the IG-designated area.
A10.5. Communications, Reports, and Logs.
A10.5.1. Prepare and send all required reports (electronic, voice and hard copy) to applicable
inspection participants (as directed by inspectors). Do not transmit messages to or place scenario
telephone calls to any non-participants. Call STRIKER OPS for all non-unit agencies not
identified by the IG as participants.
A10.5.2. Voice Communications. Use the phrase “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE” at the
beginning and end of all verbal scenario communications.
A10.5.2.1. STRIKER OPS is designed to simulate agencies that are not participating in the
inspection, but have a role in a particular input. STRIKER OPS responds for all non-participants
(e.g., HHQ, National Agencies, and local units, etc.). Unit members should call STRIKER OPS
to communicate with outside non-participating agencies. STRIKER OPS will be manned
continuously from STARTEX until termination of the scenario. Units should disseminate
STRIKER OPS procedures and telephone numbers to all work and control centers.
A10.5.2.2. STRIKER OPS Procedures.
A10.5.2.2.1. When contacting STRIKER OPS, state, EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE, this
is name, rank, agency. Give the simulated agency, telephone number called, and specific
individual/agency you are calling if the event warrants it (e.g., “I’m calling the simulated agency
at simulated phone number”).
A10.5.2.2.2. The message should give actions to be taken or information to be relayed. For
example: “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE. This is SSgt Jones, 90th Security Forces
Squadron. There has been an automobile accident with injuries at the intersection of Smith Road
and Hwy 94. EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE.”
A10.5.2.2.3. STRIKER OPS will only provide required responses. Individuals with queries for
STRIKER OPS must leave their name, rank and phone number. This permits STRIKER OPS
personnel or inspectors to return calls.
A10.5.3. Message Traffic. Provide to the IG inspector (unless otherwise directed) all messages,
schedules, and other paperwork normally associated with an event. All appropriately cleared IG
personnel identified on the EAL are authorized to pick up scenario messages. An authorization
letter will be provided to inspected unit identifying any additional administrative personnel
authorized to pick up scenario messages.
A10.5.3.1. In the Special Instructions block of messages, enter “AFGSC/IG EXERCISE
MESSAGE TRAFFIC.”
A10.5.3.2. Number OPREP-3 reports IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, and applicable
AFGSC guidance.
A10.5.3.3. Include all required addressees on scenario messages. Identify non-participating
 96                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


addressee’s external to the participating units as Zero Effort Network (ZEN) addressees.
A10.5.3.4. Place the phrase “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE. THIS IS AN AFGSC/IG
EXERCISE MESSAGE INPUT. EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE” on the first and last
line of all written communications.
A10.5.3.5. Clearly mark all documents and accompanying disks “AFGSC/IG SCENARIO
MESSAGES.”
A10.5.4. Event Logs. Maintain all normally accomplished unit event logs (e.g., command post,
control centers, etc.).
A10.5.5. Communications/Computer Systems. Do not disrupt Defense Information Systems
Agency (DISA) controlled systems without prior approval and prior user release. Internal
communications services for the inspected unit(s) may be disrupted, as long as the disruption
does not impact real world safety, security, or jeopardize actual mission requirements.
A10.5.5.1. Communications/computer systems, circuits, and equipment removed from service
due to scenario input remain out of service until repaired or restored by unit personnel and
validated by an IG team member or the inspection event is concluded by an IG team member.
A10.5.5.2. IG personnel with proper clearance IAW appropriate Communications Security
(COMSEC) Management Letters are allowed access to areas containing COMSEC operations
and materials, provided they meet acess requirements as defined in AFI 33-201, Volume 4
(FOUO). (AFI 33-201 V2 Paragraph 9.2.1.1.)
A10.5.5.2.1. Inspectors will not have unrestricted access to classified COMSEC material.
A10.5.5.2.2. Inspectors may access the following items on an individual basis: individual
training records, Operational Instructions (OIs), appointment letters, Emergency Action
Procedures (EAPs) task cards/checklists, MAJCOM assessments and semi-annual reports that do
not identify specific COMSEC material. This limited access will be granted only during an IG
inspection.
A10.5.5.2.3. The COMSEC manager reviews reports prior to releasing outside COMSEC
channels. Each item must be requested and cleared for release through the COMSEC manager
and/or COMSEC Responsible Officer (CRO).
A10.6. Security Forces.
A10.6.1. The IG may use perpetrators, but they will not confront on-duty security forces with
deceptions which could be interpreted as hostile, jeopardize the security of protection level
resources, or which may provoke the use of deadly force.
A10.6.2. Perpetrators may have various types of concealed weapons (props) to evaluate security
forces search techniques. Exercise scenarios using weapon props will be strictly controlled by
Security Forces (SF) inspectors. An IG inspector or a TA will be physically present at the site of
any exercise scenario requiring SF response.
A10.6.3. Security Forces responding to exercise events may respond, when warranted, with their
firearms ready IAW AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel.
A10.6.3.1. Under no circumstances during known exercise events will responding security
forces or perpetrators point a weapon at anyone.
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 97


A10.6.3.2. If Tactical Response Force (TRF) responds during field exercises, M9s will remain
holstered at all times. M4s will be carried IAW applicable AFI and local guidance.
A10.6.4. During field deployments, units are responsible for providing real-world security for
firearms movements to and from the deployed site. Members carrying live ammunition will
wear a reflective vest and will not participate in exercise activities. Additionally, if weapons are
drawn to support ATSO station evaluations, the base must provide one individual to receipt for
the weapons and provide real-world security as needed.
A10.6.4.1. Unit TAs initiate all IG scenarios in the missile field and will remain on-scene with
IG inspectors until responding SF members take security of the site(s). TAs are responsible for
coordinating the use of Ground Burst Simulators and smoke grenades on all exercise scenarios.
A10.6.5. After demonstrating capability to IG inspectors, Security Forces Operations may
request procedures to accommodate mission requirements by requesting relief from closing gates,
conducting searches of vehicles entering the installation, 100 percent Identification checks and
inspecting hand-carried items. Simulate closing highways adjacent to the installation or
LFs/MAFs for exercise events (IG evaluates procedures, plans and mutual aid agreements).
Security controllers/desk sergeants will complete all necessary actions, but will not notify off-
base agencies or request their assistance. Security Forces will not actually block off-base
highways for exercise events. STRYKER OPS will be called to simulate the notification of all
off-base agencies and coordination for simulated road-blocks and gate closures.
A10.6.6. Exercise Duress Word. Base exercise duress words will be used during exercise duress
situations.
A10.7. Fire Protection.
A10.7.1. Aircraft extraction events must be realistic. Safe egress systems IAW AFI 21-112,
Aircrew Egress Systems Maintenance. Aircraft engines must not be operating. Aircrew
members fill aircrew positions. Movement of crewmembers during extraction is limited to
moving them to the exit point (doors, hatches) of medium and large frame aircraft or to the
canopy rail of small frame aircraft. For helicopters, completely remove aircrew
members/passengers from the aircraft. Aircrew will not be dragged, carried or moved inside
medium and large frame aircraft, nor will they be lowered from these aircraft. If required by the
evaluator, mannequins will be used to simulate aircrew when transitioning from interior aircraft
levels or off the aircraft to prevent personnel injury. If able, the aircrew will assist in getting to
the exit door unless injects prohibit self/assisted egress.
A10.7.2. Do not engage the fire pump and discharge water on an aircraft or mission facility. Do
not take charged handlines inside aircraft or facilities. Do not discharge firefighting foam
(AFFF) or chemicals on/or inside facilities and aircraft during exercise events. Use these
materials/procedures for actual fire only.
A10.7.3. [Bomber Only] Simulate discharging a firefighting agent from the T-handle by
touching throttles and buttons for shutdown or by simulating pulling the handles.
A10.7.4. Live Fire Scenarios. Use firefighter pre-briefings to review the exercise event and
safety requirements.
A10.7.5. Firefighters will be required to use the Joint Firefighter Integrated Response Ensemble
(J-FIRE) during mobility task evaluations or deployment exercises. Crew leaders should plan
 98                                              AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


appropriate work/rest cycles based on weather conditions.
A10.7.6. Simulate forcible entry into vehicles or facilities unless otherwise notified by IG
personnel.
A10.7.7. Firefighters may remove encapsulated suits after demonstrating the capability for 20
minutes or as required by wet bulb temperature and conditions. Wear only training suits for
inspection events.
A10.7.8. Personnel are not required to wear protective equipment (bunker clothing/turnouts)
when temperatures exceed 85 degrees Fahrenheit or black bulb temperature limitations.
A10.7.9. All personnel are required to don specialized protective clothing for hazardous
materials.
A10.7.10. Do not use ground ladders when winds exceed 20 knots.
A10.7.11. The Fire Chief or senior fire official on duty will receive at least a 30 minute prior
notification when exercises involve fire fighting vehicles, equipment, or personnel IAW AFI 32-
2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program and AFI 32-
2001_AFGSCSUP, Fire Emergency Services Program.
A10.7.12. Operational exercises for evaluation will comply with real world safety guidance that
considers climate, temperature, weather conditions (hail, tornados, ice, etc). Appropriate work
rest cycles IAW AF instructions will be followed and protection of our personnel and resources
during extreme weather conditions should be reviewed by the safety office/personnel to ensure
an Operational Risk Management (ORM) is conducted during these conditions.
A10.7.13. The AFGSC functional manager will provide inspection criteria and guidelines to the
AFGSC IG/evaluator fire representative prior to conducting a base inspection.
A10.7.14. Initial notification for short notice/no-notice exercises shall take place in a face-to-
face format by the AFGSC IG Inspector and base Fire Chief prior to the 30 minute time
requirement.
A10.7.15. Upon request and approval through the Base Fire Chief and CE/CC, access to Fire
Emergency Communication radios/channels will be for monitoring use only by the IG Inspector.
At no time will the IG Inspector use real world response communication equipment/radios or the
emergency communication net to conduct evaluations.
A10.8. Medical.
A10.8.1. The supporting Medical Treatment Facility (MTF)/Medical Unit should use available
resources except those involved in real-world emergencies.
A10.8.2. Carry out exercise patient treatment to its full extent, with the exception of invasive
procedures or administration of medication, until notified by the IG inspector.
A10.8.3. Responding medical personnel will use appropriate medical supplies and equipment to
demonstrate patient care capability with the following exemptions:
A10.8.3.1. Medical personnel will not uncap needles to start Intravenous (IV) or draw blood and
will not administer actual medications.
A10.8.3.2. Medical personnel will not open or damage expendable (any single item over $100)
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                99


medical supplies. This does not apply to non-expendable/damaged or outdated supplies (e.g.,
bandages, splints, IV bags, etc.). Units may choose to use expended/damaged or outdated
supplies for inspection events. These supplies, if used, must be consistent with unit medical
practices.
A10.8.3.3. The supporting MTF/Medical Unit will simulate actual aeromedical evacuation by
fixed-wing aircraft and may simulate rotary-wing evacuation and civilian transfers of patients
(dependent upon availability of resources and local agreements with civilian health-care
facilities). All procedures up to the actual evacuation will be demonstrated.
A10.9. Government Contracting and Most Efficient Organization (MEO).
A10.9.1. Civilian contractor and MEO personnel are expected to participate in inspection
activities to the extent required by the Statement of Work (SOW), PWS or contract.
A10.9.2. Government contractors and MEO personnel shall respond to all evacuation events.
Personnel whose evacuation would result in mission impact or a government-caused delay of
contractor performance shall be identified as non-players.
A10.9.3. Avoid contract-related delays that may incur cost to the government.
A10.9.4. Government Contractors will respond to inspection events IAW their respective
contracts. No actions may be taken which may result in additional funding to the contract or
contract scope change. Call STRYKER OPS to simulate calls to contractors.
A10.9.5. Units preparing purchase requests in response to exercise inputs shall not communicate
directly with vendors/federal contractors. They will instead call STRYKER OPS for information.
Only officials with contract warrants may obligate the government or provide direction to
vendors/federal contractors.
A10.10. Evacuations.
A10.10.1. All personnel, (contractor and MEO personnel refer to paragraph A10.8. and A10.9.)
except mission-essential performing real-world operations, shall participate in all evacuations.
Maintain minimum personnel required for security in evacuated facilities.
A10.10.2. Do not evacuate mission essential personnel from the following facilities or
operations without prior IG coordination: command posts, operations and control centers, launch
control centers, base operations dispatch desks, air traffic control facilities, telephone
switchboards, communications centers, security forces control centers, entry control points and
posts, fire/ weather stations, alert aircraft, alert facilities and power plants. Liquid oxygen and
nitrogen plants, POL hydrant facilities, computer rooms, navigational aid, munitions
maintenance and storage facilities, hazardous materials storage areas, and waste disposal
facilities will be evacuated only on a case-by-case basis and approved by the team chief.
A10.10.2.1. Additionally, do not evacuate Promotion, PME and academic testing facilities when
testing is in progress or Source Selection Evaluation Board Rooms when Source Selection
Evaluation activities are in progress.
A10.10.2.2. AETC classrooms, schools (including off-duty education courses), base exchange
facilities, commissaries, credit unions, banks, post offices, and dining facilities (including clubs),
religious services, Child Development Centers, and Youth Centers, medical Treatment Facilities,
military courts (when convened), and base housing areas will be evacuated only on a case-by-
 100                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


case basis and approved by the team chief.
A10.10.2.3. Restrict entry into facilities exempted from total evacuation to essential personnel.
Personnel who are conducting business when the evacuation was directed may continue their
business but must remain in the facility until the evacuation portion is over.
A10.11. Simulations (SIMs).
A10.11.1. SIMs will be minimized and reserved for those actions, which are too costly (e.g.,
resource expenditure, potential risk, etc.) or impractical to perform in an exercise situation.
When SIMs are unavoidable, units may propose a workaround procedure to simulate the non-
executable portion of the tasking. AFGSC/IG will approve SIMs only to the level necessary to
save resources or to enhance safety. SIM requests should be submitted IAW paragraphs
A10.10.2 and A10.10.3. Short notice SIMs (after IG team arrives) must be provided to the IG as
soon as possible. The IG may direct units to demonstrate simulated items/procedures to the
extent necessary to display capability.
A10.11.2. A unit's action in lieu of the actual task will include all preparatory/post steps (e.g.,
drafting messages, reviewing checklists/instructions, and reporting simulated completion to the
appropriate authority). Unit will maintain supporting directives, messages, records of verbal
orders, and so forth, for review by the inspector. For an AFGSC/IG-approved SIM, resources
(manpower and equipment) must be dedicated for the duration of the simulated task (e.g., if
individuals/equipment are assigned to a task that is to be simulated, that individual/equipment
will not be available for another task until the simulated task time has expired).
A10.11.3. Standard SIMs. AFGSC/IG standard SIMs are located on the AFGSC/IG External
SharePoint website at https://afgsc-
p.eis.af.mil/es/directorates/IGE/simulations/Shared%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx.
Standard SIMs have pre-approved workarounds and do not require justification for use. If a unit
must deviate from the pre-approved workaround, then the SIM ceases to be considered standard.
Units must identify to the AFGSC/IG which standard SIMs they plan to use for an inspection.
NLT 120 days prior to a scheduled inspection: E-mail AFGSC/IGX, at
AFGSCIGXworkflow@us.af.mil, a copy of the standard SIM spreadsheet found at the
AFGSC/IG website, filled in to identify which standard SIMs will be used in the inspection.
A10.11.4. Non-Standard SIMs. Any requested SIM not listed on the AFGSC/IG website is
considered a non-standard SIM, and must be approved by the AFGSC/IG. Submit non-standard
SIMs through the wing’s Plans and Programs (XP) office. See AFGSC/IG External SharePoint
website at https://afgsc-
p.eis.af.mil/es/directorates/IGE/simulations/NonStandard%20Simulations/Forms/AllItems.aspx
for format when submitting non-standard SIM request(s). Any SIM not listed in the AFGSC/IG
External SharePoint (or a standard SIM when the inspected unit will not use the pre-approved
workaround) is considered a non-standard SIM, and must be coordinated with AFGSC/IG prior
to use in an inspection. NLT 120 days prior to inspection: E-mail AFGSC/IGX, at
AFGSCIGXworkflow@us.af.mil, all non-standard SIM requests. Coordinating SIMs with
AFGSC/IG Team. The unit XP office is the OPR for SIM coordination within the unit, however,
all actions require WG/CC-approval or endorsement prior to coordination with AFGSC/IG.
A10.11.5. SIM Request Format and Required Information. Each SIM request must be an
individual text-only document (Microsoft Word format is preferred). Do not use document
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             101


templates or masters with headers or footers or any imbedded graphics (resultant file size is too
large). Documents will be in simple, plain text format with typed (not picture or graphic) unit
identifying letterhead and a typed signature block. The following information is required in SIM
requests:
A10.11.5.1. Number (Unit designation, Group (or WG staff) submitting SIM, last 2 digits of
year of inspection, 3-digit tracking number (e.g., 5BW-CC-10001--this is SIM number 001 for
an inspection in the year 2010 submitted by a WG staff function of the 5BW).
A10.11.5.2. Type of SIM (Procedural or Resource and include a short title of the SIM
issue/area).
A10.11.5.3. Requestor (e.g., 5BW/DOT/Maj Smith/DSN 453-0909).
A10.11.5.4. Justification (for all non-standard SIM and any standard SIMs with a workaround
different from the pre-approved workaround). Explain why SIM is required/desired. The
justification should stand on its own and inspectors should not have to call the unit for
explanation.
A10.11.5.5. SIMs for UTCs (if applicable, list affected UTCs).
A10.11.5.6. Increment numbers/ULN/ULN line numbers (if applicable).
A10.11.5.7. Cost or impact if not approved (e.g., excessive cost, wasted resources, hazardous
condition).
A10.11.5.8. Workaround (explanation of exactly how the SIM will be performed and if
checklists exist to carry out the function).
A10.11.5.9. Each SIM request document must have the signature block of the WG/CC (or
highest organizational CC in the inspected unit).
A10.11.6. Approval Process. Standard SIMs are automatically approved upon receipt by
AFGSC/IG, unless there are deviations to the pre-approved workaround. Non-standard SIMs
will be evaluated by AFGSC/IG. Approval must be granted at the Team Chief level. This
process may take up to 30 days.
A10.11.7. Standing SIMs.
A10.11.7.1. Manpower and materials consumed in response to a scenario event remain
unavailable for inspection purposes for the duration of that event.
A10.11.7.2. IG personnel will not load, initiate, or two-person verify SIM media (e.g., ground
burst simulators, smoke grenades, etc.). SIM media are exclusively controlled and initiated by
unit TA personnel.
A10.11.7.3. Simulate the use of weapons fire by whistle, blanks, starter pistol or air horn. SIM
device will be briefed to all event participants. If a starter pistol or blank ammunition is used as
simulated weapons fire, then all unit members armed with live rounds will either be sequestered
during the exercise or there must be an IG Inspector or TA with every unit member that is armed
with live rounds.
A10.12. Handicapped Parking. Authorized individuals can use identified handicapped parking
spaces throughout the inspection. These vehicles will not be moved for exercise FPCON
requirements. However, units may be required to marshal and dispatch the necessary resources
 102                                             AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


to simulate movement.
A10.13. Tenant Organizations. Per AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), tenant units, regardless of
MAJCOM or service component, shall conform to the host installation's FPCONs. Additionally,
tenants shall participate in all exercises with the host unit IAW host tenant support agreements.
A10.14. Cordons. Cordons will not be terminated without on-scene IG SF representative
approval.
A10.15. [ICBM Only] The IG will not inspect missiles or associated support equipment, real
property installed equipment, and communications systems under major modifications,
Engineering Change Proposals, Time Compliance Technical Order and Master Change Log
changes, Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM) and missiles off alert due to HHQ direction.
Units must provide the IG with a complete listing of these systems and equipment as part of
LIMFAC or Inspection Consideration reports and briefings. Any of these systems or associated
equipment that are recalled by unit personnel or employed operationally are subject to evaluation.




Attachment 11 (Added)
AFGSC GATEKEEPER (GK) PROCESS FLOW CHART
A11.1. All visits involving installations or units assigned to AFGSC by Air Force or other DoD
activities, as well as by federal, state, and local governments or other accreditation organizations
must be first coordinated and approved by the AFGSC GK. The AFGSC GK Process Flow
Chart in Figure A11.1. is a guide to visit requests. Use AFGSC Form 201, Air Force Global
Strike Command Gatekeeper Visit Request for all visit requests. Email visit requests to AFGSC
GK at afgsc.gatekeeper@us.af.mil no later than 30 days prior to an event.
AFI90-201_AFGSCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                  103


Figure A11.1. AFGSC Gatekeeper Process Flow Chart.
